---
date: '2023-01-11'
modified_time: 2023-01-12 12:21:29-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-11 22:45:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/01/11/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-january-11-2023/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, January 11,\_2023"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:26 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, hey!  All right, good afternoon, everyone.  Happy
Monday.  Okay.  
  
Q    Monday?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Monday?  Wednesday?  See!  (Laughter.)  That is how my
week is going.   
  
Q    Do you mean previous Monday or next Monday?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Ahh, whatever Monday you want is yours.  
  
Okay.  So, again, good afternoon, everyone.  Please bear with me. 
There’s been a lot of news, so I have a few things at the top.  
  
So, with respect to the FAA system outage that occurred early this
morning, the safety of Americans is the top priority of the President,
the Department of Transportation, and the FAA.   
  
DOT and FAA report that, yesterday, they were working through issues in
the NOTAM system, which is used to communicate key safety information
about runways and flight patterns with pilots.   
  
To be clear, we’re not talking about air traffic control here, but we
still consider this to be a vital safety system as well.  
  
So, FAA staff continued to work through the night to resolve the outage
and issued a ground stop at 7:25 a.m. this morning, which lasted for
approximately 90 minutes.  FAA lifted the ground stop once the NOTAM
system was available again, which means that the critical safety
information required to resume travel was indeed available.  
  
The President was briefed this morning by Secretary Buttigieg before
departing for Walter Reed with the First Lady, as you heard directly
from the President on the South Lawn this morning for yourselves.   
  
As we shared this morning as well, we do not have evidence that this
outage was caused by a cyberattack.  The FAA is working aggressively to
get to the bottom of the root causes for the system outage so that it
does not happen again.  
  
(Press Office aide sneezes.)  
  
Bless you, Emilie.  
  
Okay, so, yesterday, the Department of Education proposed what would be
the most affordable student loan repayment plan in history.  The new
plan, if implemented, will cut monthly loan payments in half for
undergrad borrowers.  It will mean borrowers making less than about
$30,000 per year will not have to pay a dime on their student loans each
month, and it will reduce the time it takes for low-balance borrowers to
get their student loan debt forgiven.  
  
The proposal delivers on the plan President Biden announced in August to
provide millions of borrowers with more affordable monthly student loan
payments, giving them additional breathing room to start a family, buy a
car, and purchase a home.  
  
Today, we have further evidence of President Biden’s economic plan
delivering for American workers.  Q CELLS, a major Korean solar
manufacturer, announced it will invest more than $2.5 billion to expand
their plant in Delton \[sic\] — in Dalton — pardon me — Georgia, and to
build a new plant northwest of Atlanta.  
  
This investment will create 2,500 jobs in Georgia and represent the
single-largest investment in solar manufacturing in U.S. — in the United
States.  
  
In its announcement, Q CELLS emphasized the Inflation Reduction Act was
critical to making this investment possible.  This builds on the more
than $25 billion in major investments in Georgia in electric vehicle and
battery manufacturing, solar manufacturing, construction materials, and
more since the President took office.  
  
When the President talks about building our economy from the bottom up
and middle out, this is exactly what he is delivering: more investments,
more jobs, more manufacturing in America.  
  
In gun safety news, Illinois has now become the ninth state across
America to pass an <s>assault bans weapon</s> \[assault weapons ban\]
and take bold action to keep weapons of war off America’s street.   
  
President Biden commends the leadership of Illinois’s Governor JB
Pritzker, House Speaker Chris Welch, Senate President Don Harmon,
Representative Bob Morgan, and the numerous advocates, survivors, and
elected officials whose tireless efforts turned the pain of Highland
Park and other facts — acts of violence into meaningful action on behalf
of all of the people who live in Illinois.  
  
As you’ve heard from me before, President Biden has taken historic
action to reduce gun violence, including sign — signing the Bipartisan
<s>Safety</s> \[Safer\] Communities Act last summer.  And he has
continued to press for more action to keep our homes, schools, and
communities safe, including federal laws requiring background checks for
all gun sales and a gun — and a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity
magazines.  
  
In the meantime, the President continues to urge other states to join
California; New Jersey; Connecticut; Hawaii; Maryland; Massachusetts;
New York; Delaware; Washington, D.C.; and now Illinois to ban assault
weapons at the state level to save lives.  
  
And finally, a quick note on yesterday’s special election in Virginia. 
We congratulate Aaron Russe \[sic\] — Rouse for his win in Virginia’s
Seventh District, a district previously held by a Republican.  
  
He made his campaign clear about the choice Americans across the country
have between extreme MAGA Republican policies that would take away
women’s ability to make their own healthcare decisions and Democrats
focused on expanding access to reproductive care and lowering costs for
American families.  
  
It’s not just in Virginia.  This was a — of course, a critical issue in
the midterm elections, as many of you reported.  And in their first
slate of bills, House Republicans are prioritizing legislation that
would amount to a national ban on abortion.  It’s not just tone deaf. 
As Republican congresswoman Nancy Mace said herself, it’s extreme, out
of touch with the beliefs of the majority of Americans around the
country.  
  
The President knows that women’s ability to make their own healthcare
decision is non-negotiable.  And we will continue to fight to make that
cau- — that case at the state and federal level.  
  
And one final note.  On Friday, ahead of the President’s trip to Atlanta
this weekend, we will have a special guest in the briefing room.  We’ll
have Senior Advisor for Public Engagement Keisha Lance Bottoms — will be
joining us — will be joining me to talk about some of her work, as well
as preview the significance of the President’s remarks at Ebenezer
Church on what would have been Martin Luther King Jr.’s 94th birthday.  
  
With all of that said — you guys can start waking up now — Zeke, why
don’t you take us away?  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I was hoping you could provide an update on what
the President has been doing at Walter Reed while the First Lady has
been undergoing this procedure.  We saw the First Lady’s office put out
a brief statement a couple of minutes ago, but what has the President
been doing?  He was supposed to get the PDB at one o’clock.  Did that
happen while he was up there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll — I’ll say this and be very simple.  Today is
about his wife.  That is the focus for the President right now.  As many
of you know, the President accompanied the First Lady to Walter Reed
National Medical Center for her scheduled outpatient procedure, commonly
known as Mohs surgery.  
  
The First Lady’s procedure is proceeding well.  And as expected, Dr.
O’Connor will provide an update about her — her today.  
  
But again, this is about the Pres- — this is about the President
supporting his wife of 45 years.  And so, again, when it comes to her
condition specifically, Dr. O’Connor will have more to share.   
  
But again, I’m not going to go beyond how important it is for the
President to be there with his wife today.  
  
Q    Thanks.  And then, a couple of specific questions regarding the
discovery of, apparently, documents marked classified in the President’s
former office.  The President acknowledged yesterday that he had been
briefed that those documents had been found.  When was he briefed that
those documents had been found?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just lay this down a little bit because
there’s some — just for folks who happen to not be following this.  
  
Look, the President addressed this issue yesterday.  He addressed it on
— in Mexico City, on the world stage, in front of many of you at a press
conference with two of our closest neighbors, as you all know.  And he
said he takes classified documents and information seriously.   
  
He was surprised to learn any records had been found — found there.  He
doesn’t know what was in them.  He said this.  I’m just repeating what
the President has said.  As soon as his lawyers realized these documents
were there, they did the right thing and immediately turned them over to
the Archives.  
  
As he said, his team is cooperating fully with the review.  And we also
released a statement from the White House Counsel’s Office, as you know,
on Monday, which had — which had — which had information — detailed
information about the particular situation.  
  
As my colleagues in the Counsel have stated and said to all of you
yesterday, this is an ongoing process under the review of the Department
of Justice.  So we are going to be limited on what we can say here.  
  
But as — as the President told you, as my colleagues have said to many
of you, we are committed to doing the right thing.  We’re doing the —
doing this in the right way.  And we will provide further — further
details when it’s appropriate.  
  
Q    Karine, you mentioned you want to do this the right way. 
Presumably, that means the transparent way.  So my question was: When
was the President briefed?  You said he was briefed.  When did that
briefing happen?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to get into the details.  I’m not
going to get beyond what the President shared yesterday.  He laid out
what he knew, when he knew it.  He laid out how important it is.  He
sees it serious- — very seriously, when it comes to taking classified
documents and information.  
  
I’m just not going to — I know you all are going to have a lot of
questions on this, but, at this time, I’m not going to go beyond what
the President said yesterday.  I’m not going to go beyond what my
colleagues from the White House Counsel shared with many of you as well
on Monday.  And so, I’m just going to leave it there.  I want to be
prudent here and make sure that it is — that my colleagues really, truly
handle this issue.  
  
Q    Let’s try one more stab at this, because, again, this is of a lot
of importance to people.  The President mentioned that handling
classified information is important.  
  
These documents were discovered on November 2nd.  This wasn’t — this
didn’t become public until my colleagues at CBS News reported this on
Monday.  That’s more than two months later.  Why was the public not
informed while the White House prepared its PR response for two
months?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, this was under review — this is under review by
the Department of Justice.  I’m not going to go beyond what the
President shared yesterday.  I’m not going to go beyond what my
colleagues at the White House Counsel shared with all of you as well.  
  
Look, what we received from the White House Counsel on Monday was — had
complete details, a lot of details to all of you on what occurred.  And
just not going to get beyond that.  It is, again, an ongoing process. 
We’re going to respect the process.   
  
As the President said, his team handled it the right way.  And we’re
just not going to get ahead of the process from here.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Have you spoken to the President about these
documents and their discovery?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have not — I have not spoken — well, first of all, I
have not spoken to the President about any of this specifically, because
he’s laid out what he knows.  He has said he — he doesn’t know what is
in them.   
  
So, there’s no way for me to talk about the documents if he has said he
doesn’t know what’s in them.  And we’re just going to allow the process
to continue.   
  
Q    So, for the sake of the American public who want these questions
asked and answered: Would the President characterize what happened here
as a mistake?  Would this White House characterize this as a mistake?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’ll say is: This is an ongoing process.  You
heard from the President; he spoke about this in detail yesterday, in
front of — on the world stage, in front of — in front of many of you who
were there, in front of many of your colleagues.  
  
He laid out what — what he knew.  He said that he seriously — he takes
this seriously when it comes to classified documents, when it comes to
information that is classified.  He was surprised to learn about the
records had — had been there.   
  
And again, he believes that the — that the lawyers did the right thing. 
And they immediately turned them over to the Archives.  
  
Q    In the President saying that he was surprised to learn about these
documents, is he saying that he did not bring those documents to that
office?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to go beyond what the President
said.  
  
Q    Do we know who did bring those documents to the office?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not — I’m not going to go beyond what the
President said.  
  
Q    But you’re saying you want to be transparent and do things the
right way.  We’re not going to get —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, and we —  
  
Q    — any more answers to any of these questions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And his team of lawyers did do that.  They did the
right thing by turning over the — by turning over the documents to the
Archives.  That’s what they did once they realized that they had them
and that they were there.   
  
Q    It was not clear, Karine, how the documents got from the White
House to this office?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — Steve, I appreciate the question.   
  
Q    Sure.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s under review.  I’m going to let the DOJ do their
— do their process.   
  
Q    Okay.  Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to get ahead of it.   
  
Q    Back on the FAA outage, has cyber totally been ruled out?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right now, that is what I said.  We do not — this has
not been viewed as a — there’s no evidence of a cyberattack at this
point.  The President has directed the Department of Transportation to
conduct a full investigation into the causes and provide regular
updates.   
  
Again, this is incredibly important, a top priority: the safety of
Americans who are flying every day.  We want to make sure that they’re
safe.  This is a top priority for the President, a top priority for the
Department of Transportation and certainly FAA.  And so we want to make
sure that we get to the root causes so this does not happen again.   
  
Q    And, lastly, on the First Lady, when was this lesion discovered?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to — I’m not going to get ahead of what
Dr. O’Connor is going to share later today.  I stated that the procedure
is going well.  I’m just going to leave it there and let — and let her
doctors speak to — speak to it.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the documents case again, you’ve laid out that the President’s
lawyers and the Special Counsel are dealing with the legal side of
this.  You’ve now laid out that you have not had a conversation with the
President about this.   
  
But this was reported Monday; it happened in November.  Are you aware of
any conversation in the West Wing among others — people other than the
President — about disclosing this once it was discovered?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is somebody — I was asked by your
colleague if he — if we talked about the documents themselves.  The
President said he does not know what was in them.  Right?  
  
Q    Okay.  Set that aside.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I — but also, I just wanted to clear that up.   
  
I — look, I understand you guys are going to have a lot of questions on
this.  I get that.  I know you guys are going to have a lot of questions
on process and specifics.  And what I can tell you is that I’m not going
to go beyond what the President laid out.  I’m not going to go beyond
what my White House Counsel colleagues have stated.  I would refer you
to them for any other specifics or additional information.   
  
I want to be prudent here.  I want to make sure that we do this in an
appropriate —  
  
Q    Okay.  You’re not going to answer the questions —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — the appropriate way.  
  
Q    — but we’re going to ask them, because that’s our job.  And so be
it.  So —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.  And — and my job is to answer your
questions.   
  
Q    So here we go.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So here we go.  Let’s go.  
  
Q    One of the reasons we ask this is because on, like, day two of this
administration, when he swore all of you in, the President said, quote,
“I’m going to make mistakes.  When I make them, I’ll acknowledge them
and I’ll tell you, and I’ll need your help to help me correct them.”  
  
So you’re the one here —   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, and I —  
  
Q    — talking to us about this.  That’s why we’re asking you.  So,
let’s just remember that.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Ed —  
  
Q    When he was asked yesterday —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Ed — Ed — Ed, I am — we don’t need — we don’t need to
have this.  We work very well together.   
  
Q    We do.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — we don’t need to have this kind of
confrontation.  Ask your question, and I will answer them the best that
I can.   
  
Q    Well, part of the reason — part of the reason we’re laying that out
is because you’re laying out your part of the job.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know —  
  
Q    We’re laying out our part of the job, which is to ask the
questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  But I’m just saying that we don’t need to
have contention —  
  
Q    And we know there will be people who will be watching and wonder.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You don’t need to be contentious with me here, Ed.  
  
Q    The President was asked yesterday but did not answer this part of
the question.  Why didn’t he or someone in the White House inform the
American people when these documents were discovered on November 2nd? 
Did it have anything to do — because people are asking this part of it —
did it have anything to do with the fact that the election was just a
few days away?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, Ed, this is under review by the Department of
Justice.  It is literally under review right now.  As we are — as I am
talking to you, it is under review.  So, I’m not going to get beyond the
process.  I’m not going to get beyond what the President said.  
  
Look, the White House Counsel, my colleagues in the White House Counsel
laid out very detailed information about what — this particular issue on
Monday.  You all have that.  I’m just not going to get beyond that.  The
Department of Justice is independent, as you know.  They’re — they’re
doing a review.  And I want to be prudent here.   
  
And it would be more appropriate —  
  
Q    But there’s nothing stopping you —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It would be more appropriate for my colleagues in the
White House Counsel’s Office to address this.   
  
Q    Then we welcome them to the briefing room, and we hope they can
come soon to discuss this.   
  
But there’s another thing.  There was nothing stopping the President of
the United States from disclosing the discovery of these classified
documents in his former office before it was under Justice Department
review.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can tell you —  
  
Q    So, why didn’t he disclose it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can tell you right now is what the President is
— share with you what the President said to all of you — right? — which
is he was surprised by this.  He definitely, truly respects the process
here.  And also, when it comes to classified, he takes classified
documents very seriously.   
  
And, again, I’m going to leave you to the information that the President
provided to all of you and also — just yesterday, in front — in front of
many of you or your colleagues — and also what my White House Counsel
colleagues shared on Monday.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) this.  The leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee
today, like they did after the raid of Mar-a-Lago, have asked that the
Director of National Intelligence conduct a national security assessment
of this apparent discovery of classified information.  Has the President
asked for one?  Or are you aware of the ODNI conducting one?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer to the Department of Justice here.  This
is — again, this is —  
  
Q    The Department of Justice doesn’t handle national security
reviews.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to Department of Justice on this
particular issue that’s being reviewed currently.  
  
Q    On whether the Office of Director of National Intelligence —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would —  
  
Q    — is conducting a national security assessment?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would — when it comes to the review that we are
currently speaking of right now, of these classified documents, I would
refer you to the Department of Justice.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Apart from those classified documents, the President did say that
he was unaware of records being brought to that specific office.   
  
So, aside from those, has he asked his lawyer, has he looked into
whether any other documents have been taken to any other — his — any
other office that he has, whether in Wilmington or Rehoboth?  Has there
been any kind of, like, audit that’s been done of where — where he may —
where there may be others that he doesn’t know about?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to speak to this.  I’m going to let
the process continue.  It’s an ongoing process.  And so, I’m just not
going to — to speak to this from here.   
  
It is more prudent and more appropriate for my colleagues at the White
House Counsel to speak — to speak to this.  
  
Q    On another note, you were — you were touting the Q CELLS
announcement and the <s>Influction</s> \[Inflation\] Reduction Act.  I
just want to ask, though — you know, Governor Kemp in Georgia is also,
you know, touting the deal and taking credit for it.  Did the
administration work with the Republican governor to get this project off
the ground?  How much help was he in this — in this process?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any specifics to share on — on our
conversations with the governor of Georgia.  But what I can share with
you is what we have said many times: is how important the Inflation
Reduction Act is here.   
  
And we see this.  We see this in — in many of the announcements that
we’ve seen across the cou- — clearly, across the country, when it comes
to making sure that — making sure that we’re lowering costs for
Americans; making sure that we’re bringing manufacture — our
manufacturing jobs back home.  And this is part of, more broadly, the
President’s economic policy.  
  
And so, we see this a lot.  We see where Republicans do not support some
of the major critical policies — like the Inflation Reduction Act, but
then take credit for it; like the American Rescue Plan, but then take
credit for it.   
  
But that also shows you how effective the President’s economic policy
has been and how it does indeed work and deliver for the American
people.   
  
And so, I’ll just leave it there.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    But the President does talk about bipartisanship.  I mean, did —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He does.  
  
Q    Did — would — did Governor Kemp help?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He does.  I just said I don’t have anything to lay out
for you.  But what I’m sharing with you is what we have seen over and
over again when it comes to Republicans who do not support what we’re
trying to do on behalf of the American people.  
  
Again, the Inflation Reduction Act; again, the American Rescue Plan —
right? — which is all part of the President’s economic policy, which has
shown to have worked, which has shown to actually create tens — 10
million — more than 10 million jobs, which have actually helped to lower
— helped lower costs.  When you think about the Inflation Reduction Act,
as we’re going to move forward in implementing that.   
  
So, all of these things are incredibly important.  I’m just laying out
to you that the President’s economic policy is working.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, when you were talking about the FAA, you said that the
issue arose as they were working through some issues.  And so, I was
wondering if you could explain a little more if, basically, the FAA was
trying to update the system or was there a server issue, a database
issue — if you have any more detail on how exactly — you know, prior to
the full investigation — this seems to have happened.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I would refer you to the Department of
Transportation.  Secretary Buttigieg has been on many of the — of your
colleagues’ airwaves speaking about this and what occurred.  He has
directed an after-action process to determine exactly the root causes
and recommend next steps.  
  
FAA and DOT will continue to be transparent here about the causes of the
issue and how we will ensure a system outage of this magnitude does not
happen again.   
  
So, number — what I said earlier, which is very true: Our number one
focus is to make sure that the safety of Americans who are flying —
right? — we want to make sure that they’re safe.  And the second part of
this is to make sure that this does not happen again.   
  
And so, again, there’s going to be an after-action process, and we’ll
move from there.   
  
Q    Can I ask about this gas stove thing that kind of bubbled up
yesterday?  Does the White House think gas stoves are safe?   
  
And I know that the Consumer Product Safety Commission said today that
they’re not looking to ban gas stoves, but I’m wondering: Was there
communication between the White House and CPSC?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as far as the safety piece of it, it’s not
something for us to answer from here.  I would refer you to the Consumer
Productiv- — Product Safety Commission.   
  
As the chair said today, and I quote, “Research indicates that emissions
from gas stoves can be hazardous and the CPSC is looking for ways to
reduce related indoor air quality hazards…But to be clear, I am not
looking to ban gas stoves and the CPSC has no proceeding to do so.”  
  
Look, as far as our conversation with — to your question, we are in
regular touch with them.  But, of course, they are independent — they
were independently correcting the record on this for several days now. 
And so, as far as I’m aware, we’re not in touch with them on this
particular issue.  Again, I would — I would refer you to their
comment.  
  
Q    One last quick one.  Russia announced today that they’re replacing
their military chief in Ukraine.  They’ve installed a Kremlin loyalist
there.  I’m wondering if you have a reaction to this and what you think
it says about, sort of, the state of the conflict.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m going to let the Kremlin speak to their
leadership decision.  But as an outside observer, as we all are here,
they are — they sure have a lot of changes.  You know, they made a lot
of changes as they continue to try to overcome their own difficulties in
a war that they — shouldn’t happen in the first place.  
  
So, again, I’m not going to comment for them.  I’ll certainly let the
Kremlin speak for themselves.  But again, this is a war that they
started.  This is a war that they created — a brutal war — and they can
end it today if they choose to do so.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  I have two questions for you.  Last week,
President Biden said that the war in Ukraine is at a critical point. 
And then you repeated the statement from this podium.  So, I’m wondering
where does this assessment come from and why the White House thinks that
the war in Ukraine is at a critical point right now.   
  
And secondly, Poland announced today plans to send a company of Leopard
tanks to Ukraine as part of international coalition.  Does the U.S.
support such a coalition?  And is President Biden considering sending
American Abrams tanks to Ukraine to help, especially if he thinks that
the war is at a critical point?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this: Look, Russia has been attacking
Ukraine for 10 months now — 10 months.  And this winter, we’re seeing a
new approach by Putin, targeting civilians.  You’ve heard the President
talk about that specifically.  It is unspeakable what the Ukrainian
people are enduring, and they are bravely fighting back.  
  
I’ll say this to your — to your second question: The President has made
clear to — to President Zelenskyy.  As you know, he was here very
recently; you saw them stand side by side.  And you heard the President
talk about the commitment that he has for the Ukrainian people and that
the U.S. will continue to have their back, stand with Ukraine, as long
as it takes.  And we’ve been very clear and consistent on that.  
  
We are moving fast in delivering to support Ukraine with the tools it
needs to win this war.   
  
We just announced a PDA of $3 billion — the largest one — just last
week.  And so that is going to continue.  
  
Again, we will be with them as — as long as they need us.  
  
I’m going to move on.  I’m going to move on.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) time to train the troops?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to move on.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Do you have a reaction to Moderna potentially
increasing the price of its COVID vaccine by 400 percent?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have — I don’t have a response to that.  I
would have to check in with the team.  This is the first I’m hearing
about this.  
  
Q    And separately, do you have a reaction to Governor DeSantis, a
couple of days ago, claiming to activate the National Guard in res- —
the Florida National Guard in response to the Cuba migration surge?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we have known for some time now — right? — we’ve
seen Governor DeSantis do political stunts.  That is how he — how he
perceives to fix this issue from Florida.  Right?  And he takes — you
know, he — we’re talking about people who are coming from countries who
are dealing with political strife, who are dealing with issues where
they’re — they’re trying to find asylum, and he treats them like
pawns.  
  
And so, we have called that out over and over again, and we will
continue to do that.  And he is not dealing with the problem; he’s
actually creating a problem.  And — and so, that’s what I have to say to
that.  
  
We’ve talked about Governor DeSantis and the — again, what — the mockery
that he’s making of a process that the President is trying to fix.  He’s
trying to deal with this issue.  He has made — when you think about
immigration reform — a priority by putting — putting forward a piece of
legislation on the first day of his administration.  And what he’s going
to continue to call on is for Congress, Republicans to — to actually
take action and really deal with this crisis, this issue.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, a couple of questions.  One, is there a log showing how
many times the President has been to that office during, you know, his
Vice Pres- — when he was Vice President, et cetera?  Is there a log
showing the times that he traveled there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Traveled where?  
  
Q    To the office.  To that office.  To the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  To the —  
  
Q    Yes, the Biden Penn Center.  Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Do you mean since he’s been Vice President?  
  
Q    No.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, since he left as Vice President?  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do not know of a such log — of such a log.  
  
Q    Okay.  You don’t — you don’t — nothing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not sure — you’re just trying to see how
many times he’s gone to Penn — the Penn Biden Center office?   
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — I don’t have anything to share about how
he’s — I mean, at least for the last two years — right? — you guys have
been very aware of where he goes — right? — because he has a protective
pool that travels with him at all times.  So, I can only speak to the
last two years.   
  
When he was a citizen — right? — after becoming Vice President, I cannot
speak to — speak to his movements there — where he’s been or how many
times he was there.  
  
As you know, he worked at University of Pennsylvania.  So, clearly, he
was there often.  
  
But as President, you guys are very much aware of his movements and
where he goes and the trips that he takes because he is, indeed,
President of the United States.  So, I can’t speak to — speak to after
that or before that.  
  
Q    You spoke of the legal aspect of it.  There is also a political
aspect to this as well.  There are some Republicans who are grabbing on
to this cloud of documents that have been reported.  What do you believe
will happen?  How will the work for the American public go forth with
Republicans already talking about investigations?   
  
Already, Marjorie Taylor has been screaming “impeachment” for the
longest.  And now, with this, she’s saying “impeachment.”   
  
How does the work of the American public move forward as now documents
are reported that were in an office connected to Joe Biden?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m — I’m going to sound like a broken record,
but the pru- — more prudent thing to do is to make sure that my
colleagues are dealing with this — my colleagues in — in the White House
Counsel Office, and I want to respect the process.   
  
This is an ongoing process, as you all know, that is being reviewed by
the Department of Justice.  And I’m just not going to speak beyond
that.  
  
Q    But I was talking about the politics.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know you’re talking about the politics —  
  
Q    Not just the legal, but I’m talking about the politics.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I understand.  I’m just not going to — there
is an ongoing process that is being reviewed by the Department of
Justice.  I’m just not going to speak beyond that.  
  
Q    And lastly, the Atlanta trip.  Can you talk about what this moment
— with this year being the 60th anniversary of the March on Washington,
what does this King holiday mean to this President?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This holiday — as every holiday when we talk about the
legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, when we remember him on his birthday —
has always been a critical moment for this President.   
  
You’ve heard him talk about the reasons why he decided to run.  A lot of
it had to do with civil rights.  And — and he has an administration that
makes sure that no one is forgotten, that there is — that he has an
administration that represents the country — one of the most — the most
diverse administration in modern history.   
  
And that also shows a commitment to how he — he believes to Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr.’s legacy as well and making sure that we walk in that
legacy every day.  
  
I don’t want to get ahead.  He’s going to be speaking, as you know, at
Ebenezer Church in a couple of days.  And he wanted to make sure that he
recognized that day by going there and talking about the legacy of Dr.
Martin Luther King — what he meant not just to the Black community but
to every community just across the country, to Americans.  
  
Q    Karine, thank you so much.  President Biden campaigned on a promise
to stay true to the spirit of transparency.  Why then — how is it
possible that the White House did not reveal the presence of these
documents prior to the election when they were found?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, the President spoke to this personally
yesterday.  You heard him at the press conference.  He laid out — he
laid out what he knew, and he talked about how important and how he sees
this as a serious matter when it comes to classified documents and
information.  
  
He talked about when — about how he was surprised to learn about the
records that were — that had been found there.  And he laid out his
process and his thoughts.  
  
I’m just not going to go beyond that.  Again, we released information
that was very transparent, meaning the information that you all — that —
received from the White House Counsel’s Office.   
  
And just — I know — I just — I know you all are going to have a lot of
questions.  I get that and I understand that, but I’m not going to go
beyond the process that’s currently happening at the DOJ.  
  
Q    Does it undercut the President’s promise of transparency that these
documents were not revealed for several months after the White House
discovered them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, you know, so, when his lawyers realized that
these documents were there, they turned them over to the Archives.  They
did the right thing.  They turned them —  
  
Q    Did they tell the President immediately?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All I can say is what the President said yesterday.  I
would refer you to his comments.  
  
But they did the right thing by — once they learned of them, they turned
it over.  They turned it over to the Archives.   
  
Q    But they didn’t tell the public about it, Karine.  That’s —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, this is —  
  
Q    That’s the question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand the question, but there is an ongoing
process.  It’s being reviewed by the Department of Justice.  Just — when
it is appropriate for us to say more, we will.  Otherwise, I would refer
you to the White House Counsel’s Office.  
  
Q    I do want to be very clear about something you said and make sure I
understand you, following up on one of my colleagues who asked you: You
have not spoken to the President about this?  Weren’t you traveling with
him when he made this public statement?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, no, I — no, the way I heard the question is,
“Have you talked to the President about the documents?”  And he doesn’t
know what’s in the documents.  That’s the way I heard the question, so
that’s the way I was answering the question.  
  
Q    You’ve talked to him about the revelation of these documents?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.   
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve talked about the CBS story.  We talked about the
revelation of the documents, obviously.  But about the documents itself,
what’s in them, that is something that the President doesn’t even know. 
And I’m just going to leave it there.  
  
Q    Has he — okay.  Has he conveyed to you when he was briefed?  And if
not, can you go back and get that answer for us?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I have not talked to the President about that. 
What I can tell you is I know you all have a lot of questions.  There is
an ongoing process here, and so I’m just going to let the process finish
— move forward.  
  
Q    One more.  A quick follow.  I want to let you respond to former
Vice President Mike Pence.  He talked about what he and some other
Republicans are calling a double standard with the Department of
Justice.  Mr. Pence said, “The kind of double standard that we see being
practiced by the Biden administration in the wake of this incident in
the Justice Department I think is exactly what undermines public
confidence in our justice system.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, as soon as his lawyers realized these documents
were there, they did the right thing, and they turned over the documents
to the Archivist.  That’s what they did as soon as they realized what
was — the documents were there.  
  
And his team is cooperating fully with the review.  Again, there’s a
review happening by the DOJ.  And we’re just going to let the process
move forward.  
  
I’m going to go around a little bit.  
  
Q    Karine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to go around.  I’ll come back.  I’ll come
back.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just to follow up on Franco’s question: Given the
position you’re holding right now, there are no assurances you can
provide at this point that there are no other classified documents out
there in any other office and/or home?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, this is an ongoing process, so I’m going to let
the process continue.  It is being reviewed by the Department of
Justice.  And I’m just going to leave it there.  
  
Q    Understood.  And you referenced the Counsel’s statement that there
are limitations to what you all can say at this point in time.  Do those
limitations, just for clarity’s sake, extend to literally everything
beyond what the Special Counsel said on Monday night and what the
President said last night?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s the White House Counsel.  My colleagues are
here to answer questions on this particular issue.  And I am just going
to let them speak to this.  They put out on Monday a very — a very, you
know, informative, transparent statement about this particular issue, so
I’m going to let them speak to this any — further.  
  
But as for — as for me, as for here, I’m just not going to go beyond
what’s happening currently.  
  
Q    Understood.  And just one last one.  The President alluded to last
night — and you kind of have as well — the idea of once this is, kind
of, all over or wrapped up, there will be more information, there will
be more details.   
  
Do you have a plan for that?  Is there — how should we expect that
additional information to come, in terms of — will you detail everything
you know once this is done?  How does that all work?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as the President told all of you yesterday, we are
committed to doing the right thing here, and we’ll provide further
details and — at appropriate time.  And that’s all I can share at this
time.  
  
Q    Afghanistan, please, Karine?  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The U.S. Travel Association says, “Today’s FAA
catastrophic system failure is a clear sign that America’s
transportation network desperately needs significant upgrades.”  So what
specific steps are underway to ensure that outages like this won’t
happen again?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the NOTAM — the NOTAM system is continuously being
updated.  That is something that is happening on a regular basis.  As
Secretary Buttigieg said today, DOT is asking the FAA how we improve the
system to ensure it is state of the art.  
  
Every five — every five years, there is a review of the FAA
authorization, and that is coming up this year.  So we welcome the
attention from Congress to ensure the FAA has what it needs to address
these issues.   
  
The FAA is working aggressively to get to the bottom of the root causes
of what happened with the system outage today and making sure — again,
making sure that it doesn’t happen again.   
  
Clearly, the safety of Americans who are flying every day is a number
one priority.  And what they’re going to do is to make sure that this
doesn’t happen again.  
  
Q    How concerning is it for the White House that there’s no backup, no
contingency to this system when it does fail?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what you saw happen today was out of abundance
of caution — the action that was taken — because, again, the safety of
Americans is a priority.   
  
They’re going to get to the bottom of this.  There’s going to be an
after-action document that’s going to be put together.  And so, we will
make sure that the — what the President wants to see is to make sure
that this doesn’t ha- — occur again.  
  
Q    And just quickly, could you tap into funds from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, for example, to try to make some of those upgrades
that you’re talking about?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’ll see — we’ll see what the after-action
report shows.  I don’t want to get ahead of that as far as any funding
and what needs to happen next.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  First, does President Biden have confidence in
Transportation Secretary Buttigieg?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  
  
Q    Why?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because Secretary Buttigieg is a — is — he respects
the Secretary and the work that he has been doing.  
  
You have seen the Secretary on TV.  You have — you have spoke- —
probably spoken to him yourself.  And they are doing everything that
they can to make sure that the experience that Americans have is a good
one.  That’s why they’ve held the airlines accountable.  You’ve seen the
Secretary do that over and over again.   
  
And we understand — we understand what — what Americans have been going
through these past couple of months.  That’s why the Secretary has been
very clear on making sure that they are held accountable; has put in
processes in place to make sure that that occurs.   
  
And, yes, the President has confidence in Secretary Buttigieg.  
  
Q    And then, on these documents, how could anyone be that
irresponsible?  Isn’t that what this President says about mishandling
classified documents?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President spoke to this personally.  He spoke to
this personally.  He — again, he believes that classified documents and
information should be taken seriously.  He takes them seriously.  And he
was surprised to learn about —  
  
Q    It’s — it’s alleged that he did not take them seriously.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — any — any records that had —  
  
I disagree.  I disagree.  Here’s what happened.  Here’s what happened
once his —  
  
Q    Then why is there a Justice Department probe into this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me — let me explain to you the process. 
Here’s what happened when his lawyers found out that the documents were
there.  They immediately turned them over to the Archives.  
  
Q    But they were there in the first place.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But immediately turned them over to the Archives.  
  
Q    I understand that they — you say they did the right thing —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to —  
  
Q    — when they figured it out.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to go into specifics.  But I’m going — what
I’m reiterating to you is what you heard from the President yourself,
Peter, which is how he saw the process and how he respects and truly
respects and takes this very seriously and when he knew — and how
surprised he was by it, and the actions that — the right actions that
the lawyers took.  
  
Again, this is under — this is under investiga- — this is under review
by the Department of Justice, and we’re going to let that process
continue.  
  
Q    How can President Biden be trusted, moving forward, with America’s
secrets?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because his lawyers, his team did the right thing.  
  
Q    But he had a closet with classified information in it —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He — his lawyers did the right —  
  
Q    — that they found.  How did it get there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again — again — again, he did —  
  
Q    Did the lawyers doing the right thing put the documents in the
clost?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was surprised that the records were there.  He
spoke to this personally.  
  
Q    But they were there.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was surprised that the — that the records were
there.  And when his lawyers found out and his team found out that they
were there, they turned it over to the Archives.  And now it’s being
reviewed by the Department of Justice.  
  
Q    And just one more.  Why didn’t President Biden want to see what’s
really going on at the border?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He did see exactly what’s going on at the border.  
  
Q    He didn’t talk to any migrants, and he didn’t go anywhere that
people actually cross illegally.  Why not?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But he also — he met — he went to the migrant center,
which was a crital- — a critical place to be, when you think about the
partners who are — our partners who are helping support the migrants on
the ground there.  There happened to be no migrants at the facility at
the time that he visited.  
  
Q    And is that just —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But let’s —  
  
Q    — a coincidence?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But let’s —  
  
Q    Because El Paso has been crushed.  The shelters are full.  There
are overflow migrants sleeping in the streets.  And then it’s just a
coincidence that suddenly the President shows up and there’s no one?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me talk about what’s going on in El Paso,
right?  El Paso did go down significantly prior to the President’s visit
by about 70 percent.   
  
And that’s a good thing, Peter.  That’s a good thing that we’ve seen the
numbers go down.  And that is something that we should be saying, “Okay,
that’s — good job there.”  
  
It has helped ease pressure all across the community.  But the
President’s visit had nothing to do with it.  
  
And so, look, again, we went — he went to a migrant center.  He went to
one of the busiest port of entry, which is in El Paso.   
  
And — and so, the President got to see.  He went to the border, and he
got to see for himself, talking to — we’ve always been very clear that
we were going to — he was going to talk to the people on the ground, who
was — who who’s working on the border.  And that’s what you saw.   
  
You saw him meet with the CBP.  You saw him meet with partners on the
ground, as I just stated, who deal with migrants and their families. 
And the President also is going to continue to call on Congress to take
action.   
  
Look, the President has been doing the work.  And if you think about the
record funding, he has done — he has done more than any prior — prior
President to secure the border and build a safe, orderly, and humane
immigration system.  And that’s what the President has been able to do.

We’ve got 23,000 agents working to secure the border, and we’ll soon be
hiring 300 more.  That’s what the President has done here.

And so, again, he went down there, he saw for himself.  And — and I’ll
just leave it there.  
  
Q    Can I ask —

Q    I have a follow-up.  
  
Q    Karine?  
  
Q    Thank you.  One on — a follow-up on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, go ahead — this lady in the front.  Go ahead.

Q    Was there any discussion of President Biden getting a physical
while he was at Walter Reed this morning?  Or could you provide any
update on when that might happen next?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, this is about his wife today.  He wanted to —
he wanted to be there to support her.  I don’t have anything else to
share besides the fact that, you know, this — they’ve been married for
45 years, and he wanted to be there with Dr. Biden during this time.

Q    And then I just have one quick question on Brazil.  Has there been
any discussion in the administration about if there were to be an
extradition request from Brazil for Bolsonaro for the events that
happened this week?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have an update for you on this.  I’m not
aware of an official request for information of — or extradition from
the Brazilian government.  The — though, of course, if we were to
receive one, we’d treat it seriously and examine it carefully, as we
generally do for such requests.  I’m just not aware of one at this time.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  A follow-up on the gas stoves and just a quick one on
the President’s op-ed today on social media.  On the gas stoves
question, Senate Democrats are calling for more regulations on gas
stoves because they contribute to indoor air pollution.  Is the
President worried about the climate impact of a gas stove?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, again, I — when it comes to the question
about safety or — or the effect of a gas stove, that is not something
that — that we can speak to here at the White House, so I would refer
you to the Consumer Product Safety Commission.

And, you know, the President does not support banning gas stoves.  And
the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which is independent, is not
banning gas stoves.  So, I just want to be very clear on that.

And so, again, that’s not — that’s not something that we can make from
here, about the safety of a gas stove.  That’s not something that the
White House can — can provide.

Q    And then, on the President’s op-ed in the Wall Street Journal about
social media, he talked about reforming Section 230, but the bottom
line: Does the President think that social media companies should be
legally responsible for what goes on on their platforms?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, holding big — big technology, big tech
accountable has been a priority for this President since the mo- — since
the day he took office.

In July of 2021, his competition executive order explicitly called for
enforcing antitrust laws to meet the challenges posed by new industries
and technologies, including the rise of the dominant Inter- — Internet
platforms and addressing the surveillance of users.

It is also part of his Unity Agenda, as you heard him say last year —
talk about his Unity Agenda.  And you may recall, in that Unity Agenda,
he talked about the four areas that have traditionally been bipartisan
and where the President believes we can make bipartisan progress.

And in his op-ed, he urges Democrats in Con- — and Republicans in
Congress to pass a bipartisan legislation.

Look, the President, again, outlined the same policy positions in this
op-ed today that you saw — that you heard from him in the State of the
Union last year.

He said it’s time to strengthen privacy protections, ban targeted
advertising to children, demand tech companies stop collecting personal
data on our — on our children.  And also, you may remember that one of
the President’s guests — the First Lady’s guest at the State of the
Union was — was Frances Haugen, the Facebook whi- — Facebook
whistleblower.

So this is an issue that the President is going to continue to focus on,
and at the — and is incredibly important to him.  And so, as the new
Congress starts, he’s going to continue to reiterate a bipartisanship
there.

Q    But when it comes to liability, does he think that social media
companies need to have some skin in the game, where they could be sued
over what happens on their platforms?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  When it — when it comes to sec- — the reforming of
Section 230, he calls for — he continues to call for that.  Increasing
competition, reducing the impact of tech companies have our — on our —
over our lives extends back to the campaign.  And he has reiterated that
— them as President.

So he’s going to continue to do that.  He’s going to continue to call
for bipartisan legislation, as we’ve seen the new Congress.  And that’s
what you’re going to hear from the President.  And that’s — that’s why
he wanted to lay out this — his thoughts with the new Congress in the
op-ed.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Can I get your reaction on the new House Select
Committee on China?  Does the administration plan to work with them?  Do
you believe they will be helpful in achieving your goals in strategic
competition with Beijing?  And are you concerned about the potential for
anti-Asian hate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, under President Biden we are more prepared
to outcompete China, protect our national security, and advance a free
and open Indo-Pacific than ever before.  Many of our efforts we have
been pursuing are bipartisan, underscoring the alignment at home on the
key issue.

And we look forward to the committee getting stood up, and we’ll
continue to work with Democrats and Republicans in Congress on this — on
this — on this issue.  It is a top priority, as we talk about
out-competing China.

Q    And do you believe — just, on the last part, do you — do you — are
you concerned about the potential of the committee perpetuating any kind
of anti-Asian hate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, that is something that we’re going to — we will
always call out against.  That’s something that you’ve heard from the
President and you’ve heard from this administration, calling out any
anti-Asian hate.  That is not who we should be or who we are.  And so,
again, that is a commitment that he has to the Asian community.

Q    Okay.  And one more on Japan, please, Karine.  Ahead of the Prime
Minister’s visit, can you share the goals of this visit, particularly in
terms of — you know, in the context of countering China and holding
Russia accountable on its invasion of Ukraine?  If you can be as
specific about what this visit particularly means in the U.S.-Japan
strategic relationship right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just — more broadly, the two leaders are
going to have an extensive and in-depth conversation over the last year
at the east — over the last year at the East Asia Summit in Cambodia —
so they’re going to continue that conversation, continue that
relationship — and the bilateral visit and Quad summit in Tokyo as
well.  So they have had many extensive conversation.

The Prime Minister will arrive at the White House after consulting
closely with us and regional partners on the release of Japan’s new
national security strategy and commitment to boosting its defense —
depend on — to 2 percent of GDP, including to invest in new defense
capabilities.

These unprecented \[sic\] — unprecedented moves will strengthen
deterrence in the region in order to advance peace and stability in the
Indo-Pacific and globally, as you — as we — as you asked me about China.

This meeting also comes as Japan continues to be a critical partner for
the United States and Europe in holding Russia accountable for its
brutal war against Ukraine.

The meeting between the President and the Prime Minister will highlight
the pivotal mo- — movement — moment we are in for the U.S.-Japan
alliance and underscore how President Biden’s focus on investing
alliances and partnership, including Japan, is bearing fruit.

And you will hear more on — about this meeting, and will get a readout
on Friday, certainly.

Go ahead, Kristen.

Q    Yes, going back to transportation.  TSA plans to roll out facial
recognition technology at its airports nationwide.  But critics have
raised concerns about the racial inaccuracies, especially for Asians and
African Americans when it comes to this technology.  What is the White
House’s response to those racial disparities?  And what kind of
oversight can be provided to ensure that there isn’t this inherent bias
in this technology?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the TS- — TSA continuously evaluates and improves
upon technology and process to better protect the traveling public and
ensure that screening is conducted in a manner that respects the dignity
of each individual.  That is, clearly, a priority.

DHS is working with NIST to assess the performance of face recognition
technology and reduce demographic differentials, particularly as it
relates to race and gender.  And so that’s what they’re going to
continue to do, is evaluate — evaluate and improve.  
  
Q    Karine, can I ask question of 40 people killed in Afghanistan
today?  Can you respond to that?

Q    Can I just ask if you have any information about why the
President’s personal attorneys were at the Penn Biden Center in the
first place?  Were they looking for something specific?  Was there
something specific they were doing going through these documents?

It just seems like to send — if it was just routine moving stuff, to
send a personal attorney to do that is a little —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the White House Counsel’s very
extensive, kind of, information on Monday that they provided.  So, I’d
refer you to that.  
  
Q    Karine?  Karine, thank you so much.  On the ground stop this
morning, it’s just such an unusual procedure.  I’m wondering if you can
go through in any more detail when the President was told that this
might happen and, you know, was he involved in that — in that decision
or that conversation before it was issued, or did he learn afterwards. 
If you just could provide a little more detail about how that process
worked.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So when it comes to the ground stop, that’s something
that the FAA — a decision that they made, an order that they made, so
I’ll send you to them.    
  
As far as the President, the FAA worked on this issue, as I mentioned,
as you’ve heard from Secretary Pete, throughout the night, and briefed
Secretary Buttigieg — and briefed Secretary Buttigieg early this
morning.  And then, in turn, the Secretary then briefed the President,
and he spoke to you all directly, shortly after.  And so that has been
the process on how the President was briefed.  
  
Q    I was just curious if the President knew before the ground stop or
if he was told immediately afterward.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was told before.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, I — sort of looking back to the summit, there were
not major announcements on the border or fentanyl.  And I’m wondering,
you know, what that — what we should take that to mean in terms of the
success of the summit.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as it relates to migration — irregular migration —
obviously, that was a key topic of discussion, as all of you know. 
President Biden discussed ways our countries can continue to work — work
together and to address irregular migration.  So that conversation
certainly happened extensively.   
  
He discussed the recent announcement of additional enforcement actions
coupled with expanded pathways for Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans, and
Venezuelans.   
  
And the leaders were able to agree on a number of initiatives, including
a virtual platform through the Los Angeles Declaration website, which
will provide migrants one unified location in which to access legal
pathways they may be eligible for, as well as establishing physical
centers where migrants can come in, in person, and access those legal
pathways as well.   
  
And so that — again, it was an extensive conversation on irregular
migration.  
  
When it comes to fentanyl, we’ve been focused on taking big actions to
fight drug traffickers and go after financiers of cartels attempting to
bring fentanyl into our country.   
  
And so, during his meeting with President Obrador, the President
discussed increased cooperation to prosecute drug traffickers and
dismantle criminal networks, disrupt the supply of illicit precursors
chemicals used to make fentanyl as well, shut down drug laboratories,
and prevent trafficking of drug, arms, and people across our shared
border.   
  
So there was — there was a commitment and coordination and — on law
enforcement training, the best practices, so we can better go after
criminal networks in the fentanyl trade.  
  
Again, this was — this was a meeting — a summit that happened with two
of our closest neighbors on how we can move forward in dealing with some
of the issues that are really important to the three — to the three
leaders.  
  
Q    Was it as ambitious as you had hoped?  I mean, was the White House
a little, you know, let down by the scope of the agreements?  And can
you sort of characterize, you know, how you’re feeling at this moment
about, you know, the outcome?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we believe we announced a robust set of
initiatives on issues that are critical to North America.  That’s what
you saw from the three leaders.  You saw them yesterday in Mexico City
answer questions, speak to the different — kind of, the different issues
that matter to their — to their country.  
  
And, look, just a couple of things: That includes expanding and
deepening our security cooperation to combat drug trafficking, as I just
laid out; redoubling efforts to address climate change by taking efforts
to reduce methane emissions and decarbonize public transportation;
strengthening and expanding North American supply chains for
semiconductors and critical minerals; and providing alternatives to
irregular migration by increasing ways migrants can access legal
pathways to North America.  
  
Again, we believe those were a robust set of initiatives, continuing
their close friendships, as we move forward to — to what’s important and
critical to North America.  
  
Q    And on the border, we were wondering — there were not Republican
members of Congress with the President.  Were they invited to come with
him?  Can you sort of talk through that (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so I was asked about this a couple of days ago. 
Look, we go through the normal process as we go into a state with —
whether it’s Republican or Democrats in that state.  And just don’t have
anything further.   
  
Our Office of Legislative — Leg Affairs certainly reach out to
congressional members.  Our Intergovernmental Affairs certainly reach —
reach out to state and local official.  As you saw, the governor —
Governor Abbott met with — met the President at the — when he arrived at
the airport.  
  
And so, again, this is a regular — we have a regular process that we —
we — we go forth with every trip, and there was nothing different
here.  
  
Q    So, Legislative Affairs did reach out to Republican members?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We reached out to their federal offices like we always
do with every trip.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    And then, one quick question, just following up on April’s really
good point.  She, in her question, brought up the notion that, you know,
President Biden was really former Vice President Joe Biden during the
period in which these documents were found.  And can you tell us how
many other offices there may have been?  I realize that you can’t say
whether they’re being searched or whether there is any sort of look for
documents, but how big is the scope of additional offices where the — at
that point, the former Vice President was, you know, doing work?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, this is an ongoing process, and I’m just going to
be prudent here.  And it would be more appropriate for my colleagues to
answer — my colleagues at the White House Counsel’s Office to address —
to address this.  
  
Again, I want to respect the process.  And so, again, I would refer you
to them.  
  
Q    Just one quick — I was going to say one quick follow on that. 
Obviously, you said he was surprised about these documents being found. 
Has he expressed, like, any other emotion in response to these — these
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You heard directly from the President yesterday about
this particular issue.  He answered it in a personal way.   
  
Again, I would refer you to his response and how he saw the issue.  I
just don’t have anything else to share beyond what the President shared
with you and the American people yesterday.  
  
We’ll see you tomorrow.  Thank you.  
  
3:24 P.M. EST
