---
date: '2023-01-13'
modified_time: 2023-01-13 16:13:23-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-13 16:13:22-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/01/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-senior-advisor-for-public-engagement-keisha-lance-bottoms/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Senior Advisor for\
  \ Public Engagement Keisha Lance\_Bottoms"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:52 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Happy Friday.  And I got the date right today —
(laughter) — the day right today.   
  
Q    It’s Friday the 13th.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh!  (Laughter.)  Well, it’s going to be a little
crazy in here.   
  
Okay, as this week comes to a close, I want to take a moment to
highlight the incredible progress the President has made for the
American people in recent days, from expanding affordable healthcare, to
lowering costs and tackling inflation, to bringing manufacturing and
jobs back to our shores.   
  
President Biden started the week at the North American Leaders’ Summit
in Mexico City, where he spoke for — to our close cooperation with
Mexico and Canada to address shared challenges that impact the American
people — challenges like combating climate change, COVID-19 pandemic,
and transnational criminal organizations that are trafficking and
smuggling people as well as illicit drugs like fentanyl.   
  
The President spoke to our work to take thousands of smugglers off the
streets, catch record levels of fentanyl before it even reaches our
border, strengthen border security, and increase resources for border
communities, all over the — all over the opposition of Republican
governors and Republican members of Congress, I might add.   
  
We’ve also continued taking action to lower healthcare costs for
American families made possible by President Biden and congressional
Democrats’ enactment of the Inflation Reduction Act.   
  
On Wednesday, HHS announced its historic plans for Medicai- — for
Medicare to directly negotiate — negotiate lower prescription drug
costs.   
  
In addition, starting this month, seniors on Medicare are seeing their
insulin costs capped at $35 for a month’s supply.   They are also now
able to get recommended vaccines for free.  All of this thanks to,
again, the Inflation Reduction Act.   
  
HHS also announced a record-breaking enrollment number of healthcare
coverage on the Affordable Health Care Act marketplace.  Nearly 16
million people have signed up for this open enrollment period for
healthcare coverage, a 13 percent increase from last year.  And it
includes over 3 million people who are — who are brand new to the
marketplace.  And we’re not even done with the open enrollment yet.  
  
Because of the cost-savings measure in the Inflation Reduction Act that
President Biden signed into law, millions of Americans are continuing to
save $800 per year on health insurance on average.  And four out of the
five Healthcare.gov enrollees can — can find coverage for $10 or less a
month.   
  
All of this adds up to real — to real impact and meaningful progress to
expand affordable, quality healthcare coverage for American families. 
And that matters.  That matters to the American people.   
  
We also had exciting news on the economic front as well.  On Wednesday,
as you all saw, the largest solar investment in U.S. history — a direct
result of the President’s economic plan and the Inflation Reduction Act,
again.  This $2.5 billion investment in Georgia will create 2,500
jobs.   
  
And yesterday, we learned that for the sixth month in a row, inflation
has indeed come down.  Annual inflation has fallen to the lowest level
since October of 2021.  And gas prices are down by more than $1.70 from
their peak thanks in part to the President’s actions to increase oil
supply, which were also historic actions that this President took.   
  
This is further proof the President’s economic plan is working.  Even
though inflation is high in most major economies, it’s coming down in
America and giving families more breathing room.  You hear the President
say that all the time, how he wants to make sure that he’s giving
American families a little bit more of a breathing room.   
  
At the same time, the President is building an economy from the bottom
up and middle out, with the lowest unemployment rate in 50 years, nearly
11 million jobs created, and historic manufacturing investment, like I
just mentioned, totaling nearly $300 billion in major investments across
the country.   
  
And as of — as we end this week, on Friday the 13th — as somebody marked
— today, President Biden welcomed Prime Minister Kishida of Japan to the
White House.  We will have a joint statement out for all of you shortly,
laying out their conversation and their discussion this afternoon.   
  
But I can tell you that the two leaders are discussing the unprecedented
actions we have taken together to better equip us for the 21st century
challenges, as well as working to deepen our cooperation on everything
from economics, to technology, to fighting the climate crisis, advancing
peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific and around the world.   
  
Today’s visit is a testament to President Biden’s investment in our
alliances and partnerships since day one, since he walked into the
administration.   
  
And a historic week is leading into a historic weekend.  I am so happy
and glad to be joined by my colleague and former mayor of Atlanta,
Senior Advisor for Public Engagement Keisha Lance Bottoms, to talk about
the President’s trip this coming Sunday to the historic Ebenezer Baptist
Church to remember and honor the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
this Sunday, as I just said.  
  
I know many of you had some interest here, so we wanted to make sure
that she was here to answer any questions and to lay out why this day is
going to be so important.   
  
I do want to say, on a personal note: As Black women, we have broken
barriers.  This church and the day honoring King are near and dear to
both of our hearts.   
  
I know, on a personal level, we are both looking forward to joining the
President on this trip and being in what has been the epicenter of the
movement from civil rights in this country for decades.  
  
With that, Mayor Bottoms.  (Laughs.)  Okay, the floor is yours.  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  Thank you.  Well, good afternoon, everyone.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  It’s kind of scary up here, right?  (Laughter.)  
  
As Karine mentioned, I am looking forward to joining the President as he
travels to Atlanta this weekend.   
  
As you — many of you all know, in Dr. King’s “I Have a Dream” speech, he
expressed many ideals that he would not live to witness.  But I stand
here and many of you sit out there as beneficiaries of that dream, his
sacrifice, and service.  So, I am eternally grateful for that.   
  
As Karine mentioned, the President is traveling to Atlanta.  This is at
the invitation of Reverend Warnock.  And the President will deliver a
sermon at Ebenezer Church, which, of course, was Dr. King’s church, also
Congressman John Lewis’s church.   
  
The President spoke with Senator Warnock last night.  Senator Warnock
has been the pastor since 2005 at Ebenezer.  They had a wonderful
conversation about the significance of this historic event, including
the fact that the President is the first sitting President to speak at a
Sunday service at Ebenezer in its history.  
  
This would have been Dr. King’s 94th birthday.  As we know, this is an
inflection point in history.  And the President will deliver remarks
reflecting on Dr. King’s life and legacy and the way that we can go
forward together.   
  
Following his trip to Atlanta on Sunday, he will join Reverend Al
Sharpton on Monday at the National Action Network, which Monday, of
course, is the day — the official celebration day of the King holiday. 
The President will deliver the keynote speech there.   
  
And then, finally, before I take any questions, this is an important
day.  As a member of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated, it’s our
Founders Day — our 110th Founders Day.  So, the President did a lovely
video for the women of Delta.   
  
Also, our Secretary of HUD, Marcia Fudge, was also a former national
president of Delta.   
  
So, the President and the Vice President are very grateful for all of
the support of the women of Delta and the Divine Nine.  And Happy
Founders Day.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right, we’ll take a couple questions.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Can I ask you if — as you’re — in your role in community outreach,
whether the issue of the documents is a particular setback for the
President at a moment when other things seem to be going pretty well? 
Inflation is coming down.  Employment is solid.  Like, are you finding
that you’re getting a lot of response from the public on that?  And how
do you — how do you play that issue?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  In my role as Senior Advisor for Public Engagement, we’ve
not gotten any information on that in terms of from the public.  We’ve
not received any questions.  
  
Q    And do you anticipate that that will have any bearing or is causing
the President to think at all about — as he’s making his decision about
whether to run again — will this series of discoveries have any bearing
on his thinking and his thought process as he decides whether to run?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  I’ll refer those questions to the President.  He can speak
for himself on that.   
  
Q    While the President is in Atlanta, what do you expect his message
to be on voting rights in particular?  And given that the situation in
the Senate remains virtually unchanged when he spoke about this issue in
Atlanta last year, is he considering any additional executive action on
this issue?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  Well, the President has been very clear that we need
Congress to act.  He’s asked for Congress to codify the John Lewis
Voting Rights Act and also the additional voting rights act that’s
pending before Congress; that’s the Freedom to Vote Act.  
  
So, the President has been very clear that voting — the right to vote,
the access to vote — is a core component of our democracy.  And he’s
going to continue to push for that.   
  
Q    Including on Sunday at the church?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  The President will speak on a number of issues at the
church, including how important it is that we have access to our
democracy.  And you can’t come to Atlanta and not acknowledge the role
that the civil rights movement and Dr. King played in where we are in
the history of our country.  But we still have to push forward.  We
still have more work to do  
  
Q    And just one other thing.  Do you expect him to have any engagement
with the King family while he’s down there?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  We do expect that.  I know in — on previous Sundays,
previous King Day services and many Sundays prior to the pandemic, Dr.
King’s sister, in particular, is often at the service.  I don’t know if
she will be there this Sunday.  And we also expect other members of the
King family to be there as well.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Franco.  
  
Q    In regards to the voting rights — you know, last time — you know,
last time it — around this time when President Biden went to Atlanta,
some of the civil rights groups and voting rights groups skipped the
speech out of concern that the White House wasn’t doing enough to push
this issue.   
  
Aside from wanting Congress to do more, what — what is the message to
those who feel the White House is not doing enough?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  Well, as I’ve been in this role as senior advisor to the
President since June of last year, we have engaged with civil rights
leaders.  He’s had them at the White House in a roundtable.  I’m in
constant contact with them.  And I think that it’s very clear that the
President is doing everything that he can in his executive power to lean
in on voting rights.   
  
But we need Congress to do more.  This is important.  If you’ve come
through the East Wing, you’ve seen the pictures of Dr. King meeting with
Lyndon Johnson, meeting with other civil rights leaders, hashing out
voting rights in the White House.   
  
And so, the fact that we are still here talking about this in 2023, I
think, really speaks to the fact that we need action.  We need that
action from Congress.  
  
The President has done and will continue to do all that he can do in his
executive powers, but there’s only so much that he can do.  We need
Congress to act.  
  
Q    Is the feeling then that he is — that he has exhausted what he can
do — his powers from the White House — his executive powers?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  Well, if there is more that he can do, we welcome those
suggestions.  But, as I stand here today, it’s my understanding that we
have done all that we can do from the executive branch.  Now we need
Congress to act.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Kristen.  
  
Q    Yes.  Thank you so much, Mayor Bottoms, for being here.  We really
appreciate it.   
  
When you look at the economy, you saw the unemployment rate come down
last month, and yet, it went up for Black women, for Latinos.  What is
your reaction?  How focused is this administration on trying to make
sure that the recovery is equal, is helping African American women?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  Well, equity is at the center of what we do from this
administration.  And so, that’s extremely important.  
  
You know, it’s been said that when America catches a cold, that Black
America catches the flu.  Well, that’s also in relation to the economy. 
We often know that communities of color and those communities that often
face additional challenges have additional challenges with the
economy.   
  
The great news is that the economy is doing much better under this
administration.  Also, the President is going to continue to lean in to
make sure that we have access — access to resources that are specific to
communities of color, that are specific to women, to give us those
opportunities to be successful in this economy.   
  
Q    Do you anticipate him addressing that in his remarks on Monday?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  I know that he will generally speak about where we are,
just in terms of helping those who are in need in our communities.  I
don’t know if he will specifically address the economy.   
  
But as you all know, during Dr. King’s last major campaign before his
assassination, it was called the Poor People’s Campaign.   
  
And what we know is that from this administration, many of the focus
areas have been aligned with Dr. — with what Dr. King was focused on at
the time of his assassination.  That’s making sure that we are creating
this beloved community, free from hate, free from poverty, giving people
access to resources so that they can have what they need to compete and
succeed.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Two more.   
  
Q    Thank you.  Thinking back to the 2020 campaign, part of the
President’s strategy at the time was going to visit these churches to
engage some of the voters that he needed to turn out for him — in South
Carolina; there was the 16th Street bombing anniversary that he spoke at
in Alabama also; and in Selma for Bloody Sunday.  Is this speech at
Ebenezer the start of a similar outreach campaign heading into 2024?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  I don’t know that it’s the start of it, but it could be a
great start of it.  I know that the President is very interested in
connecting with people, hearing directly from people.  It’s the best way
that any elected official truly hears and understands the needs of
people.  And there’s no better place than to do that than at Ebenezer.  
  
Reverend Warnock has not just been very vocal about the challenges and
the issues that are facing people as a candidate but also as a pastor. 
And Ebenezer is a cornerstone in the Atlanta community.  And I’m sure
the President will get an earful on what our needs and our desires are
for our country when he’s there.   
  
Q    Can you provide any insight into the writing process for the
speech?  I know that oftentimes there’s a lot of time paid attention to
speeches like this — how long the President has been working on it
for.  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  We’ve been working on it for a couple of weeks as a team
and, of course, with the President’s input.  And as with any major
speech that the President is giving, you — he gives his input and — and
the team takes it from there.  And then he takes his pen and he says
what he wants to say, and you’ll hear that on Sunday.  
  
Q    Is it finished?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  The last —  
  
Q    Is it finished?    
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  No.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s never finished.  
  
Okay.  Go ahead, Chris.  
  
Q    Hi.  Just one question.  Obviously, Democrats had a big victory in
the runoff election in Georgia.  He’s going back to a historic Black
institution to speak with this church.  You know, how do you see the
state — your home state kind of fit into the political landscape going
forward now?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  Georgia is pretty important.  I think the whole — I’ve
always thought that.  Now the rest of the country knows it.   
  
We know that — that Georgia has paid — played an important role with how
our senate is — is now comprised.  And I expect that that role will
continue to be just as important in future election cycles.  And —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, last question.  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  — and remember —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry.  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  — I just have to say this —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go for it.  Go for it.   
  
MS. BOTTOMS: — Georgia did go for Joe Biden.  All right?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ebony.  Last question.  
  
Q    Just a couple of questions.  First, whether it be on Monday or on
Sunday when he’s at Ebenezer, is he going to be meeting with any civil
rights organizations at any point during any of those visits?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  Well, as I mentioned on Monday, he will be joining
Reverend Al at the National Action Network.  There’ll be many civil
rights representatives there.  There will be many at the church who will
also have an opportunity to connect with the President while he’s
there.  
  
Q    Nothing separately?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  Nothing separately, but there will be some engagement
while at the church.  
  
Q    In the policy forum with Reverend Al Sharpton, when he attends the
NAN — the NAN event, what kind of policies can you talk about that — you
know, that they’ll be talking about on that — on that day?  Or what for
— what kind of policies do you think that we can kind of expect to hear
the President talk about?   
  
Even following that, I know that Rev has been talking about criminal
justice reform quite a lot and had several other meetings.  Can we see
the President pick back up on those same messages following this?  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  Well, the great thing is that this is not a one-time
engagement.  Reverend Al and some of the other civil rights leaders, I
believe, from eight other organizations were in the White House a few
months ago, sitting down with the President, sharing their concerns.   
  
We — my office, me personally — I’m constantly engaged with these civil
rights leaders.  So, we are hearing in real time what our challenges
are.   
  
And I — I think I can safely say that we have the confidence of many of
these leaders that we are doing what we can do, and we’ll continue to do
more as we can to make sure that the needs of our communities are met.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much.  
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  Thank you.   
  
Q    Thanks, Mayor.   
  
MS. BOTTOMS:  Thank you.   
  
Q    How — how did you feel that the President — President Biden picked
Kamala Harris instead of you for — for a running mate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thanks, everybody.   
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And thank you so much, Keisha.  Appreciate it.  
  
I have a couple of things at the top that I just want to go through. 
This is the week ahead, so all of you have this.  So — before we take
questions.  
  
So, later today, the President is going to travel to Wilmington,
Delaware, as you all know.   
  
On Sunday, as you just heard from Mayor Lance Bottoms, the President
will travel to Atlanta, Georgia, and deliver a sermon at Ebenezer
Baptist church.  
  
And, on Monday, he will return to Washington, D.C., to join Reverend Al
Sharpton and the National — the National Action Network at their Martin
Luther King Jr. Day breakfast, where he will deliver the keynote
address.

On Tuesday, the President looks forward to welcoming Prime Minister Mark
Rutte of the Netherlands to the White House to further deepen the
historic ties between our two nations.  As strong NATO Allies and global
partners, the two leaders will reaffirm our shared efforts to strengthen
transatlantic security and economic prosperity.

After that bilateral meeting, the President will welcome the Golden
State Warriors to the White House to celebrate their 2022 NBA
championship.

And, next Friday, the President will welcome bipartisan mayors attending
the U.S. Conference of Mayors winter meeting to — to the White House. 
The President will deliver remarks celebrating the achievements of the
past 18 months and focusing on the bipartisan work that needs to be done
to implement these and other historic pieces of legislative victories at
the level — at the local level to make difference — to make a difference
in people’s lives across the country.

With that, Chris, you want to kick us off?

Q    Sure.  I have a question on a couple different topics.  Speaker
McCarthy has invited the President to deliver the State of the Union on
February 7th.  That just went out.  Is that the date that the President
plans to give the State of the Union?  Does he accept that invitation on
that date?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we have received Speaker McCarthy’s kind
invitation, and the President has accepted it and looks forward to
delivering the State of the Union address on Tuesday, February 17th of
2023.  So we —

Q    The 7th.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my God.  (Laughter.)  I’m so sorry, guys.  On
Tuesday, February 7th, 2023.  But we truly appreciate the kind
invitation by Speaker McCarthy.

Q    On the debt limit.  Republicans want to cut spending as part of a
debt limit deal.  Is the President willing to cut any spending as part
of a debt limit deal?  And what would he be willing to cut?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, as you’ve heard us say before, we will not be —
be doing any negotiation over the debt ceiling.  But, broadly speaking,
at the start of this new Congress, we’re reaching out to all the members
through the Office of Leg Affairs, making sure that they — making sure
that we have those connections with those new members, as I just stated.

But I want to say, like, in the past — and I’ve said this before, and
I’ll say it again — there’s been a bipartisan cooperation when it comes
to lifting the debt ceiling, and that’s how it should be.  That’s how it
should continue.

It’s not — it’s not and should not be a political football.  This is not
political gamesmanship.  And we are — there — this should be done
without conditions.  And that’s how we see this process moving forward.

Q    Sorry, when you say that there’ll be no negotiating, you will not
negotiate anything involving spending but — with the debt limit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What we’re saying is that there should be — this
should be done without conditions.  In the past, we have seen this — we
have seen both Republicans and Democrats come together to deal with this
issue.  It is a — it is one of the basic items that Congress has to deal
with, and it should be done without condition.

So, there is going to be — there’s going to be no negotiation over it. 
This is something that must get done.

Q    And does the President agree with the Secretary — Treasury
Secretary that the debt ceiling should be eliminated?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’ve spoken to this before.  That is not — no
one is talking about eliminating the debt ceiling or the debt limit. 
That’s not we’re talking rig- — about right now.  Congress is going to
need to raise the debt limit without conditions.  So that is not what
the discussion that we’re having.

Q    Very last thing.  Have White House officials been interviewed by
the special counsel or by the Justice Department involving the
classified documents?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I will say from here is any — any questions
that you may have about the review, about the process, I would refer you
to the Department of Justice.  I would also refer you to my colleagues
over at the White House Counsel.  I’m not going to get into any
specifics from here.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q    Aside from the special counsel, aside from this review, I just have
a question about process and classified documents and their handling,
because I think there’s some confusion amongst the public and — and even
in this room.  You know, what is the process to make sure that
classified documents aren’t accidentally or intentionally taken when a
President or Vice President leaves office?  You know, what’s the
protocol?  Or is this sort of, just, you know, a self-review system?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a good question.  I would — on the process and
how that works, I would — I would certainly refer you to the White House
Counsel’s Office.  They would know that.  They can walk you through that
— my colleagues there.

And — and I know many of you have been — have been in touch with my
colleagues in the last 24 hours — in direct touch — and answering many
of your questions.  So I would refer you to them on the specific process
so that they will — they will certainly guide you in the right way.

Q    And as — but, as far as you know, is it ever okay for classified
documents to be mixed with personal effects?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say — look, what I can say is what the
President has said before, what I have said multiple times.  We take
this very seriously.  The President takes a classified information,
classified documents very seriously. 

But, look, you know, I’ve said this — I’ve said this before: We have
addressed this issue multiple times at length.  And we have been fully
cooperating with the Department of Justice.  And now we will be doing
the same with the special counsel’s office.

Out of — just to be prudent here and just to make sure that we are
consistent, I would refer anything that is related to this to the — as
it relates to the review — to the Department of Justice or my colleagues
at the White House Counsel Office.  And this is — we see it as the best
way to move forward.   
  
We want to respect the process.  And so, that’s what I’m going to do. 
I’m going to refer you to Department of Justice.

Q    Just to be clear: You’re confident he followed whatever protocol
was in place?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, this is something that he takes very seriously
— the President — when it comes to classified documents, when it comes
to classified information.   
  
I’m not going to go into any specifics from here.  If you have any
questions, anything further that’s related to the review or — I refer
you to Department of Justice or my colleagues over at the White House
Counsel’s Office, who I know many of you who I’m staring at right now
has been in close touch.

Go ahead, Ed.

Q    A few things, Karine, thank you.  Following up on the State of the
Union, I believe it was the President who suggested he has spoken with
Speaker McCarthy.  Are there any plans for them to meet in person before
February 7th?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, they spoke — and I think we actually shared that
with all of you — the day that Speaker McCarthy became Speaker.   
  
You — you heard — you saw a statement from the President and the First
Lady congratulating — congratulating Kevin McCarthy on becoming
Speaker.  And then the next day, I believe it was — that was on a Friday
— I believe the next day, which was a Saturday, the President had a
direct conversation.  He connected with Speaker McCarthy and
congratulated him in — in person.

Q    But no plans yet for a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have — I don’t have a plan- — I don’t have a —
a scheduled meeting to share it with you at this time.

Q    I wanted to follow up on a few things from yesterday.  When was the
President informed about the Attorney General’s decision to appoint a
special counsel?  How and by whom?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I — the specifics on that, I can tell — here’s what
I can tell you: I can tell you that we were not given a heads up.  I was
asked that question yesterday.  We did not know that that was — the
announcement was going to come yesterday until after it happened.  So I
can clear the deck there and let you know.

Anything else specific to when the President knew or anything that’s
related to this, I would refer you to the White House Counsel’s Office. 
I know many of you that I’m looking at right now has been in close touch
with my colleague there.  And — and so I would continue to refer you to
— to my colleague at the White House Counsel’s Office.

Q    One of the things that they have finally confirmed for us is that
Bob Bauer is indeed the President’s personal attorney handling some of
this.  Given that the Justice Department cited the personal counsel as
having made this initial outreach to National Archives and that has been
in touch with the Justice Department, is that the person who these
questions should be directed to?  Why the White House Counsel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will say this again: I would — whatever the White
House Counsel, my colleague told you in your conversation — I know you
guys just spoke, or connected, earlier today — I would ask them that
question.   
  
And anything related to the review, I would refer you to the Department
of Justice.

Q    And regarding the extraordinary measures that the Treasury
Secretary announced a little while ago in advance notice to Congress, is
there a policy that requires her to give advance notice of those plans?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You would have to — you would have to reach out to the
Department of Treasury on how that process works.   
  
What I can say is — just so that everyone knows, folks who are watching
— the debt limit is projected to be reached on Thursday, January 19th. 
At that point, Treasury will begin to take extraordinary measures to
prevent default.

Secretary Yellen did not name a specific X date, if you will — the day
Treasury would no — the day Treasury would no — no longer be able to pay
the government’s obligations.  But, quoting from the Secretary’s letter:
It’s unlikely that ca- — that cash and extraordinary measu- — measures
will be exhausted before early June.  But does — that does not mean that
Congress should not wait until then to raise the debt ceiling.

As we have been saying over and over again, the sooner Congress acts,
the better, since even the prospect of not raising the debt ceiling will
have — damage the full faith and the credit of our nation.

And, again, we are going to continue to — to encourage current Congress
to act.  But as far as the steps and — and how this all works, I would
refer you to Department of Treasury.

Q    Because today is six days to the 19th.  A few years ago, she did it
about 10 days beforehand.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I understand.  I would refer you to the Department
of Treasury.

Q    So there’s nothing to it being announced today amid the situation
that the White House is facing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would — I would refer you to Department of
Treasury.   
  
And just to be very clear here, Ed, we have — I’ve been in here almost
every day since we got back from Mexico City, standing here, taking your
questions at length.  So, we’re not avoiding anything here.  And you’ve
heard —

Q    No, you’re not.  You’re here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — you’ve heard — you’ve heard from the President at
least twice.  And you — we have put forth multiple statements from the
White House Counsel’s Office.  So, that suggestion, I just disagree
with.

Go ahead, Kristen.

Q    Karine, thank you so much.  Does the White House and does the
President agree to fully cooperate with the special counsel
investigation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have said that we are going to continue to —
continue to fully cop- — cooperate.  We have been.  The President’s
lawyers and team has been fully cooperating with the Department of
Justice.  And we’re certainly — they’re certainly going to do that with
the special counsel. 

Q    And so, by that reasoning, would the President agree to sit for an
on-the-record, in-person interview with the special counsel or
(inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not — I’m not going to get into specifics or
get ahead of what’s going to happen.  I’m not going to get into
hypotheticals, because that is a hypothetical.   
  
What I will say is: We have addressed this multiple times at length, and
we are going to continue — the President’s team is going to continue to
fully cooperate with the Department of Justice.  And we respect that
process, and that’s what we’re going to do.

Q    The President has said he hopes to speak about this soon.  When can
people expect to hear from him about this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Don’t have — again, that’s a — that is — that is
something that I can’t — I don’t have a magic wand here.  I don’t know
when that’s going to happen.   
  
What I can say is: His team is going to fully cooperate with the
Department of Justice.  
  
Let’s not forget, the President said during the campaign that when it
comes to the Department of Justice independence, he respects that.  And
that is something that he had said was incredibly important to make sure
that they had their independence.   
  
That’s why we say we’re going to make sure that they have their
independence.  And that’s why I’m saying that we’re going to refer to
the Department of Justice.   
  
Q    And let me just ask you a big-picture question here: Does the White
House, broadly speaking, have an obligation to share not just with the
National Archives, but with the American people when the existence of
classified information is found in a private location?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, there is a process in this.  
  
Q    But just big picture.  Not necessarily in —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We —  
  
Q    — this instance.  But is it the policy of the White House that they
should share that information not just with the National Archives, but
with the American people?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll say this, Kristen: We have been transparent in
the last couple of days in — remember there’s an ongoing process, and we
have spoken when it is appropriate.   
  
And we have shared — again, I’ve been here almost every day — well, not
every day, but from Wednesday, yesterday, and today — taking your
questions on this.  The White House Counsel has put out a very extensive
— multiple statements on this as well.   
  
And you all — I know you all have been talking — many of you here have
been talking to my colleague in the White House Counsel.   
  
So what the — the — the actions that we took were right — right actions
that his team took in deal — in — in dealing with the Department of
Justice and also the Archives.  Look, I have —  
  
Q    But just to be clear —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have —  
  
Q    — you guys have answered question when the press has broken in the
news —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because it’s an ongoing process.   
  
Q    — (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because, again, it is an ongoing process.  There is a
process here.  The Department of Justice is independent.  We respect
that process.   
  
But, again, I have taken questions.  I can take two — two questions to a
hundred questions.  I have answered your questions as — almost every day
on this issue.   
  
And, again, anything else that you may have, anything that’s related to
the review, I would refer you to the Department of Justice.   
  
Q    One — one last question, because I know you’ve got to move on
here.  But the President campaigned on the argument that he would
restore confidence.  We know that he’s in the process of deciding
whether to officially announce he’s running for reelection.  Does this
episode undercut that argument that he would restore confidence? 
Because here we have in the headlines that he is now under investigation
(inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s restored independence in the Department of
Justice.  That’s what we’re doing here.  
  
When we’re saying we’re going to refer you to the Department of Justice,
that is restoring independence as it — as it relates to issues like
this.  And that is important to the President.  And it’s been
consistent.   
  
What I am saying about investigations has been consistent for the last
two years.  You’ve heard me over and over — again, when it comes to a
legal issue or matter like this, we have always referred to the
Department of Justice.  So there’s nothing here — different here.  We
have said we wanted to restore the independence of the Department of
Justice.  That is what you’re seeing.   
  
And again, we — this has been done in a transparent way.  When it
relates to how this was dealt with, with the Department of Justice and
the Archives, the President takes this very, very seriously.   
  
Any other questions that you may have about this particular issue, about
the review, I would refer you to the Department of Justice.  You guys
have been in touch with my colleagues at the White House Counsel’s
Office, and I would suggest that you continue to reach out.   
  
Go ahead, Steven.   
  
Q    Thanks.  I just want to press you on that point about the idea of
disclosures when it’s appropriate.  You describe a process, but it sort
of feels like a strategy — a communication strategy to protect the
President from political damage.  Was it the hope and expectation here
that this would have remained a private matter and not have been subject
to public disclosure?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, Steven, that’s your version of the case.  I’ve
been very clear here, and I’ve answered that question multiple times in
different versions — right? — in the last couple of days.   
  
Look, I want to be very clear: There is a process here; we are going to
respect the process.  This is all part of the Department Jus- — the
Department of Justice process.  And we are cooperating fully.  We are
cooperating fully in this process.   
  
And, again, the President believes that the Justice Department and its
independence needs — needed to be restored.  That’s what you have seen
under this administration the last two year — two years.  And I want to
be consistent in what I’m saying.  I want to be prudent in what I’m
saying when I say that we are going to defer any questions related to
this to the Department of Justice.   
  
And any other items that you have, if you don’t want to talk to the
Department of Justice, you’re free to talk to the White House Counsel
Office; I know you guys have been in touch with my colleagues there.   
  
Q    We have done both.  But let me just ask you, because oftentimes in
the careers of White House Press Secretaries, there becomes — there
comes a time where they are asked, you know, what they knew and when
they knew it.  Were you or any member of your staff involved in the
crafting of the strategy as to when this disclosure should be made in
advance of CBS News breaking the story on Monday evening?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Oh, did you have a question?  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    I did, yeah.  I was just typing down the answer there.  
  
A couple of eco questions for you.  Do you have a position on how high
the debt limit should be raised?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a position on that.  What I can say more
broadly —  
  
Q    The President won’t weigh —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll —  
  
Q    — won’t weigh in on that if there’s negotiations (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll — I mean, what I am saying is that, more broadly
speaking — I’m not going to get into the specifics of that — what I can
say is that we believe when it comes to the debt limit, it has been done
in a bipartisan way over the years and decades, and it should be done in
a bipartisan way.  And it should be done without conditions.  That is
important here.   
  
And so we’re going to continue to encourage and ask Congress to take
action.  And that’s where we’re going to leave it at this time.  We’re
not going to do any negotiations or — and it should begin — again, done
without conditions.  
  
Q    Would he make calls to Congress at all?  Is this a Leg Affairs
thing —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — I —  
  
Q    — or is it entirely up to Congress to be able to do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean, I’ve said that the Leg — our Office of Leg
Affairs has been in touch with the new Congress to make sure that they
know who to reach out — the appropriate people to reach on the Office of
Leg Affairs.   
  
And so we’re going to continue.  We’re always having conversations with
members of — members of Congress.  The President always has multiple
conversations with members of Congress.  As you know, he has a lot of
longtime friends who are over — over on the other side of Pennsylvania. 
And so that is something that continues.   
  
But when it comes to this — when it comes to the debt limit, it should
be done without conditions.  It was done under the last President three
times in a bipartisan way.  And so, this should — this should
continue.  
  
Q    And very quickly on the CPI data yesterday.  You know, pretty good
result there.  That comes on the heels of the jobs data, which was
pretty strong.  Your officials have been kind of, you know, jazzed about
that, it seems, on the TV in the last 24 hours or so.  Is it fair to say
that the White House is thinking this is what a soft landing could look
like, or are you not getting that far?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I — what we can say —  
  
Q    Where are you on “Team Soft Landing,” in other words?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Team Soft Landing.  (Laughs.)  I’ll say this — and as
you said, you’ve heard from many of my colleagues who are in the — who
are economists who have been working on this issue, pushing for the
President’s economic plan.   
  
Look, it just goes back to the President’s economic plan.  And we see it
as it’s working — right? — with what — the vision that the President has
for this country.  When you think about when he came in, he passed the
American Rescue Plan.  You think about all the other historic pieces of
legislation — the Bipartisan Infrastructure Legislation.  I talked — I
talked multiple times in — at the top about the Inflation Reduction
Act.  
  
Look, it is — it matters what the vision of a President is, and him
acting out on it.  And that’s what you saw.  
  
When you see inflation down for six months, that’s — that matters,
right?  That’s because of the President’s economic plan.  
  
When you see annual inflation down 6.5 percent from where it was this
summer — just this summer at nine-one- — point-one percent; gas prices
down by about more than a buck 70 per — from its peak.  All of that
matters.   
  
And so that’s how we’re seeing this.  We’re seeing it as the President’s
economic plan is indeed working.   
  
We’re going to continue to put the American families and American people
first and work on this issue that you hear us talk about all the time. 
His number one economic issue is bringing down inflation.   
  
That’s why the Inflation Reduction Act — what I talked about — when you
think about healthcare, when you think about Medicare and negotiating
those prices, when you think about what we announced in Georgia — 2,500
jobs are going to be created because of the Inflation Reduction Act —
all of that — all of that matters.  And all of that is important.  And
it’s, more broadly speaking, about the President’s economic plan.  
  
Look, we believe that we continue to be in this transition of stable and
steady growth.  And I think that’s what — we believe that’s what the
numbers continue to show as you talk about the jobs report that we saw
recently and as you talk — as we talk about the CPI data.  
  
Q    So you’re not calling it a “soft landing” then?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just — I’m just saying that we are in this
transition of a stable —  
  
Q    Loaded phrase.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — (laughter) — a transition to stable and steady
growth.  And we believe that the econo- — the President’s economic
policies that he’s put forward in the past two years, we’re seeing that
working.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  U.S. Attorney John Lausch was looking into this for
several weeks before.  He was in touch with —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Looking into what exactly?  
  
Q    Into the classified documents.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
Q    He was in touch with President Biden’s counsel.  I wanted to know,
was the — was President Biden, was the White House surprised that along
with Merrick Garland, that he decided that more investigation was needed
and a special counsel was — was called — was appointed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can tell you is that we were not given a heads
up that the — that Attorney General Garland was going to make his — made
his announcement yesterday on the special counsel.  That is something
that we learned, like many of you, watching the news.

I’m not going to get into — into anything further from that.  I can’t
speak to this person who you just mentioned, who has been, I don’t know,
having conversations or making comments about this.  I’m just not going
to get into that.  I’m not going to re- — give reactions from here.

What I can tell you is: Again, I’m going to refer you to the White House
Counsel and — Office to talk to my colleagues on any particular
questions that you may have that’s related to this process.  And if it’s
something that you want to know specifically about the review, I will
refer you to Department of Justice.

Q    When President Biden did say, you know, “God willing,” he hoped to
be able to say more “soon,” I mean, it seemed like he was thinking that
the investigation would end soon.  Was he surprised?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — again, I’m just not going to go beyond what the
President said.  I will say this — is that we are — we are — we’re going
to continue to fully cooperate.

As I’ve said, we have talked about this at length.  We’ve had multiple
statements on this.  And, again, I want to be prudent here.  I’m going
to be consistent here.  Any questions that you may have about this
process, I would refer you to the White House Counsel.

Q    On another — on another topic.  I wanted to ask about the
administration’s appeal of the Sutherland Springs mass shooting case. 
Does it concern the administration that some gun control advocates are
concerned or worried about the appeal by the DOJ and that that appeal
undercuts Biden’s own stance on background checks, and actually, also
that the NRA is essentially applauding the DOJ’s move?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, when it comes to issues like this, legal
issues, that is something that the Department of Justice deals with. 
Again, they are independent, so I would refer you to them on their
decision.

The President continues to be committed on making sure that we address
an issue that is affecting families across the country, communities
across the country, which is gun violence.  That’s why it was so
critical when he signed the bipartisan piece of legislation on gun
violence just a couple of months ago, this past summer.  And he’s going
to continue to call for the ban of assault weapons, working with
Congress to make that happen.

And let’s not forget, the first year and a half of this administration,
we put forwar- — we put forward more executive actions than any other
President on dealing with this issue, on dealing with protecting our
communities, protecting families, dealing with gun violence, and that
that is — that call that he has, especially the call to action from
Congress, is going to continue and is not going to stop.

I’m going to go to the back.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I have two questions on the meeting with the Prime
Minister.  But just briefly on the documents: We have seen online
propaganda from adversaries seeking to take advantage from this revolut-
— revelation.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry, can you say — can you go back a little
bit?   
  
Q    Sure.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Who’s see- — who’s seeking to take advantage?

Q    We have seen online propaganda from adversaries seeking to take
advantage of the revelation of the classified documents.  I wonder if
you can share with us whether the administration is anticipating any
kind of national security implications from this fallout?  Are you
hearing any kind of intelligence?  And are you doing anything to deter
those threats?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m just not going to talk about any
intelligence from here.  I would certainly — anything that’s related to
this, I would refer you to the Department of Justice and to — and also
refer you to my colleagues at the White House Counsel.  I’m just not
going to go into anything — any fur- — especially national security
affairs.  And so, I would refer you to them.

Q    Okay.  I’ll probably follow up with your National Security Council
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’d be great.

Q    — friends.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’d be great.

Q    On the meeting, I know we’re waiting for a readout, but if you can
tell us whether the leaders spoke about semiconductors and whether Japan
confirmed that it will enact export controls to limit Chinese access to
semiconductors, and whether the Prime Minister again urged President
Biden, as he has done so many times, if he would be open to joining
CPTPP.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on CPTPP, this is not an option we’re exploring. 
I think we have said that before.  We’re focused on the IPEF — as you
know, the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework — negotiations and deepening
our economic ties with those 13 partners, many of which are TPP
partners.  So that is going to be our focus.  That has not changed.

As it relates — again, I want to — don’t want to get ahead of the
conversation.  They’re currently still having a dialogue.  The bilat is
still occurring.  But I expect they will discuss China, Russia, Russia’s
war against Ukraine, and the DPRK’s unlawful nuclear and missile
programs.  And the leaders will focus on what they can get done together
in 2023.

Japan holds in the G7 presidency and has just taken a non-permanent seat
on the U.N. Security Council while we’re hosting the APEC and seeking to
make <s>shift</s> \[swift\] progress on the Indo-Pacific Economic
Framework.

Prime Minister Kishida arrived at the White House, as you all know — I
believe my colleague laid out what came out of that 2+2 — after
consulting closely with us and regional partners in Europe.  And I
expect the President and the Prime Minister Kishida will — will debrief
on those consultations.

Again, don’t want to get ahead of — we’re going to have a readout for
you.  They’re having this conversation currently.  And so, once we have
the readout this afternoon, we certainly will share that.

Q    Okay.  And if I can just dig a little bit deeper on IPEF, Karine,
because we really haven’t heard much about this framework since it was
launched last year.  So, at this point, it seems like the administration
still believes that this is the best offer that the U.S. can give to
counter Chinese trade clout.  Is that — am I understanding this
correctly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just — so, as you said, it was announced in
Tokyo just this past May.  And — and Japan was a critical partner, as
you know, in helping us to build support, particularly among Southeast
Asian countries.  So that is important.  Again, Japan has been a
critical partner in this.

IPEF partners represent 40 percent of the world GDP.  And we are united
in our belief that much of our success and coming — in coming decades
will depend on how well governments harness innovation.

So that is part of it.  Right?  We got to see how this works through,
especially the transformations afoot in the clean energy, digital
technology sectors while fortifying our economies against a range of
threats, from fragile supply chains to corruption to tax havens.

So, again, with Japan’s partnerships and leadership in the negotiations,
we expect to achieve high-standard commitments that will deepen our
economic engagement in the region and make good progress in text-based
negotiations this year.

So this is a partnership that is incredibly important.  Japan played a
very big role in it, when you think about — it represents the 40 percent
of the world GDP.

And so, look, this is, again, an important partnership.  This is a
framework that we are incredibly committed to, and we appreciate Japan’s
partnership in this.

Q    Karine, a couple more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hmm?

Q    A couple more on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, yeah, yeah.  Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Thanks, Karine.  I want to ask you about the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce.  So, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce embraced President Biden in
2020.  And now the president of the U.S. Chamber says that the
businesses it represents are fed up with the government making it harder
to do business and adding new rules and regulations.  Do you have any
response?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, I do.  First thing, the President’s first two
years in office have been the best for job creation in history, when you
think about 10.5 — nearly 10.5 million jobs created.  Manufacturing and
small businesses are on the rise, and we are seeing progress in our
fight against global inflation.  So — so, that’s the first piece to just
lay out there.  
  
The second — look, I don’t think that it’s all — all of the Chamber’s
presidents who said that.  She also called out polarization and gridlock
and called for permitting reform, immigration reform, improving
childcare, improving climate resilience, and funding law enforcement.   
  
So, those are all areas where the President has called for Congress to
act.  And we also agree with the Chamber that Congress must address the
debt limit and we can, quote, “…not play chicken with the true faith and
credit of the United States.”  That’s — end quote.  
  
And lastly, let me just say, as I think everyone is aware, the last two
years showed historic bipartisan progress for the American people.  I’ve
talked about in — this in — during this press — during this press
briefing, those pieces of legislation — again, historic pieces of
legislation, including on rebuilding our infrastructure and investing in
American manufacturing.  
  
So, the President’s plans on infrastructure, next-generation research,
clean energy, and manufacturing are strongly supported by the business
community.  Again, you know, we do outreach to different communities
when we talk about these important pieces of legislation, when we talk
about the President’s economic plan, but he also believes big
corporations should — should pay their fair share in taxes.  And that’s
not just us; that’s also the American public who believes that they
should be doing this.  
  
Q    But she said also that there’s government regulatory overreach,
adding, and I’ll quote her, “When regulations are driven by ideological
agendas and imposing — imposed on businesses without transparency,
accountability, or clarity — government isn’t working.”  So, will there
be changes in its government work?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll say this, our administration is leveraging every
available tool to advance the President’s ambitious agenda for the
country and to deliver for the American people.  That’s the President’s
primary goal.   
  
When he comes — when he came into the administration, and it continues
to be the case, he wanted to make sure that he’s delivering for the
American people, delivering for American families, making sure that
we’re building an economy from the bottom up, middle out, and that’s
what you are seeing.  
  
I was just asked about the inflation data, the CPI data, and the jobs
report.  We are seeing — while there’s still more work to do, we are
seeing the economic — the President’s economic policy is actually
working.   
  
Okay.  Go ahead, Alex.  In the back.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Karine, earlier this week, we discussed the situation in
Florida with, I think, about 350 Cuban migrants landing at Dry Tortuga
and Key West.  I believe you said it was a political ploy on the part of
Governor DeSantis to deploy the National Guard.  His office has said
that the Coast Guard requested help patrolling the waters off
Florida.   
  
So, can you just kind of discuss your understanding of the situation in
Florida and how that — how that understanding has developed in the last
several days?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  And I’m going to be — and I’m happy to repeat
what I said, which is: Governor DeSantis has made a mockery of — of the
system.  And he has consistently and constantly — as many of you have
reported — has done political stunts, has not helped to address the
issue, but has instead decided to put the lives of migrants who are
coming here for a better life at risk.  And that’s what we have seen
from this governor.  
  
Look, when it comes to the Coast Guard and Customs and Border
Protection, they are deploying additional personnel and resources to
Florida to quickly process individuals and place them in removal
proceedings.  
  
I would note that the migrants from Cuba were — who arrived in Florida
over a week ago were processed and moved out of the state by Border
Patrol within days.  
  
The — at the National Park that you mentioned, it reopened just this
past Sunday.  The President has expanded safe, orderly, legal pathways
for migration, including for Cubans.  And we continue to urge
individuals to use those instead of risking their lives at the hands of
human — human <s>strugglers</s> \[smugglers\].  And then you heard that
directly from this President just a couple of days ago on the world
stage in Mexico City.  
  
I’m going to try and call folks I haven’t.  Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You — I called on you earlier.  Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    You’ve several times today referred people to the White House
Counsel for questions about the process and the review.  Would you bring
Richard Sauber here or someone from his team to answer these questions
in the briefing room in a  
formal capacity?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the White House Counsel’s Office has
provided information on this, this week, as appropriate.  
  
Again, I think I just said this.  I’ve said this multiple times during
this briefing — that I know, in the last 24 hours, my colleagues at the
White House Counsel has been — at the White House Counsel’s Office has
been in touch with many of you and has answered a lot of your
questions.  And so, that will continue.  You reach out to them, and they
will — they will certainly engage.   
  
And so, I’m going to leave it there.  But again, I will — anything that
is related to this review, I would — I would send you to Department of
Justice.  Again, if there is something specific to — to this that you
want from us, I would refer you to the White House Counsel’s Office.  
  
Q    And is the White House concerned that this investigation is going
to overshadow what you are trying to do right now, what your message is
right now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, our message is very clear and it will continue
to — to be just that.  And you’ve seen it.  That’s why when I started
the briefing, I laid out all of the — all of the kind of progress that
we have made just this week alone — when you think about the Inflation
Reduction Act, when you think about how it’s going to lower costs for
American families, when you think about the bipartisan infrastructure
legislation.   
  
Just recently, as you all — some of you were there in Kentucky where you
saw bipartisanship, talking about a bridge that has — for decades — for
decades, presidents have talked about fixing that bridge.  And this
President, because of the bipartisanship that he was able to bring
together, got that done.  
  
And so, we’re not going to stop talking about how we’re going to deliver
for the American people.  I actually think, and we actually believe,
there are — there are people who are watching — the American people who
are watching want to hear that.  They want to hear what I just laid out
at the beginning of the briefing.  They want to know how this President,
how this administration, how the federal government is delivering for
them.  
  
So, we’re — again, we’re going to continue to have those conversations. 
You’re going to continue to hear from me speaking about that.  You heard
from the President yesterday talking about the CPI data and how
important it was to see inflation go down in six — six months, and how
we’re seeing record low unemployment in 50 years.  That is conversation,
and that work is going to continue.  
  
Thanks, everybody.  Have a great weekend.  
  
1:47 P.M. EST
