---
date: '2023-01-19'
published_time: 2023-01-19 16:36:16-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/01/19/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-olivia-dalton-and-fema-administrator-deanne-criswell-en-route-santa-clara-county-ca/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton and FEMA Administrator\
  \ Deanne Criswell En Route Santa Clara County,\_CA"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Santa Clara County, California

12:53 P.M. EST

MS. DALTON: Thank you to FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell for joining
us this afternoon, and good afternoon to all of you.

Before I turn it to her, as you know, we are on our way to California,
where President Biden will visit areas impacted by the recent extreme
weather. Stops include Santa Clara and Santa Cruz counties, where storms
have caused severe flooding and mudslides resulting in damage to roads,
farmlands, businesses, and homes.

During these stops, the President will be joined by Governor Newsom, and
he’ll meet with first responders, state and local officials, and
communities impacted by the devastation. He’ll survey damage across the
Central Coast, discuss recovery efforts, and assess what additional
federal support is needed.

The President has been closely monitoring the situation in California
over the past several weeks and is being briefed regularly by his
Homeland Security team. Throughout this time, he has remained in close
touch with the governor and local elected officials.

Last night, as you may have seen, the President authorized additional
disaster assistance by increasing the federal share for debris removal
and emergency protective measures to 100 percent of the total eligible
cost for 60 days. That comes on top of Saturday’s expedited major
disaster declaration, which provided federal support for debris removal,
emergency protective measures, and individual assistance to survivors
whose homes have been damaged or destroyed by the storm.

More than 500 FEMA and other federal personnel have already deployed to
California to support response and recovery operations and are working
side by side with the state to ensure all needs are met.

And now I will hand it over to Administrator Criswell to take your
questions.

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: All right, thank you, Olivia. Just a little bit
of background, too. California has really experienced some unprecedented
storms — nine atmospheric rivers that have gone through since right
before the new year. And I spoke with Governor Newsom after the first
one — like in between the first and the second one — and I was just on
the ground this last weekend to assess the damage myself.

I had an opportunity to brief the President before my travels but also
while I was on the ground. And I think what’s really interesting about
this is when I talk to people on the ground, what they told me is that,
you know, these storms are coming with hurricane-strength winds, and
they’re also making incredible storm-surge-like conditions with the
surf. And so, they felt like it was being hit by hurricane after
hurricane.

And so, they’ve had a number of evacuation orders across the state since
the beginning of this. And people have experienced up to four times
being asked to evacuate their homes and, I think, really feeling some
fatigue of this “Let’s leave. Let’s come back and check. Oh, no, it’s
going to be dangerous again. Leave again.”

And so, it’s really been impactful in a way that I think we haven’t seen
in a very long time with these repeated storms across the area.

As you heard, the President did approve an expedited major disaster
declaration. I’ll just give you the counties that that covers right now.
That’s Sacramento, Santa Cruz, Merced, San Luis Obispo, Monterey, and
Santa Barbara. Those counties have been approved for both individual
assistance as well as Category A debris removal and Category B emergency
protective measures. And San Joaquin has been approved for individual
assistance only at this time.

We are embedded with the state, and we’re continuing to do damage
assessments, and we expect more counties to be added as we continue
those assessments.

And so, with that, I’ll take any questions that you have.

Q Thank you, Administrator. Do you have a sense yet of what the damage
total will be in terms of the dollar figure to repair the damage and
help these communities recover?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: Yeah, we’re starting to get some numbers in.
But, honestly, because this has been so ongoing and there’s so many
parts of the state that they haven’t actually been able to access yet
because there’s still significant road closures across the state.
Several hundred million, as the initial estimates, but I expect that
number to go up.

Q When you made your initial visit out to these areas, what is your
assessment in terms of how bad the damage is in the communities that
we’ll be seeing today?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: Yeah, so I was able to visit Merced and Santa
Cruz during my visit this weekend. In Merced, what we saw was a lot of
agricultural impacts — we think that there’s going to be some
significant long-term impacts from this — as well as small businesses
and homeowners, schools that were closed. Small communities, real big
impact, right? I mean, their livelihood, their schools have been
damaged, as well as their homes.

In the Santa Cruz area, again, we’ve seen this integration between the
state parks and the community. You know, they’re very intertwined, and a
lot of devastation and impact to those communities.

One of the parks in Santa Cruz, when I talked to the state park ranger,
you know, she said they lost their emergency access to the beach. And
so, even as people start to go back, they’re not going to be able to get
emergency vehicles out there like they normally would. And their
lifeguard dispatch center was also damaged, if not destroyed.

And so, significant impacts to the park area, but also in those areas
what we’re seeing is a lot of small-business impacts, a lot of
tourism-related small businesses. But there’s also some high — highly
vulnerable communities that live in that area that have had a lot of
home damage.

Q Administrator, you mentioned fatigue on the ground. Given the
realities of climate change, do you think this is the new normal? Do you
think we’ll be seeing things like this every year for years to come?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: You know, what I can say is, you know, in my
almost two years now in this position, I have seen a steady increase in
the number of disasters, especially those that are being declared, but
also in the severity, the intensity, which are leading to very complex
recoveries.

That’s why, you know, through President Biden’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, we’ve been able to invest a lot of money into
helping make these communities more resilient.

He gave FEMA additional funding in our Building Resilient Infrastructure
and Communities program so we can focus on helping these communities
better understand what their future threats might be and then work to
reduce the impacts of those threats.

Q What do you do — what do you conclude is the reason for this increase?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: You know, I’m not the — the weather scientist
here. But I — what I can say is they’re just happening more often. We’re
seeing more there. I mean, we’ve never seen nine atmospheric rivers in a
period of just a few weeks like this.

And so, we have to be prepared for this increase in the number of
weather events and severe weather events that we’re seeing.

Q Can you explain what an atmospheric river is?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: I wish that I could give you the specific
details, but, you know, the way it’s been explained to me is: Imagine a
river that’s in the sky. And it starts, you know, over the Pacific, and
the way the weather system moves it in, it just brings this heavy deluge
of rain into the area with increased rainfall. And parts that we’ve
seen, they had their annual rainfall in one day.

And so, put that on top of the fact that these are communities that were
experiencing intense drought last year; intense heat domes, which
increased the effects of the drought. And so, you had this very dry land
that is now saturated, which is what has created a lot of the trees that
have come down and the inability of the ground to absorb this water.

I’ll tell you, one of the other things that I saw in Santa Cruz was a
large number of timber on the beaches. And what it was explained to me
is that timber was from the fires in 2020. And so, the increased rain
pushed this timber out into the ocean. The increased swells pushed that
back in the land, which is what destroyed the seawall and also damaged a
lot of businesses.

So, these compounding impacts really are important to take into
consideration.

Q Is there an assessment yet on how many people were displaced or how
many businesses were affected? Do you have numbers on impacts?  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: I don’t have total numbers yet. I thought I put
down here how much we’ve already given out — I didn’t write this down —
of people that have already registered for assistance in those declared
counties. We can get that number to you.

But we’re seeing, just in one community — I believe it’s in the Santa
Cruz community — 500 homes that, you know, we had eyes on — my team —
that had been impacted. Right?

And there’s still, when we were there, parts of the mountain areas that
still did not have access. So, we don’t know the number of homes that
have been impacted in those areas.

Q Do you have any estimates in terms of when infrastructure will be
restored to some of these hardest-hit areas, as well as access for
emergency vehicles?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: Yeah, so from a power standpoint, you know, we
saw close to 200,000 customers without power. I mean, I believe, as of
today, it was less than 500 — less than 5,000 that are still without
power. So, it’s steadily coming back on. There’s still a number of roads
that are closed because of these mudslides.

I’d have to defer to the state of California what their estimates are as
to when they’re going to be able to clear them. But we’re continuing to
work side by side. We’ve got our Incident Management Assistance Teams
embedded with them, and really — and bringing in the full federal
family.

As you heard, we have over 500 people on the ground right now. That
includes our partners like the Army Corps of Engineers, the Department
of Agriculture, the Small Business Administration.

Q Building a little bit off of Jeff — Jeff’s question about this being a
new normal, can you talk a little bit about how you guys determine when
the President goes to these locations? It wasn’t that long ago he was in
Florida and Puerto Rico doing damage assessments there. He’s gone to
Kentucky to tour tornadoes.

Like, I wonder, sort of, how you guys determine — and, in this case, a
lot of travel for some time on the ground to look at this. How do you
make that determination? How much of his own time is invested in coming
up with these sort of natural disaster responses?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: Yeah, I mean, I have traveled to a number of
these events over the last two years. And I think, you know, part of the
thing that we want to keep in mind is that there’s been a lot of trauma
to these communities.

And in particular, you know, where we’re going today, there’s 20
confirmed fatalities across the state. And that’s just really
devastating. When we’re talking about homes that are impacted, but we’re
also talking about their livelihood, we’re talking about the loss of
life — all of those factors go into, you know, why it’s important for
the President to be able to connect with these communities and let them
know that the federal family is here to support them.

Q If I could follow up on that. But is it a good look, though, to travel
all the way across the U.S. in a jumbo jet that uses a huge amount of
fuel? Is it a useful use of carbon? And what sort of message does it
send to the American people when climate change is such a factor in
these events?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: Yeah, again, what I would say is there’s just
been so much trauma to this community, and it’s really important that we
keep that in mind. Right? It’s — you know, these communities have had
loss of life, loss of their — their wellbeing and their livelihood.

And I think it’s incredibly important that they know that the President
is here to support them and that the full force of the federal family is
going to be behind them.

Q Are there any preventative measures that FEMA can take or is taking
associated with the Infrastructure Act signed by the President that
could forestall the effects of all this flooding that we’re seeing in
California?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: Yeah, absolutely. One of the things that FEMA
was able to get out of the Infrastructure Act is additional funding in
our Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities program.

California itself has been a benefit of these programs. In 2020, they
received several grants, and in ‘21, they received several grants. We’re
still reviewing ‘22.

But this is exactly what that’s for — right? — of getting ahead of these
types of events and anticipating what the future threats they’re going
to face so we can put the measures in place now to protect generations
of the future.

Q Did you say that there’s some long-term agricultural damage?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: So, what I saw and what I was briefed by the
locals on the ground is that there was definitely some damage to the
crops and to the agricultural. What the extent of that is, I don’t know.
But we have representatives from the USDA already on the ground working
with those communities.

Q Do you have any insights into the relationship between President Biden
and Governor Newsom? They’re two, sort of, different figures, different
generations, have different styles. Have you, sort of, seen the two of
them or have any insights into the two of them?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: I can’t speak to what their relationship is, but
I know that they have been in close contact throughout this event.

Q Administrator, one last one. When it comes to the runoff of, you know,
some places getting — reporting 15 feet of snow in the last three weeks,
do you anticipate that most of the damage is already done? Or is there a
continued risk to some of these communities, you know, really, as we
start getting to the snow — you know, in a few months from now when the
snowmelt season hits?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL: Yeah, so, again, one of the things — that’s a
really great point. One of the things that was brought up to me is that
they are going to be in this really active monitoring stage through the
snowmelt season. All depends on how fast it melts as to what the
potential threats are going to be.

And so, California is working very closely with the National Weather
Service to make sure that they’re monitoring this. The Army Corps of
Engineers are monitoring any of the potential high-risk dams and
reservoirs, because it is going to be a concern throughout the snowmelt
season.

Q Thank you, Administrator.

MS. DALTON: Thanks, everyone. I just wanted to say a couple of words
about tomorrow afternoon’s remarks. The President, as you all know, will
be welcoming bipartisan mayors to the White House. So I just want to say
a few words about that before we go to your questions.

So, tomorrow, as you know, the President will welcome 175 bipartisan
mayors to the White House as part of the U.S. Conference of Mayors’
annual winter meeting.

On the second anniversary of his inauguration, the President will
deliver remarks celebrating the achievements of the past 18 months,
including the American Rescue Plan, the Inflation Reduction Act, the
CHIPS and Science Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the
Bipartisan Safer Communities Act.

The President will also highlight the bipartisan work that must be done
in the months ahead to implement these legislative victories at the
local level so we can continue making a real difference in people’s
lives.  
And with that —

Q Thanks, Olivia. Because this is your first one of these, how do you
view your role in this job? Is it to speak for the President and his
interests? Or is it to provide accurate and truthful information to the
American public and to us?

MS. DALTON: Well, I think, certainly, the President sees himself — at
all times, his first priority is to deliver for the American people.
And, certainly, I see myself as being in service to that goal. So, it’s
a real honor and a privilege to be here with all of you — and
particularly on this trip to California, which I think is going to be
meaningful to people across the state as they recover from these extreme
storms.

Q And then, substantively, did you have any updates on U.S. government
discussions on providing Strykers and potentially providing Abrams tanks
to Ukraine? There’s — there’s reports of another new drawdown coming in
the next day or two or so.

MS. DALTON: You know, no security — no new security assistance to
provide to you in this gaggle this afternoon. But as I’m sure you’re
aware, we’ve been providing consistent security assistance to our
partners in Ukraine in concert with allies and partners across the globe
from the start of this conflict so that they can defend themselves in
the wa- — in the — in the wake of Russia’s brutal and unjustified
invasion.

I don’t have any specific security assistance to announce to you today.
But I also think, as some of you are tracking, that Secretary Austin is
convening 50 countries from around the world tomorrow for a meeting at
the Ukraine Defense Contact Group. And I’m sure that this, kind of,
collective action in support of Ukraine will be a focus of that
discussion.

Q Yesterday, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said it’s “a
pivotal moment” right now for Ukraine. He called on NATO countries to
provide heavy equipment, namely tanks. What’s your response to what the
NATO Secretary General said yesterday?

MS. DALTON: Well, certainly, the United States and NATO and our allies
and partners across the globe have come together. The United States is
proud to have supported — to have provided — provide $24 billion in
assistance since the start of this conflict.

And working in close con- — as I just talked about, Secretary Austin is
convening 50 countries tomorrow at the Ukraine Defense Contact Group to
continue to coordinate closely on the security assistance that we’re
providing to Ukraine as they defend themselves in the wake of these
vicious, vicious attacks.

So, certainly, we are continuing to work close — closely with our
partners and allies across the globe to make sure that we continue to
deliver the needs that Ukrainians have on the ground — those needs have
evolved over the course of the conflict, as you just alluded to — and
make sure that we’re continuing to help them meet the moment.

Q Staying in the realm of Russia: An ally of President Putin, former
President Medvedev, said yesterday — I believe it was yesterday, unless
it was today — that if Russia loses the war that it could lead to
nuclear war with the West.

So he’s acknowledging both the possibility of a loss, but also using
really hot rhetoric about the possibility of a nuclear war with — with
NATO. Do you have a comment on that?

MS. DALTON: Look, I haven’t seen those comments myself, and so I’d refer
you to NSC for further comment.

But I think you’ve heard the President himself say in the past that this
kind of rhetoric in and of itself is dangerous and that, you know, we
need to be lowering these kinds of — you know, ratcheting down the
rhetoric, not inflaming it.

Q Let me ask you another foreign policy question. The New Zealand Prime
Minister yesterday said she would not be standing for reelection and
would be stepping down in February. The White House reaction to that?

MS. DALTON: Yeah, I want to — I want — I have a few comments addressing
that. I think — I think folks know that President Biden and the United
States are grateful to Prime Minister Ardern for her leadership in
advancing a free and open Indo-Pacific and for her efforts to strengthen
the United States and the New Zea- — the New Zealand partnership.  
The U.S.-New Zealand partnership is strong, and we look forward to
continue to deepening our ties between our people, our economies, and
our governments going forward in the future.

Q Olivia, two questions on the debt ceiling, if you’re willing. Does —

MS. DALTON: (Inaudible.)

Q On the debt ceiling. Two questions on the debt ceiling. Does the White
House have any reaction to Senator Joe Manchin’s ideas for a debt
ceiling agreement with the GOP?

MS. DALTON: Look, let me make some broad comments on this first. I
think, you know, I just mentioned a moment ago that tomorrow marks two
years since the President took office, and his leadership is delivering
results on the economy. We’re growing the economy from the bottom up and
the middle out. We’re bringing inflation down. We’re creating jobs with
historically low unemployment. And we think Republicans should welcome
that news and work with us on how to build on it, not set it back.

That means Congress must address the debt limit without conditions. Our
posture on this hasn’t changed. There will be no negotiations of the
debt ceiling.

And again, Congress must address this without conditions as they did
three times under Donald Trump, with bipartisan support.

I also wanted to point out that Kevin McCarthy himself voted three times
to lift the debt ceiling under Trump without any spending cuts, and
there’s no reason that this position should change.

Q And then, on the idea of a discharge petition, does the White House
have any feelings on that? Is anyone — is the President or anyone else
at the White House reaching out to moderate Republicans to talk to them
about that?

MS. DALTON: Look, I don’t have any conversations with members of
Congress to read out for you at this moment or conversations to preview.
Obviously, the President and members of our teams have been closely in
touch with members of Congress to ensure they know our view on the debt
limit, ensure that they know that there’s no room for negotiation here,
there’s no room for hostage taking, there’s too much at stake.

A Moody’s analysis showed that 6 million jobs — as many as 6 million
jobs could be on the line if we default on our debt. And we all know
that even the prospect of defaulting is — could have serious impacts on
the economy.

So, we believe this is a matter of urgency, that the Congress should act
without delay and, again, raise the debt ceiling without conditions.

Q Can you elaborate at all just on your broad strategy for achieving
that? I mean, it’s certainly one thing to say and to draw a line saying
“no negotiations.” But the reality in Congress is the threat is there.

MS. DALTON: Well, the reality is that Congress, in a bipartisan way, has
raised the debt limit 78 times since 19- –since 1960. I’ll double check
that stat for you all later.

But, I mean, this is something that dozens and dozens of times in recent
years, over Republican and Democrat administrations, has happened with
bipartisan support in Congress without condition. And we believe that
that is the — that is the method and mode that we should reach a
solution again today.

Q Has Speaker McCarthy tried to get in touch with President Biden on the
debt ceiling issue yet?

MS. DALTON: Again, I don’t have any conversations or meetings to read
out for you.

Q Is there anything you can share on Russia saying it opened a criminal
case against a U.S. citizen on suspicion of espionage?

MS. DALOTON: Yes, we’ve heard those reports. We’re still looking into
it, and nothing to share at this moment.

Q There’s a new Reuters/Ipsos poll out this morning, and it gives the
President an approval rating of 40 percent. Is that disappointing, the
way inflation and other things have been falling in line? Does it
reflect on the handling of the documents crisis?

MS. DALTON: Well, look, I would just say that there’s other polling out
there that shows that the President — his support continues to grow.
Certainly, the FiveThirtyEight average shows that. And I think, more
broadly, I would say that, you know, what the President is focused on is
continuing to deliver for the American people. And I would just love to
share with you how the American people are doing right now.

I just mentioned a moment ago that tomorrow marks two years of this
administration. And two years in, we’re making huge progress on the
economy.

Unemployment is at a record low today. Healthcare enrollment is at a
record high today. Wages are up. We have — we’re seeing record job and
small busi- — jobs and small-business creation. Inflation is down. Gas
prices is do- — are down $1.70 from their peaks. And so, these are the
kinds of numbers that I think also matter to the President and to the
American people.

Q I have a question —

Q To follow — I’m sorry, go ahead.

Q I have a quick question on — returning a little bit to a theme of
yesterday, about the documents — not about the Special Counsel
investigation, but — and not even necessarily if the intelligence
community has started any review of those documents.

But can you guys help us understand a little bit of whether the White
House or President Biden or his attorneys notified the intelligence
community of these documents?

If you don’t view that as your role, did you no- — did you ask the FBI
or the Justice Department to alert them just so that the intelligence
community has a sense of classified documents that have been found in
his possession?

MS. DALTON: I — I think you may know the Justice Department has a seat
on the National Security Council, and this would be a question for them.

Q But did the White House have any role whatsoever in that process? Or
is it only DOJ, is what you’re saying?

MS. DALTON: I’d have to refer you to DOJ on that.

Q The House Oversight Committee has really launched their probe, their
investigation into the classified documents matter. Yesterday, the chair
of that committee sent a letter to the University of Pennsylvania, to
its president, requesting information regarding the Penn Biden Center.

Does the White House have any problem with the Penn Biden Center sharing
information, such as visitor logs, with the House Oversight Committee?

MS. DALTON: I appreciate the question. And I think you know — you know,
we realize you all have many questions on this. We believe and we
continue to say that they are most appropriately handled by the White
House Counsel’s Office, so I’d have to refer you to them on this.

Q Do you pledge to cooperate with the House Oversight Committee for any
requests that they may make? That’s an easy one.

MS. DALTON: Again, I have to refer you to White House Counsel’s Office
on this.

Q You can’t even give a simple pledge that, “Of course we’re going to
cooperate with an Oversight Committee in Congress”?

MS. DALTON: The White House Counsel’s Office also engages on — with
Oversight, and I would refer to my colleagues in Counsel’s Office on
that.

Q So will you ignore requests from the House Oversight Committee?

MS. DALTON: Again, I just need to refer you to my colleague to handle.

Q Was —

Q But will you ignore the Oversight responsibilities?

MS. DALTON: (Inaudible). I’m moving on.

Q Was the White House ever advised by law enforcement officials not to
speak publicly about the classified documents after DOJ launched the
investigation?

MS. DALTON: Again, I’d have to refer you to my colleagues in White House
Counsel’s Office. I’m just not going to have anything new for you today
on this.

Q The Washington Pos- — The Washington Post reports that senior staffers
are angry over the Attorney General’s decision to appoint a special
counsel. Is that true?

MS. DALTON: I — again, nothing to share with you on this. I’d refer you
to the White House Counsel’s Office.

Q Can I follow up just on Jacinda Ardern? She said she was stepping
aside because she didn’t “have enough in the tank.” Did that get any
response from the President? Does he have enough in the tank?

MS. DALTON: (Laughs.) I think you know I have to be careful about
talking about 2024 from here. But I will reiterate what the President
has said himself many, many times, which is that he intends to run and
that, you know, we’re proud of the progress we’ve made over the past two
years for the American people.

As I just mentioned a minute ago, we’ve seen historic progress on the
economy. Just this week, we’ve seen new numbers indicate inflation is
coming down, record low unemployment. And so, you know, we believe that
that’s a track record that the American people continue to believe in.
The — they went to the polls in the midterms, and it was the, as you
saw, most successful midterms for any Democratic president in 60 years.

So, certainly, it’s been a wonderful two years. The President says that
he intends to run, and I’m sure you will — all will be the first to know
if he has more to share on that.

Q Olivia, you mentioned that tomorrow is two years since the President
took office. It’s also six years since he left office as Vice President.
Can you guarantee that the President no longer has any classified or
official records in his possession anymore from his time as Vice
President?

MS. DALTON: Again, I need to refer you to White House Counsel’s Office
on any questions on this. And I believe I have been given —

Q One — just one more —

MS. DALTON: I have one more — time for one more question. I’m sorry.

Q Okay. Just on — back on the debt limit. You mentioned earlier — you
repeated the position that the President is not going to negotiate on
this. He was President Obama’s Vice President in 2011 when they
obviously did negotiate on raising the debt limit. Doesn’t — you know,
does he regret that decision to negotiate back in 2011? And is the White
House at all concerned that its no-negotiating position will be received
by Americans as being unreasonable?

MS. DALTON: Well, I think Americans have every right to — to expect that
Congress will come together, as they have dozens and dozens and dozens
of times before, in bipartisan fashion, to make sure that we — that we
keep the Amer- — the economy on a stable path, on a path of progress,
and we don’t throw it into chaos six months from now. So —

Q May I ask you — may I ask you a procedural question? I’ve covered the
White House for a long time, since Bill Clinton’s first term. And during
the Monica Lewinsky scandal, what the White House decided to do was to
bring in somebody to handle questions as it relates to that matter and
leave the White House Press Secretary — Mike McCurry, at that time —
free to answer questions about all the other issues, foreign and
domestic, that come before the White House. Is that a consideration of
his White House — having someone come in, answer our questions on a
regular basis to free you and Karine up so you can handle the other
business of the day?

MS. DALTON: I think you’ve heard the President himself address this
issue from the podium at a press conference in Mexico City. I think
you’ve heard Karine repeatedly address this issue. And you’ve heard
White House Counsel’s Office address this issue.

We’ve been exhaustive. We’ve been transparent. We’ve attempted to answer
all your questions from here.

I’m just going to refer you to White House Counsel’s Office.

Q This is a really long — a long trip. Is there anything you can share
on what the President is doing during this long flight to California?

MS. DALTON: If I have anything else I could share on that, I’ll sure —
be sure to pass it back.

Thanks all.

1:20 P.M. EST
