---
date: '2023-01-25'
modified_time: 2023-01-25 17:39:23-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-25 17:39:22-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/01/25/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-council-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-5/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:37 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good afternoon, everybody.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I know that was a long two minutes. My team would not
let me come out. We were bonding in Lower Press.

Okay. As you saw, the President made a bit of news today on our
continued support for Ukraine alongside our allies and partners. My
colleague here from the National Security Council, John Kirby — Admiral
Kirby — is here to take some of your questions. And I will welcome him
to the podium.

MR. KIRBY: Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right.

MR. KIRBY: I don’t have any opening statement. I am just happy to take
whatever questions you have.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. I’m going to — go ahead, Brian.

Q Thank you very much. Hi, Kirby. Thanks a lot for doing this.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah.

Q My question is about the direct budgetary assistance the U.S. has
supplied to Ukraine. President Zelenskyy recently fired senior leaders
in Ukraine over corruption concerns.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah.

Q Is the U.S. confident that — that that direct budgetary assistance has
been used properly in Ukraine?

MR. KIRBY: As you know, that budgetary assistance is directed through
the World Bank. And we’re confident in that process.

Look, we — we obviously share President Zelenskyy’s concerns over these
corruption allegations. And it’s apparent that he takes it seriously.
That’s important. We’ll obviously let him work his way through that.

But in terms of the budgetary assistance, like I said, it goes through
the World Bank. We’re comfortable with that process.

Q Have you seen any signs of misuse?

MR. KIRBY: We have not seen any signs that our budgetary assistance have
fallen prey to any kind of corruption in Ukraine. And I would go so far
as to say the same on the security assistance side as well — the weapons
and the systems that we — we are obviously working in lockstep with the
Ukrainians on accountability measures on that, and we’ve seen no
indication that anything we’ve sent over has ended up in the wrong hands
or has been using — or being used inappropriately.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’re going to jump around. (Inaudible).

Q Thank you very much. Thank you for doing the briefing. For a long
time, U.S. military officials had resisted this move to send Abrams
tanks, saying that they’re difficult to operate, difficult to train
people on. And that was essentially what we heard from President Biden
today. What changed?

MR. KIRBY: So, a couple of things. We’ve — you’re right, we’ve been
completely open and transparent about the sophistication level of the
Abrams tank. It’s the, as the President said, the most capable, powerful
tank in the world. And a lot goes into making it the most capable tank.
So, we’ve been very honest about that.

There’s — there’s training that’s needed. There’s sophisticated
maintenance requirements. There’s a supply chain. I mean, it uses a gas
turbine engine to — basically, a jet engine — 1,500 horsepower. So,
there’s a lot that goes into operating these tanks on the field.

That said, we never ruled tanks out. We have been — from the beginning
of this war, now 11 months ago — been evolving the capabilities we’re
providing with Ukraine with the conditions on the ground.

And so, when you’re at — to get to your specific question: What’s
changed? What’s changed, Kristen, are the conditions on the ground and
the kinds of fighting that the Russians are doing right now and the
kinds of fighting, more importantly, that we believe the Ukrainians are
going to be — need to be capable of in weeks and months ahead, well into
2023 — well into this year.

And that’s why we’re doing the combined arms training outside of Ukraine
for battalion-size units. Combined arms maneuver — and it’s a fancy
title, but it basically means being able to integrate your ground
capabilities — whether that’s armor, artillery, even — even, to some
degree, small air defense systems — integrating command-and-control
logistics, integrating all that to fight on the ground, particularly
with open terrain.

That’s why armored vehicles were so high on the list for the Ukrainians,
and tanks are armored vehicles.

So, this very much just follows right along with the kinds of
discussions we’ve been having with the Ukrainians for months about
making sure that they can fight on the terrain that they’re in and that
they can prepare for operations going forward this year.

Q And just to follow up: Was part of the calculation — because,
obviously, there had been this robust back-and-forth between the U.S.
and Germany — was part of this about giving cover to Germany and other —

MR. KIRBY: No.

Q — European allies to allow them to send in tanks?

MR. KIRBY: I wouldn’t use the word “cover.” What — what this decision
does do is show that — how unified we are with our allies and partners,
and doing all of this in a coordinated way.

So, today you saw that Chancellor Scholz announced that they’re going to
provide immediately a company of Leopard tanks. A company is about 14,
and there’s two companies to a Ukrainian battalion. And he’s going to be
working with allies and partners to get additional companies of tanks —
Leopard tanks — into Ukraine.

It’s about coordination. It’s about the unity here and the resolve that
— that we all have together to help support Ukraine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Sebastian.

Q Thank you. Thank you very much. Similar question.

Could you get a little more specific about how many tanks the Ukrainians
would like to have? I mean, I know you’re going to say it’s their
decision, but obviously you’re communicating with them the whole time.
How many they would like to have to get what they want to do done —
i.e., these counter-offensives? And do you think they’re going to get
there with this whole hodgepodge of different Western contributions?

MR. KIRBY: So, you’re right. I’m not going to speak for President
Zelenskyy. I think if he was up here instead of me, he would tell you he
wants as many as he can as fast as he can.

So, the battalion that we’re going to provide — that’s 31 tanks. And
that’s for a Ukrainian-sized battalion. An American battalion has more
tanks in it, but the way they’re organized, it’s about 30 to 31 tanks.

And again, the Germans are going to help organize another two
battalions, so that’s about 60 more, roughly. And that’s just what was
talked about today. The Brits have agreed to send some of their
Challenger tanks. You heard the President talk about the French and
their contributions to armored vehicles. So, there’s a — there’s a lot
that’s being applied to this.

And armored vehicles are important. You know, you — you don’t go after a
crocodile with a corn stalk. And — and these — and these vehicles, these
tanks, those armored vehicles, they’re — they’re going to have — they’re
going to have an effect.

Q Okay, but just given the goals, which are approaching pretty quickly,
right? — the — that there’s going to be a spring offensive; they’re
talking maybe in a couple months or so — do you feel confident that
Ukraine is going to get to where they want to be in terms of the armor
for this combined arms maneuver to talk about — that they’re going to —

MR. KIRBY: It is —

Q — have all that kit ready?

MR. KIRBY: I can go so far as to tell you that it is our goal — and a
goal shared by our allies and partners, including in the phone call this
morning that the President had — that we — that we accomplish exactly
that goal: that we get to Ukraine the capabilities they need to be
successful on the battlefield today but, just as critically, in the
future, going forward this year.

Because right now, I mean, it’s wintertime, so the conditions are not
great. There’s some fighting in the Donbas. But the — but other than
that, there’s not been a whole heck of a lot, at least around in the —
down in the south.

But as the weather conditions improve, you can expect that the Russians
are going to pick up the tempo. We have to be — we have to be ready for
that. And I know the Ukrainians feel they have to be ready for that.

So, it’s about helping Ukraine defend itself but also, as you heard the
President say, helping Ukraine be able to go on the offense when the
weather conditions and when the — when the operational conditions are
permissive.

Does that answer your question?

Q Yes. Thank you very much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Phil.

Q Thank, Kirby.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And then I’ll come to the back.

Q This is kind of a follow-up to everybody’s question. How much of the
U.S. announcement today was a diplomatic effort versus actually the
battlefield capability effort in the months ahead when these 31 tanks
can be delivered?

MR. KIRBY: Both. Both. There was a lot of diplomacy that went into the
announcements today. And — and, you know, I know we’ve all been focused
on the last few days and things that have been said publicly. But
actually, I mean, the effort that — the decision you saw today by both
Germany and the United States was — was several weeks in the making
through many, many discussions with the Germans and with our allies and
— allies and partners.

But it also — there’s a military component here too, Phil. I mean, I get
it. I get, you know, where you’re kind of going — is that these tanks
are not going to get there for many months. And I understand that.

But those Leopards won’t take quite as long to get there that — as the
Abrams. And we’re not wasting the time. I mean, even as we procure these
tanks, we’re going to be — the Pentagon will very soon start doing the
training for Ukrainian tankers, Ukrainian troops that man tanks so that
they can be ready to receive once those tanks are on the — on the
battlefield.

Another point that’s worth making is it’s not just about how to operate
the Abrams — to Kristen’s question. It’s how to maintain them. And it’s
how to build in — have an organic supply chain process, a logistical
sustainment process so that you can keep them maintained and in the
fight over the long haul.

Q If I could just ask one quick follow-up. We always hear after
announcements like this — and you’ve talked about the progression as the
battlefield conditions have changed — the Russian threats of escalation
or talking about crossing red lines.

Do you feel like those threats at this point are both just par for the
course but also somewhat empty? In the sense that —

MR. KIRBY: You mean the Russian threats?

Q They don’t seem — yeah, they don’t seem to stop anything that you guys
are consider- —

MR. KIRBY: Well, we don’t — I mean, look, we don’t just take anything
for granted when they say it. And we’re not dismissive.

That said, these tanks are meant to help Ukraine fight effectively on
open terrain, to defend their sovereignty and their territory, and to
win back territory that the Russians have taken from them.

And as the President said, they don’t represent an offensive threat to
Russia. Do they represent a threat to Russian soldiers? You bet they do.
But not to — Russian soldiers that are in Ukraine, not — not to — not to
Russia proper.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Nadia.

Q Thank you, Karine. Hi, John. Actually, Phil asked my question, but —

MR. KIRBY: Oh, good. So, we can go to the next one. (Laughter.)

Q No, no, I have a follow-up on that. You know, the expectation that
these tanks will be delivered within months — at least four months. I
mean, correct me if I’m wrong. But the — also, the reports that the
Russians might launch a counterattack now, do you see this as a catalyst
for the Russians now to launch an attack, to escalate the war in a way
to stop them before they reach — before they receive these tanks, if
they are going to make any change in the war —

MR. KIRBY: I —

Q — (inaudible) Ukrainians?

MR. KIRBY: I never do well if I try to speak for the Russians and try to
get inside their head and what their intents are.

What we do believe — all I can tell you is what we believe, and that is
that the Russians, Mr. Putin, will use the winter not only to conduct
operations — which he is in Bakhmut and Soledar — but to use it to
regroup, to retrain, to reequip, and to prepare himself for continued
fighting when the weather improves.

So, we want to make sure that we’re using this time as best we can, A,
to help the Ukrainians in the fight that they’re in today, but make sure
that they’re ready for the fight tomorrow, that they’re ready to defend
themselves against whatever offensive operations the Russians might be
planning to do when the weather improves.

So, I — again, I can’t predict perfectly how this is going to go, but
this is very much — you know, the — some of the criticism I’ve heard —
and I’ve heard it when I was at the Pentagon, too — is, you know, it’s
“hand to mouth” and “you guys aren’t thinking ahead,” and it’s just
whatever — whatever the need is for today.

And this decision today is very much indicative of the President’s
long-term commitment to Ukraine and how he has tasked the national
security team to think ahead, to plan ahead, to help the Ukrainians get
ahead of what’s coming down the pike.

Q Can I follow up on this, please?

Q Thanks. Two quick follow-ups. You noted that our military aid to
Ukraine has evolved with conditions on the ground. And the President
previously said that these M1 Abrams were needed to liberate Ukraine.
Does the administration expect any operations moving forward that would
include retaking Crimea or lands that were lost during the Russian
invasion of Crimea?

MR. KIRBY: I’m not going to talk about Ukrainian operations. I would
just never violate their operational security and certainly wouldn’t
divulge from the podium what their plans and intentions are.

I will only say this: that we do not dictate to the Ukrainians how they
operate, where they operate, what missions they conduct, what targets
they choose. We help them with usable information and intelligence as
best we can so that they can be successful. But these are their
decisions to make. It is their country, their war. Our job is to make
sure that they can prosecute that war successfully.

Q And then, I want to follow up to make sure that I understood you
correctly. You said previously, in your assessment of both military and
economic aid to Ukraine, that at this point, thus far, you haven’t seen
any signs of corruption or misuse?

MR. KIRBY: Correct.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Nancy.

Q Can I follow up on the numbers?

Q Thanks, John. Can you tell us a little bit more about how the U.S.
settled on the number of tanks it’s providing: 31?

MR. KIRBY: Yeah.

Q That’s a very specific number.

MR. KIRBY: I kind of got to it a little earlier. It’s basically the size
of a Ukrainian tank battalion. In Amer- — and I’m getting a little bit
astray of my knowledge; I was a naval officer. But as I understand it,
an American tank battalion has about 50 tanks in it, and it’s organized
with more companies to comprise the battalion than in Ukraine.

That’s just the way the Ukrainian army is organized. It’s not right or
wrong, it’s just that their battalions are basically, I believe, two
companies. So, they’re just smaller. And — and so, two companies —
that’s about 15 tanks a company, and that’s how you get to 30, 31.

And then, usually, at least one of these tanks is — the commander is in
there. And so, you got a command-and-control tank that sort of is in
charge of how they’re operating on the field.

And now I’m really, really going astray of my expertise. But I think
that’s about as far as I can go.

Q If the Ukrainians said today, “Thank you very much. Now, how about
some fourth-generation fighter jets?” — what are the chances of that
happening?

MR. KIRBY: We’re in constant discussions with the Ukrainians about their
capabilities. And as I’ve said, we evolve those as the conditions
change. Can’t blame the Ukrainians for wanting more and more systems.
It’s not the first time that they’ve talked about fighter jets. But I
don’t have any announcements to make on that front.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Christina.

Q Is there a concern that if any of these tanks were to fall into
Russian hands, they would have access to the latest U.S. technology?

MR. KIRBY: There’s always what we call “tech transfer” concerns. I mean,
that would be the case with other systems that we have provided to
Ukraine.

But — and this doesn’t — it kind of gets to the corruption question, but
not really. We just haven’t seen any indications that any of the
material that we have provided Ukraine isn’t being stored appropriately,
used appropriately, maintained appropriately, and certainly — and being
fought with appropriately. We’re just not seeing that — that happen.

But is that a potential risk? It’s always a risk in war. It’s a risk
when we fight a war. But that’s why we’re working so closely with the
Ukrainians on accountability. And we’ve really increased our efforts,
through the defense attaché’s office in Kyiv, to work with the
Ukrainians on accountability so that we have a better sight picture on
where these things are at any given time.

But it’s a war. And you can’t forget that. I mean, it’s a war.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Catherine.

Q Thanks, Karine. John, why not take the Abrams out of existing stocks
to get them there faster? Is there a reason that you want more training
before that happens? Or is there some U.S. need that you want to keep
them in inventory?

MR. KIRBY: The Pentagon assesses that they don’t have any excess Abrams
in their inventory, that all of them are gainfully employed, if you
will, to — for our own national security defense.

And even if there were excess tanks, the process of getting them to
Ukraine to prepare them for use by the Ukrainians, to train the
Ukrainians, put all the parts and supplies in place, it would take many
months anyway.

So, it’s not like this procurement process is really costing us any time
than if we just drew them down out of our own stocks. But the real
reason is we just don’t have them; we don’t have excess tanks.

The second thing is — and this is not unimportant — is that — and I
mentioned this a little bit earlier: When — when they get there, we want
to make sure that they fall on ready hands and that the Ukrainians know
how to use them, they know how to keep them running, and they’ve got the
supply chain in place for spare parts and supplies and anything else
they need so that they can be more effective on the battlefield.

Q And given the process, what’s the soonest the Abrams could get there?

MR. KIRBY: The Pentagon, I think, talked about this earlier today.
There’s no date certain on the calendar. I think what we’re looking at
is what’s probably going to be many months before they’re actually
there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Patsy.

Q Thank you. John, so to your point about longer-term planning and
absorption rate from the Ukrainians, and also picking up from
Sebastian’s question about the number of tanks: The Ukrainian advisor to
— the advisor to Zelenskyy’s office, Mykhailo Podolyak, actually told my
colleague after this announcement that what they want, what they need is
about 200 to 350 tanks from the West.

So, is that a realistic number? If not now, maybe in the future, if they
— if the Ukrainians should happen to prove that they can absorb these
initial tranche of tanks and they can maintain it?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t think it’s wise to get ahead of where we are right
now. We are focused on working on this program to get them — procure
them these 31 Abrams tanks to include all the supplies and parts that go
with it and the training that’s required to operate and maintain them.

And we know, certainly based on the conversation the President had this
morning, that our allies and partners in Europe are likewise focused now
on moving additional armored capability to include these, now, German
Leopard tanks in — in a — in a shorter period of time.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q So, just to be clear: The future shipments of tanks is not off the
table?

MR. KIRBY: We’re focused on the announcement the President just made
today.

Q And just one more, really quickly. He also said that the next step for
Ukrainians will be to request extended range missiles. Is that also
under consideration?

MR. KIRBY: We are in constant conversation with the Ukrainians about
their capabilities. I don’t have any announcements to make.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Aamer.

Q With “many months” being the timeframe, is it fair to say that these
tanks will not be available for use for the spring offensive?

And secondly, one of the concerns in the lead-up and the debate about
this was fuel concerns. How is that being dealt with?

MR. KIRBY: Well, that’s part of the supply chain issue, isn’t it? I
mean, it’s a jet engine. It’s a gas turbine engine, which needs jet
fuel. So, there’s a specific type of fuel that — that powers the Abrams,
and we’ve got to make sure that that pipeline, literally and
figuratively, is — is available to Ukraine. So, that’s going to take
some time, as well.

And, look, I’m not going to predict date certain on the calendar. It’s
going to take many months before the tanks get there. And let’s not get
ahead of specific spring offensives.

We do think, as the weather improves, the Russians are going to want to
increase their tempo. We want to make sure that the Ukrainians can not
only meet that tempo but be capable of their own. And what that looks
like and when that starts or where, that’s really up to President
Zelenskyy and his military advisors. We wouldn’t speak to that.

I will — only thing I’d add to that, Aamer, is that those Leopard tanks
won’t take quite as long to get on the ground. And again, I’ll let the
Germans speak to this. But they won’t take the same length of time that
the Abrams will —

Q Go ahead.

MR. KIRBY: — in order to arrive.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q To — follow up on —

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You’ll go after.

MR. KIRBY: I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I — I screwed up the flow. (Laughter.)

Q To — to follow up on Aamer’s question about the — the “many months”
timeline, can you articulate, then, why this decision was not — why it
did not take place sooner, given Ukrainians’ demands and given the
demands of a potential spring offensive?

MR. KIRBY: We — we could — we could — you could ask that question about
almost any system that we’ve provided, and my answer will always be the
same: We are — we are in constant conversation with the Ukrainians about
their needs and doing the best we can to address those needs, both short
term and long term. And the decision that the President announced today
was a result of a lot of conversations with the Ukrainians, as well as
with our allies and partners.

And it is very much — as I answered before — it’s very much about
forecasting. It’s about trying to get ahead of the kinds of fighting
that we see coming — in coming months here in the spring, in the summer
of this year.

Q Can I ask one quick follow-up? To broaden it out, actually, beyond the
situation in Russia and Ukraine, I was struck by something the President
said today about ensuring that neighbors cannot steal other neighbors’
territory. It’s something you all have brought up many, many times.

And I’m curious if you can kind of help us understand why the
administration has not changed course on your predecessor former
President Donald Trump’s position on the Golan Heights and what makes
that situation distinct from what’s going on in Russia and Ukraine.

MR. KIRBY: Look, the — different scenarios completely. And — and I’m not
here prepared to talk much about that, except to say: We’ve been very
consistent that we — we want to see a two-state solution. And we
believe, the President believes that a two-state solution is possible
and could be viable.

But it takes both sides to be willing to commit to that. And we don’t
want to see — we don’t want to see either side take unilateral actions
that would decrease the possibility of actually reaching a two-state
solution.

Q Could you please bring us a little bit behind the scenes about the
negotiations —

MR. KIRBY: You’re behind her. I couldn’t see you. (Laughter.)

Q Thank you. I was wondering if you could — you could give us some
details about the negotiations behind the scenes with the Europeans?
What kind of —

MR. KIRBY: You want me to talk behind the scenes at the podium?

Q Yeah, a little bit. (Laughter.) Especially what type of conversations
have there been with the European Union and with the government of
Spain. Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: (Laughs.) The discussions have been very robust with our
European allies and partners, again, for many weeks here. And,
certainly, the discussion today that the President had with the — with
his counterparts in the UK, France, Germany, and Italy was, again, very
productive, very candid.

All — all of these leaders are rightly focused on doing what they can to
help Ukraine and rightly focused on the — the future.

And I can’t speak for Spanish decision-making here. Spain, obviously,
has been a contributor and a supporter of Ukraine. And that’s always
welcome. And I think the President addressed some of their contributions
today. And we look forward to continuing to work closely with Spain
going forward.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: James, in the back.

Q I’m sorry, I didn’t have a question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, okay.

Q I — I have a question —

Q Karine —

Q Thank you. Thank you, Karine.

MR. KIRBY: Wait, wait, wait. You don’t have a question, James? Are you
kidding me? Are you kidding me? (Laughter.)

Q This is just a tribute to the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Can we just have this for the record —

MR. KIRBY: Oh, my goodness. Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Can we have it for the record that I called on you and
you didn’t have a question?

MR. KIRBY: I’m going to frame that transcript.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: For the record.

MR. KIRBY: Holy mackerel.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. Go ahead.

Q This is simply a tribute to your own loquacity and thoroughness in
briefing us today.

MR. KIRBY: “Loquacity” is James Rosen for “eloquence”? Is that —

Q I have two questions for you.

MR. KIRBY: All right. Go ahead, sir.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay, go ahead.

Q So, we don’t know how — yet how Russia will respond. But if Moscow
chooses a major escalation and decides to strike NATO — either Poland or
the Baltics — does the NATO — do you have enough troops in the region
right now to respond? And — from day one, not five months ahead.

And the second question would be: Many of those who called for sending
Leopards and Abrams to Ukraine argued that Russia right now is too
weakened to — militarily too weakened to respond conventionally in a
significant way. How confident are you in this assessment that Russia is
so weak that — or maybe you have a different assessment. But many people
thought that Russia — think that Russia is too weak to respond in a
significant way to the move that was just announced about tanks.

MR. KIRBY: Let me take the second one first. There’s no question that
Russia’s military is weaker today than it was 11 months ago, when you
talk about their resources and the casualties that they have sunk into
this unprovoked war of theirs and the, literally, thousands of missiles
and rockets and now drones that they have launched into Ukrainian
territory. I mean, they have — they have burned through a lot of
inventory. And they have suffered a lot of casualties — killed and
wounded. So there’s no question that their military is weaker for
Putin’s folly here.

That said, you don’t have to look very far — just the news coverage — to
see that the Russian military and their thugs are still pretty lethal,
because Ukrainians continue to die every day. So, I think if you were to
ask a Ukrainian here, “How weak is Russia?” I don’t think that they
would tell you that there’s not still fight left there. And that’s why
we’re so focused on making sure that Ukraine can continue to defend
itself and to have the capabilities to fight back and to succeed on the
battlefield.

And on your first question, all I can tell you is we’ve seen absolutely
no indication that Mr. Putin has designs on striking NATO territory.

And President Biden has said, since the very beginning of this conflict,
that we take our Article 5 commitments to NATO seriously. Article 5, of
course, is the notion that an attack on one is an attack on all. And we
take that seriously.

In fact, we take it so seriously that President Biden ordered an
additional 20,000 American troops alone onto the European continent, and
they still are there. Now, we’ll be rotating them in and out, but it’ll
— the net number of 100,000 American troops on the European continent
has stayed the same and will stay the same for the foreseeable future.

Make no mistake, the security environment in Europe has changed. Not “is
changing,” not “will change.” It has changed because of what Mr. Putin
did.

And the United States anted up for that and made clear to our NATO
Allies, particular on the — particularly on the eastern flank, how
seriously we take our responsibilities to those Article 5 commitments.
And Mr. Putin needs to understand that.

Q But do you have enough troops? Because many of those countries send
its own tanks, missile systems to Ukraine.

MR. KIRBY: Well, we — we’re sending missile systems and now we’re
sending tanks to Ukraine as well. Every nation is making these decisions
as best they can to support Ukraine, but they also still have sovereign
responsibilities to their citizens to defend their countries. And so
they’re all making that calculus, as are — as are we.

I can tell you that, from our perspective — I can’t speak for every NATO
Ally — we are confident that we have the capability, the energy, the
talent, the manpower, the resources to meet our Article 5 commitments to
our NATO Allies.

Q Thank you.

Q Are there any signs on the nuclear front?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay, right next to you. Right next to you. We’re going
to get around, guys. Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine and John. Got two questions about China. First,
Karine told us yesterday that the U.S. has been communicating with China
about the implications of helping Russia. Can you tell us what China’s
response was to U.S. communication? And if China continues to provide
economic support, and including by selling non-lethal military aid to
Russia, would the U.S. impose stronger measures than just communicate?

MR. KIRBY: I won’t get ahead of decisions that haven’t been made. And
I’m certainly not going to detail diplomatic conversations. We’ve been
very clear publicly, and we certainly have been clear in private
settings with Chinese leaders, that we don’t believe that now is the
time for business as usual with Russia and that we want to see every
nation sign up to the strict sanctions regime and — and abide by those
sanctions, meet those sanctions and do nothing to support Russia.

Now, every country makes their decisions for themselves, just like I
said before. You know, and China is going to have choices that they’re
going to have to continue to make here about what side they want to be
on. We know they’re still buying Russian oil, for instance. And it’s not
clear whether they will abide by the cap.

But this is the time for the international community — and you’re seeing
so much of it today in this decision — to really continue to rally
around Ukraine and to make the right decisions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay, Mary, Nandita, and then (inaudible).

Q Thanks.

Q A follow-up on China. Sorry.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Mary. Go ahead, Mary.

Q So China has been saying that there is 70k COVID deaths in just over
the month, up from just dozens reported earlier this month. Does the
U.S. believe that new number by the Chinese government saying that
there’s been 70k deaths?

MR. KIRBY: The Chinese — we have continued to encourage the Chinese to
be cooperative with international reviews and studies about COVID, and
they have not been fully transparent. And we cannot speak to the
veracity of those numbers.

We urge China to be fully transparent about what’s going on.

Q And (inaudible) — sorry —

Q Just back to the timeline.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We got to move on.

MR. KIRBY: I think — ma’am — ma’am, I got to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Mary.

MR. KIRBY: I got to move on.

Q I appreciate it. We all have questions. If — back to the timeline, if
I may — you saying repeatedly today that it’s going to take many months
for all these tanks to be delivered. Taking a step back, should
Americans see that as a sign of a harsh reality that this war is nowhere
near from over?

MR. KIRBY: I think we need to prepare ourselves that — to — to continue
— to have to continue to support Ukraine for — for quite some time. I
can’t be perfectly predictive on that.

And I, obviously — and you heard the President say this today — we’d
like to see this war end today, and it absolutely could. All Putin has
to do is pull his troops out of Ukraine and call it a day, and it’s
over.

But he has shown no signs of being willing to do that, and so we got to
make sure that Ukraine can succeed on the battlefield so that they can
succeed at the negotiating table. And it’s difficult to be able to
predict how long this is going to go on. But we have to be prepared.

And this is the — I think, to get to your question: While I can’t —
can’t tell the American people exactly how long it’s going to take, we
have to be prepared to stay at this task of supporting Ukraine, as the
President said, for as long as it takes, with the expectation, clearly,
that we want it to end quickly and we want it to end now.

But again, we’ve just got to — we have to stay at that task. And there’s
been terrific bipartisan support here in town — bicameral and bipartisan
support here in town for support to Ukraine. And the American people, as
the President said, they too have been supportive of this. They
understand what’s at stake, and it’s — it’s, obviously, Ukrainian
sovereignty and Ukrainian lives, but it’s bigger than that. It’s about
the principle of sovereignty.

Q There’s also been — if I could, really fast — there’s also bipartisan
outrage and frustration over the last few days that there are just more
and more disclosures of classified documents showing up in places where
they were not supposed to be.

From a national security perspective — you work in national security —
how concerned are you? And does this system need reform?

MR. KIRBY: I’m going to defer most of the document questions to Karine.
The only thing I’d say here is that —

(Looks at Ms. Jean-Pierre.) You’re welcome.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you. (Laughter.)

MR. KIRBY: The — obviously, the President, you’ve heard Karine say,
takes the treatment of classified material seriously. I can assure you
that everybody here does too. And the National Security Council staff,
we deal with classified material every single day; you have to do that.

We all know what the rules are. We follow the rules. And the procedures
exist for a reason. And they’ve been developed over many, many years as
the nature of classified material has changed, now down — to now include
electronic capability. And so, we’re working at that very, very hard.

I don’t have any changes to speak to. The — the process of classified
material handling — you know, not “process,” but the guidelines change
over time as technology changes. And we’re always reviewing those —
those procedures to make sure that they’re fully appropriate.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Nandita.

Q Is there a problem then with over-classification?

MR. KIRBY: Is there a problem with —

Q Over-classification of documents.

MR. KIRBY: Look, I think — you know, it’s always a balance, and you’re
always trying to meet that balance about whether things are classified
appropriately. And the — the intelligence community works at this.
Obviously, we work at this.

I wouldn’t go so far as to slap a Band-Aid on and say, “Yeah, everything
is over-classified.” But it’s — it’s a balance that we try to strike to
make sure that everything is appropriately marked and appropriately
handled.

But, you know, it varies from document to document and from issue to
issue.

Q And a quick one on Germany. At any point during the conversations with
Germany, did they make the Leopard deployment contingent on the U.S.
sending the Abrams? And can you give us some sense of what led to the
joint decision?

I mean, I’m just trying to understand. You didn’t want to send the
tanks; then you decided to send the tanks. What happened?

MR. KIRBY: Tanks were never off the table. We have been nothing but
honest and transparent about the particular challenges of the Abrams,
which — there are still — those challenges still exist.

I mean, it is still going to require a unique supply chain and
maintenance requirements and jet fuel. I mean, all that stuff is still
valid. We’ve been very honest about that.

The decision today was the result of many, many discussions with the
Germans, as well as our allies and partners, about what Ukraine is going
to need going forward and how we can all best address that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Just a couple more. Go ahead, Michael.

Q Mr. Kirby, can you take a question —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Michael.

Q — on Africa?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Michael. Go ahead, Michael.

Q I know Karine Jean-Pierre will not (inaudible) —

Q Could you talk a little about the training process for learning how to
operate these tanks? What is involved in that? How long do you think it
would take the Ukrainians to get up to speed? When do you think it —
expect it to start? Where would it be? Would it be in Ukraine or
somewhere else?

MR. KIRBY: We’re still working our way through the details of that, and
I — I’ll refer you to the Defense Department for more granularity.

I can tell you a few things. One, the training will absolutely not occur
in Ukraine, but they haven’t landed a location for where that would take
place. But it won’t be inside Ukraine, clearly.

And they will run an ambitious training program for them as we have on
every other system. The Patriot battery training is ongoing right now at
Fort Sill, Oklahoma, and — and they’ve been able to accelerate parts of
that so — to get Ukrainians trained up on it at a pace that’s a little
faster than what we would do, because the need is exigent. And I think
you can expect that the Pentagon will take that same approach on the
training on the Abrams.

But how long is it going to take? I really am not able to say. They’re
still working their — their way through that.

We don’t think that it will take too much longer. You know, I’d say,
probably, you know, weeks, not months, before they’re able to really
nail down the details of this and start to — start to put it in place,
the training regimen.

Q John, how hard is it to walk out of a SCIF with classified material?

MR. KIRBY: Everybody who goes into a SCIF knows what the requirements
are to go in and knows what the requirements are to go out. You know,
there’s — you can’t bring personal devices in. And you certainly can’t
leave with material unless that material is appropriately secured.

Q And usually, what happens to someone in the chain of command if they
do leave with a piece of classified material that they’re not supposed
to have or that is not secured?

MR. KIRBY: I think if you do it inadvertently or you do it and you
realize, you know, you don’t have it secured in a locked bag, you know,
you — you self-report, which is exactly what the President did:
self-reported.

But you self-report, and you — you make sure that that you get the
material back, secured where it belongs, and that you’re transparent
about it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Two more questions. Alex, in the back. Alex. And then
you can go.

Q Thank you, Admiral. I understand the distinction you’re making between
offensive weapons and defensive weapons, but the Russians are not seeing
that subtlety — perhaps intentionally, right? They’re calling — I mean,
one of their propaganda — propagandists is calling for, you know, the
annihilation of Washington and Berlin and London and Paris.

Now, I’m just — that’s just indicative of the mood in Moscow.

MR. KIRBY: Because of this announcement?

Q Well, because of this announcement, and then, I think, they’re quite
irked by the German announcement, given the history.

So, is it — is it possible that they see this as a provocation to
escalate? And I heard one of my colleagues ask about tactical nukes.
Could this give them a pretext to use those either on the battlefield or
against the Baltics or Poland, elsewhere?

MR. KIRBY: The propagandists in the Russian media can say what they
will. The President put it very plainly today that these tanks pose no
offensive threat to Russia. They do, as I told Phil, pose a threat to
Russian soldiers in units that are in Ukraine. They’re very powerful,
very capable. And not just the Abrams, but the Leopards that are — that
are going to be coming soon too — very, very powerful.

But they don’t pose a threat to the Russian homeland. They are designed
to help the Ukrainians in what we believe is going to be a need for
combined arms operation in the coming — operations in the coming months.

Q The nuke threat specifically, do you see that worsening?

MR. KIRBY: I — I would just tell you we don’t have any indication that
Mr. Putin has any intention to use weapons of mass destruction — let
alone nuclear weapons, tactical or otherwise.

We monitor as best we can, and we believe that — that our strategic
deterrent posture is appropriate. But we have seen no indication that
that’s in the offing.

Q Mr. Kirby, what was the President’s reaction when he learned —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: One last question —

Q — on October 29th —

MR. KIRBY: (Addressing Ms. Jean-Pierre.) However you want to go.
Wherever you want to go.

Yeah.

Q — the American intelligence agency missed their target by 3,000
(inaudible)? What was his reaction?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. You have the last question.

Q I’m just wondering, you know, how and when it was decided to send the
Abrams. I mean, was there a final, you know, call with Chancellor Scholz
or a meeting with officials that really pushed that decision across the
finish line?

MR. KIRBY: I think, just in general — I’d rather not get into specific
interagency internal deliberations. But — but in general, this decision
by the President was made in the last several days, this particular one.

But it came, as I said earlier, on the heels of dozens of conversations
at various levels of the chain of command, not just between the
President and the Chancellor, but Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
and his counterpart, and Secretary Austin and his counterpart.

You know, they were just out in Ramstein on Friday as a part of this
Ukraine Defense Contact Group. And the issue of tanks, particularly
Leopard tanks, was absolutely on the agenda last Friday at Ramstein.

So, I mean, it builds on weeks of discussions and conversations with the
Germans, with our allies and par- — other par- — other allies and
partners, as well as, quite frankly, with the — with the Ukrainians.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Thank you, John.

MR. KIRBY: All right. Thank you, ma’am. I appreciate it. Thanks, guys.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks, John.

MR. KIRBY: Stay dry.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Thanks, John.

MR. KIRBY: Yes, ma’am.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay, so just a couple of things at the top, and then
we’ll get started.

Today we announced data from the 2023 Open Enrollment Period. In this
year’s Open Enrollment Period, a record-breaking 16.3 million Americans
signed up for affordable healthcare through the Affordable Care Act.
That’s over double the number of Americans who signed up for health
insurance coverage through the marketplaces during the first open
enrollment season in twenty-twenty-fou- — in 2014.

Four out of five consumers looking for healthcare through the Affordable
Care Act could find healthcare plans for $10 a le- — or less per month.
That’s because of the lower health insurance rates that were delivered
as part of the American Rescue Plan and were locked in through the
Inflation Reduction Act.

In all, these lower rates are allowing millions of Americans to continue
to save $800 per year on health insurance coverage.

President Biden promised to lower costs for families and expand access
to quality, affordable healthcare, and he is delivering on that promise.

(Reporter sneezes.) Bless you, Nancy.

And finally, as you all know, tomorrow, President Biden will deliver
remarks on recent proof that his economic plan is working, including a
record nearly 11 million jobs created — the two strongest years of job
growth in history; 750,000 manufacturing jobs created; the lowest
unemployment rate in 50 years; the best two years for small business
applications on record; annual inflation falling and wages rising over
the last six months.

The President will then contrast his plan with Republicans’, as you’ve
heard us do many times from here.

The President is building an econ- — an economy from the bottom up and
the middle out, and protecting Social Security and Medicare.
Congressional Republican — Republicans want to cut Social Security, want
to cut Medicare — programs Americans have earned, have paid into — and
impose a 30 percent national sales tax that will increase taxes on
working families. That is what they have said they want to do, and that
is clearly their plan.

His remarks will be in Springfield, Virginia, with Steamfighter
\[Steamfitter\] union workers who are benefiting from his economic plan.

With that, Aamer, want to kick us off?

Q Sure. Thank you. Does the administration think it’s time for all
former Presidents to do a scrub of their homes and offices to make
certain they don’t have any classified documents in their possession?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I think I was asked a version of that question
yesterday. And I — it remains the same as what we’re going to do from
here: Again, be prudent, be consistent.

I would refer you to the White House Counsel Office. I’m just not going
to comment on any change of procedur — procedure, how things should move
forward. I would refer you to the White House Counsel’s Office.

Q On a separate matter, any reaction to Senator Joe Manchin moving to
delay on new tax credits on EVs?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I haven’t seen — I haven’t seen those reports.
Clearly, when it comes to electrical vehicles, that’s something that is
incredibly important to this President. We saw that in the bipartisan
infrastructure legislation. Remember, it is a bipartisan piece of
legislation.

And he is committed to really tackling climate change by making sure
we’re moving forward — one of the processes is making sure that we’re
moving with electric vehicles.

I don’t have anything specific to — to say about this particular action
that the senator is making.

Q Just one — one last thing. Any updates on when Speaker McCarthy may be
coming to visit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as you know, the President is very much looking
forward to meeting with Speaker McCarthy. We haven’t locked anything in
yet. They — they have a working relationship, as we’ve said before. They
want to continue and build on that relationship.

Don’t have anything here to share. You know, we’re expected — they’re
expected to talk on a range of issues. When we have locked in that
meeting, we certainly will let you all know.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Another question about Senator Manchin. He had a
meeting with the House Speaker and reportedly said after that meeting
that he wants the White House to negotiate over cutting spending in
exchange for raising the debt limit. Has he conveyed that position to
the White House? And does the White House have any response to Senator
Manchin about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, you know, I’ll say a couple of things. And I’ve
been asked this question over the last two days in different — in
different variations.

Look, I don’t have a — any conversations to share that was had in this —
in this — on this campus with Senator Manchin.

As you know, we talk to congressional members from both sides of the
chamber very regularly.

What I will say is: The President has been always very clear. If folks
have ideas on how to deal with the national debt and bring down — lower
the debt, he’s happy to hear that — hear that conversation. He’s happy
to hear those policies and those ideas.

And as you know, you’ve heard me say this many times, $1.7 trillion,
which is a record number that the President has been able to do to bring
down the deficit.

When it comes to default, we see this as a separate matter. We see this
very differently. And it should be done without conditions. We’ve been
very clear about that.

And if you think about just the basic — just to — kind of the basic
action that the Congress should be taking, we’re talking about the debt
that has been acquired, that has racked — racked up by Congress.

We’re not talking about new spending. We’re not talking about anything
new. We’re talking about Congress just paying their debt, which is a
basic responsibility. Ninety percent of the debt that has been racked up
happened before the President walked into the office.

So, again, it should be done without conditions. We’ve been very clear
about that. And will continue to share — to share that with whoever
wants to listen.

Q And then, on a separate topic, there are some House Democrats who are
now calling on Speaker McCarthy to limit Congressman George Santos’s
access to classified information based on some of his connections and
some of the lies that he’s told about his background. Does the White
House share that view, that he should be restricted from viewing
classified information?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, what we have said about Congressman George Santos
is that this is something — as it relates to — as it relates to
committees or any actions that — that members need to see — feel that
they should be — should be happening, that is something for Congress to
decide. That is something specifically for the Republican conference to
decide. They are the ones who should figure out what is owed to the
American people.

We’re not going to comment from here. We’re not — we’re not going to
comment on actions that they’re taking on other congressional members
from here.

But again, we believe that is something for Republican conference. They
have, as you know, the majority in the House, and they should be
deciding on how to move and what is owed to the American people.

Q So, you don’t have any concerns about him viewing classified
information?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: This is — this is something, again, that should be
decided by congressional members. We’ll leave it there.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q Can you assure the American people that when President Biden and Vice
President Kamala Harris leave office, no classified documents will walk
away with them to places they shouldn’t be?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’m going to be very careful here, as you can
imagine. What I can say is repeat what the President has said multiple
times. He takes classified information, he takes classified documents
very seriously. His team, currently, is fully cooperating with the legal
procedure that is happening under the Department of Justice and also the
Special Counsel.

I’m just not going to go beyond that. I’m not going to predict or — or —
or lay out anything that might happen in the future.

What I can say is this is something that the President — this is a
matter, an issue that the President takes very seriously.

Q On another topic. Any reaction from you, from the White House about
Speaker McCarthy’s decision to keep Representative Schiff and Swalwell
off the Intelligence Committee?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’ll say this: Representative Schiff,
Representative Swalwell, and also Repres- — Representative Omar are —
you know, are expertise and bring a lot to the table when it comes to
foreign policy and national security.

And we’ll say this, you know — we’ll say this: We’ll say that, you know,
when it comes to that committee, it should not be politicized. It should
be independent. And — and, again, those congressional members bring a
lot of expertise to that committee, and I’ll leave it there.

Go ahead, Nandita.

Q Thanks, Karine. The White House has not confirmed the appointment of
Jeff Zients as the next Chief of Staff. Is there a reason you’re not
doing that? Is — can you give us a sense of when you are planning to
announce that? And how soon will Ron Klain be leaving his position?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We — look, I’m not going to talk about an internal
process from here. What I can say is that we just don’t have any
personal announcement to make at this time.

And, look, I do want to say that Jeff is currently a colleague here of
mine, and I’ve known him for many years. And I’ve spoken to Ron and his
leadership just the other day, as — as the Chief of Staff and how we
were able to get to where we are with the successes in — with the
legislation — historical legislation — in part because of his expertise.

And he’s been — he has always been a pleasure to work with. And we’re
going to continue, clearly, to work with — with Ron as long as he’s
here.

When it comes to Jeff, I’ve known him, as well, for a very long time.
He’s a great implementer. He’s a — great with operations. And he’s also
an amazing human being, which I think should matter as well.

Just don’t have any personal announcements — personnel announcement to
make from here. And when we do, we certainly will share that with all of
you.

Q Will Ron Klain at least be staying on until after the State of the
Union?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just don’t — don’t have anything — I don’t have
anything to share, any personnel announcements to share at this time.

Q Thanks, Karine. I was wondering, is the White House concerned or
keeping an eye on what’s happening in Memphis right now, in terms of —
there’s a federal civil rights investigation into the death of a man who
had a confrontation after a traffic stop. I know his family and lawyers
have seen the body cam footage; there’s an expectation that will be
released publicly in the coming days. Are you guys watching that or
doing anything to prepare for that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I — again, I want to be very careful here. That
is an ongoing investigation, so don’t want to comment on an independent
investigation.

I will say this: Our — our hearts go out to — to his family. And I’ll
just leave it there, without stepping over the line here and commenting
on something that’s ongoing.

Q And just one other. There was an announcement today that the President
and Vice President will be doing a joint event together in Philadelphia.
They aren’t often outside of Washington together. Any context you can
provide in terms of what they’re planning —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Absolutely.

Q — for that and what you guys are intending with that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Absolutely. We advise — we advised this recently. It’s
going to be next Friday. They’re — both the Vice President and the
President will travel to Philly, which will be on February 3rd. And they
will discuss the progress we have made and their work implementation,
the Biden-Harris economic agenda, that continues to deliver results for
the American people. And we will have more additional information as we
get closer to that date.

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Michael.

Q In the back?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’ll go to the back.

Q The House Judiciary Committee is planning its first hearing next week
on what it’s calling the “Biden border crisis.” I wanted to see if you
have a reaction to that.

And also, can you talk a little bit about the Wh- — how the White House
is preparing for all of these investigations that House Republicans are
planning?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, this is something my colleagues at the White
House Council has been dealing with and responding to the committee.

And, I mean, look, I’ve said this before — I’ve sa- — and I’ll say it
again: You know, during the midterms, you — we’ve heard from
congressional members, Republicans in particular, that their focus was
going to be on lowering costs for the American people, dealing with
inflation, which is something the President has been doing for the last
— for the last two years.

And in — on brand, they decided to do the opposite of that: to not deal
with inflation, to not work with us in a bipartisan way to continue to —
to — to really, truly work for the American people.

That’s what we’re seeing. My colleagues have said this before; I’ll
repeat what they have said: We are — we are, you know, willing to work
with — with the — with the committee in a good-faith fashion.

But again, it has to be in a good-faith fashion. And — and certainly
talk about items or — or talk — talk about anything that — that is
pertinent, that is appropriate. But again, in a good-faith fashion.

And so, I’m not going to get ahead of — of what my White — my White
House Counsel colleagues have said.

But again, this is — you know, this is — they are doing the complete
opposite of what they said that they would do during the midterms. And
we have to remember: The — the American people spoke very, very clearly
on what they wanted to see. They wanted to see Republicans and Democrats
work together to deal with the issues that truly matter to them.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q You’ve announced some of these day trips that the President is going
to be doing over the next week and a half. Obviously, in less than two
weeks, the President will be doing the State of the Union. Has he
started preparations for that speech? And is there anything you can tell
us about that overall message that we might hear from him that night?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we’ll have more details on the State of the Union.
I can say this is — the State of the Union, this is something that the
President takes very seriously. And he knows this as an opportunity not
just to talk to the congressional members that will be in front of him,
but also the American people. And talk about the successes of the last
two years and how he sees his vision in the next — in the next year,
especially as we go into — further into 2023.

So, he sees this as an important opportunity to talk about: How are we
lowering costs for the American people? What else are we going to do to
make sure we deliver what he promised? Right? An economy that’s built
from the bottom up and the middle out. What else — how else can we work
in a bipartisan way?

I don’t want to get too far into — into what he was — he’s going to say.
Clearly, we’ll have more to share.

But this is an important — he sees this as an important moment not just
for him, but for the American people to hear directly from the President
of the United States.

I’m just going to — go ahead.

Q You said the President would have his physical finished by the end of
this month. Is that still on track?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s still on track. When we have a date to share, we
certainly will.

Q Okay. Just one other quick one. The House Oversight Committee is
looking into Hunter Biden’s art sales or the sales of his own art. Is
the White House concerned about that? Does it have any response to it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I will refer you to Hunter Biden’s representatives on
this.

Go ahead, in the — right behind you.

Q There are concerns that the Big Tech layoffs and the banking layoffs
will spill over into the broader economy. When the President speaks
about the economy tomorrow, how will he address those fears and the
fears of a recession?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Ed, look, we understand — we understand, you know, the
fears. But what I will say is that — and I’ve spoken to this a couple of
times — that there is data — job data that we have seen — job opening
data that we have seen where layoffs remain record low. And so that is
important to look at those numbers as well.

We — I’ve talked about the consumer price index. I’ve talked about the
PPI numbers that we have seen, as we’ve seen inflation continue to come
down over the last six months. And that is important as we talk about
the economy, as we talk about how the economy is building — we’re
building jobs — building back up.

And so, those are all important data points that we watch as well, that
all of you do as well. You look at the GDP. It’s growing — it grew by
3.2 percent. All of that is important as we speak to this, as we speak
to what we’re seeing across — just across the board.

I don’t want to speak dir- — specifically about, you know, private
companies and tech layoffs.

But there is, again, data out there that shows that the economy is
growing, that shows that we are indeed going to a stable and steady —
steady growth, which is important, which is something that the President
has worked — and you’ve seen this with his economic policy — has worked
towards over the last two years.

Q To follow up, you said the President wants to work in a bipartisan
way. He said this week that he has “no intention of letting the
Republicans wreck our economy” was his — his words. Does the
administration view calling out Republicans as an effective tool when
dealing with recession?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’ll say this — and I’ve talked — I’ve talked about
this before: We are willing and the President is willing to work with
the — with — with Congress in a bipartisan way, as he has in the last
two years. We have seen results of that.

But he’s also going to call out Republicans — in particular, in the
House — who are saying they want to cut Social Security, who have said
very clearly they want to cut Medicare, they want to clu- — cut Me- —
Medicaid or defense spending.

This is what they are saying. This is what’s coming out of the
Republican Conference.

And the President has said that he’s going to fight every day to protect
— to protect those programs that taxpayers pay into.

And we have to remember: Those programs — they benefit veterans, that
benefit our seniors and taxpayers, who, again, have earned the right to
be part of those programs.

So, yes, he is going to call that out when he sees there is real danger
to — against those programs.

Go ahead, Niels.

Q Thank you. Two quick questions. Just — when the meeting with Speaker
McCarthy happens, is it the expectation that it will be here at the
White House? Or is there any — I know the President is scheduled to go
to Camp David this weekend. There’s not a — there’s not going to be a
possibility that the Speaker is going to appear to meet with the
President at some other off-campus —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, let me just say this, just as a reminder to all of
you: It is very common, it is tradition — right? — for a Speaker to — to
meet with the President as — especially in this — in this instance, as
we go into the 118th Congress. So, there’s nothing unusual, and we are
looking forward to — for that to happen.

I don’t have a date set here. And I don’t have, clearly, the expectation
that it will happen here at the White House. But as soon as we have more
information, certainly, we will share that with all of you.

Q And then one question I had asked, I think, about a month ago: if
there is any update on the Architect of the Capitol. There’s been an
ongoing investigation. And I know that members of Congress are trying to
figure out if there’s anything they can do. But the Architect is
actually a presidential appointee, so I’m wondering if there’s any
developments here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, that’s a very good question. I forgot to — I don’t
remember the question, but, certainly, we will take it back and come
back and reach out to you with where we are on that.

Go ahead. I know —

Q President Biden has tried to decriminalize — deschedule marijuana. And
in the interim, companies — legal marijuana businesses in New Jersey and
elsewhere can’t open checking accounts. They’re doing it in cash.
They’re being robbed. And minority businesses can’t get the money they
need to open and compete with the big people.

Has the President talked about doing anything administratively to try to
ease some of these banking regulations that allow these businesses to
flourish?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So I — I don’t have any new policy announcements to
make from here. As you know, this is something that Congress is working
on. And we understand that there’s interest in legislation and action,
but I would refer you to Congress. Because, again, this is, again, what
— what they’re working on. I just don’t have anything to preview on any
new policies from here.

Q Karine, thank you so much. The President said last week that he has no
regrets in his handling of classified documents. When he saw how
forthcoming former Vice President Mike Pence was and his team was about
the fact that they did find classified documents in his Indiana home,
did the President regret not telling the public about this immediately
and instead letting it leak in the press?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’ll say this — and, again, I’m going to be very
prudent. I’m going to be very consistent here. We have seen statements
from the President’s personal lawyers. We have seen statements from the
White House Counsel’s Office that laid out — I believe there was a
timeline that laid out how this process went on from — from our point of
view. I’m just not going to go beyond that. I will refer you, again, to
those documents.

And I will just reiterate what the President has said: He takes this —
he takes classified documents, classified information very seriously.
And I’m just not going to go beyond what he has said. I’m not going to
go beyond what has been shared in statements by his lawyers.

Q Karine, a number of lawmakers reacted yesterday to the revelations by
former Vice President Mike Pence with some disbelief, saying that, writ
large, the system is broken when it comes to top officials handling
classified documents. Does the President, does the administration agree
with that assessment? And does the President, as the Commander-in-Chief,
feel it’s his responsibility to do something about it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I know my colleague was just asked this
question, and I do want to be very careful. This is an ongoing legal
matter here.

Q Well, not — I’m not asking about the President —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, but it is actually —

Q But broadly speaking here, we have a number of current and formers who
have now acknowledged, yes, they found classified documents in their
possessions in places that are not secure — the nation’s deepest
secrets.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I hear the question.

Q Does the President feel like he needs to address this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — no, I hear the question, and we’re talking about
the system. You’re asking about how do we move forward. You’re asking,
like, “What does the President think?” And I’m telling you that because
there is a really — I have to be really careful, because there is —
there is — this is a legal matter that is happening currently.

And any- — for me to comment on anything that’s related to an ongoing
investigation, that is not something that I can do from here.

Q Very quickly, the President had said he was going to talk to us about
this soon. He did make brief comments last week. But does he have any
plans to answer the questions that we’ve been posing to him, to perhaps
hold a press conference so  
that we can ask him a range of questions —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Understand —

Q — that he can answer some of those questions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I totally understand the question. I don’t have
anything to preview right at this time on — on any any opportunities for
the President to address this. But as you all know — and I know
questions were shouted earlier — there’s many opportunities that you all
have with him where he takes your — takes all of your questions, and he
has over the past two weeks.

Q But he hasn’t answered questions about this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I understand.

Q We’ve been shouting them.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, he’s answered. Actually, when he was in California,
he took a ques- — he took a question.

Q Yeah, in California. In California.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: When he was in Mexico City, he was asked. He took a
question the day after that.

Q Twice.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, but the day after that he took a question. So, I’m
just saying that — it’s not that he hasn’t addressed this at all. He
has. I just don’t have anything to preview on a, you know, potential
press — press conference or anything like that or an opportunity that
you all will have to hear from him directly.

But, again, he has been asked a question a couple of times, and he’s
answered it. And you all have heard from him on that.

Go ahead.

Q Any comment, Karine, on the reports that President Biden is
considering Fed Vice Chair Lael Brainard as the next head of the NEC? Is
there any timeline for that decision process for him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I’ll say this: Don’t have any personnel
announcements to make. You know, the President would — would love to see
and wants to see Brian Deese stay as long as he can in the
administration.

I just — and he has been here, as you all know — he’s been many times to
this podium, but he’s been at the White House for more than two-plus
years and has been an integral part of the President’s economic policy
of bringing — of building an economy from the bottom up, middle out.
Just don’t have any personnel announcements to make at this time.

Thanks, everybody.

2:41 P.M. EST
