---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-01-07'
modified_time: 2022-01-07 16:14:56-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/01/07/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-december-2021-jobs-report/
published_time: 2022-01-07 16:14:55-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the December 2021 Jobs\_Report"
---
 
State Dining Room

11:36 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, folks, good morning.  I’m going to be somewhat
short today because, shortly, you’re going to hear a helicopter landing
outside the window here.  I’m supposed to be in Colorado looking at the
damage with the governor of the — that Godawful firestorm that rolled
through.  And then I’m heading off to do Harry Reid’s funeral.

So — but this morning, I want to talk about: I think it’s a historic day
for our economic recovery.

Today’s national unemployment rate fell below 4 percent to 3.9 percent —
the sharpest one-year drop in unemployment in United States history; the
first time the unemployment rate has been under 4 percent in the first
year of a presidential term in 50 years.  3.9 percent unemployment rate
— years faster than experts said we’d be able do it.  And we have added
6.4 million new jobs since January of last year — in one year.

And that’s one of the most — that’s the most jobs in any calendar year
by any president in history.  How?  How?  How did that happen? 

Well, the American Rescue Plan got the economy off its back and moving
again, back on its feet, getting over 20 — 200 million Americans fully
vaccinated; got people out of their homes and back to work, even in the
face of wave after wave of COVID. 

We got schools open.  We got booster shots.  We brought down the poverty
rate and went from 20 million people on unemployment rolls a year ago to
under 2 million on the unemployment rolls today.

America is back to work, and there are more historical accomplishments:

The increase in Americans joining the labor force was the fastest this
year of any year since 1996.  And among prime-age workers ages 25 to 54,
their increase in labor force participation was the biggest in 43 years.

Record job creation.  Record unemployment declines.  Record increases in
the people in the labor force. 

I would argue the Biden economic plan is working, and it’s getting
America back to work, back on its feet.

But the record doesn’t stop there.  Today’s report also tells us that
record wage gains, especially for workers in some of America’s toughest
jobs.

Women and men who work in the frontline jobs in restaurants, hotels,
travel, tourism, desk clerks, line cooks, wait-staff, bellmen — they all
saw their wages at a historic high — the highest in history.

Their pay went up almost 16 percent this year, far ahead of inflation,
which is still a concern.

Overall, wage gains for all workers who were not supervisors went up
more in 2021 than any year in four decades.

There’s been a lot of press coverage about people quitting their jobs. 
Well, today’s report tells you why: Americans are moving up to better
jobs, with better pay, with better benefits.  That’s why they’re
quitting their jobs.

This isn’t about workers walking away and refusing to work. It’s about
workers able to take a step up to provide for themselves and their
families. 

This is the kind of recovery I promised and hope for for the American
people, where the biggest benefits go to the people who work the hardest
and are more often left behind.  The people who have been ignored
before.  The people who just want a decent chance to build a decent life
for their families, just given a clear shot.

For them, wages are up, job opportunities are up, layoffs are down to
the lowest levels in decades, and there are more chances than ever to
get ahead.

No wonder one leading economic a- — excuse me — analyst described what
we’ve accomplished in 2021 as the strongest first-year economic track
record of any president in the last 50 years.

Today, America is the only leading economy in the world where the
economy as a whole is stronger than before the pandemic.

Now you’ll hear Republicans say today that my talking about this strong
record shows that I don’t understand — I don’t understand.  “A lot of
people are still suffering,” they say.  Well, they are.  Or that I’m not
focused on inflation.  Malarkey. 

They want to talk down the recovery because they voted against the
legislation that made it happen.

They voted against the tax cuts for middle-class families.  They voted
against the funds we needed to reopen our schools, to keep police
officers and firefighters on the job, to lower healthcare premiums. 

They voted against the funds we’re now using to buy COVID booster shots
and more antiviral pills.

I refuse to let them stand in the way of this recovery.  And now, my
focus is on keeping this recovery strong and durable, notwithstanding
Republican obstructionism.

Because, you know, I know that even as jobs and families’ incomes have
recovered, families are still feeling the pinch of prices and costs.

So we’re taking that on as well.  And that’s — and the way to do that is
not to step back from the economic progress we’ve made, but to build on
it.

I’ve laid out a three-part plan to address costs families are facing:
One, the first part of that plan, fixing the supply chain.  Two,
protecting consumers and promoting competition.  Three, lowering kitchen
table costs, including with my Build Back Better Act.

First, the supply chain. 

A couple of months ago, we heard a lot of dire warnings about supply
chain problems leading to a crisis around the holidays — Thanksgiving
and Christmas.  We acted.  We brought together business and labor to
solve the problems.  The much-predicted crisis didn’t occur.  The Grinch
did not steal Christmas, nor any votes.  (Laughs.)

Look, the number of containers sitting on docks for more than eight days
is now down by nearly 40 percent.  The number of packages delivered on
time was nearly 99 percent.  Workers stayed on the job and did the job
to bring goods to consumers.

We’re continuing our work to speed up every step of this process: the
ports, trains, trucking.

My Bipartisan Infrastructure Plan — Law — included significant
investments in each of these areas.  And I want to thank the 19
Republicans in the Senate and the 13 in the House who stepped in to help
pass it so we didn’t have to face another filibuster and lose a very
badly needed plan.

The second area: protecting American consumers. 

In the last few decades, in too many industries, a handful of giant
companies dominated the market in meat processing, railroads, shipping. 
Too often, they use their power to squeeze out smaller competitors,
stifle new entrepreneurs, and raise the prices, reducing options for
consumers and exploiting workers to keep wages unfairly low.

You see that in your own life.  Just look at your grocery bill and the
cost of meat.  It’s not because the cattle farmers are getting rich. 
Matter of fact, it’s the exact opposite: It’s because fewer processors
can charge grocery stores much more money for their ground beef, for
example.

You’ve heard me say it before: Capitalism without competition isn’t
capitalism; it’s exploitation.  And I’m determined to end the
exploitation.

Later this month, I’ll be meeting with my Competition Council — which
includes key economic leaders from across my administration — to keep
pushing for more broad action and increase competition across our
economy, because healthy competition produces lower prices, higher
wages, and more dynamic and innovative economies.  That makes everybody
better off.

Third, I’m working to reduce the largest cost burden of household
budgets — costs that don’t need to be such a burden.

And the biggest weapon in our arsenal is my Build Back Better Act, which
will reduce what families have to pay for basic necessities to live a
life, raise a family — from prescription drugs, to healthcare, to
childcare — and more help so families can cover the costs of raising
their children and caring for their loved ones — their older loved ones.

As we’ve seen over and over and over again throughout this pandemic, if
people can’t find affordable childcare, they can’t work.  Right now,
there are 2 million extremely qualified women who have not been able to
return to work because they can’t find or can’t afford childcare.

On healthcare, we’ve made quality coverage through the ACA more
affordable than ever before, with families saving an average of $2,400
on their annual premiums and four out of five consumers finding quality
coverage for under $10 \[$50\] a month. 

And the result?  When you reduce the cost of healthcare, more people can
afford to get it.  Over 4 million people have gained coverage since I
became President.

You’ve heard me say it a million times: Having healthcare is also about
peace of mind.

For example, we’re going to make it so nobody will pay more than $35 a
month for insulin.

Imagine you’re a parent and the — one of the 200,000 children in this
country have Type 1 diabetes: Insulin can cost, on average — it’s
averaged 650 bucks a month, but can <s>not</s> cost as much as a $1,000
a month, even though a vial of that insulin costs about 10 bucks to
manufacture.

We can do all of this, and we can do it without increasing inflation,
without increasing the deficit.

Nobody making more than $400,000 a year — less than $400,000 a year will
pay a penny more in federal taxes. 

So, we’re going to keep working on these fronts.

Some of them have components that are immediate, like unsticking the
supply chain.  Some will show their benefits over time, like investments
in infrastructure.  But all will help America fam- — America’s
families.  And it’s urgent we get moving on all of it without delay. 

Because, at this moment, as a country, we face an important choice: Do
we take the steps to create an economy with strong sustainable growth,
higher wages, and more opportunity for all Americans?  Or do we settle
for an economy that wasn’t working for our middle class, even before the
pandemic began — an economy that delivered sluggish growth, stagnant
wages, and limited opportunities?

I’m not an economist, but I’ve been doing this a long time.  But here’s
the way to look at it.  If car prices are too high right now, there are
two solutions: You increase the supply of cars by making more of them,
or you reduce demand for cars by making Americans poorer.  That’s the
choice.

Believe it or not, there’s a lot of people in the second camp.  You’ll
hear them complain that wages are rising too fast among the very
middle-class and working-class people who have endured decades of
stalled incomes.

Their view of the economy says the only solution to our current and
future challenges is to make the working families that are the backbone
in our country poorer or keep them in the state they’re in. 

It’s a pessimistic vision, and I reject it.  I reject the idea that we
should somehow punish people because they finally have a little more
breathing room.

America doesn’t need to settle for less.  We need an economy that has
the capacity to generate more growth, more jobs, and more opportunity
for all Americans.

That’s why we’re going to keep doing everything we can to, one, unstick
the bottlenecks that are keeping goods from getting to consumers; two,
build better infrastructure so that we can get parts and goods to
factory floors quicker and cheaper; three, bring more of that production
back here to the United States. 

To make our supply chain more secure, let’s make America — let’s make
what we’re selling in America made in America so we aren’t at risk of
foreign supply chains and shipping delays, and, in doing so, get more
Americans working in jobs with rising wages.

Now, I want to be clear: I’m confident that the Federal Reserve will act
to achieve their dual goals of full employment at stable prices and make
sure that price increases do not become entrenched over a long term with
the independence that they need. 

But the best way that I, as President, and that Congress, as a
legislature, can tackle high prices is by building a more productive
economy with greater capacity to deliver for the American people; a
growing economy where people have more opportunities, more small
businesses opening — and I might add parenthetically, there’s 30 percent
increase in the application for new small businesses — and goods get to
market faster; an economy where we don’t just grow the economic pie to
make sure people who bake the pie get a fair slice of it as well.

For too long, Republicans have thrown around terms like “pro-growth” and
“supply-side economics” to drive an economic agenda that didn’t deliver
enough growth and supplied more wealth to those who were already — were
very well off.

From day one, my economic agenda has been different.  It has been about
taking a fundamentally new approach to our economy — one that sees the
prosperity of working families as the solution, not the problem.

There’s never been a time I can think of when the middle class and
working class have done well that the wealthy haven’t done very well. 

Working families need to get a fighting chance.

And, by the way, the stock market — the last guy’s measure of everything
— is about 20 percent higher than it was when my predecessor was there. 
It has hit record after record after record on my watch, while making
things more equitable for working-class people.

At the same time, we’ve created jobs, reduced unemployment, raised
wages. 

As I’ve always said: When working people do well, everybody benefits. 
I’m determined to grow the economy from the bottom up and the middle out
because, when we do, we get more growth, higher wages, more jobs, and
over time, lower prices.

But don’t take my word for it.  Just look at the results, historical
results — revults \[sic\] — results for working Americans.  Economists
call this “increase to productive capacity of our economy.”  I call it
“building back better.”  That’s what we’re going to keep doing — we’re
going to keep building.

I thank you all very much.  And I’ll get a chance to talk to all of you
on Tuesday when I am down in Georgia talking about voting rights.

But thank you.

Q    Mr. President, should Americans prepare to live with COVID forever,
sir?  Mr. President, should Americans prepare to live with COVID
forever, sir? 

Q    Is COVID here to stay, sir?  Should Americans be prepared that
COVID is here to stay?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I don’t think COVID is here to stay. Having COVID in
the environment, here and in the world, is probably here to stay.  But
COVID, as we’re dealing with it now, is not here to stay.  The new
normal doesn’t have to be.  We have so many more tools we’re developing
and continue to develop that can contain COVID and other strains of
COVID.  So I don’t believe this is that — if you take a look, we’re very
different today than we were a year ago, even though we still have
problems.  But 90 percent of the schools are open now.  It was 98; it’s
down to 90, but — is open now — because we spent the time and the money
in the Recovery Act to provide for the ability of schools to remain
open. 

And, you know, what we’re doing now is we talked about, you know, how
we’re dealing with — with testing.  Well, you know, we have been doing
now — we’ve had 300 million tests per month so far, and that’s 11
million tests a day.  In addition to that, we’ve — we’re in the process
of ordering <s>500,000</s> \[500 million\] new tests.

And so, we’re going to be able to control this.  The new normal is not
going to be what it is now.  It’s going to be better.  Thank you very
much.

11:55 A.M. EST
