---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-01-08'
modified_time: 2022-01-08 19:41:47-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/01/08/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-memorial-for-senator-harry-reid/
published_time: 2022-01-08 19:41:45-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Memorial for Senator Harry\_Reid"
---
 
The Smith Center  
Las Vegas, Nevada

12:59 P.M. PST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Mr. President — Barack — I have to tell you: Every
time I hear a dial tone, I think of Harry.  (Laughter.)  Y’all think I’m
kidding?  I’m not.   
  
Jill and I are here for Harry, but he — if he would — he wouldn’t want
us to really be here for just him, as everybody has referenced.  Landra,
we’re here for you and for the family.  Eulogies are for the
living.     
  
You know it’s a true love story when you’re still talking about your
first date 60 years later.  
  
Harry never tired of telling of the time you two kids had to push-start
his car, making your way down the road with wide smiles on your face.  
  
My recollection is: He called it, when he told me the story, one of
those, quote, “moments that turn a life and that stay with you until the
last breath.”  
  
Landra, what a life you turned together until his last breath.  
  
To Lana, and Rory, and Leif, Josh, Key, all the grandchildren,
great-grandchildren: Seeing and hearing you talk about him today, it’s
clear.  
  
My dad used to have an expression.  He would say you are blood of his
blood, bone of his bone.  You are the product of Harry and Landra Reid. 
What a gift.  What a gift God gave you.  What a gift that was and is.   
  
Elder Ballard; President Obama; Vice President Harris; Second Gentleman;
Governor Sisolak, thanks for the passport into the state; and Iris and
Chuck Schumer; and all — and Nancy Pelosi; members of the Nevada
congressional delegation; Senators Cortez Masto and Rosen; and
Representatives Hart- — excuse me — Horsford and Lee and and Titus;
members of Congress — Democrat and Republican, past and present; and
distinguished guests: What a gift Harry Reid was to this state and to
this nation and to so many of us individually.  
  
I know he’s smiling right now.  Only Harry Reid, at his sendoff, would
sandwich a speaker between a former President of the United States,
Carole King, and The Killers.  (Laughter.)  Thanks, Harry. 
(Laughter.)   
  
You’ve always had a great sense of humor.  (Laughs.)  You always had to
win, and you always did.   
  
He got me again, but he always got me.  
  
The first time I met Harry, I got a call asking whether as — I had just
been elected, at 29 years old, to the United States Senate; I hadn’t
even turned 32 yet.  He was a newly — I was a newly elected senator.   
  
And he asked me to campaign for his election for Nevada’s Senate seat
being vacated by a man I’d only just begun to know, Alan Bible.  
  
The first thing when he met — when I met him in Nevada, we were talking
about where he’s from and he said, “Well, I used to have a go out and
shoot mad dogs.”  And I thought, “What in the hell am I doing here?” 
(Laughter.)  I swear to God.  “I used to go out and shoot mad dogs.” 
And I’m thinking, “Bless me, Father, for I have sinned.  What’s going
on?”  (Laughter.)  
  
Harry lost that general election by less than 600 votes to Paul Laxalt. 
And he never let me forget thinking that I’d probably cost him those 600
votes.  (Laughter.)  I’m only kidding about that piece, but I probably
did.    
  
But when he asked me to come back and campaign for him when he ran for
the House in 1982, he won that time and then he won in ’86.   
  
And we’d go on to serve in Congress together for more than 30 years.  We
worked together with Barack during the eight years we were in office.  
  
And even when Harry was done in the Senate, he was never really done, as
all of you from Nevada know.  He’d ask me to campaign for an awful lot
of Nevada Democrats, many of whom are here today.  I could never say no,
although you probably said, “Oh, God, he invited Biden into my
district?”   
  
But I talked to him often during this last election, taking his advice —
and Landra can tell you — of coming to his home on more than one
occasion to visit and get his advice and where I should be going in
order to win.   
  
After we won, one of the things that Harry did — which was sort of
incongruous with Harry, as you’ve heard today — he sent me a text.  I’ve
saved it.  He said, “I’m so proud.  Joe, you’re my brother.  We won.” 
Well, it made a big deal to me — it was a big deal to me that he felt
that way.  I know Harry never wrote what he didn’t believe.  It made me
feel good.  
  
And he gave me a sense on confidence.  It felt like he was my brother. 
I counted on him.  And I know so many of you felt that same way about
Harry as well throughout his career and your great relationship with
him.  
  
Over five decades, we became genuine friends — the Irish Catholic kid
from Scranton, Pennsylvania, and the Latter-day Saint from Searchlight. 
You think I’m kidding?   
  
Harry was like the guys I grew up with back in Scranton and in Claymont,
Delaware.  Harry would always have your back like the guys I grew up
with.  Harry had mine, and he knew I had his.   
  
Although, I sometimes wondered, when I was trying to make an important
point to Harry, about whether he really did have my back as he hung
up.   
  
But to tell you the truth, every time — every time he would do it, I
knew it was real — the real Harry.  It was him.   
  
He had all he needed.  He didn’t want any more or need any more.  And we
did share some similarities.  
  
As Barack said, we have loving families, wives that are smarter and
better looking than we were.  And Harry and I both liked to talk a
lot.   
  
I’m just testing whether you’re asleep yet.  (Laughter.)   
  
But whether you served with Harry for decades or you were new to America
just a few days ago, you wanted Harry in your corner.  And that’s not
hyperbole.   
  
His toughness was distinctively Nevadan.  His story was unmistakably
American.  His remarkable journey has been told so many — by so many
because it has been traveled by so few.  
  
The desert shack he called home.  The miles he hitchhiked to school.  A
boxing ring where he always got up.  The family tragedies he endured.
 The cancer he and Landra fought.  The halls of power he walked.  The
state he transformed.  The country he shaped.  He was proof that there
is nothing ordinary about America.  
  
Ordinary Americans can do anything given half a chance.  
  
“We, the People,” are pretty damn extraordinary.  America is an idea. 
An idea that anybody, given a shot, can reach their potential.   
  
Harry was extraordinary though.  
  
He and I grew up on different sides of the country, but we came from the
same place, where certain values run deep: first, loyalty, faith,
resolve, service, your word.   
  
It was pounded into my head from the time I was child.  “Joey, you’re a
man.  You either have your word — without your word, you’re not a
man.”   
  
And he met the marker for what I always believed was the most important
thing which you can measure a person by: their actions and keeping their
word.   
  
If Harry said he was going to do something, he did it.  He didn’t do
what the modern-day rationale is: “When I told you I would do that, I
didn’t realize that this would happen.”  No matter what happened, if he
gave you his word, he kept it.  You could bank on it.   
  
That’s how he got so much done for the good of the country for so many
decades.  That’s how he literally saved — we forget it — Social Security
during the Bush years; stopped Yucca Mountain from becoming a nuclear
waste site; secured the votes for the Affordable Care Act.  
  
It’s how he helped us rein in Wall Street — the excesses — and repealed
“Don’t Ask Don’t Tell.”  
  
It’s how he created Nevada’s first national park and conserved Lake
Tahoe.  
  
And how he was always championed Native Americans and Tribal communities
and so much more.  
  
None of it was easy.  Not a lot of it was particularly popular when he
was doing it.  That’s the thing about Harry: He never gave up.   He
never gave up.  He never gave up on anybody he cared about.  
  
Like every great leader, he led the Democratic Caucus just — not by
speaking, but by listening — by hearing all points of view and finding a
common ground.  
  
Harry cared so much about his fellow Americans and so little about what
anybody thought of him.  He was all Searchlight, no spotlight.  
  
I always appreciate the private comfort — and so does Jill, who is with
me tonight — that he offered me and Jill in difficult moments in our
lives.  We know we’re not the only ones.  
  
Since his passing, we’ve all heard those wonderful tributes.  The
gracious way he would console grieving — the grieving and encourage
someone living with a disability.  
  
I still have that picture of our buddy Max <s>Baucus</s> \[Cleland\]. 
Max losing three of his limbs.  He’s — Harry is standing in front of him
in the wheelchair, holding his cheeks.  And you know Max knew — Max knew
Harry cared about him.   
  
The generous way he would empower a new colleague or insist that the new
moms and dads on his staff would put their family first, even before
their jobs — and do it always.   
  
And the genuine friendships he made with the Capitol Police have been
recognized three times because he was one of them — he wore the
uniform.  
  
To a friend in need, Harry’s voice was soft and gentle.  
  
In praise of himself, he was stone-cold silent.  
  
In the pursuit of fairness and prosperity, his voice would echo and will
echo for generations in this state.  
  
Look, let there be no doubt: Harry Reid will be considered one of the
greatest Senate Majority Leaders in history.

I’ve served longer than all but about 12 United States senators — served
there for over 36 years.  I’ve had the honor of serving with a few names
of those names to be on that shortlist.  
  
For Harry, it wasn’t about power; it was about the sake of power — about
the power to be able to use power to do right by people.  
  
That’s why you wanted Harry in your corner, and that’s what we should
remember as a nation today.  
  
Harry knew better than most how difficult democracy is — that the idea
of America itself is under attack from dark and deepening forces, that
we’re in a battle for the soul of America.

Landra, I remember sitting in a room with Harry when he was supporting
me for President and my explaining to him the reason I decided to run
when I had decided I was never going to do that again.  I was watching
all those neo-Nazis come out of the fields down in Virginia, chanting
anti-Semitic bile, carrying Nazi flags.  And he asked me, “What –” I
said, “We have to restore the soul of America.

No one knew it better than Harry: Protecting democracy requires vigilant
stewardship.  
  
Harry’s life shows that for all — from our darkest days, we can find
light and find hope.

Just look at his life: In just about every respect, Harry Reid came into
this world with the odds against him.  He believed life — and he lived
it and he left it believing anything was possible.  
  
He has demonstrated that anything is possible.  Look at this incredible
family.

Harry, in a small way, reminds me of my dad.  My dad used to say, “Joey,
never explain and never complain.”

I remember one day we were having an event when I was running for my —
this was fifth term.  We were at my house.  I was feeling a little sorry
for myself, talking about a family — loss of a daughter.  My dad said,
“I’ll be back in a minute.”

He left the house — we were waiting for people to show up — went up to
the local Hallmark store, and came back with a cartoon that was a little
brass plaque with two sections to it.  There were two clips from the
cartoon character Hägar the Horrible.

And in one, Hägar the Viking, on his ship, had been moving along near
the rocks, lightning comes out of the sky, charged his horns of his
helmet, breaks the mast of his ship.  And he’s looking up at God and
he’s going, “God, why me?”

In the next frame is a picture with Hägar and the ship and a voice
coming down from Heaven saying, “Why not?”

That was my dad: “What makes you so special these things wouldn’t happen
to you?  Why not?  Stand up, get up, never bow, never bend, never
yield.”  
  
That was Harry.  “Never complain.”  That’s what I admired so much about
him.

Above Harry’s desk, as we all know, in his Senate office was a giant
portrait of Mark Twain.  
  
They both — Harry and Mark Twain — loved Nevada, and they both — they
both — both knew how to say things we know to be true about ourselves
and about our country.  
  
For Harry, it was this, as he said himself — he said, quote, “I grew up
around people of strong values, even if they rarely talked about them.” 
He went on to say, “They loved their country, worshipped God, never
shunned hard work, and never asked for special favors.”  
  
That’s Harry.  That’s America.

Here is someone Mark Twain himself would’ve written about as a defining
character in America’s story had he known Harry.  
  
To his staff, known as “Team Reid,” you’ve lost an incredibly genuine
role model.  But we see you carrying on HMR’s legacy.  
  
The people of Nevada, you lost a beloved son, but his spirit is always
going to burn as bright as the desert sun.  
  
To the nation, we lost a giant of America — a plainspoken, honorable,
decent, brave, unyielding man.

May this be his legacy: to call on each of us to be our best, to speak
truth from the heart, to take up the remaining rounds of Harry Reid’s
good fight for the America we all love.  
  
What a gift.  I mean this from the bottom of my heart.  What a gift. 
What a life of a nation that he turned until his last breath.  
  
Landra, God bless you.  God bless the entire family.  God bless my
friend Harry — a great American.  And God protect our troops.

1:18 P.M. PST
