---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-01-11'
modified_time: 2022-01-12 10:27:07-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/01/11/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-protecting-the-right-to-vote/
published_time: 2022-01-11 10:22:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Protecting the Right to\_Vote"
---
 
*Atlanta University Center Consortium Atlanta, Georgia*

4:06 P.M. EST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, Atlanta.  (Applause.)  Good
afternoon.

Jillian, thank you for that beautiful introduction and for your
leadership.  I can’t wait to see you — what you do next.  Thank you.

So, last week, one year —

Yes, please do sit.  (Laughter.)

Last week, one year after a violent mob breached the United States
Capitol, the President of the United States and I spoke from its
hallowed halls and we made clear: We swore to preserve, protect, and
defend the Constitution of the United States.  And we will.  We will
fight.  (Applause.)  We will fight to safeguard our democracy.  We will
fight to secure our most fundamental freedom: the freedom to vote. 

And that is why we have come to Atlanta today — to the cradle of the
Civil Rights Movement; to the district that was represented by the great
Congressman John Lewis — (applause) — on the eve of the birthday of
Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.  (Applause.)

More than 55 years ago, men, women, and children marched from Selma to
Montgomery to demand the ballot.  And when they arrived at the State
Capitol in Alabama, Dr. King decried what he called “normalcy” — the
normalcy, the complacency that was denying people the freedom to vote.

The only normalcy anyone should accept, Dr. King said, is the “normalcy
of justice.”  And his words resonate today.

Over the past few years, we have seen so many anti-voter laws that there
is a danger of becoming accustomed to these laws, a danger of adjusting
to these laws as though they are normal, a danger of being complacent,
complicit.

Anti-voter laws are not new in our nation, but we must not be deceived
into thinking they are normal.

We must not be deceived into thinking a law that makes it

more difficult for students to vote is normal.

We must not be deceived into thinking a law that makes it illegal to
help a voter with a disability vote by mail is normal.  (Applause.)

There is nothing normal about a law that makes it illegal to pass out
water or food to people standing in long voting lines.  (Applause.)

And I have met with voters in Georgia.  I have heard your outrage about
the anti-voter law here and how many voters

will likely be kept from voting.

And Georgia is not alone.  Across our nation, anti-voter laws could make
it more difficult for as many as 55 million Americans to vote.  That is
one out of six people in our country.

And the proponents of these laws are not only putting in place obstacles
to the ballot box, they are also working to interfere with our elections
to get the outcomes they want and to discredit those they don’t.

That is not how a democracy should work.

My fellow Americans: Do not succumb to those who would dismiss this
assault on voting rights as an unfounded threat — who would wave this
off as a partisan game.

The assault on our freedom to vote will be felt by every American, in
every community, in every political party.

And if we stand idly by, our entire nation will pay the price for
generations to come.

As Dr. King said, “The battle is in our hands.”  And today, the battle
is in the hands of the leaders of the American people, those in
particular that the American people sent to the United States Senate.

Two landmark bills sit before the United States Senate: the John Lewis
Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act.  (Applause.) 

And these two bills represent the first real opportunity to secure the
freedom to vote since the United States Supreme Court gutted the Voting
Rights Act nearly a decade ago.

We do not know when we will have this opportunity again.  Senate
Republicans have exploited arcane rules to block these bills.

And let us be clear: The Constitution of the United States gives the
Congress the power to pass legislation.  And nowhere — nowhere — does
the Constitution give a minority the right to unilaterally block
legislation. (Applause.)

The American people have waited long enough.  The Senate must act.

And the bottom line is this: Years from now, our children and our
grandchildren, they will ask us about this moment.  They will look back
on this time, and they will ask us not about how we felt — they will ask
us what did we do.

We cannot tell them that we let a Senate rule stand in the way of our
most fundamental freedom.  Instead, let us tell them that we stood
together as people of conscience and courage. 

Let us tell them we acted with the urgency that this moment demands. 

And let us tell them we secured the freedom to vote, that we ensured
free and fair elections, and we safeguarded our democracy for them and
their children.

And now, my fellow Americans, it is now my honor to introduce a leader
who is unwavering in his commitment to defend our democracy and ensure
the ballot prevails: the President of the United States of America, Joe
Biden.  (Applause.)

                          END                 4:14 P.M. EST
