---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-01-28'
modified_time: 2022-01-28 15:55:46-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/01/28/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-5/
published_time: 2022-01-28 15:55:45-05:00
title: Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

12:41 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, guys.  I’m so sorry this is so short.  Okay. 
Welcome, welcome, welcome.  
  
But before we get started, I’m going to give you guys a little bit at
the top.  The President has been briefed on the bridge collapse in
Pittsburgh, and the President called both Governor Wolf and Mayor Gainey
prior to departure to Pittsburgh.  When he called the governor, Senator
Casey was with him as well, so he spoke to Senator Casey.  Our team
remains in touch with state and local officials on the ground to — on
the ground on updates and any additional assistance we can provide.   
  
So, really quickly, just to give you some detail on the trip to
Pittsburgh — “Steel City” — and the site of the first event during his
campaign in 2019: Today, the President is going to visit Mill 19 for a
tour of Carnegie Mellon’s Manufacturing Futures Initiative, which is
ushering in a new era of manufacturing research and development with a
focus on artificial intelligence, automation, and robotics.   
  
The President will talk about the remarkable economic progress we’ve
made over his first year in office, including the fastest single year of
job growth in American history and biggest unemployment drop on record. 
The President — on record.  As we learned yesterday, the fastest
economic growth in 2021 in almost four decades.  
  
The President will highlight the 367,000 manufacturing jobs that our
economy has created since the President took office, including the
recent announcements of new manufacturing plants in Ohio by Intel and in
Michigan by GM.   
  
We’re making the future in America — America again and American
workers.  And he’ll underscore the vital role that the federal
government plays in bringing workers and businesses together and in
catal- — in catalyzing big investment in our industrial base.   
  
Finally, the President will call on Congress to act on the competitive —
competitiveness legislation that has been introduced in the House and
Senate, and which will invest in American innovation, R&D,
manufacturing, and addressing supply chain bottlenecks like the
semiconductors that are raising prices to working families.   
  
And a quick update on our progress on expanding access to high-level
masks and at-home tests to the American people: Since the President’s
announcement last week, we’ve shipped out tens of millions of masks to
convenient locations across the country.  Just today, masks arrived at
several community health centers in the DMV area.   
  
Since COVIDTests.gov launched formally last week, approximately 60
million households have placed orders for their free tests.  Already
tens of millions of tests have gone out the door and households around
the country are already receiving tests so that people have tests on
hand if a need arises.  
  
We also continue to make strong progress on our booster program. 
Boosters provide the best protection against COVID of all of our tools
against the virus, and the push continues.   
  
This week, we reached 70- — 70 percent of eligible seniors and \[with\]
boosters and 50 percent of eligible adults.   
  
Overall — I’m just going to get to it because we’re about to land.   
  
Q    Okay — Karine.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Where’s Colleen?  There you go.  
  
Q    I’m right here.  Sorry.  Is the President — is the President going
to the bridge?  Are we going to the bridge?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — I don’t have an update for you
right now on the scheduling.  We’ll keep you updated if anything
changes.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
Q    Has he reworked his — has he reworked his remarks today to mention
that?  Can we expect to hear him talk about it?  
  
(Air Force One begins landing.)  
  
Q    You okay?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I’m okay.  I’m holding on.   
  
So, really quickly — so this is a tragic situation, and our team is in
touch with Senate and local officials on the ground as they continue to
gather information about the cause of the collapse and any additional
assistance we can provide.  
  
Look, we are grateful to the first responders who rushed to assistan- —
to assist the drivers who were on the bridge at the time.  Too many
bridges in communities across the country are in poor condition.  Across
the — across the country, there are 45,000 bridges in poor condition. 
That is completely unacceptable.   
  
So, we’ve been chronically underinvesting in critical infrastructure
like bridges for too long.  This is why President Biden’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law includes the largest investment in our — in our
nation’s bridges since the creation of the Instastate \[sic\] —
Interstate Highway System.   
  
So, you know, the President came here to talk about manufacturers and
infrastructure.  Clearly, he’ll continue to do that, as the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law was a big part of his plat- — portfolio last
(inaudible).  
  
Q    President Putin spoke with Macron earlier today about the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Who spoke to Macron?  
  
Q    Putin.  Putin spoke to Macron.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, oh.  So sorry.  Uh-huh.  
  
Q    Has the President spoken with Putin after submitting the U.S.
position response?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any updates on you on that — for you on
that, on any conversation that the President may have with Putin.  You
know, we will let you know if anything is scheduled, but there is
nothing that I can preview for you.  
  
Q    Does the President take Putin at his word when he tells Macron that
they are not looking for war?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I mean, if you — look, you know, we have been
very clear that we want diplomacy to work, because diplomacy is the only
reasonable way to resolve this crisis that Russia has needlessly
instigated by Russia’s military buildup on Ukraine’s border.  
  
We have also been consistent in saying that in order for diplomacy to
work, it needs to take place in the context of de-escalation.  
  
So, we have not — you know, we have not seen tangible signs just yet
that the Russians are in the process of de-escalating.  That remains a
decision for President Putin.  
  
So, we laid out some ideas in the written response, as you all know,
this past Wednesday — and we provided that to the Russian Federation —
ideas that we believe would be effective, constructive, and would
address our mutual concerns as well.  Of course, the concerns of our
allies and partners will also considers — of our allies and partners
will be also considered.  
  
Q    A couple of prominent Democrats from Pennsylvania are not meeting
with the President.  Apparently, they have scheduling conflicts.  This
seems to be something of a pattern.  What’s going on there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first, I would — first, I would just say, like,
this is an official event.  It is not — an official event where we’re
going to talk about infrastructure and manufacturing.  So, this is not,
you know, a campaign event.  
  
The two top elected officials in Pennsylvania, Governor Wolf and Senator
Casey, who I mentioned at the top, will be greeting the President on the
tarmac and will participate in the tour.  And the President is looking
forward to seeing both of them.   
  
So there’s not a pattern here at all.  I just want to make that very
clear.   
  
Congressman Lamb will also be participating in a photo line with him
today.  And also with him today are Pittsburgh Mayor Ed Gainey, who I
mentioned at the top; Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald; State
Senator and Democratic leader Jay Costa; and State Representative Jake
Wheatley.  
  
I would remind you that congressional Democrats are running to the Bi- —
are running to the Biden agenda.  Late last year, House Democrats held
1,000 events around infrastructure.  And we’re going to continue to talk
about our accomplishments.  
  
Q    Karine, what has the President been told about the potential causes
of the bridge collapse?  
  
(Gaggle paused as Air Force One crewmembers depart the plane.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, guys.  Really quickly.  What was your question,
Nancy?  
  
Q    What has the President been told about the potential — the causes
of the bridge collapse?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you know, what I said today is pretty much
what I — you know, he’s been given updates by the governor and the
mayor.  He’s going to — his team is in touch with state and local
officials, and we’re going to just keep talking to them and getting
updates as we — as the day goes by.  
He — as you know, he’s going to greet — he’s going to greet elected
officials here in just a few minutes, and he’ll get more information.

Q    Are they going to be able to continue to attend, given this
collapse?   

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There will be — they will be with us today.  So, yes,
they’ll be (inaudible).

Q    Are we going to see more of an urge from this administration to
states to get this funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law out to
localities to start repairs on crumbled infrastructure?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Mayor Mitch Landrieu is with us today, who, as you
all know, is the coordinator who is playing point on making sure that
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law gets out there to states.   
And we’re very confident –- we’re going to be working hand in hand, as
we have been, with state and local officials to make sure that we
deliver on this historic piece of legislation.

Q    Ukrainian officials have really been urging the President to, sort
of, tamp down the way that he is talking about the potential Russian
invasion and how it could happen very quickly.  Is the White House and
the President sort of changing their public messaging on this at all,
given those urgings from the Ukrainian government?

Q    And have they been too — did they go too hard, too fast?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, Russia has well over 100,000 troops on
Ukraine’s borders — amassed on the border — on the border.  And they
have been surging troops into Bel- — into Belarus.  We’re seeing Russia
undertake efforts to try to destabilize Ukraine, including through a
possible false-flag information.  This is part of the Russian toolkit we
have seen before.  So, this is nothing new.  

It’s a dangerous situation.  And we’ve been saying for over a week that
Russia could invade at any time.  This is what — this has been our
message, and we’ve been really consistent — the President has been, our
administration — his administration has been.  So, that’s also why we’ve
been providing more defensive security assistance to Ukraine that at any
other point in — than any other point in time, which is something that
the Ukrainians requested, given the situation at hand.

Q    Are you frustrated that the Ukrainian President seems to be more
focused on the state of his economy than the state of an imminent
invasion?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me just give you a little bit about what
they talked about.  So, yesterday, as you know, the — President Biden
spoke with President Zelenskyy to discuss our current coordinated
diplomatic efforts and affirm our support for Ukraine sovereignty and
territorial integrity. 

They discussed President Biden’s commitment to “nothing about Ukraine
without Ukraine” and how we will continue to closely coordinate in the
days and weeks ahead.

President Biden reaffirmed that the United States, along with its allies
and partners, are ready to respond decisively if Russia further invades
Ukraine and the defensive security assistance the U.S. is actively
providing. 

So they also discussed the possibility of additional micro – macro,
excuse me, economic support to help Ukraine’s economy amidst pressure
resulting from Russia’s military buildup.   
  
So that was the conversation, just to give you a little bit of a
readout.

But, we’re going to end it here, guys.  Thank you.

12:52 P.M. EST
