---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-01-14'
modified_time: 2022-01-14 15:10:51-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/01/14/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-4/
published_time: 2022-01-14 15:30:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Bipartisan Infrastructure\_Law"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

1:06 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you very much, Mitch.   
  
It is — there’s a lot of talk about disappointments and things we
haven’t gotten done.  We’re going to get a lot of them done, I might
add.  But this is something we did get done, and it’s of enormous
consequence to the country.  
  
One of the reasons I put Mitch Landrieu in charge of implementing the
Infrastructure Bill is because he gets it.  He’s a former mayor who
knows that the real measure of success is not: Did we score some
partisan points?  It’s: Did we fix the problem?  Did we fix the
problem?  
  
This is all about fixing the problem.  I ran for President to unite the
country.  This Bipartisan Infrastructure Law I signed two months ago
unites us around things we all depend on.   
  
Whether you’re in rural Kentucky or downtown Philadelphia,  
you should be able to turn on a faucet and drink clean water.  Students
should be able to get the Internet if they need it to do their homework
at home, instead of having to drive to a park- — fast-food parking
lot.   
  
People need good jobs.   
  
Mitch has told me about the man he met in Jackson, Mississippi, who told
him, quote: “I don’t mind working three jobs.  I just don’t want one
paycheck across all three jobs.”  
  
You know, we’ve heard it said, “Talent is equally distributed, but
opportunity is not.”  
  
When we invest in infrastructure, we’re really investing in
opportunity.  These are investments that will build a better America. 
It sounds like hyperbole, but it’s real.   
  
So today I want to talk about the progress we’ve made in two months
since I signed the bill into law and to make a big announcement as
well.  
  
Here’s some of what we’ve done so far:  
  
The Department of Transportation has released nearly $53 billion —
billion dollars — to states to modernize highways.  So, you have to
leave 30 minutes earlier to get to work just because of a traffic jam? 
That’s going to be fixed.  
  
We’ve announced more than $240 million in grants to improve ports in 19
states to speed up and strengthen our supply chains, lower cost, and get
you the things you need more quickly.  
  
We’ve announced $3 billion for over 3,000 airports around the country to
make them more modern, safe, and sustainable.  
  
And we’re kicking off the largest investment in affordable, reliable,
high-speed Internet in our nation’s history: $65 billion to get to every
corner of our country connected — urban, rural, and suburban.  
  
Our infrastructure work also protects health, cleans up the environment,
and helps us fight climate change.  
  
Across this country, people have been struck and they — and they’ve been
struck by all of the changes that are needed.  They’re stuck.  They’re
angry.  They’re sickened by the broken water and sewer systems —
polluted water from the faucets, raw sewage in their backyards.  
  
I want you to know: I see you, I hear you.  We understand.  And I’ve
seen and we’ve — understand the damage done in places like Flint,
Michigan, and Jackson, Mississippi.  
  
So, we’ve already announced over $7 billion in clean water funding to
states so they can fix and upgrade their aging water systems and sewer
systems.  It’s going to take some time, but the money is there and
they’re getting the money.  Our children deserve no less.  
  
We’ve also released an action plan to replace all of our nation’s lead
pipes in the next decade.  
  
This is the United States of America, for God’s sake.  Everyone in this
country should be able to turn on the faucet and drink clean water.  
  
And it’s time to get back to the business of cleaning up the hazardous
waste sites that poison our land and water and have stricken entire
communities, and getting back to holding polluters accountable to keep
that pollution from happening in the first place.  
  
The Environmental Protection Agency has announced $1 billion to clean up
49 Superfund sites in 24 states.  
  
We’re talking about cleaning up rivers in Ohio, chemical plants and
sites in Florida, polluted lakes in Michigan, and many more.  This is
long overdue, and we have to stick with it.  
  
The Department of the Interior is launching a program to cap and plug
orphaned oil and gas wells that are spewing methane into the air and are
dangerous.  Many of these wells are in Southwestern Pennsylvania and
Eastern Ohio, but there are hundreds of thousands of them all across the
nation.  
  
Capping them is going to create quality jobs.  Just as it took to dig
the well, union jobs — union jobs to close the well to keep it safe.  
  
One of the ways we’re going to reach my goal of a 100 percent
carbon-pollution free electricity by 2035 is with wind energy.   
  
I visited one of the renewable energy labs in Colorado about a month ago
and saw the technologies being developed there.  
  
And just this week, the Department of the Interior also announced the
largest-ever offshore wind lease sale, which could generate enough clean
energy to power nearly 2 million homes and create thousands of jobs in
manufacturing, construction, operations, and maintenance.  It’s just the
beginning.  Jobs that can’t be outsourced.   
  
We’ve also seen the impact of extreme weather — taking down transmission
lines, leaving cities and communities dark for weeks.  So, the
Department of Energy launched a new initiative to speed up our efforts
to strengthen our energy grid with new and upgraded transmission lines
and towers — keeping the power flowing for Americans with cleaner,
cheaper, and more reliable energy.  And that’s going to happen, and it’s
going to make a big difference.   
  
I also want to be clear: We are in this to win.  And, you know, there is
— there is a lot of work underway.  And it’s going to create a whole lot
of jobs.   
  
And that brings me to the announcement I want to make today that’s just
part of the infrastructure bill.  My Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
includes the largest investment in our nation’s bridges since the
creation of the Interstate Highway System.  Bridges to connect us. 
Bridges to make America work.   
  
Across our country right now, there are 45,000 bridges — 45,000 — that
are in poor condition.  We’re seeing photos of some of them behind me in
all 50 states.   
  
And I’ve had a chance to see some of them myself as I’ve traveled the
country.  
  
I was up in New Hampshire.  I visited a bridge where, if it’s not
upgraded, weight restrictions could mean that school buses and fire
trucks would have to travel an additional 10 miles out of their way to
get to the other side of the river to deal with getting to school and/or
putting out a fire.   
  
In New Jersey, I just visited the busiest rail bridge in the Western
Hemisphere.  But because it’s not tall enough for ship traffic, it needs
to swing open to let barges through.  And, sometimes, when it closes,
the rails need to be manually sledgehammered back into place.  This
slows commerce, increases costs.  
  
I went down to Louisiana and saw the I-10 bridge.  I stood with the
mayor and looked at that bridge.  It is 20 years past its planned life,
it’s handling more than double the number of crossings it was designed
to handle, and it’s two lanes narrower than the interstate that feeds
into it, causing backups and accidents.  
  
Today, the Secretary of Transportation, Pete Buttigieg, is in
Philadelphia at the Martin Luther King bridge, which crosses the
Schuylkill River.  That bridge is no longer safe for vehicles, even
though it used to carry 25,000 vehicles a day.  
  
As we prepare to celebrate Dr. King’s birthday, we’re also reminded that
too often bridges and highways were built through the heart of historic
communities, particularly Black communities, cutting off families and
churches and businesses.  
  
We’re going to use our infrastructure investments to re-connect
communities.  
  
One thing I’m certain of: Everyone out there knows what I’m talking
about.  People have written to me about the bridges they depend on.   
  
One man told me that the bridge he traveled on every day is “a tragedy
waiting to happen.”  
  
One woman wrote that the bridge near the center of her town had to be
closed, and now she drives — and now drivers and tourists bypass
downtown, consequently devastating local businesses.  
  
And one person wrote to me to say, quote, “This is your chance to show
the people \[in my area\] that they matter” to you. End of quote.   
  
I hear you.  I hear you.  You do matter to me.  And we are going to get
it done.  
  
My infrastructure law includes a total of $40 billion in funding for
bridge improvements.  $12.5 billion of that is going replace most — the
most economically significant bridges in the country.  
  
These are bridges like — and I’ve seen them — the Brent Spence Bridge
connecting Ohio and Kentucky; the I-5 Columbia River Crossing connecting
Washington and Oregon; you know, the Blatnik Bridge connecting Minnesota
and Wisconsin.   
  
But about two thirds of the bridges in need of repair in this country
are considered what they call “off system” because they’re not directly
connected to the Interstate Highway System.  
  
These are the bridges that are often overlooked when decisions are being
made.  But they are essential for small towns, rural towns, farmers to
get their products to market, small businesses to be able to serve
customers.  
  
These are the bridges that, when they’re closed, shut off deliveries and
routes to school, work, and home.  They create longer delays for first
responders when every second counts.  
  
So, we’ve included $27.5 billion for smaller bridges, including
dedicated funding for these “off system” bridges I just described.   
  
And because maintaining these bridges is often the responsibility of
counties or towns whose budgets are stretched thin already, we decided
to get rid of the requirement that counties or towns share in the cost. 
The federal government is going to pay for 100 percent of the cost for
repairing these small bridges.  
  
Today, we’re releasing the first year of that program, which is $5.5
billion.  Five and half billion dollars to states and Tribes to repair
and rebuild bridges to make them safer and more usable.   
  
This is an investment that’s going to help connect entire towns and
regions to new opportunities.  
  
With this investment, we’re sending a message to those communities and
to the people who call them home: You matter.  We’re building back, and
building back better with you.  We’re making sure you’re not left behind
or left out.   
  
I’ll end with this: These investments are consequential, and we’re just
getting started.  We’re building back better than ever before.   
  
Clean water for every American.  We’re — never done that.  Now we’re
going to do it.   
  
High-speed Internet for every American.  We’ve never done that before. 
Now we are.  
  
Connecting forgotten communities, capping wells that are dangerous,
strengthening our power grid to make it more resilient to extreme
weather changes: These are investments — these are investments our
country has never fully made.  Now we are.  
  
You know, and we’ve arrived at this by a bipartisan agreement.  
  
There’s nothing beyond our capacity when we work together.  When we get
this done, we’ll get back to beating the world again.  <s>We’ve</s>
\[We’ll\] once again be number one in the world, instead of where we sit
now at number 13, in terms of the quality of our infrastructure.  
  
And that’s going to mean more jobs, good-paying jobs, safer communities,
and lower costs.   
  
We can do this.  This is what America — a better America is going to
look like.  
  
I want to thank you all for listening.  And we’ve got a lot of work to
do.  
  
And the reason I asked Mitch to do this is because he knows how to get
things done.   
  
I want every penny watched — how this is spent, just like when I did the
Recovery Act in our — the last administration.  It matters.  It
matters.   
  
So, thank you all very much.  Appreciate it.     
  
1:19 P.M. EST
