---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-01-21'
modified_time: 2022-01-21 14:30:10-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/01/21/remarks-by-president-biden-on-increasing-the-supply-of-semiconductors-and-rebuilding-our-supply-chains-2/
published_time: 2022-01-21 14:26:29-05:00
title: "Background Press Call By Senior Administration Officials On President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Meeting With Prime Minister Kishida of\_Japan"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:36 A.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Hello, everyone.  Thank you so much for joining us.  This is
a background call to read out the President’s meeting with Prime
Minister Kishida of Japan.  As a reminder, this call is on background,
and it is attributable to “senior administration official.”  And the
contents of the call are embargoed until the conclusion of the call.

For your awareness but not for reporting, our speaker on the call today
is \[senior administration official\].

With that, I’ll turn it over to you for some opening remarks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much.  And thank you all
for joining us today.  Again, I’m \[redacted\], but you’ve already heard
how the meeting will be described.

So, let me just say that we just concluded, a little while ago, a 90 —
yes, we just concluded a 90-minute session — a virtual session between
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden. 

This was their second meeting.  They had a session in Glasgow during
COP26 and agreed they looked forward to a meeting in — early in the new
year.  I think the hope was, obviously, to do this in person, but given
the COVID circumstances both in the United States and Japan, agreed it
was important to do this virtually.

I think I would describe — I’ll just — we’ve already put out a readout
but I’ll give you a little bit of the highlights and then happy to take
questions.

I think it — just at a general level, the discussion was exceptionally
broad, very warm, and wide-ranging.  And I think it was clear — we had a
substantial group with the President in the Situation Room, including
Deputy Secretary Sherman; Secretary Raimondo; National Security Advisor
Jake Sullivan; our outgoing ambassador to Japan who will be leaving
tomorrow, Rahm Emanuel, who was celebrated and joked about during the
session; and then myself and a few others — Dan Kritenbrink from the
State Department and Chris Johnstone from the National Security Council.

I think what was clear is that the — sort of the solidarity and the
close alignment between the United States and Japan was really on full
display. 

So, very broad discussion on security, on views about the challenges in
the Indo-Pacific. 

And I think they were in very close alignment on the challenges that
Russia is presenting to Ukraine.  I think Japan — the Prime Minister
complimented the President on his handling and made clear that Japan
would be fully behind the United States in the challenging days ahead.

Very in-depth discussion on sharing perspectives on China, a desire to
promote and defend a free and open Indo-Pacific, concerns about some of
the steps that China had taken across the board in terms of intimidating
neighbors, taking steps that were predatory, and trade — and other
(inaudible) particularly concerned about the nuclear buildup in China
and what that augured for regional security more generally.

Discussions about the importance of mutual commitments to support
regional security and architecture. 

The Prime Minister complimented President Biden on his role in convening
the Quad — two meetings of the Quad last year — and also AUKUS.  The
President thanked the Prime Minister for his support and indicated much
more to come.

Prime Minister Kishida invited President Biden to come for an official
visit to Japan and, at the same time, his intention to host a Quad
meeting in late spring.  I think President Biden graciously accepted
that invitation.

The Prime Minister laid out a number of things to illuminate his goals
and objectives as Prime Minister.  I think they spent quite a bit of
time talking about their respective views, which were very much in
alignment with respect to a desire to revitalize their societies from
the working people, middle class out, underscoring the importance in
investment in education.  A lot of harmony in those interactions.

Prime Minister Kishida also indicated that the security environment in
Northeast Asia demanded that Japan step up, and he indicated that he had
increased in the supplemental budget defense and security spending by 8
percent.  It’s unprecedented.  With respect to Japan, President Biden
welcomed that and supported it more generally.

The two leaders also announced the inauguration of a new economic forum,
the so-called 2+2, that will include Secretary Blinken and the Secretary
of Commerce, with the express intention to focus on new areas of
technology and supply chains; an agreement that a close partnership
between Japan and the United States was going to be essential going
forward across the board, whether it’s in semiconductors or in energy.

Lots of discussion about green innovation and the need to continue to
push forward on initiatives announced at COP26 more generally.  Close
coordination and cooperation on COVID more generally.

And I think, you know, the President was quite gratified that Prime
Minister Kishida was so clear and firm in his resolve to support the
United States as we engage in the challenges currently with respect to
Russia more generally.

If I could say, guys, just, I think, the importance of the call. 
Obviously, lots of focus right now both on domestic policy in the United
States.  The President underscored to Prime Minister Kishida that as he
was concluding this meeting, he was going to go into another meeting
with senators and congressmen to talk about the importance of the CHIP
Act and moving ahead on investment and technology in the United States,
but also challenges in Central Europe right now. 

At the same time, the President wanted it to be known clearly that he
was going to continue to step up our game in the Indo-Pacific, across
the board on issues ranging from diplomacy to military security, and
also to trade. 

The two leaders had a robust discussion about the importance of the
United States playing an active role in the trade and commercial
architecture of Asia.  And the President engaged actively on those
issues.

So I think it was a very valuable meeting of the minds.  I think both
leaders came away wanting more discussion.  I think the President, at
the end of the session with Prime Minister Kishida, said, “This meeting
has made me even more optimistic and hopeful about our relationship with
Japan and what we can accomplish going forward.”

There’s much more to discuss, but I think that’s a good, sort of, down
payment on the initial issues.  I’m happy to take any questions, and
we’ll take it from there. 

Thank you.

Q    Hi, thank you for doing this.  Just to clarify, should we interpret
that the President committed to going to Japan or just, sort of,
welcomed the invitation with specifics and then an RSVP, you know, to
come?

And more broadly, can you give us an update — the readout mentions
discussion briefly of a commitment to resolve trade disputes.  Where are
we on that, specifically the 232 tariffs?  How are negotiations going? 
And when do you expect you might be at a point to discuss lifting, in
whole or in part, those tariffs?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks.  I think the President
indicated his intention would be to visit Japan in the late spring for
an official visit and for the Quad.  We didn’t get into specific dates,
obviously.  But I think he did accept the invitation, obviously, with
details to be worked out.  And obviously, we have to see how COVID plays
out.  But I think that’s his intention.  And he was very appreciative of
the invitation.  And the invitation came to President Biden and also Dr.
Biden as well.

I think, as you know, the negotiation — or negotiations on 232 are being
handled by Secretary of Commerce Raimondo.  I think the President made
clear that his hope would be that these negotiations would be concluded
rapidly.  And I know that Secretary Raimondo is in regular contact with
her Japanese interlocutor.  I think our hope and expectation would be to
have these wrapped up in short order. 

And I think anything further, I’d recommend, Josh, you just go to the
Commerce Department. 

But I think the intention, given Secretary Raimondo’s ambitions to talk
about so many other issues, is to make sure that this issue is dealt
with in a way that can be explained and understood on both sides of the
Pacific.

     Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for doing this.  I know the readout was
just sent out, but I’m wondering if you could give us more detail about
what the two leaders discussed in regards to North Korea and how they
will apply more pressure on North Korea as it continues to test and fire
missiles. 

And another question on the Quad Summit.  So, building on the last Quad
Summit and today’s meeting, could you give us more detail on what the
two leaders hope to achieve in the next Quad Summit next spring?  Thank
you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Thank you.  I appreciate it. 
Let me take — if you don’t mind, Esther, can I take the last question,
first, and then I’ll come back to the first one.

So, on the Quad Summit, I think the — look, they talked about a number
of issues that we want to make sure that we are focusing on as we go
forward.

One is we want to review the progress to date on our commitment to
deliver a billion doses in 2022.  And I think the idea will be not only
to look at the production of those vaccine doses in India, but their
distribution not only in Southeast Asia but elsewhere.  And I think the
leaders want to discuss that and discuss next steps.

Secondly, we’ve made quite a lot of efforts among the four countries on
some infrastructure steps that we think the four countries might be able
to take together.  And we look forward to announcing some of those
efforts going forward.

We will be able to formally announce the establishment of the Quad — the
Quad Educational Initiative that will bring students from all four
countries to American universities for graduate and advanced work in
STEM and other applied areas. 

I think we want to look at some initiatives that we can take, perhaps,
to deal with countries that are suffering from debt traps. 

There are a number of initiatives that we’ve worked on with respect to
cooperation in space, in maritime domain awareness, and fishing.

So, I think the goal will be for the four countries to both advance the
work that has already begun, update it, and also launch, carefully, some
new initiatives that are designed to animate cooperation among our four
countries.  Much of the focus will be on ensuring close engagement of
the Quad in Southeast Asia, in ASEAN, and also ensuring that we’re
working to follow through on our commitments more generally.

And can you remind me, now that I finished that, the first question
again?  Just prompt me just quickly, Esther, if you would.  I’m sorry.

OPERATOR:  One moment, sir.  Let me get her line back open.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Esther, I’m sorry.  Can you just prompt
me on the first?  I apologize. 

Q    Sure.  Yeah. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I left my pen on the — yeah, go ahead.

Q    That’s totally okay.  I wanted to ask about North Korea —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, yes.  Yeah.

Q    — and how they plan to apply pressure.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So, first of all, both countries
obviously strongly condemned the provocations that we’ve seen from North
Korea, made clear that the two countries were prepared for diplomacy.

But under the — given what North Korea had undertaken, thought it was
extremely important to have a clear statement of vigilance and purpose.

I think the President made clear that we would be working closely with
South Korea and Japan on next steps to discourage possible provocations
that might follow on. 

I think we’ll have more to say from other parts of our government in the
next couple of days. 

It is also the case that the President strongly supported Prime Minister
Kishida’s — the group of people that had been taken from Japan to North
Korea — underscored the United States’ continuing efforts to support
Japan in trying to determine the fate of these people — these Japanese
taken from their homes — and promised that our teams would continue the
closest possible coordination, both on potential arenas of diplomacy and
on areas of common purpose to send a strong message of deterrence.

Q    Hi.  I have a follow-up question on North Korea.  So, North Korea
make up some kind of (inaudible) that there are possibility that they’re
going to resume the test of nuclear and then ICBM.  So, do you have any
reaction to this possibility from North Korea?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, we noted that statement.  We are
obviously following developments closely.  We’re concerned by those
statements.  We are in close consultation with all our allies and
partners and other countries in the Indo-Pacific.  And we’ve sent a very
clear message to North Korea in an effort to dissuade them for further
provocative steps. 

The United States and South Korea remain open to diplomacy.  But such a
set of steps would be most unwelcome, particularly at this delicate time
in Northeast Asia, and globally more generally.

Q    Hey, good morning.  Thank you.  Just two quick questions.  The
first is: Did Prime Minister Kishida say that Japan would join the U.S.
in imposing sanctions on Russia if they do invade Ukraine?

And, secondly, the Economic 2+2 that you had — that the two leaders
announced, does that mean that the U.S. and Japan are going to do more
to harmonize or coordinate on export controls?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so, on the second question, I
think there is an agreement that there — that the 2+2 agenda has not
been fully worked out.  But the expectation is that they will work in a
number of areas including export controls, but most directly in the
current environment — supply chains, technology investments, and
standard setting.  We think those are areas that the United States and
Japan can step up their game and take a much more active role in such a
critical period. 

I think Japan indicated that it — that the United States and Japan are
closely aligned on concerns about Russian threats.  I think Japan
indicated that they had worked and will continue to work with the G7. 
Prime Minister Kishida welcomed and thanked President Biden’s leadership
in sending such a clear message — deterrent message — with respect to
Russia potential actions in Ukraine; indicated that Japan would be with
the United States going forward. 

We did not get into the specifics about possible, you know, steps that
would be taken in the event that we see these actions transpire. 

And I think both leaders promised that each side would be in close
consultations.  We are briefing Japan regularly on developments and
concerns in Ukraine.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you, everyone.  Thanks again for joining.  As
a reminder, this call was on background, attributable to “senior
administration official.”  And the embargo on the contents of the call
will lift at the conclusion of this call. 

Thanks again for your time and have a great day. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.

11:56 A.M. EST
