---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-01-27'
modified_time: 2022-01-27 15:18:05-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/01/27/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-retirement-of-supreme-court-justice-stephen-breyer/
published_time: 2022-01-27 15:18:04-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Retirement of Supreme Court Justice Stephen\_\
  Breyer"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

12:36 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  I’m going to begin by recognizing both
Dr. Breyer and Dr. Biden — (laughs) — and — for being here.  And I can’t
tell you — this is sort of a bittersweet day for me.  Justice Breyer and
I go back a long way, all the way back to the mid-’70s, when he first
came on the Judiciary Committee, but that’s another story.

I’m here today to express the nation’s gratitude to Justice Stephen
Breyer for his remarkable career of public service and his clear-eyed
commitment to making our country’s laws work for its people. 

And our gratitude extends to Justice Breyer’s family for being partners
in his decades of public service.  In particular, I want to thank his
wife, Dr. Joanna Breyer, who is here today and who has stood by him for
nearly six decades, and — with her fierce intellect, good humor, and
enormous heart.  I want to thank you.  The country owes you as well.

And Stephen Breyer’s public service started early.  He served in the
United States Army as a teenager and in all three branches of the
federal government before he turned 40.  They were the good old days,
weren’t they?

And as — he was a law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Goldberg, a
prosecutor in the Department of Justice, a member of the Watergate
prosecution team.  And I first met Stephen Breyer when I was a senator
on the Judiciary Committee and he started off as — taking care of one of
the subcommittees for Teddy, but then became Chief Counsel during the
tenure as — as Ted’s chairman- — chairmanship of the Judiciary
Committee.

Beyond his intellect and hard work and legal insight, he was famous for
biking across Washington virtually every day for a face-to-face meeting
with a Republican chief counsel — the ranking Republican counsel.  And
over breakfast, they’d discuss what would they do for the country
together.  Whereas, in those days, we tried to do things together.  They
— that spirit stuck with me when I took over the Judiciary Committee as
Chair after Senator Kennedy’s tenure. 

And it was my honor to vote to confirm Justice Breyer to serve in the
United States Supreme Court — the Court of Appeals first, in 1980. 

And then, 14 years later, in 1994, I got to preside as Chairman of the
Senate Judiciary Committee over his Supreme Court confirmation
hearings. 

We were joking with one another when he walked in: Did we ever think
that he would have served decades on the Court and I’d be President of
the United States on the day he came in to retire?  And he looked at it
— anyway, I won’t tell you what he said.  I’m joking.

But I was proud and grateful to be there at the start of this
distinguished career on the Supreme Court, and I’m very proud to be here
today on his announcement of his retirement. 

You know, during his confirmation hearings, way back in 1994, nominee
Stephen Breyer said, quote, “The law must work for \[the\] people.”

He explained to us his faith that our complex legal system has a single
purpose: to help the people who make up our country.  It was a different
time, of course.  But his brilliance, his values, his scholarship are
why Judge Breyer became Justice Breyer by an overwhelming bipartisan
vote at the time. 

Today, Justice Breyer announces his intention to step down from active
service after four decades — four decades on the federal bench and 28
years on the United States Supreme Court. 

His legacy includes his work as a leading scholar and jurist in
administrative law, bringing his brilliance to bear to make the
government run more efficiently and effectively. 

It includes his stature as a beacon of wisdom on our Constitution and
what it means. 

And through it all, Justice Breyer has worked tirelessly to give faith
to the notion that the law exists to help the people. 

Everyone knows that Stephen Breyer has been an exemplary justice — fair
to the parties before him, courteous to his colleagues, careful in his
reasoning.

He’s written landmark opinions on topics ranging from reproductive
rights to healthcare, to voting rights, to patent laws, to laws
protecting our environment, and the laws that protect our religious
practices. 

His opinions are practical, sensible, and nuanced.  It reflects his
belief that a job of a judge is not to lay down a rule, but to get it
right — to get it right. 

Justice Breyer’s law clerks and his colleagues, as many of the press
here know, describe him and his work ethic — his desire to learn more,
his kindness to those around him, and his optimism for the promise of
our country.  And he has patiently sought common ground and built
consensus, seeking to bring the Court together. 

I think he’s a model public servant in a time of great division in this
country.  Justice Breyer has been everything his country could have
asked of him. 

And he’s appeared before — when he appeared before the Judiciary
Committee almost three decades ago, we all had high hopes for the mark
he would leave on history, the law, and the Constitution.  And he’s
exceeded those hopes in every possible way. 

Today is his day — our day to commend his — his life of service and his
life on the Court.  But let me say a few words about the critically
important work of selecting his successor. 

Choosing someone to sit on the Supreme Court, I believe, is one of the
most serious constitutional responsibilities a President has.  Our
process is going to be rigorous.  I will select a nominee worthy of
Justice Breyer’s legacy of excellence and decency. 

While I’ve been studying candidates’ backgrounds and writings, I’ve made
no decisions except one: The person I will nominate will be someone with
extraordinary qualifications, character, experience, and integrity, and
that person will be the first Black woman ever nominated to the United
States Supreme Court. 

It’s long overdue, in my view.  I made that commitment during the
campaign for President, and I will keep that commitment. 

I will fully do what I said I’d do: I will fulfill my duty to select a
justice not only with the Senate’s consent, but with its advice.

You’ve heard me say in other nomination processes that the Constitution
says seek the “advice and consent,” but the advice as well of the
Senate.  I’m going to invite senators from both parties to offer their
ideas and points of view. 

I’ll also consult with leading scholars and lawyers.  And I am fortunate
to have advising me in this selection process Vice President Kamala
Harris.  She’s an exceptional lawyer, a former Attorney General of the
State of California, a former member of the Senate Judiciary
Committee.  

I will listen carefully to all the advice I’m given, and I will study
the records and former cases carefully.  I’ll meet with the potential
nominees.  And it is my intention — my intention to announce my decision
before the end of February. 

I have made no choice at this point.  Once I select a nominee, I’ll ask
the Senate to move promptly on my choice.

In the end, I will nominate a historic candidate, someone who is worthy
of Justice Breyer’s legacy and someone who, like Justice Breyer, will
provide incredible service on the United States Supreme Court. 

Justice Breyer, on behalf of all the American people, I want to thank
you and your family — and your family for your tremendous service to our
nation.

And I’m going to yield the floor to you, Mr. Justice.

I appreciate it.

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, thank you.  Thank you, Mr. President.  That is
terribly nice.  And believe me, I hold it right here.  It’s wonderful. 

And I thought about what I might say to you.  And I’d like to say
something I enjoy is talking to high school students, grammar school
students, college students, even law school students.  And they’ll come
around and ask me what — what is the — “What is it you find particularly
meaningful about your job?  What, sort of, gives you a thrill?” 

And that’s not such a tough question for me to answer.  It’s the same
thing day one almost up to day — I don’t know how many. 

But the — what I say to them is: Look, I sit there on the bench, and
after we hear lots of cases — and after a while, the impression — it
takes a while, I have to admit — but the impression you get is, you know
— as you well know, this is a complicated country; there are more than
330 million people.  And my mother used to say, “It’s every race.  It’s
every religion.”  And she would emphasize this: “And it’s every point of
view possible.” 

And it’s a kind of miracle when you sit there and see all of those
people in front of you — people that are so different in what they
think.  And yet, they’ve decided to help solve their major differences
under law. 

And when the students get too cynical, I say, “Go look at what happens
in countries that don’t do that.”  And that’s there.  I take this around
at my job.  (Holds up a copy of the Constitution of the United States of
America.)  People have come to accept this Constitution, and they’ve
come to accept the importance of a rule of law. 

And I want to make another point to them.  I want to say: Look, of
course people don’t agree, but we have a country that is based on human
rights, democracy, and so forth. 

But I’ll tell you what Lincoln thought, what Washington thought, and
what people today still think: It’s an experiment.  It’s an experiment. 
That’s what they said. 

And Joanna paid each of our grandchildren a certain amount of money to
memorize the Gettysburg Address.  (Laughs.)  And the reason — the reason
that — what we want them to pick up there and what I want those students
to pick up — if I can remember the first two lines — is that: Four score
and seven years ago, our fathers brought — created upon this — here a
new country, a country that was dedicated to liberty and “the
proposition that all men are created equal,” conceived in liberty —
those are his words — and “dedicated to the proposition that all men are
created equal.” 

He meant women too. 

And we are now “engaged in a great civil war” to determine “whether that
nation, or any nation so conceived, and so dedicated, can long
endure.”  
  
See, those are the words I want to see: “an experiment.”  And that’s
what he thought.  It’s an experiment.  
  
And I found some letters that George Washington wrote where he said the
same thing: “It’s an experiment.” 

That experiment existed then because even the liberals in Europe, you
know, they’re looking over here, and they’re saying, “It’s a great idea
in principle, but it’ll never work.” 

“But we’ll show them it does.”  That’s what Washington thought.  And
that’s what Lincoln thought.  And that’s what people still think
today.  
  
And I say, “Oh, I want you…” — and I’m talking to the students now.  I
say, “I want you to pick just this up: It’s an experiment that’s still
going on.” 

And I’ll tell you something: You know who will see whether that
experiment works?  It’s you, my friend.  It’s you, Mr. High School
Student.  It’s you, Mr. College Student.  It’s you, Mr. Law School
Students.  
  
It’s us, but it’s you.  It’s that next generation, and the one after
that — my grandchildren and their children.  They’ll determine whether
the experiment still works.  
  
And, of course, I am an optimist.  And I’m pretty sure it will.   
  
Does it surprise you that that’s the thought that comes into my mind
today?  I don’t know. 

But thank you.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Doctor, I don’t know that you’ve ever been to the White
House and the Lincoln Bedroom, but I invite both of you to come and
stay.  And the Lincoln Bedroom has, against the wall between the
windows, looking out, a handwritten copy of the Gettysburg Address
written by Lincoln, in that bedroom, allegedly — the sitting room.

  
And so, you’ve got to come and see it.  And even if you can’t come and
stay, bring your grandchildren so they can see it as well.  
  
Thank you all so very, very much for being here. 

And I’m not going to take any questions because I think it’s
inappropriate to take questions with the Justice here.

He’s still sitting on the bench, and — I’ll give you your mask back. 
And — but you’ll have plenty of opportunities to get me later today and
for the rest of the week, and next week too. 

So, thank you very much.  Thank you.  
  
12:49 P.M. EST
