---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-01-04'
modified_time: 2022-01-04 16:14:37-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/01/04/remarks-by-president-biden-before-meeting-on-covid-19/
published_time: 2022-01-04 16:30:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Meeting on\_COVID-\u206019"
---
 
South Court Auditorium

2:11 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Folks.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Happy New Year, everyone.  
  
PARTICIPANTS:  Happy New Year.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  The Admiral is in the house.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Hi, sir.  How are you?     
  
THE PRESIDENT:  How are you?  
  
Well, since we’re more than 10 feet apart while we’re speaking, we’re
going to take our masks off.   
  
And let me begin by saying good afternoon to my team, good afternoon to
the press, and good afternoon to anyone who may be listening.  
  
I’m about to receive a briefing from our COVID-19 team.   
  
But before I begin, I know there is a concern and some considerable
confusion about the rising cases.  So, let me provide a quick update and
talk about three specific topics.  
  
And I’ll give it to you straight, as I promised you I always would:
We’re going to see, as you all have been hearing, continued rise in
cases.  
  
Omicron is very transmissible — transmissible variant, but much
different than anything we’ve seen before.  And — but you can protect
yourself.  And you should protect yourself, quite frankly.   
  
Get vaccinated.  Get boosted.  There’s plenty of booster shots.  Wear a
mask while you’re in public.  
  
Because what we know is this: The impact from the rising cases depends
on the effect on the person based on whether that person — what their
vaccination status is.  
  
You can control how big an impact Omicron is going to have on your
health if you get Omi- — Omicron.   
  
You know, there — those that are fully vaccinated, especially those with
the booster shots — and, by the way, we have booster shots for the whole
nation.  Okay?  We — you can still get COVID, but it’s highly unlikely —
very unlikely that you’ll become seriously ill.  
  
And we’re seeing COVID-19 cases among vaccinated in workplaces across
America, including here at the White House.  But if you’re vaccinated
and boosted, you are highly protected.  
  
You know, be concerned about Omicron, but don’t be alarmed.  But if
you’re unvaccinated, you have some reason to be alarmed.  Many of you
will — you know, you’ll experience severe illness, in many cases, if you
get COVID-19 if you’re not vaccinated.  Some will die — needlessly
die.  
  
The unvaccinated are taking up hospital beds and crowding emergency
rooms and intensive care units.  That’s a place that other people will
need access to those hospitals.   
  
So, please — please, please get vaccinated now.  
  
You know, we’ve reduced the number of American adults without any shots
from 90 million to about 35 million in the past six months.  But there’s
still 35 million people not vaccinated.    
  
And let me be absolutely clear: We have in hand all the vaccines we need
to get every American fully vaccinated, including the booster shot.  
  
So, there is no excuse — no excuse for anyone being unvaccinated.  This
continues to be a pandemic of the unvaccinated.  So we got to make more
progress.  
  
And for <s>patients</s> \[parents\] who still haven’t gotten your kids
vaccinated, please get them vaccinated.  Look out for their interests
here.  It’s the best way to protect them.  
  
And for parents with kids too young to be vaccinated, surround your kids
with people who are vaccinated.  And make sure you’re masking in public
so you don’t get COVID and give it to your kids.  
  
Look, we have no reason to think at this point that Omicron is worse for
children than previous variants.  We know that our kids can be safe when
in school, by the way.  That’s why I believe schools should remain
open.  
  
You know, they have what they need.  Because of the American Rescue Plan
— the first month we were in office, or second month — that I signed in
March, we provided the states with 130 billion — with a “B” — billion
dollars to specifically keep our students safe and schools open. 
Funding for ventilation — ventilation systems in the schools; social
distancing in classrooms, even larger classrooms, on buses and —
everything from bus drivers to buses — the actual bus.  
  
There were additional — in all this process, we also, back then,
included an additional $10 billion for testing for schools.  
  
That money went out to the states.  And the states and the school
districts have spent this money well — many of them.  But,
unfortunately, some haven’t.  
  
So I encourage the states and school districts to use the funding that
you still have to protect your children and keep the schools open.  
  
Countries across the world are seeing rising cases.  Here in the United
States, our team has been working around the clock during the holiday
weeks.  
  
In the last two weeks, we have developed hundreds of military — we have
deployed, I should say, hundreds of military doctors and nurses to staff
the hospitals in our states that are overrun and overworked because of
unvaccinated COVID-19 patients, primarily.  
  
The Federal Emergency Management Association — Agency — FEMA — is also
working at our direction in every state on hospital capacity, including
whether they need beds.  
  
I’ve directed FEMA to be ready to provide emergency hospitals beds
wherever and whenever they’re needed.  
  
The federal government will be there.  
  
We’ve shipped nearly 2.4 million pieces of protective equipment to
hospitals, from gowns to gloves.  And we’re doing whatever we can to
protect communities from the surge of hospital cases that we’re likely
to see from unvac- — from the unvaccinated population.  
  
Look, now let me address three specific updates before I get my full
brief from my team.   
  
First: booster shots.  I know, Dr. Fauci, I’m like an echo chamber here,
okay?  I know it.  But — I’m repeating myself, but Dr. Fauci said it
very clearly: Booster shots work.  They significantly increase the
protection.  They provide the highest level of protection against
Omicron.  
  
Americans, we’ve given out over 70 million booster shots.  Importantly,
two out of three eligible seniors have received their booster shots.  
  
Booster shots are free, they’re safe, and available over 90 — in over —
at over 90,000 vaccination sites.  Let me say that again: They’re free,
available, and at over 90,000 sites.  
  
We have added sites, added hours, added appointments, added walk-in
capacity.  We have booster shots for every American in the country.  
  
It’s easier than ever to get a booster shot.  And more importantly than
— than ever it’s been.  
  
Look, the FDA has also now authorized booster shots for children ages 12
to 15.  
  
So, with the final approval from the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention — the CDC — young people — when that occurs, young people
ages 12 to 15 will be able to get booster shots later this week.  
  
Second, on testing: I know this remains frustrating — believe me, it’s
frustrating to me — but we’re making improvements.  
  
In the last two weeks, we’ve stood up federal testing sites all over the
country, and we’re adding more each and every day.   
  
Google “COVID test near me” — go there.  Google — excuse me — “COVID
test near me” on Google to find the nearest site  
where you can get a test most often and free.  Look, we have more
capacity for in-person tests, and we should see waiting lines shorten
and more appointments freed up.  
  
Look, if you want to test yourself at home, we have three options
now.   
  
One, drugstores and online websites are restocking.   
  
Two, you know — well, actually, so the more tests are available, we’re
going to continue to become available.  
  
Next week, our requirement that your insurance company reimburse you for
at-home tests takes effect.  So, you don’t have to — you’ll get
reimbursed.  So, if you’re insured, you can buy the test and get paid
for it.  
  
The second thing I want to mention is: Many state and local governments
and healthcare providers are passing out free at-home tests that you can
pick up.  Just find out where they are.   
  
And, finally, as I announced recently, the federal government is
launching a website this month where you can get tests shipped to your
home for free, upon your request.  
  
The third point I’d like to speak about is — also is on treatments.  For
those at high risk who do get COVID-19, we now have a new Pfizer pill
that greatly reduces the risk of hospitalization and death.   
  
I’m pleased to say that, on Christmas Eve, we shipped out the first
batch of these pills that we received — we purchased and received.  And
more will be shipped this week.  
  
We’re already — they’re already saving lives.  But due to the complex
chemistry of the pills — to make the pill, it takes months, literally,
to make a pill.   
  
But production is in full swing.  The United States has more pills than
any other country in the world.  And our supply is going to ramp up over
the coming months as more of these pills are manufactured.  
  
Today, I’m directing my team to work with Pfizer to double our order
from 10 million to 20 million treatment courses to be delivered in the
months ahead.  We may need even more.  That’s the estimate we need right
now.  We’ve already placed the largest order in the world; now I’m
doubling that order.  
  
These pills are going to dramatically recrease \[sic\] — decrease
hospitalizations and deaths from COVID-19.  They’re a game-changer and
have the potential to dramatically alter the impact of COVID-19 — the
impact it’s had on this country and our people.  
  
Look, let me conclude with a quick recap:  
  
If you are vaccinated and boosted, you may get COVID but you are highly
protected against severe illness.   
  
Schools can and should be open this winter.  We have all the tools to
keep kids safe.   
  
Unvaccinated kids are at risk, yet the vaccinated are going to have a
way to protect them.  Get vaccinated.  If you’re vaccinated, get
boosted.  
  
Folks, I know we’re all tired and frustrated about the pandemic.  These
coming weeks are going to be challenging.  Please wear your mask in
public to protect yourself and others.   
  
We’re going to get through this.  We’re going to get through it
together.  
  
We have the tools to protect people from severe illness due to Omicron
if people choose to use the tools.  
  
We have the medicines coming along that can save so many lives and
dramatically reduce the impact that COVID has had on our country.  
  
There is a lot of reason to be hopeful in <s>2020</s> \[2022\].  But for
God’s sake, please take advantage of what’s available.  Please.  You’re
going to save lives — maybe yours, maybe your child’s.  Please take
advantage of what we already have, okay?   
  
So, thank you.  And now I’m going to get this briefing started.  Thank
you very much.  
  
2:24 P.M. EST
