---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-01-31'
modified_time: 2022-01-31 16:20:56-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/01/31/remarks-by-president-biden-and-his-highness-sheikh-tamim-bin-hamad-al-thani-amir-of-the-state-of-qatar-before-bilateral-meeting/
published_time: 2022-01-31 16:20:55-05:00
title: Remarks by President Biden and His Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani,
  Amir of the State of Qatar Before Bilateral Meeting
---
 
Oval Office

2:08 P.M. EST

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well I — let me start by saying a few words — before I
talk about our guest — about Russia and Ukraine.  I’ve — I had a
productive talk last week with President Zelenskyy.  And we continue to
engage in nonstop diplomacy and to deescalate tensions and attempt like
the devil to improve security for our allies and partners, and for all
of Europe for that matter. 

And today, in the United Nations, we’ve laid out the full nature of
Russia’s threat to Ukraine’s sovereignty and the territorial integrity
of Ukraine, as well as the core tenants of a rule-based international
order.  And we — we continue to urge diplomacy as the best way forward. 
But with Russia continuing its buildup of its forces around Ukraine, we
are ready no matter what happens. 

I also want to note that the UAE defeated a ballistic missile attack
launched by the Houthis — a separate issue — from Yemen yesterday.  And
we’ve been in daily contact with the UAE to address those threats.   
  
And I’ve directed Secretary Austin to do everything he can to
communicate the support of the United States for the UAE, Saudi Arabia,
and throughout the Gulf region.  America will have the backs of our
friends in the region.

Today — but I’m honored to be here with a good friend, who has been
wonderful — relationship since I’ve been President, and then before.  
The Sheikh is — I want to welcome you to the White House.

AMIR AL THANI:  Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Fifty years of partnership.  You’re not that old, but
50 years of partnership.  And this past year, our partnership with Qatar
was — has been central to many of our most vital interests: relocating
tens of thousands of Asghan- –Afghans; maintaining stability in Gaza and
providing lifesaving assistance to the Palestinians; keeping pressure on
ISIS and deterring threats across the Middle East; and a lot more. 

And the Amir and I have a lot on our agenda today, and we want to talk
about the security in the Gulf and in the broader Middle East, ensuring
the stability of global energy supplies, continuing our work together to
support the people of Afghanistan, and strengthening commercial and
investment cooperation between our two countries. 

And speaking of that, on that front, I want to applaud the new deal that
Qatar Airways Group signed with Boeing for 20 — a $20 billion deal — one
of the largest deals that Boeing aircraft has ever had.  And it will
support tens of thousands of good-paying U.S. jobs here in America. 

Qatar is a good friend, and a reliable and capable partner.  And I’m
notifying Congress that I will designate Qatar as a “major non-NATO
ally” to reflect the importance — the importance of our relationship.  I
think it’s long overdue. 

And I want to thank you again, Your Highness, for being here and for
making this trip — for you, for your commitment to our friendship and
between our nations.  And I’m looking forward to our discussion today.

AMIR AL THANI:  Well, thank you very much, Mr. President.  Good
afternoon to everyone.  I’m very happy to be here, Mr. President.  2022
is a very important year.  It marks the 50th anniversary of our
diplomatic relationship between Qatar and the United States of America. 
It’s a very strong relationship, and we’re very proud about that.  We
are very proud of what we have achieved. 

Of course, this afternoon, I’m going to be talking with the President
about different topics, mainly about the security of our region. 

I think we demonstrated that — how solid and how strong we can work
together and cooperate — on what we did in Afghanistan.  We are very
proud that we managed to evacuate tens of thousands of people in — of
Afghanistan.

Of course, we have other issues as well that we’re going to talk about:
the equal rights of the Palestinian people and other issues in the
region. 

So, you know, we’re very happy and proud of this great relationship. 
And we’re going to continue working together to find ways and means to
bring peace in our — in our region. 

So, thank you very much for, you know, seeing me today, Mr. President. 
And as you mentioned, that we’ll be talking about several topics.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Welcome.

AMIR AL THANI:  Thank you, sir.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Welcome. 

2:13 P.M. EST
