---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-01-06'
modified_time: 2022-01-06 12:08:43-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/01/06/remarks-by-president-biden-to-mark-one-year-since-the-january-6th-deadly-assault-on-the-u-s-capitol/
published_time: 2022-01-06 12:08:42-05:00
title: "Remarks By President\_Biden To Mark One Year Since\_The January 6th Deadly\
  \ Assault On The U.S.\_Capitol"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

9:16 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Madam Vice President, my fellow Americans: To state the
obvious, one year ago today, in this sacred place, democracy was
attacked — simply attacked.  The will of the people was under assault. 
The Constitution — our Constitution — faced the gravest of threats.  
  
Outnumbered and in the face of a brutal attack, the Capitol Police, the
D.C. Metropolitan Police Department, the National Guard, and other brave
law enforcement officials saved the rule of law.  
  
Our democracy held.  We the people endured.  And we the people
prevailed.  
  
For the first time in our history, a president had not just lost an
election, he tried to prevent the peaceful transfer of power as a
violent mob breached the Capitol.  
  
But they failed.  They failed.  
  
And on this day of remembrance, we must make sure that such an attack
never, never happens again.  
  
I’m speaking to you today from Statuary Hall in the United States
Capitol.  This is where the House of Representatives met for 50 years in
the decades leading up to the Civil War.  This is — on this floor is
where a young congressman of Illinois, Abraham Lincoln, sat at desk
191.   
  
Above him — above us, over that door leading into the Rotunda — is a
sculpture depicting Clio, the muse of history.  In her hands, an open
book in which she records the events taking place in this chamber
below.  
  
Clio stood watch over this hall one year ago today, as she has for more
than 200 years.  She recorded what took place.  The real history.  The
real facts.  The real truth.  The facts  
and the truth that Vice President Harris just shared and that you and I
and the whole world saw with our own eyes.  
  
The Bible tells us that we shall know the truth, and the truth shall
make us free.  We shall know the truth.  
  
Well, here is the God’s truth about January 6th, 2021:  
  
Close your eyes.  Go back to that day.  What do you see? Rioters
rampaging, waving for the first time inside this Capitol a Confederate
flag that symbolized the cause to destroy America, to rip us apart.  
  
Even during the Civil War, that never, ever happened.  But it happened
here in 2021.  
  
What else do you see?  A mob breaking windows, kicking in doors,
breaching the Capitol.  American flags on poles being used as weapons,
as spears.  Fire extinguishers being thrown at the heads of police
officers.   
  
A crowd that professes their love for law enforcement assaulted those
police officers, dragged them, sprayed them, stomped on them.  
  
Over 140 police officers were injured.  
  
We’ve all heard the police officers who were there that day testify to
what happened.  One officer called it, quote, a med- — “medieval”
battle, and that he was more afraid that day than he was fighting the
war in Iraq.  
  
They’ve repeatedly asked since that day: How dare anyone — anyone —
diminish, belittle, or deny the hell they were put through?  
  
We saw it with our own eyes.  Rioters menaced these halls, threatening
the life of the Speaker of the House, literally erecting gallows to hang
the Vice President of the United States of America.  
  
But what did we not see?  
  
We didn’t see a former president, who had just rallied the mob to attack
— sitting in the private dining room off the Oval Office in the White
House, watching it all on television and doing nothing for hours as
police were assaulted, lives at risk, and the nation’s capital under
siege.  
  
This wasn’t a group of tourists.  This was an armed insurrection.  
  
They weren’t looking to uphold the will of the people.  They were
looking to deny the will of the people.  
  
They were looking to uphold — they weren’t looking to uphold a free and
fair election.  They were looking to overturn one.  
  
They weren’t looking to save the cause of America.  They were looking to
subvert the Constitution.  
  
This isn’t about being bogged down in the past.  This is about making
sure the past isn’t buried.  
  
That’s the only way forward.  That’s what great nations do.  They don’t
bury the truth, they face up to it.  Sounds like hyperbole, but that’s
the truth: They face up to it.  
  
We are a great nation.  
  
My fellow Americans, in life, there’s truth and,  
tragically, there are lies — lies conceived and spread for profit and
power.  
  
We must be absolutely clear about what is true and what is a lie.  
  
And here is the truth: The former president of the  
United States of America has created and spread a web of lies about the
2020 election.  He’s done so because he values power over principle,
because he sees his own interests as more important than his country’s
interests and America’s interests, and because his bruised ego matters
more to him than our democracy or our Constitution.  
  
He can’t accept he lost, even though that’s what 93 United States
senators, his own Attorney General, his own Vice President, governors
and state officials in every battleground state have all said: He
lost.  
  
That’s what 81 million of you did as you voted for a new way forward.  
  
He has done what no president in American history — the history of this
country — has ever, ever done: He refused to accept the results of an
election and the will of the American people.  
  
While some courageous men and women in the Republican Party are standing
against it, trying to uphold the principles of that party, too many
others are transforming that party into something else.  They seem no
longer to want to be the party — the party of Lincoln, Eisenhower,
Reagan, the Bushes.  
  
But whatever my other disagreements are with Republicans who support the
rule of law and not the rule of a single man, I will always seek to work
together with them to find shared solutions where possible.  Because if
we have a shared belief in democracy, then anything is possible —
anything.  
  
And so, at this moment, we must decide: What kind of nation are we going
to be?  
  
Are we going to be a nation that accepts political violence as a norm?  
  
Are we going to be a nation where we allow partisan election officials
to overturn the legally expressed will of the people?  
  
Are we going to be a nation that lives not by the light of the truth but
in the shadow of lies?  
  
We cannot allow ourselves to be that kind of nation.  The way forward is
to recognize the truth and to live by it.  
  
The Big Lie being told by the former president and many Republicans who
fear his wrath is that the insurrection in this country actually took
place on Election Day — November 3rd, 2020.  
  
Think about that.  Is that what you thought?  Is that what you thought
when you voted that day?  Taking part in an insurrection?  Is that what
you thought you were doing?  Or did you think you were carrying out your
highest duty as a citizen and voting?  
  
The former president and his supporters are trying to rewrite history. 
They want you to see Election Day as the day of insurrection and the
riot that took place here on January 6th as the true expression of the
will of the people.  
  
Can you think of a more twisted way to look at this country — to look at
America?  I cannot.  
  
Here’s the truth: The election of 2020 was the greatest demonstration of
democracy in the history of this country.  
  
More of you voted in that election than have ever voted in all of
American history.  Over 150 million Americans went to the polls and
voted that day in a pandemic — some at grea- — great risk to their
lives.  They should be applauded, not attacked.  
  
Right now, in state after state, new laws are being written — not to
protect the vote, but to deny it; not only to suppress the vote, but to
subvert it; not to strengthen or protect our democracy, but because the
former president lost.  
  
Instead of looking at the election results from 2020 and saying they
need new ideas or better ideas to win more votes, the former president
and his supporters have decided the only way for them to win is to
suppress your vote and subvert our elections.   
  
It’s wrong.  It’s undemocratic.  And frankly, it’s un-American.  
  
The second Big Lie being told by the former President and his supporters
is that the results of the election of 2020 can’t be trusted.

The truth is that no election — no election in American history has been
more closely scrutinized or more carefully counted.  
  
Every legal challenge questioning the results in every court in this
country that could have been made was made and was rejected — often
rejected by Republican-appointed judges, including judges appointed by
the former president himself, from state courts to the United States
Supreme Court.  
  
Recounts were undertaken in state after state.  Georgia — Georgia
counted its results three times, with one recount by hand.  
  
Phony partisan audits were undertaken long after the election in several
states.  None changed the results.  And in some of them, the irony is
the margin of victory actually grew slightly.  
  
So, let’s speak plainly about what happened in 2020.  Even before the
first ballot was cast, the former president was preemptively sowing
doubt about the election results.  He built his lie over months.  It
wasn’t based on any facts.  He was just looking for an excuse — a
pretext — to cover for the truth.  
  
He’s not just a former president.  He’s a defeated former president —
defeated by a margin of over 7 million of your votes in a full and free
and fair election.  
  
There is simply zero proof the election results were inaccurate.  In
fact, in every venue where evidence had to be produced and an oath to
tell the truth had to be taken, the former president failed to make his
case.  
  
Just think about this: The former president and his supporters have
never been able to explain how they accept as accurate the other
election results that took place on November 3rd — the elections for
governor, United States Senate, the House of Representatives — elections
in which they closed the gap in the House.  
  
They challenge none of that.  The President’s name was first, then we
went down the line — governors, senators, House of Representatives. 
Somehow, those results were accurate on the same ballot, but the
presidential race was flawed?  
  
And on the same ballot, the same day, cast by the same voters.  
  
The only difference: The former President didn’t lose those races; he
just lost the one that was his own.  
  
Finally, the third Big Lie being told by a former President and his
supporters is that the mob who sought to impose their will through
violence are the nation’s true patriots.  
  
Is that what you thought when you looked at the mob ransacking the
Capitol, destroying property, literally defecating in the hallways,
rifling through desks of senators and representatives, hunting down
members of congress?  Patriots?  Not in my view.  
  
To me, the true patriots were the more than 150 \[million\] Americans
who peacefully expressed their vote at the ballot box, the election
workers who protected the integrity of the vote, and the heroes who
defended this Capitol.  
  
You can’t love your country only when you win.  
  
You can’t obey the law only when it’s convenient.  
  
You can’t be patriotic when you embrace and enable lies.  
  
Those who stormed this Capitol and those who instigated and incited and
those who called on them to do so held a dagger at the throat of America
— at American democracy.  
  
They didn’t come here out of patriotism or principle.  They came here in
rage — not in service of America, but rather in service of one man.  
  
Those who incited the mob — the real plotters — who were desperate to
deny the certification of the election and defy the will of the
voters.  
  
But their plot was foiled.  Congressmen — Democrats and Republicans —
stayed.  Senators, representatives, staff — they finished their work the
Constitution demanded.  They honored their oath to defend the
Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic.  
  
Look, folks, now it’s up to all of us — to “We the People” — to stand
for the rule of law, to preserve the flame of democracy, to keep the
promise of America alive.  
  
That promise is at risk, targeted by the forces that value brute
strength over the sanctity of democracy, fear over hope, personal gain
over public good.  
  
Make no mistake about it: We’re living at an inflection point in
history.  
  
Both at home and abroad, we’re engaged anew in a struggle between
democracy and autocracy, between the aspirations of the many and the
greed of the few, between the people’s right of self-determination and
self- — the self-seeking autocrat.   
  
From China to Russia and beyond, they’re betting that democracy’s days
are numbered.  They’ve actually told me democracy is too slow, too
bogged down by division to succeed in today’s rapidly changing,
complicated world.  
  
And they’re betting — they’re betting America will become more like them
and less like us.  They’re betting that America is a place for the
autocrat, the dictator, the strongman.  
  
I do not believe that.  That is not who we are.  That is not who we have
ever been.  And that is not who we should ever, ever be.  
  
Our Founding Fathers, as imperfect as they were, set in motion an
experiment that changed the world — literally changed the world.  
  
Here in America, the people would rule, power would be transferred
peacefully — never at the tip of a spear or the barrel of a gun.  
  
And they committed to paper an idea that couldn’t live up to — they
couldn’t live up to but an idea that couldn’t be constrained: Yes, in
America all people are created equal.  
  
We reject the view that if you succeed, I fail; if you get ahead, I fall
behind; if I hold you down, I somehow lift myself up.  
  
The former President, who lies about this election, and the mob that
attacked this Capitol could not be further away from the core American
values.  
  
They want to rule or they will ruin — ruin what our country fought for
at Lexington and Concord; at Gettysburg; at Omaha Beach; Seneca Falls;
Selma, Alabama.  What — and what we were fighting for: the right to
vote, the right to govern ourselves, the right to determine our own
destiny.  
  
And with rights come responsibilities: the responsibility to see each
other as neighbors — maybe we disagree with that neighbor, but they’re
not an adversary; the responsibility to accept defeat then get back in
the arena and try again the next time to make your case; the
responsibility to see that America is an idea — an idea that requires
vigilant stewardship.  
  
As we stand here today — one year since January 6th, 2021 — the lies
that drove the anger and madness we saw in this place, they have not
abated.  
  
So, we have to be firm, resolute, and unyielding in our defense of the
right to vote and to have that vote counted.  
  
Some have already made the ultimate sacrifice in this sacred effort.  
  
Jill and I have mourned police officers in this Capitol Rotunda not once
but twice in the wake of January 6th: once to honor Officer Brian
Sicknick, who lost his life the day after the attack, and a second time
to honor Officer Billy Evans, who lost his life defending this Capitol
as well.  
  
We think about the others who lost their lives and were injured and
everyone living with the trauma of that day — from those defending this
Capitol to members of Congress in both parties and their staffs, to
reporters, cafeteria workers, custodial workers, and their families.  
  
Don’t kid yourself: The pain and scars from that day run deep.  
  
I said it many times and it’s no more true or real than when we think
about the events of January 6th: We are in a battle for the soul of
America.  A battle that, by the grace of God and the goodness and
gracious — and greatness of this nation, we will win.  
  
Believe me, I know how difficult democracy is.  And I’m crystal clear
about the threats America faces.  But I also know that our darkest days
can lead to light and hope.  
  
From the death and destruction, as the Vice President referenced, in
Pearl Harbor came the triumph over the forces of fascism.  
  
From the brutality of Bloody Sunday on the Edmund Pettus Bridge came
historic voting rights legislation.  
  
So, now let us step up, write the next chapter in American history where
January 6th marks not the end of democracy, but the beginning of a
renaissance of liberty and fair play.  
  
I did not seek this fight brought to this Capitol one year ago today,
but I will not shrink from it either.  
  
I will stand in this breach.  I will defend this nation.  And I will
allow no one to place a dagger at the throat of our democracy.   
  
We will make sure the will of the people is heard; that the ballot
prevails, not violence; that authority in this nation will always be
peacefully transferred.  
  
I believe the power of the presidency and the purpose is to unite this
nation, not divide it; to lift us up, not tear us apart; to be about us
— about us, not about “me.”  
  
Deep in the heart of America burns a flame lit almost 250 years ago — of
liberty, freedom, and equality.  
  
This is not a land of kings or dictators or autocrats.  We’re a nation
of laws; of order, not chaos; of peace, not violence.  
  
Here in America, the people rule through the ballot, and their will
prevails.  
  
So, let us remember: Together, we’re one nation, under God, indivisible;
that today, tomorrow, and forever, at our best, we are the United States
of America.  
  
God bless you all.  May God protect our troops.  And may God bless those
who stand watch over our democracy.

                              END                  9:40 A.M. EST
