---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-01-25'
modified_time: 2022-01-25 16:23:56-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/01/25/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-presidents-interagency-task-force-to-monitor-and-combat-trafficking-in-persons/
published_time: 2022-01-25 16:23:55-05:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the President\u2019s Interagency Task\
  \ Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in\_Persons"
---
 
*South Court Auditorium Eisenhower Executive Office Building*

2:06 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. Secretary, and good afternoon to
everyone.  And thank you to the senior administration officials who are
gathered here for all of your tireless work.  Thank you also to the
members of the U.S. Advisory Council on Human Trafficking for your
dedicated work.  And congratulations to today’s award recipients.  You
all are an inspiration.  
  
So, many of you know, when I was Attorney General of California, I
visited a town on the northern side of the U.S. border named Calexico.  
  
And I went to Calexico because I wanted to see for myself the tunnels
through which I knew guns, drugs, and human beings were being
trafficked.  
  
And during that trip, I saw, in person and in photographs, tunnels with
walls as smooth as the walls of your living room, complete with lighting
and air conditioning.  
  
And what became very clear to me is through those tunnels were being
trafficked guns, drugs, and human beings, where some people were making
a whole lot of money.  
  
And in fact, the officials in Calexico, when I was there, described to
me — these are folks who’ve been working there, you know, doing tough
work — and described to me with tears in their eyes about children as
young as five years old who were being trafficked through those
tunnels.  
  
 And as Attorney General, I placed a particular emphasis  
on combating transnational criminal organizations and on combating the
money laundering that accompanies human trafficking.  
  
So, to see those tunnels, an obvious point was and remains clear:
Trafficking is an extremely heinous and profitable business.  In fact,
globally, human trafficking is a $150 billion business.  
  
And let’s be clear: When we’re talking about human trafficking, we are
talking about some human beings who are essentially buying and selling
other human beings.  
  
So, today, we are here to focus on the estimated 25 million people
around the world — as many as one in three who are under the age of 18 —
who are currently victims of human trafficking.  
  
Now, to understand the severity of human trafficking, to take on the
scourge of human trafficking, we must all understand that human
trafficking is multifaceted.  Human trafficking happens both abroad and
right here in the United States.  
  
When I was Attorney General, we found that 72 percent of trafficking
victims in California were born right here in the United States.  
  
In 2020 alone, there were 11,000 instances of human trafficking that
were reported in the United States.  And mind you, those were only the
cases that were reported.  Experts suggest that the number of people at
risk has also grown during COVID-19.  
  
So we must address, with a sense of urgency, what is happening in our
own backyard.  
  
In the United States and worldwide, there are many types of work for
which people are trafficked.  Some people are lured from their homes or
their home country with promises of a better future, only to be forced
into sexual exploitation.  Others are coerced and forced into labor or
indentured servitude.  
  
Of the estimated 25 million people worldwide being trafficked, 65
percent are being forced to do domestic work, construction work,
agricultural work, or manufacturing work.  
  
Last year alone, we seized nearly 1,500 shipments of merchandise made
using forced labor, including things like clothes and electronics.  The
value?  Nearly $500 million.  
  
To be sure, the economic impact of forced labor is significant.  And it
undermines our own supply chain, displacing American workers, driving
down American wages, and creating an unlevel playing field for
responsible American businesses.  
  
As a nation, we must require serious consequence and accountability for
those who commit these crimes.  And we must work to stop these crimes
before they happen.  
     In December, our administration issued our National Action Plan to
Combat Human Trafficking.  
  
Our plan centers on the key pillars of U.S. and global anti-trafficking
efforts: prevention, protection, prosecution, and partnerships.  
  
Today, several of our departments and agencies will make announcements
regarding how we will advance this plan.  
  
And there is a clear line that runs throughout our administration’s
work: We are focused on the most vulnerable.  And based on my
experience, the most vulnerable are women and girls, racial and ethnic
minorities, LGBTQI+ people, Indigenous people, people with disabilities,
migrants, and children in the foster care system.  
  
When we identify who is most vulnerable, we can tailor our tactics and
improve our strategy, we can look at what is putting communities at risk
in order to improve our prevention efforts, and we can look at ways to
reach those communities to ensure that support is trauma-informed and
survivor-centered.  
  
 In this work, our government — while we need business leaders and
non-profit leaders, community leaders, we need all of you to partner
with us.  
  
 I have seen in my career the power of public-private partnership to
address human trafficking.  
  
Whether it was the non-profit that I teamed up with to support survivors
or the technology company I invited to help identify search terms that
perpetrators were using, it is clear: When we pool our resources and our
expertise, we can maximize our impact.  
  
So, those many years ago, after I visited Calexico and I saw the
tunnels, I reached out to Attorneys General from across our nation.  And
together we launched a unified effort to take on transnational crime.  
  
What was true then is true now: It will take all of us to address human
trafficking.  
  
So I thank you all for being here today and for the work you do every
day.  Thank you.  
  
                             END                   2:12 P.M. EST
