---
date: '2024-10-18'
modified_time: 2024-10-18 20:45:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-18 21:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/18/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-32/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

8:45 A.M. EDT

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks very much.  I’ll just keep it short because I know
you got questions. 

A really terrific day here in Berlin for the President.  I think you all
saw how significant and emotional he was over — getting the Order of
Merit from President Steinmeier.  He also had a chance bilaterally to
meet with the President on issues like Ukraine and the Middle East. 

And then we came over here to the Chancellor.  He had some one-on-one
time with Chancellor Scholz and then a working lunch.  Unsurprisingly,
the main topics of discussion were, of course, Ukraine.  Further
discussions about how we were going to continue to work with the EU to
find a way to employ Russian sovereign assets to help with Ukraine’s
reconstruction — that was a topic. 

Of course, there was also the issue of what’s going on on the
battlefield and where the Germans see their perspectives about where the
Ukrainian Armed Forces are, sort of President Biden sharing our
perspective on how things are going on the battlefield. 

And then, of course, they talked about President Zelenskyy’s victory
plan and how we can all work together to try to see if we can’t get to a
just peace that President Zelenskyy and the Ukrainian people will
approve of and, of course, you know, can implement. 

And then, now, the President is meeting with the European Quad leaders. 
That’s going on right now.  I’m not in that room, but we’ll have a
readout when it’s over.  And again, I have no doubt that issues
regarding Ukraine and the Middle East will come up as well in the Quad. 

I forgot to mention — in the working lunch with Chancellor Scholz, they
also did spend some time talking about the Middle East and the
developments yesterday and how that might affect where we go forward
here in terms of trying to find a way to end the war and with the
opportunity that Sinwar’s death now provides us. 

So, again, that’s just kind of a rough summary of the discussions, and
we will absolutely have a readout for you of the Quad meeting when it’s
over.

So I can take some questions.

Q    John, real fast: Prime Minister Netanyahu today said, “We have
before us a great opportunity to stop the axis of evil and create a
different future.”  What gives the U.S. confidence, after Sinwar’s
death, that Israel is ready for a ceasefire, that it sees a ceasefire as
its best option?

MR. KIRBY:  We believe — continue to believe that finding an end to the
war is critical, and we also believe that Mr. Sinwar’s death yesterday
can provide an inflection point to getting there. 

I mean, look at what the Israeli Defense Forces have been able to do
against Hamas.  I mean, they’ve really decimated their leadership, now
knocking out the top leader himself.  They have, without question,
completely eliminated any immediate threat that Hamas would pose from a
military perspective.  They’ve knocked out military command structure. 
They’ve gone after weapons caches.  They’ve made it much more difficult
for Hamas to operate and act, plan and execute the way they did on
October 7th. 

So, Hamas is in a much, much, much weakened position than it ever was
before.  The President believes that certainly with Sinwar’s killing
yesterday, that there’s a unique opportunity here for us all to kind of
grab hold of to see what we can do to end the war and to get a
ceasefire.  And we still believe that a ceasefire — actually, in the
north too — but we still believe a ceasefire is important for Gaza to
get those hostages home. 

So you asked me what gives us confidence.  I think, first of all, one
thing that gives us confidence that now is a propitious opportunity is
the incredible work that the IDF has done in decimating Hamas and now
killing Hamas’s leadership. 

Q    But I guess the core question was: What gives you confidence that
Prime Minister Netanyahu shares that view?  Does he share the view that
you just articulated?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I’ll let the Prime Minister speak for himself.  I
mean, he said himself yesterday that this does provide a unique
opportunity. 

Now, what we’ll do is continue to have consultations with our Israeli
counterparts about how we take advantage of that opportunity.  The
President still believes that intensive diplomacy is still the preferred
path.  And now with Sinwar gone, we are in a unique opportunity to
really take that to the next level, try to get a ceasefire in Gaza, but,
as well, to try to get a ceasefire up in the north against Hezbollah,
and then, again, do everything we can to prevent this from escalating. 

Q    Just to follow up on that, you know, in the past few months, when
Israel has taken action against others — Nasrallah’s killing as an
example — the big concern was that that had the potential to truly
escalate the conflict in the Middle East into something closer to a
regional conflict.  I guess I don’t quite understand.  Is the idea here
that Sinwar was the chief stumbling block to a ceasefire, and with him
gone, the remaining leadership that are sitting in Qatar, or wherever
they are, are somehow going to be less of an obstacle to a ceasefire? 
Is that the opportunity that you’re sort of dancing around?

MR. KIRBY:  Yes.  I’m not — sorry if I’m dancing.  I’m not trying to
dance. 

Q    Not you personally, but —

MR. KIRBY:  But, yes, Sinwar was the main obstacle to getting a
ceasefire done.  Every time his political advisors would — we’d
negotiate with and through them to come up with a proposal, it would
have to get to him.  Of course, that took time because of the
communications challenges.  And then he would just — he would just
refute it and refuse to move forward. 

And it’s not as if — as I’ve said this before, it’s not as if the
Israelis weren’t willing to continue to find compromises, and they did. 
Each and every time, Sinwar found a way to stop it.  Now he’s gone.  So,
we’ll see.  I mean, Hamas, obviously, will make their own decisions
about what their structure is going to look like and if and who might
replace Mr. Sinwar. 

But, yes, his death does provide a unique opportunity here to try to
take advantage of where we are with Hamas, where Israel is with Hamas,
and see if we can’t get a ceasefire in place.

Q    But you haven’t gotten yet.  I mean, I know it’s early, it’s less
than 24 hours, but you haven’t gotten any signals from those political
Hamas officials that you were dealing through Qatar and whatever —

MR. KIRBY:  Not that I’m aware of.  Not that I’m aware of.

Q    — they haven’t sort of said, “Oh, well, let’s start talking again”?

MR. KIRBY:  Not that I’m aware of.  But as you rightly pointed out, I
mean, this just happened yesterday.

We believe — and it was in the — look, it was in the President’s
statement.  You know, the obstacle that was Sinwar has now been
removed.  There’s a lot more work to be done.  And when the President is
talking about that work, he’s talking about getting the diplomatic path
back into some kind of swing.

Q    John, to your point about Sinwar, what are your fears as Hamas
regroups?  What are your chief concerns right now?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, obviously, we’re going to be watching to see what they
do here.  They have been — as I said, the leadership decimated, military
structure decimated, but they still are a presence in Gaza, and they
still do have some capability, so we’re certainly going to be watching
that carefully.  And I’ve seen some statements out of them today, you
know, basically pledging to continue the conflict and continue the war. 

They are in such a dramatically weakened position, it’s difficult to see
from where we sit that they could perpetrate anything close to what they
did on the 7th of October.  But that doesn’t mean that they aren’t still
lethal to some degree, and so we’re going to have to watch that
carefully. 

So, two things.  One, we’re going to continue to support Israel with
defensive capabilities.  And that’s not going to stop.  Just because Mr.
Sinwar is gone, it doesn’t mean that we’re going to, in some way,
diminish our support to Israel and their defense capabilities. 

Two, as the President said last night to you all, this is an opportunity
now to really step up and see what we can explore in terms of
opportunities for a diplomatic solution and getting a ceasefire in
place. 

We have to all — as we sit here, I mean, today, those hostages are still
being held somewhere in Gaza, likely in tunnels, and their lives are
still greatly at risk.  And there’s a keen sense of urgency — there has
been, of course — but now, with Mr. Sinwar’s passing, it really
underscores for us how urgent it is to see what we can do to get those
hostages home.  And you heard Prime Minister Netanyahu say the same
thing yesterday. 

Q    Let me ask a Ukraine question.  So, with regards to President
Zelenskyy’s peace proposal and the two points — membership in NATO
before the end of Biden’s presidency and also nuclear capabilities —
where does the White House stand on that?  Have you had any change of
heart or change of mind on that?  And how are you doing on the $50
billion loan?

MR. KIRBY:  Sorry, your first question was where’s our policy on what?

Q    On the peace — on the victory plan.

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, yeah.

Look, the President appreciated President Zelenskyy bringing it to the
Oval Office and having a discussion about the victory plan. 

We’re obviously still digging through the details of it, so I’m not
going to get into the nuts and bolts on every little item in it.  But I
will say that, as we’ve made clear, we support President Zelenskyy’s
plan for a just peace.  It’s critical that whatever that peace looks
like, it has to be acceptable to him and to the Ukrainian people.  And
we’re certainly not going to have any discussions about Ukraine without
Ukraine.  And we’re certainly not going to have any discussions with
foreign leaders that don’t comport with what we believe President
Zelenskyy’s plans are for a just peace.

Q    The four leaders are literally having discussions about Ukraine
without Ukraine right now, today.

MR. KIRBY:  With leaders who don’t — as I finished in my sentence, we’re
not going to have discussions with leaders who don’t also comport to
that plan, the idea of following through on his just peace plan. 

Q    Kirby, can you give a sense of to what extent President Biden is
addressing the election on his trip here?  It obviously overhangs some
of the things that he’s talking about in terms of alliances, in terms of
what’s next for Ukraine.  How is he addressing that writ large?

MR. KIRBY:  The discussions he’s having today are not about the
election.  It’s really about — well, first of all, thanking the German
people for their incredible support of Ukraine, obviously showing his
gratitude to the leadership here, President Steinmeier and Chancellor
Scholz. 

But it’s really more about — as I kind of said in my opening statement,
these are policy-heavy discussions, including the one he’s having right
now, about some of the key still-open issues affecting our collective
security, and that’s the war in Ukraine, and, of course, what’s going on
in the Middle East, and really trying to work on policy solutions to
solve these problems.  I mean, that’s really the gist of the meetings
that he’s been at. 

Q    But —

Q    Hold on, hold on.  I’ll follow up.

I understand that it’s not a meeting about the election, but Europe is
worried, and what happens in the U.S. election will help determine what
happens next on those issues.  So, you know, what reassurances can he
give, or can he just not, because he doesn’t know?  Nobody knows who’s
going to win.

MR. KIRBY:  I think his purpose for coming and the thrust of his
discussions are really about reaffirming everything that he’s done as
President and Commander-in-Chief over the last three-plus years to
improve alliances and partnerships, make them stronger, make them
bigger, create ones where they didn’t exist before, and work together on
cooperative solutions for some of these challenges. 

Now, we’ve been talking about Ukraine and the Middle East, but they are
also talking about climate change.  They’re talking about terrorism. 
They’re, you know, talking about, you know, clean energy transition. 
All these transnational challenges that are before us. 

And his purpose is to reaffirm his commitment as President of the United
States to seeing through, with the time he has left, on all those
solutions.  I mean, nobody can be perfectly predictive about what’s
going to happen next month.  And that’s democracy, and that’s the way it
works. 

Q    He says all the time that whenever he comes to Europe, they want to
know — remember the whole speech that he used to give at the beginning
of his presidency about —

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let — I will —

Q    — but how — so, like, are they asking him?

MR. KIRBY:  I will let the foreign leaders speak for themselves.  I’m
not going to talk for them or what’s on their minds. 

Let me just tell — let me just put it this way, and I saw it today:
American leadership matters to leaders here.  The United States
matters.  The effect — you heard it in the speech that President
Steinmeier gave today, that President Biden’s personal leadership has
mattered when it comes to European security.  And the continent’s
security has changed over the last three-plus years thanks to what Mr.
Putin did. 

So, yes, he hears frequently from foreign leaders how important his
personal leadership has been and his stewardship of these relationships,
but also how important American leadership matters on the world stage. 
So I’d leave it at that.

Q    John, I’m going to try one more time here.  You’ve talked about how
the President —

MR. KIRBY:  You guys keep on trying.  I have to take away from that that
I’m being unsatisfactory.  (Laughter.)

Q    Well, you said the President is here to cement his legacy, but he
has less than a hundred days in office.  Is part of cementing that
legacy handing over some of these achievements and responsibilities to
European allies because of uncertainty about our election?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, so, first of all, I didn’t say he’s cementing his
legacy.  He’s reaffirming all the things that he has done and making
sure that these European leaders know that for the remainder of his time
in office he’s going to keep working on these same goals.  So it’s not
about cementing a legacy. 

I’m sorry, and the second part of your question was?

Q    So, as part of reaffirming his legacy, and with less than a hundred
days left in office, is he preparing to hand over some of these things
to European allies, given the uncertainty about our election?

MR. KIRBY:  No, this was not about handing over.  This wasn’t — these
discussions today and the one going on right now is not about handing
over responsibilities.  It is about talking to our allies and partners
about what together we can continue to do to help Ukraine win this war,
to bring the war in the Middle East to an end, and to address all those
other transnational challenges. 

One of the things that the President is not only aware of but constantly
restates is that while, you know, America is — the United States is the
indispensable nation, he likes to say the “essential nation,” that we’ve
got to have allies and partners in these challenges with us. 

First of all, it lends greater credibility to an effort if you’ve got
partners.  And as I said, where there wasn’t an alliance or partnership
to deal with a problem, President Biden has gone and created it.  The
50-plus Ramstein Group nations helping Ukraine and 20-plus nations that
are helping in the Red Sea to beat back Houthi attacks on commercial
shipping.  And concomitantly with that, an understanding by him that
some nations have unique capabilities that we don’t have, and the
ability to have conversations we can’t have that are critical to solving
these problems.  So that’s what it’s really all about.

Q    Can I ask a follow-up on Ukraine?  You mentioned the victory plan
and the discussions about that too.  Yesterday in Brussels, the
Chancellor was very open about his — or very clear about his opposition
to major parts in Zelenskyy’s victory plan, and Zelenskyy himself seemed
a little frustrated by the conversations he had in Brussels yesterday. 
So, I’m wondering — and also, the U.S. seems to take issue with some big
parts in that victory plan.  So what is the path forward here?  What can
the U.S., and maybe Germany also, offer?  What’s the game plan? Because
the President himself said a tough winter is coming —

MR. KIRBY:  He did, yeah.

Q    And that’s the only thing that’s on the table right now.  So where
are we there, and what’s the way forward?

MR. KIRBY:  The Quad leaders are meeting today, as you know, and they’re
going to be talking about the victory plan.  As we’ve said — and I can —
you know, it’s the same thing I would say today — we are still going
through the victory plan in detail.  We’re still talking to our
Ukrainian counterparts about it.  Today, the President has an
opportunity to get the perspectives of these European leaders and to
share his perspective on it. 

Look, again, without getting into — as I refused to do earlier, we’re
not getting into every clause and subparagraph on this thing.  I would
just tell you that we appreciate and respect the work that President
Zelenskyy put into it and the thoughtfulness that he put into it, and
we’re going to continue to work with him and his team to see what this
just peace can and should look like, but with a recognition that — look,
we believe that the best way the war ends is through a negotiated
settlement, but it has to be up to President Zelenskyy to determine if
and when that occurs and what the circumstances are.

Q    If I may, it’s not about the small details, though; it’s about the
big lines in the victory plan that are an obstacle, obviously, like an
unconditional invitation to NATO or long-range weapon use, like Western
weapon use in Russian territory.  That’s not small and minor details. 
That’s the big, you know, pillars of this victory plan.  So if you’re
not in line there, what’s the future of this plan?

MR. KIRBY:  Why don’t we let the Quad leaders sit and talk about this
before I go characterizing their positions on each of the components of
it.  I’m not going to do that.  We’ve been very consistent with respect
to NATO.  And I think somebody asked me a NATO question.  NATO is going
to be in Ukraine’s future.  No question about that.  The first thing we
have to do is help them win this war.  We got to make sure that they
have what they need now.  And that’s why they talked about the
battlefield today with Chancellor Scholz. 

Second is we got to make sure that if and when and however this war
ends, Ukraine has the ability to not only have a strong, vibrant defense
industrial base, but that they have pledging commitments from other
countries, including the United States, for long-term security needs
that they’re going to have.  They’re still going to have a long border
with Russia no matter how this war ends.  They got to be able to deal
with a potentially continued aggressive Russia. 

And then, even while all that’s going on, we’re going to continue to
work with Ukraine on the necessary reforms that they will need to make
in order to apply for NATO membership.  NATO isn’t \[sic\] going to be
in their future.  We’ve put forward some pathways and some milestones to
help them get there.  And that’s where we are.  That’s where we are in
the United States.

Q    I just heard you say NATO *isn’t* going to be in their future.  Did
you mean NATO *is* —

MR. KIRBY:  I said it is.

Q    — going to be in their future?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  Did I say “isn’t”?

Q    Yeah.

MR. KIRBY:  No, NATO is going to be in Ukraine’s future. 

Q    Back to the Middle East for a second.  If and when the day comes
when you do sit down again on the ceasefire proposal, is the current one
on the table, the one that you’re working off of?  Or does the Sinwar
situation mean you have to sort of go back to the drawing board or
(inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, (inaudible) that the ceasefire talks have been
moribund now for several weeks because Mr. Sinwar simply refused.  And I
wish I could tell you today that we’re getting the teams back together
in Doha and we’re starting afresh.  That’s not where we are right now. 

I suspect — again, I don’t want to speculate, but I suspect that if and
when we can get those talks back in place, the starting point will be
where we left it.  Where that goes, I just don’t know.  We’re not in a
position right now where serious negotiations are in the offing.

Q    And on the conversation yesterday with Prime Minister Netanyahu,
obviously the Sinwar death was, you know, top of the conversation, I
assume.  But did they also talk at all about what the retaliation for
the Iran strikes will be?

MR. KIRBY:  As far as I understand, it was a very short call, mostly to
congratulate him on killing Sinwar and then talking about the
opportunity that Sinwar’s death now gives us, as I said earlier, in the
diplomatic space.  That was the main focus. 

Q    Do you have a better understanding, though, on timing and scope of
what they might do?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let the Israelis speak to their operations potential or
otherwise.

Q    You don’t have to tell me what they’re doing, but do you have a
good understanding of it?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m just — I’m not going to get into the specifics of
diplomatic conversations we’ve had with the Israelis, and I’m certainly
not going to talk about or speculate of any at all about their any
potential military operations. 

Q    How diminished are Hamas’s capacity right now?  How big a threat
are they, in your assessment?

MR. KIRBY:  Greatly diminished.

Q    You said they couldn’t do — like, is it enough that you think that
forces the peace?  Is that kind of the argument you’re making?

MR. KIRBY:  We believe that with Sinwar’s killing, not only has the main
obstacle to ceasefire negotiations been removed — and hopefully we can
get that restarted with him now no longer in the position he was to
block it — but also, as I said earlier, and I think it was in the
President’s statement, the military structure of Hamas has just been
nearly decimated.  They are absolutely incapable, as you and I are
speaking here today, of conducting another attack on the scale of
October 7th.  But as I also said a little earlier, they still exist as a
terrorist organization.  They’re still in Gaza.  They’re still holding
hostages.  And, yes, they still have some capability left to them. 

So there’s still a lethality to Hamas that just can’t be
underestimated.  But I couldn’t put a percentage on it for you, like,
you know, 70 percent diminished, 80 percent.  I don’t know that.  I just
know that they are a shadow of their former self right now.

Q    Mr. Kirby, about next month’s Ramstein meeting that President Biden
is going to chair, what do you expect?  What should we watch for at next
month’s —

MR. KIRBY:  The President is looking forward to hosting this Ramstein
Group at the leader level.  It’s going to be done virtually instead of
in person.  I’m certainly not prepared a month out to get into the
specific deliverables.  But as you have seen with every Ramstein Group
meeting in the past, there has been a set of deliverables for Ukraine
and Ukrainian security assistance by every — or not by every, but by
most nations who attend. 

You come to the Ramstein Group with the expectation that you’re all
going to talk collaboratively about how to improve Ukraine’s security
assistance.  So, I fully expect that you’ll see the United States come
to the Ramstein Group meeting, virtual though it is, with additional
commitments to Ukraine’s security.  What those are right now, I’m not in
a position to say.

Q    Would there be an answer, point by point, to a Ukrainian victory
plan, to Zelenskyy’s plan?

MR. KIRBY:  The purpose of the Ramstein Group, just to remind everybody
— the fancy name for it is Ukraine Defense Contact Group — is really
defense leaders coming together from all these 50-plus nations to pledge
security assistance commitments, and I would expect that that would be
the same approach for the next Ramstein Group. 

As I said, we’re still working our way through the victory plan; so are
many of our allies.  We’re still talking to President Zelenskyy about
it.  Whatever the peace looks like, as I said earlier, we want to make
sure that it meets President Zelenskyy’s and the Ukrainian people’s
expectations.

Q    Is there any pressure here from the Quad or from Scholz about what
America can deliver for Ukraine after the election but before Biden is
out of office?

MR. KIRBY:  I did not detect any discussion of that regard today, the
pressure from or a specific request from Germany for us to do, you know,
XYZ between the election and Inauguration Day.

What I will tell you and what we have told the Germans is that the
President has every expectation of fulfilling all our commitments under
the PDA authority that he has left for the rest of this year, this
calendar year.  And so, I think you just saw him announce another
drawdown package when President Zelenskyy was in town.  You’ll see those
still coming on a fairly regular, frequent basis as we get all the way
through the calendar year.

AIDE:  And we’re just running a little bit low on time.  Do you want to
take one or two from the virtual (inaudible) as well?

MR. KIRBY:  Let me take one more here, and then we can go virtual. 

Q    Have there been any outreach to partners in Egypt and Qatar about a
possible ceasefire?

MR. KIRBY:  As I said earlier, that process hasn’t borne any fruit for
many, many weeks.  And though I would love to sit here and tell you that
now that Mr. Sinwar is dead, the day after we’re back at the table — we
aren’t right now. 

What I would also add, though, is that we are — we have never stopped
having conversations with our counterparts in Qatar and Egypt about the
possibility of getting something started and that those conversations
are continuing. 

Q    Could I ask one last question?  How does the President view his
impact on transatlantic relations now with the last few —

MR. KIRBY:  The President is enormously proud of what his administration
and his team has been able to do over the last three and a half years to
improve transatlantic cooperation, transatlantic security, the
transatlantic relationships. 

I mean, NATO is now two countries bigger than it was when he took
office.  And it’s not just bigger.  NATO is more unified, more resolved,
more cooperative than it’s ever been.  You heard President Steinmeier
say the same thing today. 

So, there’s been an enormous impact on transatlantic security, and
obviously a lot of this has been in response to what Mr. Putin decided
to do in February of 2022.  But everything he wanted to do, he has
failed to do.  He did not fracture the West.  He did not fracture NATO. 
He did not take Kyiv in Ukraine. 

And as President Steinmeier said today, a large part of that is
President Biden’s personal leadership, his hand on the tiller of these
relationships. 

He has believed his whole public life, and he certainly has believed as
President, that while America is in many ways the most essential nation,
we are not the only nation, and that we need alliances and partnerships
to deal with these challenges, and that means being able to work
cooperatively and collaboratively with other nations, hearing them out,
listening to their perspectives, because that’s important.

AIDE:  All right, we’ll go to Nick Schifrin from PBS virtually.  Nick,
you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Thanks, Jess.  Thanks, John.  Sorry I couldn’t be there with you
guys.  Apologies in advance if my one-year-old interrupts my question. 

But two parts on Gaza.  As you’ve been pointing out, there hasn’t been
movement on a ceasefire, not that you guys haven’t been working on it. 
Is there an assessment yet that Hamas might choose a leader who can even
make a decision about a ceasefire going forward, whether they can choose
a leader in the near future?

And then, there’s always been a second pathway in terms of getting to
the day after for Gaza, which is working with Arab partners across the
region and creating some kind of security package and (inaudible)
transition to governance.  Can you guys make that progress regardless of
what Hamas does?  Is that possible?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, on your second question, I mean, we obviously hope
to.  It’s not by happenstance that the President mentioned day-after
planning and efforts in his statement last night.  That is something
that he has tasked Secretary Blinken to really take the lead on, and
Secretary Blinken and his team are working on that very hard.  We still
believe that even while the war goes on, we’ve got to make sure we’re
ready for that day after so that Gaza cannot be governed by Hamas but
can be governed by authorities, institutions that are answerable to the
Palestinians who live there and not to a terrorist organization. 

So we still very much believe in the possibilities there, and Secretary
Blinken is working that hard, including with, and even especially with,
our Arab partners.

On your first question, it’s, I think, just too soon for us to be able
to know, Nick, how Hamas is going to — from a leadership perspective,
how they’re going to respond to this, who they might anoint as Sinwar’s
successor, and what that individual may be willing to pursue one way or
the other, for good or for ill.  It’s just too soon for us to know.  And
I’m not aware of — I’m certainly not privy to any intelligence
assessments at this early hour that would give us insight into that. 

Q    And, sorry, just a quick follow-up.  Is there a version of progress
on a transitional security structure in Gaza that would be despite a
lack of hostage release?  Could you have progress on that without a deal
to end the war and release the hostages?

MR. KIRBY:  I would refer you to the State Department for that one.  I
mean, they’re really working this a lot harder than — well, they’re
working it very, very hard.  I just don’t have the insights on
everything that they’re doing.  I would — but — so it doesn’t sound like
I’m just brushing you off. 

As I said earlier, the killing of Sinwar underscores the keen sense of
urgency that we still have and must have to get a ceasefire deal in
place to get those hostages home.  That is the President’s primary
concern right now, is making sure we get them home, that we can get a
surge of humanitarian assistance in, that we get that ceasefire in
place.  That’s where his head space is.  Not that it’s not on the day
after.  Of course, he’s concerned about that as well, and he’s following
Secretary Blinken’s efforts.  But his main focus right now is on getting
that ceasefire deal and getting the hostages home. 

AIDE:  Thanks, Nick.  And then for our last question, we’ll go to Tom
Bateman for BBC.  Tom, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Tom, are you there?

Q    Can you hear me?

AIDE:  Now we can. 

Q    Can you hear me?

AIDE:  Yep.

Q    Okay.  Thanks, Kirby.  I just wanted to ask you about the dynamics
of negotiation now, because, clearly, Netanyahu is in a strengthened
position.  Hamas are in a weakened position. And it felt to me as though
the Israeli Prime Minister was redrawing some of his conditions
yesterday because he said that Hamas fighters who are holding hostages,
you know, could release hostages and get away with their lives.  That’s
quite a different exchange than the ceasefire deal suggests. 

And I just wonder if you think now — you talked a little bit about if
the negotiations start up again, where you start from — but presumably,
he would want to very much change the conditions now.  And I just wonder
what your assessment of what’s on the table now, the chances of that
still carrying through, what your assessment is of that.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, with the caveat that I won’t speak for the Prime
Minister, I don’t know that his comments yesterday necessarily connote a
move on the goal post when it comes to getting the hostages home.  I
mean, he’s absolutely right — as was the case two days ago, so is the
case today: that Hamas could simply release all the hostages right now,
do the right thing and let them go. 

And as the Prime Minister said before — you know, that would
dramatically hasten an end to the conflict if they just did the right
thing and let them go.  They shouldn’t be held in the first place. 

So the way we read that is he was restating what he has said many times
before.  We obviously don’t see any sign that that’s going to happen. 
Now, again, we’ll see what Hamas does and how they react to Sinwar’s
killing.  But no signs, as you and I are speaking right now, that that’s
in the offing, which is why the President made it clear last night on a
couple of occasions, and again today, that this moment of justice also
provides us a moment of opportunity to see what we can do to get those
hostages home and also to get a surge of humanitarian assistance in to
the people of Gaza who so desperately need it.

AIDE:  All right, that’s all the —

Q    Can I just ask one more quick one?  Sorry.  Given the threats on
former President Trump’s life and his campaign requesting military
planes, do you know if that request is actively under consideration, or
is that being ruled out?  I know that Jake told us yesterday that the
President tasked you guys with actually responding to any intel you get
on, you know, threats on —

MR. KIRBY:  Yes, of course we will respond to any intelligence and do it
appropriately and collaboratively with the campaigns, as we must. 

I am not going to get into the specifics of requests that may or may not
be coming in, and I’m certainly not going to talk about the specifics of
force protection or, in this case, protection given to former President
Trump.  I mean, that wouldn’t be appropriate for me to do. 

All I can assure you is that the guidance by the President is to make
sure that we are being as responsive as we humanly can to the security
needs of the of both candidates and, in this case, obviously former
President Trump.  We’re having regular conversations with him and his
team about what those needs are, and doing everything we can —
everything we can to be responsive to those needs.

Q    Is there any frustration on your end that this is sort of being
politicized by his team that you’re not doing enough?

MR. KIRBY:  I have the advantage of not having to get into politics one
way or another, so I’m going to just — I’m just going to let that one
go. 

All right.  Thanks, everybody.  Appreciate it.

9:21 A.M. EDT
