---
date: '2024-10-17'
modified_time: 2024-10-17 07:58:57-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-17 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/17/background-press-call-on-the-presidents-travel-to-berlin-germany/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on the President\u2019s Travel to Berlin,\_Germany"
---
 
Via Teleconference

4:11 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you, everyone, for joining us this
afternoon/early evening for our background call to preview the
President’s travel to Germany tomorrow. 

On the line with us tonight is \[senior administration official\].  He
has a quick topper for you all, and then we can go ahead and get to your
questions.  Again, if you have any questions, just please raise your
hand and we’ll call folks — or call on folks, as many as we can in the
time that we have today. 

All right, over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you.  And good afternoon,
everyone, and thank you all for joining us. 

So, tomorrow, President Biden will travel to Berlin, Germany, where
he’ll have a meeting with President Steinmeier and Chancellor Scholz
about the full spectrum of global issues that we’re working on together:
strengthening our militaries and shared security, bolstering our
economies and bilateral trade, and making our democracies more
resilient. 

Germany has been an incredibly close ally and partner over the past few
decades and has risen to the moment in the last three-plus years of this
administration.

On security, we’re working closely to advance not just our own bilateral
defenses, but also those of NATO Allies and partners.  As you well know,
Germany is host to one of the largest U.S. troop presences overseas.  I
believe it’s around 39,000 troops.  Germany is also Ukraine’s second
largest donor, after the United States, to Ukraine, including critical
security assistance and advanced capabilities.  And earlier this year,
Chancellor Scholz also announced that Germany had met for the first time
its NATO spending goal of 2 percent of GDP on defense. 

Economically, Germany is one of our most important trade partners and
the economic engine of Europe.  We have — last year, we had about $325
billion in two-way trade in goods and services.  This year, the United
States became Germany’s biggest trading partner, and the U.S. and German
industries are leading the world in strategic sectors such as climate,
infrastructure, health, advanced manufacturing, and transportation, as
well as contributing to energy security.

The United States and Germany also have very close people-to-people ties
and an enduring bond based on shared democratic values, and that’s
exemplified in the people-to-people ties, for example, through our
bilateral Fulbright Program, which brings students both to Germany and
to the United States in both directions.

Such close relationships with our friends and allies across the globe
matter, and they deliver for our people at home.  Germany was also
critical to securing the release earlier this year of 16 prisoners,
including Americans and Germans, from Russian and Belarusian custody, as
I said, earlier this year.  That took significant political leadership. 
And because of that concerted effort and, frankly, bold decision-making,
our citizens are home with their families and friends, and some of
Russia’s most important dissidents are now living free. 

So, President Biden’s visit this week is really a testament to this
partnership, and we’re looking forward to our conversations over the
next few days.  To this end, you can expect several announcements that
illustrate our unique, enduring relationship. 

The President will announce a new exchange program that builds on our
commitment to democracy and the democratic values that we safeguard. 
We’re also going to announce a new dialogue focused on aligning private
investment with emerging technologies — for example, artificial
intelligence. 

All of these announcements are, of course, grounded in the bond that the
U.S. and Germany share as friends and allies. 

And with that, I’m happy to take any questions that you might have.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  First up, we’ll go with Kayla from CNN.  Kayla,
you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Thank you so much, Jess.  And thank you, \[senior administration
official\], for taking my question.

First, I just wanted to ask, big picture, how the President is viewing
the significance of the trip in the context of the final months of his
presidency and also the choice that Americans have in three weeks at the
ballot box. 

And then second, I was just hoping that you could go into a little bit
more detail about the conversation that the European Quad will be having
on the future of the conflict in Ukraine, and whether you expect any
change of heart or change in policy from any of the allies as it regards
longer-range weapons into Russia or Ukraine’s victory plan that has been
presented to all of them.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay.  Thanks, Kayla.  So, in terms of
the partnership between President Biden and Chancellor Scholz, it’s been
a very, very close working relationship between the two leaders. 
President Biden feels he has accomplished a lot by working closely with
Chancellor Scholz on a range of issues, including especially the
response, I would say, to Russia’s brutal war of aggression against
Ukraine, but then also on a range of other issues, including U.S.-EU
relations, which were reset under this administration; working on
critical issues of trade and technology, of secure supply chains; the
complex issues that we’re dealing with currently in the Middle East;
security in the Indo-Pacific. 

There’s just a range of issues where we have worked very closely with
the current German leadership and especially with Chancellor Scholz.

And then also on key issues for President Biden.  You’ve heard him talk
about why he entered the race, why he wanted to run for office three and
a half years ago, and it was about building up America’s democratic
values and institutions, safeguarding those.  And we have had a
partnership with Germany that’s very strong on combating antisemitism,
combating xenophobia; promoting tolerance, promoting fundamental
freedoms, not just in our countries, but around the world; supporting
frontline democracies; building resilience in places like Moldova and
Ukraine, Armenia, Georgia. 

So the relationship spans a lot of different issue areas, and it’s
become very important.  So I think President Biden will be happy to be
able to thank Chancellor Scholz for the incredible partnership that
they’ve had over these last three and a half years. 

And then in terms of the Quad meeting, Quad leaders — meaning the United
States, the UK, France, and Germany — will have an opportunity to
discuss pressing global issues, including Ukraine, including the Middle
East. 

And as you know, President Zelenskyy has — he just had a call with
President Biden earlier today, and he has been talking about his plan
for victory.  He briefed his own parliament, the Rada, earlier today on
the elements of that plan. 

And as you know, when President Biden met with President Zelenskyy here
in Washington about three weeks ago, I think it was, they discussed in
detail the elements of the plan.  President Biden announced a surge of
$8 billion in additional military assistance for Ukraine.  Today, he
announced an additional presidential drawdown of $425 million.  It
includes Javelin anti-tank missiles, some air defense missile
capabilities, other ammunition and supplies that are critical to
Ukraine’s needs on the frontlines right now. 

So I have no doubt that the situation on the battlefield in Ukraine, the
trajectory of the war, how allies can best support Ukraine will be a
subject of conversation, as well as the Middle East and perhaps some
other topics as well. 

Q    But do you expect a change in policy as a result of any of these
conversations, given the fact that Ukraine has asked for longer-term
security guarantees and that Zelenskyy —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I don’t have any announcements on
changes in policy to make today.

MODERATOR:  All right, next up we’ll go to Jeff Mason with Reuters. 
Jeff, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Great.  Thanks very much.  Following up on that question, just
confirming that the leaders of Britain and France will come to Berlin
for this meeting.  So they will be meeting in person on these — on the
Quad issues?

And following up on what Kayla asked with regard to Ukraine, can you
just expand a little bit more on what you expect him to discuss on the
Middle East and the latest there?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So, you know, I don’t want to
get ahead of our German hosts who are organizing the meetings in Berlin,
but President Biden looks forward to having a conversation with other
leaders about the critical issues of the day, which obviously include
Russia’s war against Ukraine, the situation there; also the situation in
the Middle East, finding a sustainable diplomatic solution concerning
the conflict now between Israel and Lebanon; the situation in Gaza, of
course; the risk of escalation with Iran.  All of those are important
issues that I’m sure leaders will discuss.

Q    Do you not — forgive me — you’re not getting ahead of them.  You
just referred to his meeting with the Quad.  So I just wanted to clarify
so that we get it right in our stories that he’s meeting with the Quad
leaders when he’s in Berlin.  If not, I’m presuming you wouldn’t have
said that they’re meeting.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can tell you that there is a planned
meeting. 

Q    Okay, great.  And my second question had been on the Middle East.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I think I just answered your
second question.

Q    You got anything more on that?  I mean, can you give us more of an
update of what they intend to discuss?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, no, in advance of the meeting, I
think I just previewed the topics that they will discuss.  I can’t tell
you in advance exactly where the conversation is going to go, but it
will certainly include a discussion of, as I said, building a
sustainable diplomatic solution to the conflict.  That includes the
conflict between Israel and Lebanon, but then also escalation concerns
regarding Iran and the region, and then also the situation in
Israel-Gaza.  All of those are obviously interconnected in different
ways, and I’m sure the leaders will have a chance to discuss that in
detail and align their positions on the way forward.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Next up, we’ll go to Nick Schifrin with PBS. 
Nick, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Thanks, Jess.  Thanks very much, \[senior administration
official\].  Appreciate it.  Can I ask a specific question about the
victory plan?  Zelenskyy laid it out to the Rada pretty publicly
compared to in the past.  First point is an invitation for Ukraine to
join NATO.  It also talks about economic incentives, allowing the West
to invest in natural resources.  The fifth point is to replace some NATO
troops in Europe with Ukrainian troops.  And when Yermak gave a speech
about it at CFR, he specifically said it would also require the
unfreezing of Russian frozen assets. 

And I’m wondering if the U.S. supports those aspects of the victory plan
and the victory plan overall.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, what I can tell you is that there
is an active conversation about the different elements of the plan that
were laid out by President Zelenskyy.  He’s been having that
conversation with President Biden, both when he presented the plan a few
weeks ago and then again today in their phone call.  There are certain
elements that we are currently fulfilling in terms of providing
additional military capability, which is also an element of the plan.  I
referenced that earlier. 

There’s a discussion amongst NATO Allies about an invitation.  There is
not consensus at this time to offer Ukraine an invitation.  But as you
know, at the NATO Summit just, what, a couple months ago — in July,
mid-July — all 32 Allies affirmed that Ukraine is on an irreversible
path to membership.  So the question is about the tactics of how to
encourage that path and how to gain consensus on the next steps.

In terms of some of the other elements of the plan, you referenced the
discussion on critical minerals.  You know, I don’t know where other
nations will come out on this, but this is an issue that we’re engaging
on together with the other elements of the plan. 

So, some of these are obviously long-term things that Ukraine would like
to see in place over the course of many, many years, perhaps even
decades.  Others are more short term, especially in terms of some of the
military capabilities that they’re looking to secure for themselves
right now.  And some of that we are already, in fact, actively doing. 
And so, this is going to be an ongoing conversation. 

We want to — the bottom line for the United States and for President
Biden is that we want to put Ukraine in a position of strength.  We want
it to prevail in this war.  And we need to give it the capabilities that
it needs to do that.  But we cannot do that alone.  We need to do that
with our partners and allies, which is why President Biden had called
for a Ramstein Summit, or a leaders-level meeting of what is called
formally the Ukraine Defense Contact Group.  And we have postponed that,
and that will likely take place next month, in November.  I don’t have a
date to announce for you, but we are looking to hold that meeting next
month.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Next up, we’ll go to Josh from the AP.  Josh,
you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hi.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I was wondering if you could
speak to the timing of this meeting, given that it’s so close to the
election and that U.S. allies in the past have expressed concerns about
the stability of U.S. democracy, as President Biden himself has said in
speeches.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, as you know, the bilateral
meeting with Germany was planned a week ago, and the President had
intended to go then.  Obviously, we had Hurricane Milton come up as a
major hurricane, threatening a major city in the United States, in
Florida, and so the President had to postpone the trip.  And so, it’s
falling to this Friday. 

But, look, I expect that the President, both with President Steinmeier
and with Chancellor Scholz, will discuss the importance of democratic
values, which, as I mentioned at the top, is really at the root of our
bilateral relationship with Germany and where we both have invested
considerable amounts — I mean, not just talking financially, but
politically, diplomatically — in supporting other democracies around the
world, including in places like Ukraine and Moldova, which are really on
the frontlines and vulnerable in different ways but where both our
countries have invested an enormous amount.

And look — and both countries have also invested in strengthening
democratic institutions, election integrity, the fight against
misinformation and disinformation, and a range of other topics that are
similar.  So, I expect that this will come up, and I guess I’ll just
leave it at that. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Next up, we’ll go to Stefanie Bolzen.  Stefanie,
you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hello.  Can you hear me?

MODERATOR:  Yep, loud and clear.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can hear you just fine, yep.

Q    Okay.  Thank you very much for doing this briefing.  Both the U.S.
President and Chancellor Scholz, in their meetings since the war began
in Ukraine, have always been emphasizing how much both nations were in
lockstep confronting the war in Ukraine.  Now, the German Chancellor at
times has been very slow taking decisions in terms of military aid to
Ukraine.  Why do you think the U.S. President has been at times so
patient and understanding of the domestic situation of Chancellor
Scholz?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, you’re right that Germany and the
United States, and our other NATO Allies as well, have been in lockstep
in terms of supporting Ukraine, also in terms of imposing costs on
Russia through sanctions, export controls, and other measures, which is
an important part of the equation in terms of holding Russia accountable
and also helping Ukraine to strengthen itself and ultimately to prevail
in this war.

Germany has been a critical partner.  It has been the second largest
provider of military aid to Ukraine, after the United States, and has
provided a number of high-end capabilities, including tanks and other
artillery systems.  And so, it’s a very important relationship. 

We also have worked together to convince other allies and partners to
also step up in terms of not just the equipment that they provide to
Ukraine, but it’s also critically important right now that Ukraine is
able to train its new brigades for the frontlines, that Allies work
through this new NATO mission that was stood up as a result of the
Washington Summit here in July.  It’s called the NATO Support and
Training Assistance Ukraine.  Clumsy acronym, but that’s essentially a
mission that supports training coordination, equipping coordination,
force development, and logistics for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and
Germany and the United States. 

It’s located in Wiesbaden, in Germany, by the way, that mission.  And
it’s very important in terms of helping Ukraine with the support that it
needs to be able to defend itself against this brutal aggression. 

And then, Germany, as I said earlier, has also been critical in helping
to uphold consensus within the European Union in terms of sanctions. 
It’s an essential member of the G7 grouping, which, as you know, has
pledged to provide a 15 — excuse me — a $50 billion loan to Ukraine, an
accelerated revenue loan, which will function essentially as a grant for
Ukraine based on frozen assets from Russia that are held overseas.

And so, on any number of different issue areas, we have worked with
Germany to hold strong, support Ukraine, and push back on aggression and
those actors who would upend the rules-based international order.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you.  Next up, we’ll go to Anita Powell
with VOA.  Anita, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Thank you so much.  I want to pick up on talk of that $50 billion
loan and some of the conversations that European ministers are having
about that amid Hungary’s opposition to request it, to extend
sanctions. 

What role could President Biden play in these discussions?  What is he
going to advocate when he meets with these other four leaders on this
particular issue?

And then, just looking at the — you’d mentioned antisemitism.  Do we
expect any remarks, any events around that, especially since both
countries have seen a rise in antisemitic incidents?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so on the ERA, we’re continuing
to talk with all of our G7 partners about how to land this $50 billion
loan.  I’m confident that we will succeed.  There are a lot of
technicalities here in terms of assurances and in terms of coordination,
and those conversations are occurring within the European Union, which
has pledged to contribute up to — I believe it’s 35 billion euros, which
is approximately 39 billion dollars.  And then, the United States has
committed to doing its share as well. 

And so, those technical conversations are continuing, but I think
leaders will probably cover this in terms of the political will to make
this happen by the end of the year.  It’s very important that we get
this done soon.

And then, sorry, your other question?  Oh, antisemitism.  Yes. 

So, this is an area where the United States and Germany have worked very
closely.  I believe it’s the 20-year anniversary of the Berlin
Conference on Antisemitism, where we have worked in a variety of
different issue areas, from combating Holocaust distortion and denial,
combating antisemitic speech, and generally on literacy and education
around the Holocaust. 

So, you know, this is a very short visit on the ground, so I don’t know
that there will be an event that is specifically dedicated to this
issue, but it’s one that is very important to President Biden and one
that he has — that we have discussed with the German government over the
years and continue to do so.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you.  Next up, we’ll go to Selina Wang. 
Selina, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hi.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I just had a question.  Given,
you know, people have been talking about how the election is just a few
weeks away, how is the President going to address the possibility of a
change of administration and how that could impact relations with
Germany as well as U.S. policy in regards to both the conflict in the
Middle East and Ukraine?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, you know, I don’t really — in my
current role, I don’t really do politics.  Obviously, there will be a
change of administration no matter which way the election goes, but,
frankly, I don’t see that as a central talking point for the President
in his various meetings.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you.  And for our last question today,
we’ll go to Trudy Rubin with the Philadelphia Inquirer.  Trudy, you
should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Yes.  Thanks very much for doing this.  I want to ask something
about Ukraine.  Clearly, there is a tremendous sense of urgency in
Ukraine, with breakthroughs in the east by the Russians; 10,000 North
Koreans coming; bombing the grain route from Odessa to Istanbul. 

And on the Ukrainian side, there seems to be a feeling that if there
isn’t progress on the victory plan immediately, and especially before
the November 5th election, there is a real chance that Ukraine could
lose this war. 

So, I’m wondering if you can comment on whether the same sense of
urgency is felt in the White House and will likely be a factor in the
coming discussions in Germany, whether there is any sense that Ukraine
could lose this war, and if weapons aren’t delivered immediately or
sooner, there could be catastrophe. 

And just one last part of this question.  On long-range fires and U.S.
greenlighting them inside Russia, that is very high up on the victory
plan list.  And a discussion of an invitation to NATO is number one.  I
know you said there’s no announcement yet on change of policy, but do
you think those issues will be high up on the discussion list in
Germany?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, absolutely, there is a sense of
urgency in the White House, and coming from President Biden’s direction
at the very top, to do everything that we can to put Ukraine in a
position of strength and then ultimately to prevail in this conflict. 

And, look, I know that the situation on the frontlines, especially in
the Donbas, in Donetsk and Luhansk Oblast, at times is difficult, and
this may be one of those times, but we are surging capability precisely
to help Ukraine with this effort, as well as training and equipping its
new brigade so that it can hold those lines and hopefully reverse some
of the trajectory that we’ve seen, as I mentioned, in the Donbas. 

I mean, this is not just a war about Ukraine’s independence, its
sovereignty, its territorial integrity, and its democratic character,
although it is all of those things.  But above and beyond that, this is
about the world order.  It is about the principle that a stronger
country cannot just invade another country by force of arms, violate its
territorial integrity, violate the sanctity of its borders, and then
engage in, frankly, what we have seen — namely war crimes, crimes
against humanity on the ground, some of the most barbaric types of
assault on the dignity of civilians and combatants alike. 

So, there’s a lot at stake.  The urgency of the moment is certainly
appreciated, which is why the President is leading this effort to supply
Ukraine with the equipment that it needs and to, frankly, take seriously
all of the elements that are being proposed by the Ukrainians and to
work with them on a strategy to secure their victory in this war. 

President Biden wants Ukraine to win, and we’re going to resource this
effort appropriately.  And again, that’s why the President called for
this leaders-level meeting of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group, or
what’s been called the Ramstein Summit — and that meeting will be held
in the near future — to elicit the same sort of urgency and
contributions from some of our allies and partners so that we can
sustain this. 

And so, Putin knows that time is not on his side, that time is, in fact,
on Ukraine’s side, and that we will stand with Ukraine and give it what
it needs to prevail.  And so, that is very much at the top of the
President’s mind and, frankly, all of our minds here in the National
Security Council. 

Q    Could I just ask a very quick follow-up?  The United States has
promised, as I understand it — correct me if I’m wrong — two additional
Patriot systems to Ukraine, one at the NATO Summit and one since then
that was going to be refurbished.  Can you tell me whether either of
them has been delivered yet?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I am not going to get into the status
because I don’t have that at my fingertips, but we can follow up with
you.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Thanks, everyone, for joining today.  This is
all the time that we have.

As a reminder, this call is on background to a senior administration
official, and the contents of this conversation is embargoed until five
o’clock tomorrow morning. 

As always, if you have any follow-up questions, don’t hesitate to reach
out.  Looking forward to hearing from anyone who has questions.  Thanks.

4:39 P.M. EDT
