---
date: '2024-10-23'
modified_time: 2024-10-23 11:42:23-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-23 11:42:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/23/on-the-record-press-call-on-the-g7s-extraordinary-revenue-acceleration-loans-effort/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Call on the G7\u2019s Extraordinary Revenue Acceleration\
  \ Loans\_Effort"
---
 
Via Teleconference

9:09 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Good morning, everyone.  Thanks so much for joining today’s
call to discuss the G7’s Extraordinary Revenue Acceleration loans effort
for Ukraine. 

As a reminder, this call is going to be on the record, and it is
embargoed until its conclusion. 

The speaker on today’s call is Daleep Singh, who’s the White House
Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economics.  He’ll
have a few words at the top, and then we’ll take some of your questions.

With that, Daleep, I’ll turn it over to you. 

MR. SINGH:  Thanks, Eduardo.  Thanks, everybody, for joining. 

Since Russia’s invasion began over two years ago, the United States has
rallied the world to defend Ukraine’s freedom, leading a coalition of
allies and partners to surge security, economic, and humanitarian
assistance, while spearheading unprecedented efforts to impose costs on
Russia for its senseless aggression. 

At the G7 Leaders’ Summit in Apulia this June, the United States
proposed an idea to ensure Putin pays for the damage he’s caused in
Ukraine by committing we issue $50 billion in loans to Ukraine, backed
by the interest earned on the Russian sovereign assets we collectively
immobilized just after the invasion began.  We call these Extraordinary
Revenue Acceleration loans. 

Today, we’re announcing that of the $50 billion G7 commitment, the
United States plans to provide a loan of $20 billion.  The other $30
billion in loans will come from a combination of our G7 partners,
including the European Union, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Japan. 

To be clear, nothing like this has ever been done before.  Never before
has a multilateral coalition frozen the assets of an aggressor country
and then harnessed the value of those assets to fund the defense of the
aggrieved party, all while respecting the rule of law and maintaining
solidarity.  And as a result, Ukraine will receive the assistance it
needs now without burdening our taxpayers.

As we committed in June, the G7 will begin disbursing assistance for the
benefit of Ukraine by the end of this year so that we can meet Ukraine’s
urgent needs as we approach the winter, while sending an unmistakable
signal: The United States and its G7 partners will not fatigue.  We will
continue to use our creativity and collaboration to support Ukraine’s
fight for independence and sovereignty.  And tyrants are responsible for
the damages they cause, not U.S. taxpayers. 

It’s also a testament to this administration’s belief that
multilateralism is a force multiplier.  We couldn’t have done this by
ourselves.  The income used to repay these loans will be generated from
frozen Russian assets held in the European Union.  This is another
example of how Putin’s war of aggression has unified and strengthened
the resolve of G7 countries and our partners to defend shared values. 
It’s also a model for how we can rally our closest allies towards a
shared purpose while ensuring that each country contributes its fair
share. 

Let me give you a few more details, and then I’ll be happy to take your
questions. 

So, the United States will provide at least $10 billion of our loan via
economic support.  The World Bank recently established what’s called a
financial intermediary fund for Ukraine, which will be the vehicle
through which we will disburse U.S. loan proceeds for economic support
to Ukraine. 

The financial intermediary fund, or FIF, will be subject to robust
accountability and transparency measures, much like those used for
existing U.S. economic assistance to Ukraine. 

The United States also hopes to provide up to $10 billion

of our loan as U.S. military support, but our ability to do that relies
on Congress taking action before mid-December on certain legislative
changes that allow us to make loans for military support under the
contours of this broader G7 initiative. 

To be clear, either way, the U.S. will provide $20 billion in support
for Ukraine through this effort, whether it’s split between economic and
military support or provided entirely via economic assistance. 

In terms of next steps, the United States will now work with Ukraine to
sign loan agreements in order to execute the loan and begin disbursing
funds for the benefit of Ukraine before the end of this year.  More
details will be available at the conclusion of the G7 finance ministers
meeting later this week or early next.

Let me stop there and take your questions.

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  If folks have questions, please use the “raise your
hand” function on Zoom and we’ll turn to you. 

First up, we’ll go to Alan Rappeport.  You should be able to unmute
yourself.

Q    Hi.  Thanks very much, Daleep.  A couple things.  One, can we
expect a G7 statement today saying that this is fully done?  Because I
know, yesterday, Secretary Yellen said it was 99 percent done. 

And then, second of all, can you explain how the U.S. has gotten around
the need to appropriate any funds to account for the risk associated
with the loan?  I know there were concerns about the EU needing to
extend its sanctions renewal period, or something like that, to minimize
the risk.

MR. SINGH:  (Inaudible.)  (Audio muted) — from partners, if we had
sufficiently strong repayment assurances from the immobilized assets. 
And since the Leaders’ Summit, we’ve engaged in intensive diplomacy and
technical negotiations every day with our partners to secure the
strongest possible repayment assurances. 

Let me just mention a few.  Number one, the EU Council released a
statement at the end of June, and again in October, from all 27 EU heads
of state to keep Russia’s central bank assets immobilized until there’s
a just peace with a free and sovereign Ukraine and until Russia pays for
the damages it’s caused.  This represents an expansion of the G7
leaders’ commitment to the entire EU, including Hungary.

Number two, equal burden sharing.  So, the EU committed to provide at
least $20 billion in loans alongside the United States, which means the
Europeans have equal skin in the game and, therefore, fully aligned
incentives to keep the assets immobilized until we get fully repaid. 

Number three, we’ve worked with Ukraine on loan agreements under which,
at the conclusion of this war, Ukraine would use settlement proceeds it
receives from Russia towards repayment of these loans.

Number four, we’ve negotiated loan terms with our partners that further
reduces any fiscal risks to the U.S. taxpayer. 

And number five, history.  You know, the EU has had sanctions in place
against Russia for almost 10 years now.  Every six months, those
sanctions need EU unanimity to get rolled over for another six months. 
And, yes, there’s grandstanding and drama, but the EU has built a track
record of staying the course, and that adds to our confidence that
Russia’s sovereign assets will remain immobilized until Russia ends its
war and pays for the damages it’s caused. 

One last point, Alan.  I’m sorry to belabor this, but it’s a really
important question.  While we have found a way to move forward without
legal changes to the EU sanctions regime, we will keep pushing for those
changes to get made.

MODERATOR:  Alan, I think we had a little bit of trouble hearing the
first part of your question, if you could ask that again.

Q    Oh, sorry.  Yeah.  I think maybe — or maybe you were muted in the
first part of your response.  I was trying to understand if there was
going to be a G7 statement today and if this is fully done now.  I know
Secretary Yellen said it was 99 percent done yesterday.

MR. SINGH:  Oh, I’m sorry if you didn’t hear me.  You should expect
further statements today, both from the United States and from the G7.

MODERATOR:  Next up we’ll go to Victoria.  You should be able to unmute
yourself.

Q    Hi.  Thank you.  I just had a couple of questions.  First, I was
wondering if you could explain a bit the part you talked in the
beginning on the Congress contribution side of things.  What needs to
happen from Congress exactly for the $10 billion, the second half, to
come through the military aid part?  Is it a matter of using
appropriations that have happened already, different appropriations?  If
you could just explain that.  And just to clarify that if that doesn’t
happen, you could give the other ten through economic support.

And then, just a second question on the timing of things.  I’m just
wondering if you could talk us through how frontloaded you expect this
load to be, as in, you know, do you think over the next couple of months
we’re going to get a big chunk of it over to Ukraine?  Just the timeline
of the disbursements.  Thank you.

MR. SINGH:  Sure.  So, on the second part of your question, we expect to
disburse at least half of our $20 billion loan to the World Bank Trust
Fund this December, and possibly the entire amount. 

And this kind of gets to your first question: We do need authority from
Congress to raise the amount of foreign military financing we can
provide to Ukraine and also to make certain technical changes that would
allow us to split the loan in half between economic assistance and
security assistance.  And we’ll be having conversations with Congress
between now and December to assess those odds.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to Colby Smith.

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much.  I just wanted — a couple questions just to
follow up on — in terms of assessing the odds.  Did you have, kind of,
an initial assessment as it stands today?  And how do you kind of — do
you expect that support to come through?

And then, just more specifically on the economic support side of things,
can you just mention a couple of specifics there in terms of how you
expect this money to be used?

MR. SINGH:  Sure.  Thanks, Colby.  So, I just want to be clear: The only
question we’re talking about here is the split between economic
assistance and security assistance.  We’re going to provide $20 billion
either way.

But, you know, we’ll work with Congress over the next few months to
assess whether we can get sufficient authority through foreign military
financing loan guarantee authorities to provide half of our assistance
through military support. 

In terms of your question, Colby, on what kinds of projects could the
economic assistance support, you know, I would highlight a couple: 
Energy assistance.  So, we all know Ukraine is at risk of being plunged
into cold and darkness this winter.  Helping to fund the rapid repairs
that will be needed to stabilize the grid and also to provide passive
protection against drone attacks for substations and transformers. 
That’s an urgent priority that we hope this assistance can help meet.

There are a number of other initiatives that relate to Ukraine’s
infrastructure that can create the conditions for an eventual economic
recovery that we expect this fund can also support through World Bank
project support. 

And there are many other projects that we can assess, but those are just
a couple of examples.

MODERATOR:  And our last question will go to Daniel.  You should be able
to unmute yourself.

Q    Hi.  How are you doing?  Thank you for taking my question.  I
wanted to ask about any potential Russian reprisals.  I know that was a
large consideration when you guys were determining the mechanism for
these loans.  Are you guys expecting any kind of retaliation?  And do
you guys have any preparations for that, whether it be European assets
or American?  Thank you very much.

MR. SINGH:  Well, Russia has been expropriating assets, seizing assets,
really, from close to the beginning of its invasion.  So, nothing —
nothing new would change on that front if they continue to do so.

I would just make clear, though, that the revenues that we are using to
repay these loans, under European law, these revenues don’t belong to
Russia.  It’s actually contractual law. The interest earned doesn’t
belong to Russia but rather the custody in Belgium.  And so, we don’t
view this as a seizure of Russia’s assets, per se.

MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone.  Thanks for joining.  If there are any
follow-up questions, do reach out to us, and we’ll get back to you. 

As a reminder, this call was on the record, and the person you heard
from was Daleep Singh, Deputy National Security Advisor for
International Economics.  The embargo on this call is now lifted. 
Thanks again.

9:23 A.M. EDT
