---
date: '2024-10-21'
modified_time: 2024-10-21 18:39:08-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-21 18:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/21/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-33/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:06 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR: Hey, everyone. Thanks for joining. Kirby has a few words here
at the top, and then we’ll get started.

MR. KIRBY: Hey, everybody. Hope your week is off to a good start.

Building on the President’s trip to Germany and the solid, constructive
discussions he had, not only bilaterally with German leaders, the
President and the Chancellor, but also with the leaders of the European
Quad on Ukraine, Secretary Austin visited Ukraine today. As I’m sure you
saw, he announced that the President signed a new security assistance
package, which included more 155 artillery ammunition, as well as
105-millimeter ammunition, HIMARS ammunition, and additional Javelin
anti-tank systems.

As the President said as recently as late last month, the United States
is going to continue to surge assistance to Ukraine so that it can
prevail. Today’s announcement underscores that commitment. It shows our
resolve to continue getting Ukraine the support that it needs through
January.

Now, yesterday, I would also add, talking about Europe, Moldova held
both a presidential election and a national referendum on whether to
amend its constitution to support EU membership.

The results today indicate that Moldova has voted in favor of the
national referendum on EU membership, which is a historic step forward
in Moldova’s European integration. As for the presidential election,
President Sandu received more than 42 percent of the vote in the first
round, and this will head now to a runoff on November 3rd.

As I warned about last week, Russia has been working actively to
undermine Moldova’s election and their European integration. In the past
several months, Moscow has dedicated millions of dollars towards these
efforts. Now, Russia did not succeed. As the results demonstrate,
Moldovan democracy is strong, as is the will and desire of the Moldovan
people to advance toward European integration.

The U.S. remains a proud partner of Moldova, and we will continue to
stand with them as they endeavor to continue to protect their democracy
and, quite frankly, to reach the aspirations of the Moldovan people.

Now, lastly, tomorrow, President Biden will host Prime Minister Robe- —
I’m sorry, Robert Golob of the Republic of Slovenia for a conversation
in the Oval Office. This is the third Slovenian prime minister to visit
the White House and the first since 2006. It comes on the heels of the
historic prisoner swap that brought Americans and other human rights
activists and political dissidents home from Russian prisons earlier
this year.

The two leaders will discuss the full spectrum of pressing issues
confronting our two countries, including, of course, ongoing support for
Ukraine, energy security and cooperation, and a shared approach to the
Western Balkans.

With that, we can take some questions.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our first question will go to Aamer with the AP.

Q Hi. Thank you both. I wanted to ask about these classified documents
that went out in the ether, I guess, over — or recently, and that came
to light over the weekend. One, were these docs — is it understood
whether they were leaked or hacked?

And then secondly on that, how concerned does the episode make the
President about the security of classified info, both at the Pentagon
and within the intelligence community, particularly since we’re in this
moment of the Middle East conflict, the election just weeks away, and a
plethora of active foreign interference?

MR. KIRBY: Thanks, Aamer. We’re not exactly sure how these documents
found their way into the public domain. I know the Department of Defense
is investigating this, and I’m sure that as they work through that,
they’ll try to determine the manner in which they did become public. So
I’m just not able to answer your question whether it was a leak or a
hack at this point. We’ll let the investigation pursue its logical
course there.

We’re deeply concerned, and the President remains deeply concerned,
about any leakage of classified information into the public domain. That
is not supposed to happen, and it’s unacceptable when it does. So he’s
deeply concerned about that. And you can rest assured that he will be
actively monitoring the progress of the investigative effort to figure
out how this happened, and obviously he’ll be very interested in hearing
any mitigation measures and recommendations that come as a result of the
investigative efforts and how to prevent it from happening again.

Q Is it clear at this point — do you guys believe that — or have any
reason to believe that more documents could be forthcoming showing
sensitive intelligence?

MR. KIRBY: As we speak today, Aamer, the answer to that question is: No,
we don’t have any indication at this point that there’s an expectation
that there’ll be additional documents like this finding their way into
the public domain.

But — and the “but” here is important — we’re obviously keenly focused
on what happened here, learning how it happened, and preventing it from
happening again. And in the course of that work, that investigative
work, we’re certainly going to keep our antenna up and our eyes open for
any potential future disclosures.

But let me just come back to where I started before. At this time,
there’s no indication that we have a reason to suspect additional
documents of this sort finding its way into the public domain.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will go to Kayla with CNN.

Q Thank you so much. Can you guys hear me?

MR. KIRBY: Yes, ma’am.

Q Okay. Thank you. Admiral, I’m wondering, just on the on the documents
question, you know, if there’s been any communication between the U.S.
and Israel in the wake of the release of these classified documents, and
also, if there’s any expectation by the administration that their
release would impact the timing or the scope of any action that Israel
would end up taking.

MR. KIRBY: Well, I’ll let the Israelis speak to if, what, how, and when
they decide to take additional military action in response to Iran’s
October 1st attack. That’s really for them to speak to.

But on your sec- — on your first question, yes, of course, we’ve been in
communication with our Israeli counterparts about this public
disclosure.

Q And then, on the death of Yahya Sinwar, it’s now been several days,
and both the President and Jake Sullivan said last week that that they
hoped that it would be seen as an opportunity or an opening for new
discussions over a diplomatic resolution. I’m wondering if you could
just update us on any conversations regarding a diplomatic outcome in
Gaza, and then, in parallel, what you see as the opportunity for any
type of ceasefire in Lebanon.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, those are two very different questions.

On Gaza, of course in the wake of Sinwar’s killing, we have had
conversations with our Israeli counterparts about what the next steps
are here. And we have certainly expressed, as the President did
publicly, our strong desire to see what can be done to find a diplomatic
path forward here to get the hostages home. That remains a top priority
of President Biden. The Israelis understand that that remains a top
priority of the President. And again, we’ve had some initial
conversations in the wake of Mr. Sinwar’s killing, of course.

I cannot sit here today and tell you that negotiations are about to
restart in Doha or Cairo, or anywhere else for that matter. But, yes, we
have started to begin to think about it here and had some initial
conversations with our Israeli counterparts, as you would expect we
would, in the wake of that truly historic news.

On Lebanon, we continue to engage in intensive diplomacy to see what can
be done to try to find a path to a ceasefire between Israel and
Hezbollah. I think you know — at least, if you don’t know, I guess I’ll
tell you — Amos Hochstein is in Beirut, as we speak, to continue those
conversations to see what could be in the realm of the possible in terms
of trying to find a meaningful ceasefire between those two sides.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will go to Selina with ABC.

Q Hey, John. Thanks so much for doing this. I just wanted to follow up
on Kayla’s question a little bit. So, Biden said last Friday that he
knows how Israel plans to retaliate to the Iranian attack. So, does the
U.S. foresee this disrupting the Israeli operation in any way? And does
the President plan to speak with Netanyahu again about this?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t have a call with Prime Minister Netanyahu to preview
for you. They’ll speak, as they have and often do, at the appropriate
time.

And I’m not going to get any further — I do appreciate the follow up,
and I understand it, but I’m certainly not going to get into any public
speculation about what an Israeli response could look like if, in fact,
they decide to conduct one. That’s truly up to them to decide, and it’s
absolutely up to them to speak to it one way or the other, not coming
from the United States.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will go to Aurelia with AFP.

Q Hi, and thanks both. I have a question on northern Gaza. Can you
update us on the amount of aid that’s going in? Are you satisfied with
the steps that the Israelis have taken? Or do you, you know, expect them
to take more steps to get more aid into this territory?

MR. KIRBY: Well, the short answer to your question really is: Of course,
we want more done. We need to see much more aid getting into Gaza. You
mentioned the north. I would note that over the last few days to a week
there’s been — more than 120 trucks have made it into northern Gaza,
which is a good thing. It’s not enough, but it’s a good thing. We also
noted and welcomed the air drops that the UAE conducted over the last
couple of days, I think over the weekend. That also was helpful. But
much more needs to be done, and we’re going to continue talking to our
Israeli counterparts about that.

I mean, for instance, you know, there’s armed gangs at the Kerem Shalom
crossing. You know, there’s plenty of trucks that are waiting to get in
there, and they’re not able to get in there because of these armed gangs
and criminal groups that are stopping it. So we all have to take a turn
here and see what we can do to reduce that pressure down at Kerem Shalom
so that that aid can get in. More needs to be done. But, yes, we have
seen an uptick over the last few days.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will go to David Sanger with the
New York Times.

Q Thanks, John, for doing this. Two quick things for you. The first:
Just to follow up on the Iran answers, you’ve said several times now
it’s up to the Israelis to decide when and where and how they’re going
to strike. But when the President said “yes and yes” at the end of last
week to the question of did he know when they were going to strike and
where they were going to strike, is it reasonable for us to interpret
that statement as saying that he and Prime Minister Netanyahu have come
to some agreement, after the President’s quite public statements, about
not hitting nuclear and energy sites?

MR. KIRBY: I think, David, I’m going to preserve the conversations that
the President has with the Prime Minister and that we’ve had with our
Israeli counterparts about this particular topic.

The President was referring to his knowledge of what their intentions
were. And —

Q But I shouldn’t confuse that with an approval of what their intentions
were?

MR. KIRBY: Israel is a sovereign state. They get to decide for
themselves what they’re going to hit and how they’re going to hit it.

Q And I didn’t ask you whether they got to decide or not. I asked you
whether the President is now in agreement with them.

MR. KIRBY: I’m just not going to go beyond what the President said,
David.

Q Okay. And then, on the — one quick question on Russia. We’re, what,
two weeks and a day or two ahead of the election. At this point in 2018
and 2020, the U.S. had issued, through various means, specific warnings
to the Russians about non-interference. You may recall at one point they
used a channel; it was mostly used for nuclear communications. I think
that was 2018, if I remember right. Are you aware of any significant and
high-level specific warnings for Russia on election interference in
recent times?

MR. KIRBY: I think I would just say two things to that. Number one, we
know and we’ve made public what we know about Russia’s attempts to
interfere in this election. Now, the ODNI, as you know, David, puts out
regular reports out there. We make it public what we’re seeing and what
we know they’re trying to do. There’s an awful lot that we do to counter
those operations by the Russians. Some of that we talk about, some of
that we don’t.

I can tell you that we have made it perfectly clear to the Russians, in
numerous ways, how unacceptable we find these activities and how
strongly and staunchly we’re going to push back on them. I do not have a
specific — an additional specific, as you put it, high-level warning to
the Russians, except the only thing I would add is our concerns have
been made perfectly clear to Mr. Putin and to the Russian government.

Q Has that been by the President himself? Or you’re only aware of the
ones that (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY: The President has had no direct communications with Vladimir
Putin.

Q Great. Thank you.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will go to Robin Wright with the
New Yorker.

Q Thanks so much, John. I have a three-part question. First of all, have
you seen any efforts by Iran recently, after the deaths of Nasrallah and
Sinwar, to help its allies regroup, rearm, refinance? What has it been
doing in the background?

Secondly, there are media reports that Naim Qassem, who is Nasrallah’s
deputy, has moved to Tehran. Can you confirm that?

And third, the Iranian foreign minister met over the weekend with Hamas
leaders in Istanbul. Do you have thoughts on that? Do you have a sense
of what the goal was? Can you give us any insights? Thanks.

MR. KIRBY: Okay, there’s a lot there.

On your third question about the Istanbul meeting, Robin, I hope you’ll
let me take that question and come back to you. I don’t have any
insights to share on that. That doesn’t mean that we, at the NSC, don’t.
That just means me, Kirby, don’t. So we’ll take that question and try to
get you a better answer.

I don’t have anything on Nasrallah’s deputy going to Tehran. Nothing
like that. Again, I’ll try to take that question back to the team and
have them see if we’ve got a better answer for you than that. But I
wouldn’t have any insights or perspectives to share on that at this
time, except to say — and this kind of gets to your first question — it
wouldn’t come as a shock to any of us to see Hezbollah leadership, at
whatever level, staying in communication with Iran, and that would
include travel to Tehran, given the incredible support that Hezbollah
continues to get from Iran.

Now, you asked, specifically in the wake of his killing, have we seen
something demonstrable and tangible. Not that I have to speak to today,
except we’ve seen rhetoric out of the mullahs and out of the Supreme
Leader, and we certainly have seen no diminution of Iranian desire to
continue to support their proxies, whether that is Hezbollah, whether
it’s Hamas, whether it’s the militia groups in Iraq and Syria, or, quite
frankly, whether it’s the Houthis. There’s been no indication that Iran
has changed its calculus and is somehow pulling the plug on the support
to these groups.

Now, whether there’s something, again, demonstrable that we’ve seen
since his killing, I’d have to go back and ask the question, but I don’t
believe that we’ve seen any significant change one way or the other.

Q John, can I just follow up quickly and ask you to take that question
to see if Iran is doing anything with Hezbollah, Hamas, the Houthis, the
PMF? Is it doing anything in the background, including, you know, urging
the PMF to — or Kata’ib Hezbollah to go after Americans? I’m trying to
see if there’s anything that the Iranians are doing in response to
what’s happened over the last few weeks.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, no, I get the question. I’m happy to take it. I will
caveat this by telling you that they’re — you know, that some of what
we’re seeing — what we see may or may not be suitable for public
disclosure, but I’m happy to take the question and come back to you.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will go to Anita with VOA.

Q Hello, John. Hope you’re well. Thank you for doing this. Okay, I have
a Russia-Ukraine omnibus question, but before I get to it, I just want
to check in: Any White House reaction to the death of Turkish cleric
Gulen in the U.S.? Does this change anything between Washington and
Ankara? Any communications, anything you want to say about that?

MR. KIRBY: Nothing at this time.

Q Okay. Let me move on to Russia-Ukraine. So, what response should we
expect from the U.S. and allies amid these reports that Russia has North
Korean soldiers working with them in Ukraine? Could this prompt either a
surge in military assistance or an easing of the restrictions on
Ukrainian use of long-range weapons?

And then, relatedly: As you know, Vladimir Putin is hosting the BRICS
Summit this week. BRICS has not had a shortage of membership requests in
recent years. What does this mean to you about whether trying to make,
you know, Russia a pariah? Has that worked? Is that stance effective
anymore? And what message is this sending to China that seems to think
it can, you know, do whatever they want and not face any consequences?

MR. KIRBY: Who can do whatever they want and not face consequences? You
cut out there.

Q Yeah. Sorry about that. I was asking what message this sends to China
that it could continue to, you know, act however it wants but not face
any consequences or lose any friends, more accurately.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah. Well, I mean, I think — I mean, I’ll work backward
here. I don’t think the PRC has ever gotten that message. I mean, we’ve
been none too shy about making our concerns known to the PRC, with
respect to the fact that Chinese companies have provided components and
elements to Russian weapons systems in the defense industrial base. And
we’ve sanctioned them. We have had very frank conversations with Chinese
leaders, including Jake with his counterpart, and the President and
President Xi, about even that level of support to the Russian military.
So, I think our message to the PRC has been clear and consistent and
remains so.

On the BRICS, you know, I don’t think that you should look at this BRICS
conference as some sort of coming-out party for Mr. Putin and for
Russia. First of all, the BRICS as an organization isn’t new, and we’ve
long said, you know, these countries — every country gets to make
sovereign decisions about who they associate with and in what format.
And, you know, we don’t view the BRICS arrangement as some sort of, you
know, threat. These countries can decide for themselves who they want to
associate with and especially how they want to be economically linked
with one another.

Russia is increasingly isolated on the world stage. There’s no question
about that. Mr. Putin is still having to take radical steps to prop up
his currency and to keep his war economy going, and he continues to have
to take drastic steps to try to keep an army in the field and to try to
achieve even a modicum of success on the battlefield. That includes
continuing to get drones and drone technology from Iran, artillery
rounds from North Korea, and now these reports about North Korean
soldiers deploying to Russia.

So, that’s your first question, and I’ll just — I’ll end with that.
We’re obviously continuing to look into those reports, and we’re talking
to our allies and partners about what they’re seeing on this as well. If
it’s true that the DPRK soldiers are going there to join the war against
Ukraine, it would certainly mark a dangerous and highly concerning
development. I talked about that last week.

And as I said, we’re consulting allies and partners, and I think we plan
to lay out in coming days what we’re seeing on this and lay out a little
bit more about the consultations we’re having with partners.

But I also think — and this kind of gets to your second question — we
also need to look at this for what it also is, and that is another
demonstration of Putin’s growing desperation and his growing isolation
that he’s got to reach out to North Korea for potential — potential — as
I said, we’re looking into the reports — potential infantry support to
his ground operations. There’s no question about it that his forces
continue to suffer an extraordinary amount of casualties on the
battlefield. As I said last week, you know, the estimate we have now is
more than a thousand — actually, more than 1,200 — per day. And that is
a truly historic amount of soldiers killed and wounded in this fight,
all to accomplish a warped and twisted idea of his about Ukraine’s
ability to exist as a sovereign state.

So I come back to what you said — your second question about, you know,
what does this say about Russia’s isolation. I think all of this says
and proves the point that Mr. Putin is increasingly desperate and
increasingly isolated on the world stage.

Q John, I just want to thank you for keeping up with that question. That
was very impressive. Thank you very much.

MR. KIRBY: This time I took notes.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will go to Laura Kelly with The
Hill.

Q Hi. Thank you so much for taking my question. Speaking to Moldova’s
election, you said that Russia did not succeed, although it’s not
necessarily viewed as black and white. While Russia was likely pushing
for a “no” vote on the referendum, the result of such a slim margin
makes it harder for the Moldovan government to put resources toward EU
integration, and this is likely in Russia’s favor.

So, in Russian interference efforts ahead of the runoff election are
likely to continue, you know, what lessons is the U.S. learning about
Russia’s power to sway elections? And is the U.S. doing anything more or
different to help the Moldovan government combat Russia election
interference?

MR. KIRBY: We’re in touch with the Moldovans every single day, and that
includes this day, about the vibrancy, the vitality of their democratic
institutions and their electoral process.

And, yes, we know there’s a runoff coming, and we have every expectation
that the Russians are going to want to try to affect that runoff. So
we’re going to continue to work with the Moldovans in ways, public and
non-public, about how they can improve their resiliency to that kind of
influence.

And I think I stand by what I said before: Russia was not successful.
They did not want to see the Moldovan people strive for or get a
referendum that approved EU integration. And that’s what happened. I get
that it was a slim margin. I have no doubt in my mind, and none of us
here do, that the Russians tried to contribute to the “no” vote. Now, to
what degree, I couldn’t quantify how successful they were in terms of
the overall percentage of the “no” vote, but we know they were pushing
really, really hard to affect it.

Bottom line is it didn’t pass. And what did succeed was a “yes” vote on
EU integration, and we think that’s an important step forward, and we
think that that absolutely reflects the aspirations of the majority of
the Moldovan people.

But nobody is sitting back crowing on this. Nobody is doing touchdown
dances here. There’s a runoff coming, and we got to make sure we
continue to work with the Moldovans to ensure that that runoff is done
in a way that respects and is appropriate to the aspirations of the
electorate in Moldova.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our final question will go to Neria with Israel
Channel 13.

Q Hi. Thank you so much, Sam. And thank you, Kirby, for doing that. I
wanted to ask — you talked about talking to the Israelis about a
possible solution for Gaza the day after Sinwar. Do you think — does the
White House consider an international force controlling Gaza for a while
until things would settle down?

MR. KIRBY: I’m not going to get ahead of where we are right now, except
to say Secretary Blinken has been working on day-after options for
months and months now. And I don’t — you know, we haven’t reached any,
you know, final options on what a security footprint could look like in
Gaza, how it would be comprised, where it would be deployed, who would
run it. We just haven’t come to conclusion on those kinds of options.

But clearly, the people of Gaza, when this war is over, should have
every right to seek peace and security and a way to go about their lives
where they don’t have to worry about those lives being shattered by
violence.

And so, there’s going to have to be a security footprint here and a
security component to whatever the day after looks like. It’s just that
we’re still working our way through that with not only the Israelis, but
with our Arab partners. And I would go so far as to say we’re also
working that through with Mahmoud Abbas and the Palestinian Authority as
well.

Q Great. Thank you so much.

MR. KIRBY: Yes, ma’am.

MODERATOR: Thank you. And unfortunately, that’s all the time we have
today. As always, if we weren’t able to get to your questions, reach out
to the press distro, and we’ll get back as soon as we can. Thanks.

12:36 P.M. EDT
