---
date: '2024-10-04'
published_time: 2024-10-04 16:57:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/04/press-briefing-by-president-biden-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-economic-adviser-lael-brainard/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by President\_Biden, Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, and\
  \ National Economic Adviser Lael\_Brainard"
---
 
2:06 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, folks.  My name is Joe Biden.  (Laughter.)

Q    Welcome to the briefing room.

Q    Welcome, Mr. President. 

Q    We’ve been waiting for you. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Welcome to the swimming pool.

Q    Finally.  This is — this is great.

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, look, folks, good afternoon.  The past two days
have gotten some — we’ve gotten very good news about the American
economy.   
  
Just yesterday, shipping carriers, after some discussion, and the
International Longshoreman’s Union came to an agreement to keep their
ports in the East Coast and Gulf ports open.  We averted what could have
become a major crisis for the country.  And a tentative agreement, which
includes record wage increases for dockworkers and shows the importance
of collective bargaining and represents, I think, critical progress
toward a strong contract. 

I especially want to thank the carriers, the port operators, and the
longshoreman’s union for reaching this agreement at a time when the
nation has experienced such terrible devastation from Hurricane Helene. 
It was truly a service to the American people for all the parties to
come together and to respond to our request to keep the ports open. 

I was determined to — to avert a crisis at this moment, because it’s a
critical moment.  If we didn’t do this now, we’d have a real problem.  

I also want to thank my White House team for the work — they worked
around the clock to bring the parties together. 

But, today, I — we got more incredible news.  Although the strength of
the American economy is a — it’s about the strength of the American
economy.  The new jobs report, as you all know and you’ve been
reporting, created 250,000 jobs in September.  The expectation was for
150,000 jobs in September, which is — far exceeds that number.  Not only
the previous two months — but not only that, the previous two months was
revised up 150,000 — 75,000 jobs. 

And from the very beginning, we were told time and again that the
polices we were pursuing — we’d put forward weren’t –weren’t going to
work, make things worse, including some of the other team who are still
saying they’re going to make things worse.  But we’ve proven them wrong.

You know, we were told our American — we’ve — we were told our American
Rescue Plan was too big and it would crowd out private investment.  We
proved them wrong.  It vaccinated a nation and got immediate economic
relief to people in need. 

When I came to office determined to end trickle-down economics and to
grow the economy from the middle out and the bottom up — I know you’re
tired of hearing me say that over and over again, but that was the
policy; it remains the policy — because when you do that, everyone does
well.  When the middle class grows, the nation is stronger.  And the
nation is stronger when there is a strong union movement as well. 

We were told it wouldn’t work, but I was also determined to do what was
ignored for much too long.  Presidents have been authorized since the
‘30s to be able to spend the money given by Congress — to spend the
money on hiring American workers and using American product where they
were available.  And that’s what we did.  

We were told that was going to be a big problem, but all the money we —
I was authorized to spend by the Congress has gone to building a mi- —
to — gone to hiring American workers and using American products.  We
were told it wasn’t going to be — I — we were told that was going to be
a big problem, but it’s working. 

We were also told that our historic laws to invest in America and all
Americans would crowd out private-sector investment.  Well, that was
proven wrong too.

We’ve attracted nearly $1 trillion since we’ve come to office in
private-sector investment from domestic and foreign companies investing
in America — in America.  And not this stuff with sh- — shipping jobs
overseas for cheaper labor and bringing back a product to America. 
We’re building it here and sending it overseas.  And look at the results
across the board.

Unemployment is back down 4- — to 4.1 percent.  And every month f- —
that Vice President Harris and I have been in office, we’ve been —
there’s been — we’ve created jobs every single month. 

The nation has now created 16 million jobs since I’ve come to office,
more jobs created in a single presidential term than at any time in
American history. 

Our GDP shows our economy grew at — at 10 percent under my
administration.  Unemployment reached the lowest level in 50 years. 

We were also told inflation couldn’t come down without massive job
losses or sending the economy into economic recession.   
  
Once again, the outside experts were wrong.  Inflation has come way
down.  Wages have gone up, growing faster than prices.  The interest
rates are down.  A record 19 million new business applications have been
filed for.  The stock market continues to reach new heights. 

We’ve got more work to do though to keep getting — keep — to keep
getting prices down, like more affordable housing, extending what I’ve
done for seniors and lowering prescription drug costs by letting
Medicare negotiate the prices — make sure that’s available to everyone. 

And, by the way, what we’ve done so far — just what we’ve brought down
the prices for seniors under Medicare, it saved the taxpayers billions
of dollars — billions of dollars.  Saved the taxpayers billions of
dollars.  That’s important to note because they don’t have to pay the
exorbitant and ratio- — irrational prices that these companies are
charging.

The simple fact is we’ve gone from an economy in crisis to literally
having the strongest economy in the world.  And — but we got — we — we
got more work to do.  We’ve got more work to do to deal the — the things
I’ve just mentioned.  And we’re going to have to deal with unforeseen
costs of what this — this hu- — this hurricane is going to cost.  It’s
going to cost a lot of money, and I’m going to probably have to ask the
Congress before we leave for more money to deal with some of those
problems, but that remains to be seen. 

I’ll take a few questions before I turn it over to —

Q    Mr. President —

THE PRESIDENT:  You pick out the questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  Yes, sir.  (Laughter.)  Yes, sir. 

Go ahead, Josh. 

Q    Thanks again for doing this, Mr. President.  Two questions.  The
first, Florida Senator Marco Rubio described today’s jobs report as
having “fake numbers.”  What do you make of that?  And how worried are
you that many Americans are hearing that the jobs numbers aren’t real? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Look, I’m going to be very careful here.  If you notice
anything the MAGA Republicans don’t like, they call “fake.”  Anything. 
The job numbers are what the job numbers are.  They’re real.  They’re
sincere.  They’re — what we are. 

But — and, by the way, just look at how the EU talks about us, how
they’d like to have an economy like ours.  Let’s talk about the rest of
the world looks at us and what we’re doing.   
  
So, I — well, I don’t want to get going.   
  
Q    And — and then, secondly, could you clarify some of your comments
yesterday with regard to strikes on Iranian oil facilities?  What did
you mean by them, given some of the reactions we’re seeing in the
market?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, look, the Israelis have not concluded how they’re
— what they’re going to do in terms of a strike.  That’s under
discussion.  I think there are — if I were in their shoes, I’d be
thinking about other alternatives than striking oil fields.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Thank you so much, Mr. President, for being
here. 

This week, Senator Chris Murphy said, “It’s certainly a possibility that
the Israeli government is not going to sign any diplomatic agreement
prior to the election,” which is what you have been calling for for so
long, “potentially to try to influence the result.” 

Do you agree?  Do you have any worries that Netanyahu may be trying to
influence the election, and that’s why he has not agreed to a diplomatic
solution?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No administration has helped Israel more than I have. 
None.  None.  None.  And I think Bibi should remember that. 

And whether he’s trying to influence the election, I don’t know, but I’m
not counting on that.

  
Q    You’ve said many times recently that you want to speak to him, that
you plan to —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, I didn’t say “plan to.”  I didn’t say “want to.”  
  
Q    You don’t want to?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, I didn’t say that.  You’re making it sound like I’m
seeking an inv- — speak- — I’m assuming when they make their judgment of
how they’re going to respond, we will then have a discussion.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Selina.

Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President, for being here.  What are you advising
the Israelis to do in terms of their retaliation to Iran?  And at this
point, you still haven’t spoken to Netanyahu.  Is it fair to say that
you have little personal influence over what he decides to do?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No.  Look, our — our teams are in contact 12 hours a
day.  They’re constantly in contact.  I’ve already had my presidential
daily brief.  We’ve already had interface between our military, our —
the diplomats.  It’s in constant contact.   
  
They are trying to figure out — this is High Holidays as well.  They’re
not going to make a decision immediately.  And so, we’re going to wait
to see what they — when they want to talk.   
  
Q    But over the past few months, they’ve consistently defied your
administration’s own advice.  So, do you believe that the Israelis are
going to listen to the advice you’re giving them?

  
THE PRESIDENT:  What I know is the plan that I put together received the
support of the U.N. Security Council and the vast majority of our allies
around the world as a way to bring this to an end.   
  
One of — look, the Israelis have every right to respond to the vicious
attacks on them not just from the Iranians but from the — everyone from
Hezbollah to the Houthis to — anyway.  And — but the fact is that they
have to be very much more careful about dealing with civilian
casualties.

  
Q    So, how should they respond?  You expressed concerns about attacks
on Iranian oil facilities.  How should they respond?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  That’s between me and them.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  We got to move on.  Go ahead, Tam.  
  
Q    The election is a month away.  One, I’d like to know how you’re
feeling about how this election is going.  And then, also, do you have
confidence that it will be a free and fair election and that it will be
peaceful?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Two separate questions.  
  
Q    Very much.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m confident it’ll be free and fair.  I don’t know
whether it will be peaceful.   
  
The things that Trump has said and the things that he said last time out
when he didn’t like the outcome of the election were very dangerous. 

If you notice — I — I noticed that the vice-presidential Republican
candidate did not say he’d accept the outcome of the election.  And they
haven’t even accepted the outcome of the last election.  So, I’m — I’m
concerned about what they’re — what they’re going to do.

  
Q    Are you making any preparations?  Getting security briefings
related to domestic security?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I always get those briefings.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  We got to move on.  Go ahead, Akayla.  And
we have — do a couple more.  
  
Q    Hi.  Hi, Mr. President.  When are you considering imposing
sanctions on Iran?  And would you include oil in those sanctions?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  That’s som- — that’s be- — that’s under consideration
right now, the whole thing.  I’m not going to discuss that out loud.  
  
Q    And just on your comments yesterday on the port strike.  You said
by “the grace of God,” it’s going to hold.  Is there any reason you
think that this —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, there’s more to do.  
  
Q    — this temporary suspension —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  It’s a month from now, and there’s more to do in terms
of everything from the whole notion of me- — me- — excuse me —
mechanization of the ports and the like.  There’s more to more to re- —
more to resolve.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Danny.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thank you, Mr. President.  Last night, you said
that there’s still a lot to do to avoid an all-out war in the Middle
East.  I mean, firstly, aren’t we pretty close to that definition
already?  And — and, secondly, what — what can you really do to stop
that happening?

  
THE PRESIDNET:  There’s a lot we are doing.  The main thing we can do is
try to rally the rest of the world and our allies into participating,
like the French are, in — in Lebanon and other places to tamp this
down.  And — but when you have proxies as irrational as Hezbollah and
the Houthis and — it’s a — it’s a hard thing to determine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Toluse.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’ve got to go, kid.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I know.  (Laughter.)  He’s telling me, “I got
to go.”  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I said I’d take a couple questions.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.   
  
Q    We’ll take (inaudible) —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re the la- — you’re the last one, Toluse.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I think she’s decreasing her credibility.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    First — first time in four years; you have to take some more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Toluse, you’re going to be the last one.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Thank you for — for spending some time
here with us.  There have obviously been a number of crises that the
country has been facing over the past several days with the hurricane,
with port strike, with the situation in the Middle East.  Can you talk
about how your vice president, who is running for the presidency, has
worked on these crises and what role she has played over the past
several

days?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, she’s — I’m in constant contact with her.  She’s
aware of where — we all — we’re singing from the same song sheet.  We —
she helped pass the l- — all the laws that are being employed now.  She
was a major player in everything we’ve done, including passage of
legislation, which we were told we could never pass.  And so, she’s been
— and her — her staff is interlocked with mine in terms of all the
things we’re doing.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, sir.  Thank you, sir.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s up to you, sir.  (Laughs.)  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Totally up to you, sir.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  All right.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Go
ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, Nandita.  Nandita.  
  
Sir — sir — no.  No.  Sir — I didn’t call on you, sir.  I didn’t call on
you.  Nandita.  
  
Q    Pope Francis is calling for a day of —

Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nandita.   
  
Q    — prayer —  
  
Q    Mr. President —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go, Nandita.

  
Q    — and fasting.  What’s —  
  
Q    Mr. President —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  On Pope Francis —  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  — calling for a day of prayer and fasting —  
  
Q    A day of prayer and fasting this Monday, October 7th.  You
reaction, sir?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I will prayer and fast.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  That’s —

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Mr. President, what is acceptable to you in terms of Israel’s
response?  How long are you okay with Israel bombing Lebanon?  What is
acceptable to you?

Q    Mr. President —

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, guys.  That’s it.  Thank you, everybody. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, Mr. President.  Thank you, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, every- — thank you, sir.

Q    Mr. President, on Ukraine.  Have you made a decision on long-range
weapons?

Q    Do you re- — want to reconsider dropping out of the race?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m back in.  (Laughter.)

Q    What made you want to come here today, Mr. President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, everybody.

Q    Thank — thank you, Mr. President.

Q    Thank you. 

Q    Please come back. 

Q    Thank you, Karine.

Q    Karine, can we do that again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  (Laughter.)

You hear- — you heard I was already told that.  (Laughs.) 

Q    So, that’s why we were late? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, are we always on — any — always on time? 
(Laughter.)  I — I could call myself out for that.

All right, everybody.  Thank you so much.  Thank you, Mr. President.

Okay.  So, this week, the United States has faced a — a number of
competing challenges, from tensions in the Middle East, to a port strike
that threatened our nation’s supply chains, to a historic hurricane that
washed away entire communities.

Moments like these underscore the importance of American leadership and
resolve, and they show what is possible when we come together.

Under the leadership of President Biden and Vice President Harris, we
were able to successfully protect our allies, ensure the viability of
critical supplies, stand up for good-paying union jobs, and get
resources to people impacted by the storm in North Carolina and beyond.

In the Middle East, the president showed that our ironclad support for
Israelis’ security is not just a talking point; it saves lives.  Prior
to Iran’s attack on Israel, the president convened his national security
team in the Situation Room to monitor developments in real time, ensure
we were prepared to assist in Israelis’ defense, and protect U.S.
personnel in the region.

Under the president’s leadership, the United States successfully
defended Israel an- — from Iran’s missiles, standing shoulder to
shoulder with the people of Israel.

On the home front, the president and his team brought union workers,
ocean carriers, and port operators to the table to — successfully to
resolve a strike that threatened U.S. supply chains and the economic
progress this president has made to lower prices for the American
people.

And in the Southwest United States — Southeast, pardon me, United
States, the administration pre-positioned 1,500 federal personnel, along
with critical resources like food, water, and fuel, to ensure that
communities in the path of Hurricane Helene were prepared ahead of the
storm. 

Now, we are getting more resources into the hardest-hit communities
every day, and we have provided over $45 million directly to individuals
and families to help them recover.

And a wide range of bipartisan officials, including the governors of
every affected state, are working together with us and have praised the
federal response. 

These response- — responses underscore why leadership matters.  The
president’s leadership in this moment helps to save lives, pra- —
protect critical alliances, and ensure that our economy remains strong. 
But more importantly, it proves that nothing is beyond America’s
capacity when we do it together.

And really quickly, because I know you all a- — asked for this.  This is
the week ahead.  Next week, the president will travel to Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, to discuss his administration’s work to replace lead pipes in
the state and across the country through the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law.  This law is investing historic resources into our communities and
creating good-paying jobs.

The president will also be traveling to Philadelphia for a campaign
engagement. 

He will also travel to Germany and Angola to underscore the enduring
strength and importance of two strategic bilateral relationships in
addressing a comprehensive range of global stra- — challenges.  The
value of strong alliances and partnerships in the defense of freedom and
democracy has never resonated more in Europe, Africa, and beyond.

President Biden has made revitalizing our international alliances and
partnerships a key priority, recognizing that today’s challenges require
global perspectives and shared responses.

Those are the details I am able to share with — for now, but certainly,
we will have more in the upcoming days. 

And finally, n- — finally, we have Lael Bran- — Brai- — Brainard —
(laughs) — our national economic adviser to the president.  She’s going
to provide more information on how the president helped reopen our
ports, as well as the strong job market economy report that we saw
today, showing that more than 250,000 jobs this — this September under
the president — President Biden.

MS. BRAINARD:  Well, thanks, Karine.  And it’s good to see everybody
today.

It is a good day for American workers and families.  We saw more than
250,000 new jobs created in the month of September.  We saw unemployment
back down to 4.1 percent at a time when inflation is back down to
pre-pandemic levels.

The East Coast and Gulf ports are opening back up, and dockworkers are
getting back to work on the basis of a strong tentative agreement on
wages and a contract extension between the International Longshoreman’s
Association and the United St- — States Maritime Alliance.

Just a week ago, the negotiation had totally stalled out.  The union and
employers had not spoken to each other for months.  The last time a wage
offer had been put on the table was in the middle of 2023.

The president and the vice president directed us to get the parties back
to the table to reach a good deal.  We worked around the clock to help
them find common ground. 

And the president was clear throughout that process on three things: We
needed to get the union and the employers back to the table on the basis
of a strong progress on wages so nothing would get in the way of
hurricane recovery; Taft-Hartley was off the table because collective
bargaining works; and workers should share in the large profits of the
ocean carriers, particularly after those dockworkers sacrificed so much
to keep goods moving for the American public during the pandemic.

And as a result of the hard work that I undertook along with Secretary
Buttigieg, \[Acting\] Secretary Su, a number of people in the White
House.  We are seeing dockworkers get a fair share of the industry’s
record returns.  We’re seeing ports opening so consumers and businesses
can get what they need.  And we don’t expect to see any effects on our
economy or for consumers, businesses, and farmers because we have strong
supply chains that we built in the wake of the pandemic. 

The president and the vice president have consistently supported the
collective bargaining process.  When employers and workers come to the
table, they find a good outcome. 

That’s a vastly different approach from previous administrations that
might have busted unions and rolled back worker protections. 

And finally, I would simply say that the data that we’re seeing, the
data we saw last week confirms that our economy is delivering for
workers. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  I’m going to take a couple of questions. 

Go ahead, Selina.

Q    Thank you so much for being here.  Would you say at this point that
the U.S. has achieved a soft landing?  And if not, at what point will we
be there?

MS. BRAINARD:  Yeah, I would say that, look, we have seen unemployment —
the lowest average unemployment rate of any administration in 50 years,
and we have seen inflation come back down to pre-pandemic levels. 

That is exactly the kind of growth that you would want to see.  Growth
has actually been revised up.  It’s been above 3 percent over the last
year, and we’re continuing to see very resilient consumers.  So, yes,
that’s exactly the kind of Goldilocks results that you would want to
see.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Josh.

Q    Thanks again for doing this.  If I could ask about an otherwise
strong jobs report.  You still have manufacturing employment dip by
7,000.  What do you think is happening in the manufacturing sector right
now?  Is this response to higher rates, or are you seeing something else
going on?

MS. BRAINARD:  Yeah, so I think if you look more broadly across the
administration, you have seen manufacturing jobs growing by more than
700,000, in contrast to the previous administration that actually saw
manufacturing job losses even before the pandemic. 

And I think the right way to think about this — because we have so much
new investment dollars from the Investing in America agenda, the right
way to think about it is to look at construction and manufacturing jobs
together.  And there, what we’ve seen is continued growth. 

That construction workforce is hard at work with factory construction
that is multiples of the previous administrations.  That construction of
factories is going to turn into the manufacturing jobs of the future. 

So, we see that investment in today’s economy, whether it be in chip
manufacturing or clean energy, that is going to result in tomorrow’s
manufacturing jobs.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine. 

Just after the last Fed rate cut, do you think the administration has
won its fight against inflation?

MS. BRAINARD:  So, I would say, if you look at the data on inflation, it
is now back down to pre-pandemic levels.  Don’t forget, nobody said that
could happen with a strong labor market.  I think people just really
need to go back and see some of the predictions.  Nobody thought we
could have the strongest recovery in our peer economies — strongest on
jobs, strongest on growth — and get inflation down as fast as we did. 

And so, that just shows that the president’s investments and the focus
on supply chains has really worked. 

Q    And then just a follow-up on the consumer confidence

numbers.  I mean, there was, you know, an upward revision in August, but
now it’s down in September.  I’m just sort of wondering if you can
comment on that.

MS. BRAINARD:  Yeah, so I think the most recent Michigan sentiment
numbers actually are showing strength.  And, you know, if you look at
what consumers are talking about, they’re talking about good jobs, good
job opportunities.  And we’ve seen a lot of people moving into new
sectors with better wages, and there is now a lot more confidence that
interest rates are coming down, inflation is down, and that’s going to
enable consumers to feel more confident about investing in some of those
bigger-ticket items.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Just a couple more. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  On the jobs report, the data also showed that the
employment picture in July and August was also brighter than previously
thought.  For Americans who are concerned about the rate that they may
pay on their mortgage or their car that they might buy, what do you see
that doing to the path of interest rates going forward?

MS. BRAINARD:  You know, I think that we are now in a part of the
recovery where inflation is back down, and that’s really what is going
to determine whether interest rates continue to fall.  And market
interest rates have remained low.  Mortgage rates have come all the way
down close to 6 percent.  We anticipate, because inflation is back down,
that that will continue to show through to market rates.

Q    And on the hurricane that ravaged the Southeast, what are your
early indications of how that could impact economic growth and the jobs
picture in November, with so many in that region out of work?

MS. BRAINARD:  Yeah, so we do think normally with a hurricane of this
size, with the devastation that it has caused in many communities, that
it will affect the employment statistics for that month.  But what we
know is that, generally, you see the economy overall bouncing back very
quickly and the growth numbers really becoming sort of strong pretty
rapidly because of all that rebuilding activity that we are committed
to. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    That was my —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.

Q    — on interest rates.  Yeah.  (Laughter.) 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    How concerned are you right now about the instability

in the Middle East and its impact on oil prices?

MS. BRAINARD:  Yeah, so, it is something that we track very closely. 
Obviously, prices at the pump right now, $3.18 on average — not that I
track it closely, but that is today’s number — (laughter) — and below $3
in many states.  We believe that global markets are well supplied, and
continue to expect that in the U.S., we’ll continue to see those low gas
prices. 

And of course, we have really effective ways of addressing some of those
geostrategic volatility.  We’ve used it in the past.  We have the
capacity to use it again. 

So, right now, markets are very well supplied, and we anticipate them to
remain so. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, last question to — oh — 

Q    Yeah, I’ll —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — I can go to Gerren too.  (Laughs.)  Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks.  A federal judge in Missouri issued an injunction blocking
the president’s student loan program hours after a judge in Georgia
allowed it to advance.  What is the White House’s message to this
dizzying legal battle?  And that was lifted up as an economic policy to,
particularly, closing the racial wealth gap.  And what is your message
to Black and brown Americans who are really relying on this relief?

  
MS. BRAINARD:  Yeah.  So, student loan debt relief is so important for
so many young people who are trying to build wealth, particularly for
people who are first generation, to be able to invest in small
businesses, to invest in starting a family, to invest in a house for the
first time.  So, we are going to continue to work to deliver that debt
relief to so many students who deserve it.   
  
I do want to say that we have 5 million Americans who have already
received debt relief.  And, you know, you can go on TikTok and other
social media platforms and see their testimonials what a difference it
makes in their lives.  And that is why the president, vice president
going to continue working so hard to deliver.    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Awesome.  Thank you so much, Lael.

MS. BRAINARD:  Thank you.  
  
Q    More Americans are food insecure.  
  
MS. BRAINARD:  Thank you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  Thank you so much.   
  
Q    Could you address food insecurity?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I appreciate it.   
  
Q    The numbers are rising —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, thank you.  
  
Q    — according to the USDA.  Food insecurity numbers?   
  
Maybe, Karine, if you could address it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  Not — not right now.  
  
Q    Food insecurity?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m — I’m not talking to you, sir.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not.  It would be nice if you would be less
disrespectful in the room.  
  
Q    I’m just asking questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Inappropriately.   
  
Okay.  Go ahead, Josh.  I don’t know if — maybe you guys are done with
me.  Maybe I can walk out.  (Laughs.)  You guys got — you guys got all
the best.  (Laughs.)  You guys got all the best.   
  
Go ahead, Josh.  
  
Q    So, if we were to, like, zoom out —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — President Biden came in here today.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    He’s going to be with Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey this week. 
Then he goes to Germany and Angola.  He said he’s singing from the same
song sheet as vice president Kamala Harris on the campaign.  How does he
see his public role in the next few weeks as we get closer to the
election?  What does — what’s he trying to achieve?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — look —  
  
Q    And how’s he thinking about it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think he’s doing his job as president, right?  I
think that’s the most important thing.  I mean, I started off at the
top, at least of this — this part of the program, where I said that
we’ve had three major events happen this week.  And what did the
president do?  What did the vice president do?  They worked shoulder and
shoulder to deal with these major events.   
  
Now we see a deal with the port — a negotiated deal with the ports. 
Obviously, it — it — that collective bargaining is extended until
January 15th, which is incredibly important, especially in the midst of
a hurricane that we saw — this historic hurricane that we just saw —
Hurricane Helene.   
  
We s- — we see what’s happening in the Middle East.  The president and
the vice president continue to have diplomatic conversations, if you
will, to deal — to de-escalate, to deal with what we’re seeing in — in
that — in the region.  
  
And the hurricane.  You saw the — the vice president in — in Georgia;
the president in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, himself, and
also in North — also in Florida, pardon me.   
  
And so, I think what you’re going to see is him continuing to do his
job, working closely with the vice president.   
  
Look, before Hurricane Helene, President Biden was planning to campaign
this week, and you heard — you heard me say he’s going to go to
Pennsylvania.  He’s going to go to Wisconsin next week.  And so, we have
— you know, we — we have — you all have covered how much of a whirlwind
week this has been.   
  
And so, the president is going to be president.  He’s going to be
commander in chief.  And obviously, he’s going to be supporting his vice
president.   
  
I can’t speak specifically about the campaign because of — we do respect
the Hatch Act here — at least for myself, as a federal employee, and
many of us here.   
  
And so, look, he’s going to continue to — to do the work that he’s
doing.  We saw strong jobs numbers.  That’s one of the reasons he came
out.  He came out because he wanted to talk about that.  He wanted to
talk about what we have seen this week.  
  
And so — and so, look, we’re going to continue to doing the work, and I
think that’s what the American people want to see.   
  
Go ahead, Selina.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  So, former President Donald Trump threatened to
revoke the legal status of Haitian migrants.

What is the president’s reaction to that?  This is something that the
former president had tried to do during his own administration.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, here’s the fact.  The fact is they are here
legally, right?  That is the fact.  TPS, that’s what it gives you.  And
honestly, I wouldn’t take legal advice from the former president.  I
don’t know.  That’s not something I would do.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    And how concerned is the administration about the economic impact
of Hurricane Helene?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, as you can see, we have been working around the
clock.  The president directed his team very early on to work around the
clock to make sure that the states who were — that were affected, the
states that he’s visited and the vice president has visited over the
past couple of days, got everything that they need.  And we — and we did
that by pre-positioning — pre-positioning some of the personnel — about
1,500 federal personnel — to do that.   
  
What we are doing: We’re going to make sure — obviously, we’re going to
always monitor any of the economic impact.  But we’re going to continue
to make sure that we are dealing — we are focused on lifesaving and
life-sustaining efforts.  That’s the focus that we’re going to have
here.   
  
And we’re going to continue to monitor.  But obviously, reacting and
providing the needs of the states right now, of the — of citizens who
are living in those states is probably the most key and most important. 
And continue to call on Congress to move forward with additional
funding. 

As you know, in the CR there was a robust ask for funding — for disaster
funding, and that didn’t make it in the bipartisan CR.  And so, we got
to get that done.  And we’re going to continue to have conversations
with Congress.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nandita.  
  
Q    Karine, I tried asking the president this —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nandita, I’ve called on you, like, three times today. 
(Laughter.)  I know some folks in the back are just going to be like,
“Yeah.”   
  
Q    I appreciate it.  I appreciate it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — yeah.  
  
Q    I tried asking President Biden —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear you, Kimberly.  I hear you.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    What is acceptable to the U.S. in terms of Israel’s response,
right?  How long is the U.S. comfortable with Israel bombing Lebanon?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I know you guys are going to ask this question
every which way, and I totally understand that.  We are having
conversations, discussions.  We’re in contact with the Israelis on — on
what’s next. 

We have been very clear there will be consequences.  You saw the joint
statement with the G7.  There’s going to be consequences.  There’s going
to be sanctions.  And I’m not going to preview those sanctions from
here.   
  
But we have always said Israel has the right to defend itself.  And we —
and you saw just on Tuesday night — and not just Tuesday night, in April
— how — how much we are prepared to defend and protect Israel, because
that is our ironclad commitment.   
  
I’m not going to get into pu- — into diplomatic conversations in — in
the public here.

Q    And there was a report that quotes U.S. officials saying the White
House wants to take advantage of the massive blow to Hezbollah’s
leadership and infrastructure to push for a new Lebanese president in
the coming days.  Can you comment on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to comment on that.  I’m not going to
comment on sources or reporting out there.  That is — that is not
something I’m going to speak to, sourcing that I can’t even verify from
here. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  On the port strike reaching a tentative agreement.  The
White House and several officials were involved in — in the 90-day
extension of those talks.  I’m wondering what the significance of that
timeline is and whether the election being five weeks away played any
role in it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, this is about the right thing to do for
workers.  Many of those workers put their lives at risk during the
pandemic.  We have always said collective bargaining is — works.  We
believe it works.  And we have seen — we have seen parties reach a fair
agreement when you put — when you have — when they come in — come to the
table and — in good faith and do that collective bargaining.  This is
what’s important. 

It was important to this president to get this done.  This is not about
an election.  This is about what is the right thing to do for the
American people.  This is the right thing to do for — for workers,
again, who — who deserve higher wages, who deserve benefits. 

And so, the president is proud to have been able to do that.  His team —
obviously, with his team, in the dir- — and he directed his team to do
this.  And so, now collective bargaining is going to continue, and we’ll
see where we are in the next couple of — couple of months. 

But this is not about politics for this president.  He — and you have
seen that in the last three and a half years when we’ve been in these
types of situation where there was negotiation, and we have been very,
very clear: collective bargaining and supporting workers.

Q    On congressional funding.  You mentioned some of the items that
were lacking in the short-term funding bill that Republicans had put
forth.  I’m wondering if the president has spoken with any members of
the Big Four in Congress to bring those concerns to them directly. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any conversations to speak to that
the president has had with members of Congress. 

I mean, you saw him on the road.  He was able — you saw him in a
bipartisan way on the road in North Carolina, South Carolina, in
Georgia, and — and Florida.  And he — you saw him with Republican
congressional members and governors and Republican — and Democratic
congressional members and also governors.  And you saw that
bipartisanship. 

I’m certainly not going to get into any private conversations that they
have had.  But we will continue to speak to congressional leadership and
members about getting that extra funding.  It is important.  They need
to act.  They need to act. 

AIDE:  Karine, you (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Hey, thanks, Karine.  Can you talk about how President Biden will
be marking Monday’s one-year anniversary of the October 7th attack on
Israel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, it’s going to be a painful — a painful
day for — for many, including for — for all of us here.  And so, we will
have more to share on how we will be commemorating that devastating day
that we saw a year ago.  Don’t have anything to share at this time. 

Q    And — and, secondly, this was President Biden’s first time —
correct? — to the press briefing room —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — since he’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.

Q    What — why not —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And you’re welcome. 

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re welcome.  I know you’re — I know this —

Q    I know.  I know.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know the way — the way this question is going to go.

Q    We appreciate it.  I —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s going to be great.  It’s going to be great. 
(Laughs.)

Q    Let’s — let’s do it again.

Q    I would have preferred a further question, but that’s all — that’s
all right.  (Laughter.)  But real quick: Why not — why didn’t he come in
the three and a half years before? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    Why —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, he came today.  And you got to see him.

Q    Yes.  Yeah, but —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And you were here. 

Q    — you know, I mean, he had the opportunity —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Aw, man.  Come on.

Q    All right.  All right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Come on.  He was here.  He took your questions.  And
he —

Q    It seemed like he wanted to stay a little bit longer.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — (laughter) —

Q    Every Friday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He is — he is — every Friday?  (Laughter.)  Friday —
Friday with the POTUS.  Friday with the POTUS.  We —

Q    I’ll bring ice cream.  Bring ice cream.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, no, you guys got to bring the ice cream.  You
guys got to bring the ice cream. 

(Cross-talk.)

Okay.  I’m going to do a couple more.  Go ahead.  I haven’t called on
you.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I want to go back to Haitians and the TPS.  But
first, you know, it was — it’s another week of misery in Haiti. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    There was this report from the World Food Programme describing
acute hunger.  What more can the U.S. do to improve the situation in
Haiti?  And conc- — if there’s no improvement, is it conceivable that
the TPS for Haitians will never be lifted?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, on your last question, I’ll do that first —
the last part of your question, I’ll do that first.  I — we — I can’t
predetermine what TPS status is going to be.  It’s not something that I
can do from here.  Obviously, as you know, that is a decision with DHS
and the State Department.  They decide TPS and the best way to move
forward.  So, I’m not going to get into a hypothetical about that.

But as it relates to Haiti more broadly and to the question of
instability and what’s happening, look, despite that — despite the
instability that continues, the recent deployment, as you know, of MSS
mission is a unique opportunity to build a foundation of security and
bring hope to Haitians that deserve to live their lives free of
violence. 

And so, to that end, the United States has delivered well over $300
million to support the MSS mission, while urging the international to
community — community to support that — that mission as well.  The
United States will continue to hold those undermining Haiti’s
institutions and committing serious human rights abuses accountable. 
That is our commitment. 

We are committed to doing our part both to address immediate security
needs and invest in Haiti’s long-term successes.  We stand with the
people of Haiti and will continue supporting their aspirations of more
security, certainly democratic and prosperous future.  That is our
commitment, and we’ll continue to support the mission. 

Go ahead, Michael.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  It seems as if the president has spoken with
pretty much every governor in the affected —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He has.  He has.  That was affected in the region.

Q    But has he spoken with Governor DeSantis of Florida?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Touché.  Good point.  So — (laughter).  Touché. 

So — and I think we read out that he spoke to the governor of Tennessee
on our way back from — back from our trip to Florida and Georgia
yesterday. 

I don’t have a — a conversation to read out with the Florida — the
governor of Florida.  But what I can say is that we have been in touch. 
Our team has been in touch with local officials on the ground.  We are
committed to providing what is needed in the state, obviously, to those
who were affected in the state, and are committed — our commitment is
clear.  The president has always said it doesn’t matter if you’re in a
red state or a blue state; he’s a president for all Americans.  And
that’s — continues to be, certainly, his commitment. 

Go ahead.

AIDE:  Last one.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I’m getting — I’m getting pulled.  But go
ahead.  Then I’ll come back to you.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  The president seemed to suggest that he is
asking — or he seems to be suggesting that Israel should consider other
alternatives, rather than attacking Iranian oil facilities.  But should
Israel make such an attack, how is the administration preparing for an
Iranian retaliation on the Strait of Hormuz that would disrupt oil
supply and disrupt oil prices globally?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, also as the president said, we continue to have
these discussions.  I’m not going to get into hypotheticals Israel —
about Israel’s response to Tues- — Tuesday — Tuesday night attacks. 

What I will say is that we understand that they are still determining
what exactly they will do.  That is something that we understand. 

I’m just not going to prejudge.  I’m not going to get ahead of anything,
and the discussions to continue.

Q    But can we say that the administration is preparing for that
possibility?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m just not going to get — I’m not going to
speculate.  They’re still — I’m — I’m telling you, they’re — still
haven’t decided what their next steps are going to be. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So that’s what I’m saying to you.  That’s what we
understand.  I don’t have anything else beyond that.

Q    And on Angola — on the President’s trip, Karine.  Amnesty
International is criticizing the administration’s, quote, “silence” on
human rights violations in Angola ahead of the president’s visit,
calling out the administration’s focus on private-sector investment to
counter China.  This is obviously in reference to the Lobito Corridor. 
Do you have a response?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I mean, I — we get this question — this type of
question about human rights violations any time he meets, he travels and
if that’s going to come up.  The president, as you know, has never shied
away from direct conversation about human rights and democracy in any
conversation, and I could expect that he will do the same in this
upcoming trip. 

And so, I don’t have anything beyond that, but the president has never
shied away from that.  Never shied away.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Does the administration have any concerns about
how the — the aftermath of this storm could impact the vote, whether
it’s talking to the Postal Service about mail-in ballots that may not be
getting to people or impacting the infrastructure in these critical
states?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we are go- — using every available resources
to help this com- — the community respond.  That’s what we’re going to
do and recover from this disaster.  That is our commitment.  That’s what
you’ve heard from this president. That’s what you heard from the FEMA
administrator and so many others in the president’s administration, and
certainly that means ensuring that Americans’ have — voices are heard
this November.  And so, that is our commitment.  We want to make sure
that people’s voices are heard. 

And so, any specifics on where the infrastructure is and what that looks
like, certainly, I would have to refer you to the state election
officials on — on those and — and cybersecurity and infrastructure and
all of those pieces — on what that looks like for them.  But — but —

Q    Have any of the states voiced concerns to the administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — well, I cannot speak to that.  I have not heard of
that. 

But look, our commitment, again, is to make sure that the resources
available so that community can respond to recovery and also get back on
their feet and deal with this disaster.  We want to make sure — we want
to make sure that Americans’ voices are heard this — this November. 

That is im- — important and so — but certainly that is something that
state elected officials can speak to more directly, but we’re going to
try and make sure they get back on — back on that.

And I haven’t called on you yet.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you. 

Q    Former President Trump is accusing the Biden administration of
using FEMA funding to support undocumented migrants.  How is the White
House responding to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   I mean, it’s just categorically fla- — false.  It is
not true.  It is a false statement.  And look, the fact of the matter is
— I think the Washington Post fact-checker did a piece and the headline
recently, just moments ago, not too long ago, and the headline was “No,
Biden didn’t take FEMA relief money to use — to use on migrants – but
Trump did.”

I’ll leave it there. 

Q    And a quick follow-up —

Q    Karine?  Karine? 

Q    — on that?  A follow on — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  Yep.  Yep.   

Q    Secretary Mayorkas had said earlier this week that he was concerned
that FEMA didn’t have enough funding until the end — for the rest of the
hurricane season.  Now that President Biden has seen the damage
firsthand in the Carolinas, Florida, Georgia — we heard him say at the
podium he may have to call Congress back from recess — what exactly is
he waiting for to be able to make that call?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — look, here’s the thing: We put forth a pretty
substantial, robust — I mentioned this moments ago — to be part of the
CR.  We were disappointed that it was not part of the CR.  And if
congressional Republicans were serious — if they were really, truly
serious — about doing something for the communities that was impacted by
Hurricane Helene, they would join us in calling for additional funding. 
This is what we’ve been doing.  And so, if they’re serious, they would
get to — to work and get that done. 

Just like in the — with the border, if they were serious about the
border, they wouldn’t vote against their own bipartisan proposal that
they worked with us on — they’re against it now; they weren’t — they
would move it forward.  It would actually start fixing the broken system
that we’re seeing right now. 

And, you know, they can — if they really want to help us in dealing what
we’re seeing, whether it’s at the border or getting more funding for
disaster monies that’s going to be needed to get into the communities,
they should be serious.  Congressional Republicans need to get serious
here, and they’re just not.

Go ahead, Akayla.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just a quick question on the port strike
suspension.  Is the White House going to continue to be in touch with
ILA to sort of support those negotiations as they continue?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think, look, there’s congressional — congressional —
collective bargaining continues.  I think that’s really important. 
That’s what we’re seeing, and that’s what we want to continue to see. 
And so, we will be in touch as necessary. 

But I think what’s important is they came up with an agreement.  That’s
because of this president’s leadership.  And the way to get this done is
getting col- — is continuing that collective bargaining, and we believe
that certainly works. 

Thanks, everybody.  All right.  Have a great weekend. 

Q    Thank you. 

2:55 P.M. EDT
