---
date: '2024-10-24'
modified_time: 2024-10-25 11:37:20-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-24 23:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/24/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-secretary-of-the-interior-deb-haaland-en-route-phoenix-az/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Secretary of the Interior\
  \ Deb Haaland En Route Phoenix,\_AZ"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Phoenix, Arizona

5:07 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hi, everybody. Hello, hello.

Okay. Very excited about this trip. It’s going to be a fantastic trip.
As you know, we are headed to Phoenix, Arizona, where the president will
visit the Gila River Indian Community. This historic visit delivers on
the president’s promise to visit Indian Country and builds on actions
the president and the vice president has taken to support Tribal
Nations.

Under President Biden, we saw the largest direct federal investment in
Tribal Nations in history, with $32 billion provided by the American
Rescue Plan and $13 billion through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to
build high-speed Internet, roads, bridges, public transit, clean water,
and improve sanitation in Tribal communities.

In particular, the Gila River Indian Community in Arizona received $84
million to build a pipeline that will help irrigate its community’s
crops while conserving water to help al- — alleviate ongoing drought
conditions.

The first lady has also been a champion for Native communities, visiting
Indian Country 10 times to highlight the Biden-Harris administration’s
historic investments in youth mental health, Native language
revitalization, and infrastructure and economic development. And she has
worked tirelessly to improve access to cancer screening and cancer care
for Native communities.

Tomorrow, the president will take a critical step in order to usher in
the next era of the federal-Tribal relationships by fully acknowledging
the harms of the past. This historic presidential apology for the
Federal Indian Boarding School era will acknowledge that i- — if we
truly love our country, we must remember and teach our full history,
even when it is painful, and we must learn from that history so that it
never repeated — it is never repeated.

With that, I will turn it over to the Interior secretary, Deb Haaland,
to provide further details on this historic visit and this
administration’s continued efforts to support Indian Country.

SECRETARY HAALAND: Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Secretary.

SECRETARY HAALAND: Thank you, Karine. Thank you.

Hello, everyone. It’s an honor to be here. I’m accompanied by my
assistant secretary for Indian Affairs, Bryan Newland. Really happy and
proud to — to be here.

Twenty years ago, I never would have believed that I would be gaggling
with the White House Press Corps on Air Force One, flying with the
president to his first visit to Indian Country. President Biden has been
the best president for Indian Country in my lifetime. This is a
president and an administration that truly sees Indigenous people and
has worked tirelessly to address the issues in Indian Country that have
long been underfunded or outright ignored.

From infrastructure to education to the crisis of missing and murdered
Indigenous peoples, Joe Biden has directed historic resources into the
hands of Tribal leaders who know best how to strengthen their
communities. Across the Investing in America agenda, a historic $45
billion, more than 15 years’ worth of the Bureau of Indian Affairs’
annual budget, has gone into Indian Country during this administration.
With that, comes transformational change.

“Once in a generation” means — means generational change for the people
in those communities: electricity on the Hopi Reservation in Arizona for
homes that have never had electricity; protecting cultural resources,
like salmon, which Pacific Northwest Tribes have depended on for
thousands of years; new transportation infrastructure for the Mescalero
Apache Nation in New Mexico that will provide a safer travel route and
boost their economic development, their local economy; addressing toxic
legacy pollution and abandoned oil and gas infrastructure that pollutes
our air and water for the Osage Nation in Oklahoma; providing clean
drinking water for Fort Peck in Montana.

I could go on and on. This is a once-in-a-generation funding that is
empowering Tribes and making up for significant systemic underfunding of
Tribal communities for a very long time.

And, look, we know that the need is incredibly high. That’s what decades
of a lack of investment looks like. But what we have done here will have
lasting and enduring results.

Before we take your questions, I want to talk about the Federal Indian
Boarding School Initiative. For more than a century, tens of thousands
of Indigenous children, as young as four years old, were taken from
their families and communities and forced into boarding schools run by
the U.S. government and religious institutions. This includes my own
family.

For decades, this terrible chapter was hidden from our history books,
but now our administration’s work will ensure that no one will ever
forget. I’m happy to talk more about our investigative report; the
year-long effort across Indian Country that we called the “Road to
Healing,” where we went to 12 different communities and heard directly
from survivors and descendants; and the work ahead.

But I just want to say that foundational to this work has been the idea,
far-fetched as it might have been, that the federal government would
acknowledge and apologize for the trauma and intergenerational impacts
that these boarding schools — these places of horror — caused. That the
president is taking that step tomorrow is so historic.

I’m not sure I could adequately put its impact into words, but I’m
honored to have been on this journey with him, to have him support
everything that we did with respect to the boarding schools in Indian
Country, and, of course, to celebrate what I truly believe is a new era
for not only Indian Country but for America.

Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you so much.

Okay. With that, Aamer, go ahead.

Q Thanks. So, one, is an apology enough? What is next? Should this be
followed by some sort of reparations?

And then, second, something that the president said to our colleagues as
he was leaving the White House today is, “I should have done” — “this is
something I should have done a long time ago.” Why didn’t he do it a
long time ago? Why is he waiting for 11 days before a big election to
announce this in a big swing state?

SECRETARY HAALAND: So, first of all, of course, I can’t comment on the
president’s schedule. (Laughs.) I’m sure there’s a lot of things he
would have liked to have done, but th- — you know, things come up.

What I will say is that it’s almost — you know, he’s — he’s doing this
apology after he’s invested — after his leadership to invest $45
billion, the generational change that I talked about in my remarks. He’s
done it after he has made Tribal consultation and — and an
all-of-government approach to Indian Country a priority for this
administration. The day he was sworn into office, he made commitments to
Indian Country, and he has followed through on every single one of those
commitments.

So, the timing, I couldn’t speak to that. To me, that’s not important.
To me, what’s important is that the president, as the leader of our
country, is taking this step that has never been taken, that he is
seeing people — or helping them to know that they are seen and heard
when perhaps they never thought they have ever been seen and heard.

Q So, I’m having — and I’m sorry. Is — is the commitment that he’s
already made — is that the reparations, you’re saying? Is he already —

SECRETARY HAALAND: So, I — I want to just be clear about the word
“reparations.” I don’t — you will never hear me using that term because
we have a government-to-government relationship with our nation’s 574
federally recognized Tribes. The — the United States, the federal
government has obligations to uphold the trust and treaty obligations to
those Tribes.

If the federal government does that, then that’s what — that’s the
promises that they need to keep. And I will tell you that during this
administration, President Biden, as I mentioned in my remarks, has been
the best president in my lifetime for Indian Country.

I have been out on — on the ground for decades — right? — advocating for
Indian Country. I was a Tribal administrator in New Mexico for a Tribe.
I have been out there working hard to make sure that we are seen. And
this president sees us.

Q Could you draw back the curtain a little on this apology? Was it
requested from you, from other Tribal leaders across the nation? Or did
Biden — you know, was it his initiative?

SECRETARY HAALAND: So, if you will look at the second invest- — the
second volume of the investigative Boarding School Initiative report, we
had a list of recommendations. I believe there are eight
recommendations. And the first recommendation — there’s links to it;
you’ll find it on our website — the first recommendation was an
acknowledgement and an apology.

We also have asked for other things — right? — like a national monument
to honor the — the kids who never came home, for example. And then we
also are asking for sustained investments in Indian Country for certain
things.

One of the things that we heard most in our “Road to Healing” and from
Tribal leaders was that their Native languages were stolen from them.
And so, the president and Dr. Biden, even, have been incredibly
supportive on Native language revitalization, and — and the budget that
the president has asked for shows it. It’s gone from $2 million up to
$41 million that the president has request for Native language
revitalization. And I think that says — that says so much.

So, I mean, I — I don’t want to get into this, you know, “You owe u- —
the federal government owes us.” This is our home. We love this country.
We have fought for this country, even before we were citizens, even
before we could vote. And so, I want to make clear that Indian Country
are proud Americans, and this apology — it means more than words can
even say.

Q Can you — can you give a little bit of a preview on the event
tomorrow? I know that we’re visiting the school. What — who is he going
to meet? Who else is going to be there? Who is invited?

SECRETARY HAALAND: So, I — I couldn’t be specific on that, and I’m sure
there’s some staff who can fill you in on all the details.

But it’s my understanding that they invited Tribal leaders. There are
some Tribal leaders today on Air Force One who — who are accompanying us
to the event — and, you know, peop- — survivors, descendants, people who
have advocated for this for a long time. Deborah Parker, the executive
director of the National Native American Boarding School Healing
Coalition, is with us today.

And so, I — I imagine, with Governor Lewis as our host, that it will be
a really lovely event.

Q (Inaudible) on why this particular community as opposed to any of the
others?

SECRETARY HAALAND: Well, I mean, I — you know, I mean, it’s hard, right?
It’s hard to think, “Which one of 574 tribes should we visit?” Arizona,
that’s my home — my home state. I was born in Winslow. I’m always happy
to go to Arizona.

Governor Lewis, as — as Karine said, has worked hard to use the funding
that they have been given to uplift his community. And I think that,
along with this, the president wanted to just make contact there,
knowing that they have done so much with their irrigation system and so
forth.

Q On — on the boarding schools and repatriation of remains. Do you have,
I guess, a better idea, any clarity that you can give on the number of
remains on federal land associated with the boarding schools that remain
— that the DO- — DOI still needs to repatriate?

SECRETARY HAALAND: You know, I think — you know, I’m not — I’m not clear
on all those numbers, but what I will say is that with respect to any
remains that are repat- — repatriated, it’s up to the Tribe. It’s
completely up to the Tribe. That’s what Tribal consultation is all
about. If that’s what the Tribe wants, then we will find a way to help
them achieve that.

But we’re not out there saying, you know, we’re demanding all these
things to be done. It’s really important for the Tribes to have a voice
in how they see this moving forward, and we will com- — be completely
respectful of — of that.

But I couldn’t tell you the number of children who were deceased. You
know, in some cases, children got sick at boarding school, and they knew
they were sick, so they sent them home, and then they died at home. This
happened a lot. And so, you know, it’s hard to — to essentially assess
the — the number of actual children who died as a result of being in
those schools.

Q I just have one question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q The election is right around the corner, and you mentioned, you know,
requesting a potential monument. You talked about all of the investment
from the Biden administration.

Assuming, if — if former President Trump, you know, comes back to the
White House, you know, how do you see maybe some of that investment that
has been done under the Biden admin- — administration maybe continuing,
you know, down the road to keep building on what you’ve been working on
in the administration?

SECRETARY HAALAND: Of course, I can’t comment on — on any election, but
we have 90 days left in this administration. We’re going to use every
minute of that 90 days to move this work forward.

I — what I will also say is that Tribal leaders are experiencing a new
era. They’re at the table. They’re being consulted. In fact, we had a
consultation about how they wanted to be — have consultation, right? We
have — they have been at the table. I started my secretary’s advis- —
advisory committee, Secretary’s Tribal Advisory Co- — we started the
White House Council on Native Amer- — American Affairs. We’ve had the
Tribal Nations Summit every year that the president has been here.

It’s my guess that Tribal leaders will not go back to the way things
were before. So, I hope that regardless of what happens in the future,
that Tribal leaders are dead set about what the relationship between the
federal government and them is and that they will — they will ensure
that they have a seat at the table.

Q What are those 90-day priorities for Indian Country for you?

SECRETARY HAALAND: Oh, gosh. Well — (laughter) — I mean, the — there is
a whole lot — right? — that — you could look at the list of
recommendations that we have. We made a visit — with respect to the
monument, it’d be nice if we got that across the finish line, right? We
have our oral history project that is in — in the works right now.

So — and then, I — I mean, I have Bryan Newland here, if you wanted to
ask him what his priorities are for Indian Country, or you can just give
him a call later on.

But I can rest assured — everyone is super tired, but for some reason,
we got this, you know, energy to keep — to run across the finish line.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right.

Q More broadly, can you speak to — are you doing anything to sort of
“Trump-proof,” you know, federal lands, if the election goes in that
direction?

SECRETARY HAALAND: You know, I’m — I — I can’t comment on that really.
All I can say is that everyone’s doing their jobs, and —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, we’re not going to get into hypotheticals.

SECRETARY HAALAND: Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. But, let — are you — you have one more, or you’re
done?

Q Oh, I — we’ve got some for you, I’m sure.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, no, I know. Are we good for the secretary?

Q Thank you, Secretary.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you so much.

Q Thank you, Secretary.

SECRETARY HAALAND: Thank you so much. Thank you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you.

SECRETARY HAALAND: — for caring about this. Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you. Thank you so much. We appreciate you.

Okay. What you all got? Aamer, you want to reset us?

Q Yeah. I wanted to ask about the bombings by Israel of the
Hezbollah-aligned banks. Those banks are also used by regular people.
There’s bank tellers that work there.  
It’s been called by human rights group “war crimes.”

How does the administration see this? Usually, this administration, when
it goes after terror fi- — banks that are financing terrorism, they do
it with sanctions. Is this the appropriate way to go after this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look — and — and my NSC colleagues spoke to — spoke
— has spoken to this as well. So, look, we’re not going to comment on
every — on — on every individual strike. That’s just not something that
we going to — going back and forth on.

But broadly speaking — and you’ve heard us say this before. And, look,
we understand that Israel is conducting operations to go after
high-value targets or to destroy Hezbollah opera- — infrastructure,
which is what we understand, what we — the conversations that we had.
And — and let’s not forget, these are — are — when you think about the
Hezbollah infrastructure, these are used to be — used to — to threaten
Israeli citizens.

And so, we have told Israel directly — we’ve had direct conversations;
as you know, we speak to them pretty regularly, and — that we oppose a
campaign of nearly daily strikes in densely populated areas in Be- — in
Beirut. And so, we’ll continue to support Israel’s — Israel’s
self-defense against Hezbollah as we work towards a diplomatic
resolution that sures — that ensures Israel’s security and allows it- —
citizens to — on both sides to live in peace and — and — in peace.

And that’s what we want to do. That’s what we’re going to — we want to
see. And so, we’ll continue to have those diplomatic conversations, but
we’re not going to go back and forth on each individual strike. But more
broadly speaking, we understand what they’re trying to do, and — and
we’re obviously going to continue to have those dail- — those regular
conversation with Israel as how — how they move forward.

Q This came up yesterday in the briefing, but I’m going to ask it again.
Do we know if he’s going to vote this weekend?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I know there’s a lot of questions on the
scheduling. Obviously, we’re getting closer to an Election Day. The
president certainly is looking forward to casting his ballot. I tell you
he will be voting and —

Q Will he be early voting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I don’t want to get ahead of that. We’re trying to
— certainly trying to figure that out. As soon as we have that
information, we will share that with all of you. But he is definitely
looking forward, as he does every time — it is — he is — he has an
opportunity to vote, he’s looking forward to casting th- — his ballot.

Q Karine, I wanted to ask about the Boeing —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — negotiations. You know, I’m sure you saw, but they re- — the factory
workers rejected the latest contract proposal. Is President Biden — has
he spoken to anyone from — from the union, with anyone at Boeing? How
concerned is he? They’ve been on strike now for quite a bit so —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things. I don’t have anything to read
out for you on any conversation that the president has had. Look, he
directed his team — right? — to — to make sure that — to encourage
parties to continue working to achieve an agreement that works,
certainly, for all parties. And so, we’re going to continue to monitor
those negotiations and — and continue to make sure that we encourage
that.

Look, the — the reality is — and this is something that the president
understands — that ultimately, when it comes to these types of
negotiation, the decisions on a contract is going to be made by the
union — union themselves. And so, that is for their decision to be made.
But obviously, we’re going to continue to encourage both sides to
continue to have these conversations in good faith. And collective
bargaining is something that this president believes in. And so, we’re
going to continue to monitor.

Q And — and just one more question. The Wall Street Journal is reporting
that Russia provided targeting data for the assault on global shipping.
And I was just wondering if this is something that, you know, the
president is aware of and if — if this has been brought to his attention
or is this something you all are monitoring or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I would have to take that back. I have not
talked to the president about this. So, I just need to talk to the team
and get a sense of what his thinking is and where we are on that
particular question. I just don’t have anything for you at this time.

Q Going off of the Boeing point.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Are you able to say when the last time was that the labor secretary
spoke to both parties?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I don’t have any specific timeline on when —
the last time they spoke. Obviously, they’ve been in direct
communication and have continued to encourage both parties to come — to
come together on this. At the end of the day, this is a decision that is
made by the unions, right? And we’re going to continue to encourage
collective bargaining, good faith — good faith participation by all
parties.

I don’t have anything specific to tell you on the last time that that
conversation happened.

Q Switching a little bit. The administration struck a note of optimism
when Sinwar was killed that maybe this opened the opportunity for
ceasefire talks with Gaz- — in Gaza. And Secretary Blinken is in the
region. Can you speak to whether or not the administration is still
optimistic that there is renewed hope for —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — a ceasefire?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s a good question, and I would just go back to what
the secretary — Secretary Blinken said himself — said himself. We’re —
they’re cont- — we’re continuing to try to find a way to get to a
proposal that both sides can agree to. That is something that he said
when he was in the region or is still in the region, because that’s how
— or that’s how we can get — get the — the fighting to stop, we can get
the hostages home, we can surge humanitarian assistance in Gaza for the
people that are suffering and in such dire, dire need of it.

We do anticipate that the negotiations will be getting together in the
upcoming days. That’s something that the secretary spoke about and the
Qu- — Qatar prime minister when they were together.

But what real- — what — what we really have to determine is whether
Hamas is prepared to engage. That’s the reality that we’re in. So, this
is something that the president and his team remains — remains really
steadfast on. We know in order to — again, for the — for the war to
stop, we need to get to this ty- — this — this ceasefire in — in order
to get this hostage deal. So, that is — continues to be our focus.

Q Karine, given that you’re — the vice president says she’s running
against a candidate she considers to be a fascist. The president of the
United States this week, only two weeks before an election, is doing no
campaign events, at least through Friday. Is that odd? How should we
interpret that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I wouldn’t interpret it as odd at all. Look, the
president has been out there. He has campaigned. He’s campaigned with
her. And I think if you look at what he’s doing tomorrow, it’s critical.
It’s important to the American people. What you heard, I think, even the
secretary lay out just moments ago was emotional, was important to the
Indian Country, what they’ve been through. And what the president is
going to do tomorrow is historic.

We will have more to share. I’m — I’m — I am telling you, we will have
more to share on what the president is going to do, whether it’s —
including casting his ballot. The president is going to continue to be
out there to — to deliver for the American people, like he is tomorrow
for the Indian — Indian Country to — to offer up a federal apology.
That’s historic. That’s historic.

And we will have more to share on the schedule. We  
will.

Q I’m not — I’m not saying that’s not a story, but I’m just wondering —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, but (inaudible) —

Q — like, is he —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — we have to look at both things.

Q Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He’s doing things that are important to the American
people. That’s actually his number one job, is to continue to deliver
what’s important for the American people as president of the United
States.

Q But is he leaving — is he leaving it all on the field if — if he goes
two weeks before the — two weeks out before the election —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Inaudible.)

Q — there’s really nothing on the calendar at all on the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I’m saying: You’re assuming there’s nothing on the
calendar.

Q Up through Friday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, there’s — there’s a lot more days to go.
Obviously, I don’t want to get into the politics of this, into his
political schedule. But what I am saying is stay tuned. There will be
more to share.

Q Karine, I’m sorry. Just to follow on Peter’s question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, yeah.

Q You guys have already advised on Saturday that he’s going to
Pittsburgh, right? So, who — who is he campaigning with in Pittsburgh?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’ll have more to share. We’ll have more to share.

Q (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We will have more to share.

Q It’s my — my understanding that it’s with labor unions and that there
aren’t going to be any candidates there. Wh- — what — is that suggest
that he — that there aren’t Democrats that want to be seen with him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, first of all, I’m going be really careful, not
talk to the campaign and politics, but we should be very clear about the
importance of labor unions. And so — and not — and not take that —

Q I’m not —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, no, no, but I’m saying labor unions are so
important. It’s so critical —

Q I am a member of a union myself. But I — I under- — I (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I hear you, but you sidestep the labol \[labor\] unions
in your question —

Q They’re not — but I’m — no, my question was, they’re not ca- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Inaudible.)

Q They’re not — well, I’m sorry if you didn’t hear or if I —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Inaudible.) (Laughter.)

Q But he’s not — he’s not going to be appearing with a candidate.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Guys, just give us a second. We will have more to share
on the campaign. We will have more to share on what the president’s
schedule is going to look like.

What I am saying to you: Labor unions are critical. They’re important.
And I’m going to be very careful because I’m not going to get into
campaign strategy from here. I’m not going to get into campaign travel
from here. But there will be more to share, and stand by.

And also, I would, you know — anyway, I’ll just leave it there. I was
going to say I refer you to the campaign on — on scheduling of — of
surrogates and what that looks like and what their strategy is. They can
speak more to that.

But we will have more to share. I just cannot get into strategy and
campaign schedule from here, as I do try to follow the Hatch Act and be
— and fotho- — follow the law from — from here, even if we’re — how many
thousand feet we are in the air on Air Force One.

Yeah.

Q What is the president doing tonight?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, we’re going to travel to Arizona. We’re going to
la- —

Q Well, after we land. (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’re going to land. (Laughter.) And he’ll be preparing
for tomorrow’s event. As you know, it’s going to be historic and really
important to him. He’s excited.

I mean, he went over and talked to your colleagues right before he got
on Marine One, and I think that shows his excitement and also how
important this is to him. And so, that’s what you’re going to be able to
see tomorrow.

Q What do you expect the mood to be at the event tomorrow?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The mood?

Q Yeah. I mean, wh- — wh- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, I can say this. You saw, from the secretary,
it’s emotional. This is emotional. You know, what we have learned from
the reporting — and some of us have known this; some of us have not
known what has been occurring, especially if you think about the
boarding schools, what the India- — Indian Country community has had to
go through and how they’re fighting and — and continuing to — to get
resolution to the devastation that they’ve had to go through, family
members that they’ve lost, family members that got through some
difficult times and are able to tell their story.

And it’s going to be emotional. It’s going to be a — very emotional. And
you’re going to hear it directly from them, from the Tribal leaders.

And — I don’t know — I think when you think about this administration,
you think about the Biden-Harris administration, how the president has
said and how we continue to see that we’re going to speak up for each
community, fight for each community. And what we have seen over decades
and decades is communities like the Indian Country that have been left
behind.

And this is a president that is going to — it doesn’t matter if you’re
in a red state, blue state. You hear us talk about that urbal \[sic\]
area — rural area. He’s going to continue to fight and try to speak to
the wrongs that have been made. And you’ve seen him do that over and
over again with different communities.

And so, I think, tomorrow, to your question, Nikki, is going to be
emotional. I think it’s going to be impactful, and I think it’s going to
be incredibly his- — special and, as I’ve said many times, historical.

Q The vice president is — next week is set to speak on the National
Mall, kind of in the backyard of the White House, more or — so or less.
But the — do you have any insight? Do- — is this something President
Biden wants to attend —  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, that’s a campaign —

Q — wants —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s a campaign decision, campaign event. I can’t
speak to it. What — the president has been very clear about his support
for the vice president, how he sees — how he always believed from the
moment that he decided that she would be a running mate back in 2020,
even saying that was the best decision that he made, that she will be a
leader from day one.

I will let this campaign speak to their messaging. I will let the
campaign speak to the reason of doing that event on Tuesday. That is
something that I can’t speak to. But I will continue to say and the
president will continue to say he’s very proud of her. She has done a
phenomenal job, not — obviously, as a critical partner over the last
three and a half years and certainly what he has been seeing from her in
the past several months. And so, we’re going to let them speak to that.

All right, guys.

Q Just fo- — follow on something Skylar asked earlier that I’m not sure
I understood on the Russia providing targeting data to the Houthis. Has
the U.S. confirmed that? Do the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — that’s what I was saying. I don’t have an answer
for you. So, I just need to — to go back to the team. She was asking me
specifically about the president. I — that’s not something that I have
spoken to the president. I don’t want to give you the wrong information,
so I need to just go back and talk to the team on this. Okay? Obviously
—

Q (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Obviously, it would be concerning. Let me just say
that. It would be concerning if true. We know that the Houthis,
Hezbollah, Hamas are — they are a — as we’ve seen, Iranian backed and
have threatened the security of Israel. And we have always said, we have
— we are — we are going to continue to do everything that we can to ha-
— to support and have that ironclad support for Israel’s security.
That’s what you have seen from this administration.

And so, it would be concerning. I just don’t — I cannot confirm any
intelligence at this time, so I would have to go back and — and talk to
the team. So, just want to be —

Q Can I ask one more question about tomorrow?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sure.

Q Obviously, this formal apology — this type of formal apology is very
rare coming from the sitting president of the United States, and the
trauma in this community runs very deep. Can you speak, again, to the
timing of why? I mean, for some people, this is coming too late.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I mean, look, you heard from — you heard from the
secretary — lay out what we have done over the past several years when
it comes to Indian Country. And so, I will say that this has been,
indeed, a — a deliberate and intentional process throughout the years.
And this is part of — you know, you g- — you all ask me a lot about the
president’s legacy and what he’s going to be doing the last, you know,
several months. This is part of it. But it’s a continuation of the —
what we’ve done.

And so, this is a trip that he’s been wanting to make. This is something
that he’s been wanting to do. Again, we have been very deliberate —
deliberati- — deliberative about this process. And so, this is a
continuation of the work that this president has done, that the
secretary has done, her — her agency that she runs, over the past three
and a half years. And so, this is part of the president’s legacy.

And you’re right: This apology is historic. It’s impactful. And, you
know, the scars and the trauma that we have seen from this community
does indeed run deeply, and he feels that. He feels that and
understands. As someone who understands tragedy and trauma and loss, he
feels that very, very personally.

Obviously, the Indian Country and what they’ve gone through is very
different. It’s very unique to their experience. And so, I would say, as
you all are asking me, “What’s his legacy?” I would say this is part of
that.

All right. Thanks, everybody.

Q Has he been — has he been consulting with anybody in sort of drafting
this speech and — and getting ready for this moment?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, he’s been working with his team — his
speechwriters, obviously. He’s working with representatives that he has
in the Office of Public Af- — Engagement on — who focus on the Indian
Country, having those conversations. They’ve been very involved.

I would say Tom Perez, who runs the Intergovernmental Affairs,
obviously, has go- — has done these trips, have been very in touch —
very much in touch with what’s going on the ground.

So, he’s been certainly talking to his team, including the secretary,
and — and consulting with them about what — what he wants to say and how
he wants to really — you know, I don’t want to get ahead of the
president. I think his remarks, as you’ll hear from him directly
tomorrow, are — I think are going to be pretty powerful.

All right. Thanks, everybody.

Q Thanks, Karine.

Q Thank you.

5:41 P.M. EDT
