---
date: '2024-10-11'
modified_time: 2024-10-11 13:01:36-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-11 13:01:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/11/press-gaggle-by-senior-deputy-press-secretary-emilie-simons-and-environmental-protection-agency-administrator-michael-regan-en-route-milwaukee-wi/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Senior Deputy Press Secretary Emilie Simons and Environmental\
  \ Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan en Route Milwaukee,\_WI"
---
 
12:30 P.M. EDT

MS. SIMONS:  All right.  Good morning, everyone.  Given the projected
trajectory and strength of Hurricane Milton, President Biden is
postponing his upcoming trip to Germany and Angola in order to oversee
preparations for and response to Hurricane Milton, in addition to the
ongoing response to the impacts of Hurricane Helene.

The president was briefed again this morning by his team, and as Karine
said yesterday, FEMA and other federal agencies continue to actively
pre-position lifesaving resources in advance of the storm, including
temporary power teams, swiftwater rescue teams, and search and rescue
teams. 

FEMA has two staging bases stocked with 20 million meals and 40 million
liters of water to deploy as needed. 

Currently, nearly 900 staff are already in the region, including over
440 specifically deployed for Helene recovery. 

Yesterday, FEMA Administrator Criswell was on the ground in Tampa. 
Today, she is back in North Carolina.  So, we maintain our focus on both
storms.

And yesterday evening, as we read out, the president had separate calls
with Governor DeSantis and Tampa Mayor Castor to discuss efforts for
Helene recovery and preparations for Milton.  He asked them to please
keep directly in touch with him if they need anything.

And to anyone in Milton’s path, this storm will be catastrophic.  We
urge you to listen to local officials, especially if you are told to
evacuate.

And onto today’s trip.  Today, the president is traveling to Milwaukee,
along with all of us, where he will announce that the EPA is issuing a
final rule that will require drinking water systems nationwide to
replace lead service lines within 10 years.  He’s also announcing that
the EPA is investing an additional $2.6 billion for drinking water
upgrades and lead pipe replacements funded by President Biden’s landmark
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. 

This comes as part of our work to sprint through the finish and deliver
on our historic Investing in America agenda. 

To talk a little bit more today about the announcement, here is EPA
Administrator Regan. 

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, thank you all.  Let me tell you, this is a
very exciting day.  This is something that President Biden talked to me
on day one.  He came to this administration with the promise of a 100
percent lead-free future for every family and every child in this
country.  And today, I’m proud to announce that this rule will mandate
that every single utility in this country identify the sources of lead
service lines and remove them within the 10-year window. 

We’re also announcing $2.6 billion will be flowing simultaneously along
with this announcement. 

I’ll take a step back and say that in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
$26 billion dedicated to drinking water, $15 billion specifically aimed
at eradicating lead service lines.  Between those bill dollars and this
regulation, the president is really accomplishing his goal and keeping
his promise.

Q    On — on the window.  Ten years —

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Yeah.

Q    — this is very ambitious, and there’s obviously a lot, a lot of
pipes that need to be replaced in this country.  But how do you get that
done?  And is there a worry that, you know, it’s not just one
administration that you — you’re going to have to go through; it’s at
least two to get to this goal.  How — is there a concern that not just
one Republican administration could out — could undo this but perhaps
two?  Like, why should Americans be confident that this is actually
going to get done?

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, listen, in my conversations, I have to tell
you, I would hope that both Republicans and Democrats would want to
remove lead and lead service lines from impacting our children.  We know
that it causes learning impairments, you know, heart disease.  We know
that they’re — oh, with this rule, we’ll save or prevent over 900,000
low birth weight. 

So, you know, listen, it’s — it’s a bipartisan issue.  Everyone wants
this lead out.  That’s the first thing. 

The second thing is that many of these cities are already moving
forward.  Just under the president’s watch over the last three and a
half years, over 367,000 lead pipes have been removed.  We know that
this rule will get 99 percent of all of the cities who say they can step
up and can do this, especially with the bill funding. 

So, we believe it can get done.  The cities have indicated that they
want to get it done.  No one wants to roll back this rule or roll back
these health protections, especially given that it’s tied to Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law money.  So, we feel confident. 

By the way, the rule is legally durable.  It’s scientifically sound,
well within the four corners of the Clean Water Act.  We feel very
confident that it’s legally durable, scientifically sound, and that
there are resources flowing to help these mayors and these county
commissioners and these local governments all over the country. 

Q    In retrospect, is there any wish that you guys started earlier on
this and actually the implementation?

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  This is a very complicated rule.  We started on
day one.  It’s taken us some time to really put the rule in place.  We
had to roll back a rule that the Trump administration put in place that
was not as protected.  So, we had to do that due diligence in the
process and put forward a legally sound, scientifically relevant rule.

And, listen, by the way, let me — let me just say that we’ve also,
through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, given a lot of cities the
resources to specifically identify where these lead service lines are. 

So, the identification process has occurred.  States feel confident. 
Now it’s time to govern.

Q    During the administration’s contacts with these local officials,
are you seeing any pushback or hesitance to jump on board and take this
money and — and redo these water lines?  Or is everyone sort of, you
know, gung ho, and as soon as the money is available, they’re going to
start with these projects? 

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  You know, everyone that I’ve engaged with is ready
to go.  Obviously, there was some apprehension in the beginning about
the timeline and the level of aggressiveness.  We have worked with our
stakeholders to smooth out those wrinkles.   
  
And, again, 99 percent of the cities and states are saying that they can
do what this rule is asking them to do.  For that very small portion
that will need some assistance, we will work with them on the timeline. 
We will also work to prioritize resources to keep them in the game. 

Q    Are — are you guys working with private-sector companies or
matching private-sector companies with these local officials to make
sure the plans and the build-outs can get accomplished as soon as
possible?

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Absolutely.  There’s a lot of public and private
partnerships happening right now.  We know that many of these water
systems are complicated.  We are creating, through these investments, a
lot of good-playing — -paying union jobs to come in and eradicate these
pipelines. 

So, the public-private partnership is very strong, and we’ll continue to
move forward together. 

Q    Just one more quick one.  Is the partnership — part of that
partnership, does that involve contracting at the federal level, or is
all — that all happening at the state and local level?

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  It’s all happening at the state and local level. 
The state and local level have all the autonomy.  We’re not being
paternalistic.  We have some guidelines.  We’re giving them the
resources.  This rule gives them the rules for the road, and they’re
ready to hit the ground running. 

Q    Why Milwaukee?  Why Milwaukee?

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  You know, Milwaukee has some of the most
heart-wrenching stories that I’ve witnessed, the vice president has
witnessed, the president has witnessed.  We’ve been here time and time
again.  I’ve traveled to Milwaukee previously with the vice president. 
It’s full circle for many of us. 

One of the first stories we heard was a mother named Deanna and her son,
Aidan, who was lead poisoned.  We’ve held roundtables here. 

Milwaukee is an excellent example of a city who is ready to go, who has
demonstrated that they can meet the timeline, who’s put the resources in
place, and has the local advocacy on the ground that is partnering with
the government along with the private sector.  It’s a great example of
how we can do this together. 

MS. SIMONS:  Thank you so much. 

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Thank you.

Q    Emilie, with the president — with the president canceling his trip
to Germany and to Angola, does he still have plans to get to Africa
before the end of his term?

MS. SIMONS:  So, as he said before departing the White House, he does
hope to make that trip to Africa.  He really wants to continue — and the
whole essence of the trip was to underscore our commitment to our
partners in Africa, and especially because Sub-Saharan Africa is such an
important global leader. 

So, I don’t have any additional.  This has happened this morning, but we
will keep you posted.

Q    On the Middle East.  Hezbollah’s deputy leader has said he supports
attempts to secure a truce and, for the first time, did not mention the
end of the war in Gaza as a precondition for halting the combat on the
Israel-Lebanon border.  Do you see this as an opening for a ceasefire? 
Have you spoken to Israel about these comments?  And — and what are you
hearing from Israeli counterparts?

MS. SIMONS:  So, we continue to have discussions with the Israelis about
their response to the earlier attacks last week.  I’m not going to get
ahead of those discussions, as this is their operation.  I hear the new
statements that you’re saying from the Hezbollah leader. 

And what we understand right now is that what they’ve been working on is
efforts to destroy Hezbollah infrastructure.  This is in line with
Israel’s right to defend its citizens. 

I think we are all eager for a ceasefire, speaking from the United
States.  And along with our G7 leaders, we put out a statement last week
about the need for peace in the region so people can return safely to
their homes.  So, we definitely are continuing to urge that from our
side. 

Q    And have you gotten any assurances from Israel that they will not
target Iran’s nuclear or oil facilities? 

MS. SIMONS:  This is their operation.  We continue to have discussions
with them about their response, but I won’t get ahead of that.

Q    Hey, Em.  On Israel.  There was a report in Axios this morning that
a U.S. official said that they had sort of lost trust with Israel in —
in conveying their planned activities.  There’s also Bob Woodward’s book
in which he — which the president reportedly used some language to
describe Prime Minister Netanyahu that we might normally hear at a
Phillies game instead — (laughs) — of in the Oval Office.

So, I’m wondering: Do you agree with that assessment, that the trust has
broken down between the U.S. and Israel?  And are you taking any steps
to try to get it back on track at this crucial period?

MS. SIMONS:  The commitment that we have to the State of Israel is
ironclad.  The relationship between Netanyahu and the president goes
back decades.  They can have very honest and straightforward
conversations with each other. 

Just yesterday, President Biden spoke with President Herzog on the
anniversary of October 7th and spoke about a range of issues, including
the need for peace and what the Israeli people have been through in this
past year and also what the Palestinian people have been through and the
hope for peace in the coming months. 

Q    So, their relationship is fine, or — or are those — and those
reports are incorrect, or — 

MS. SIMONS:  The relationship between the United States and the State of
Israel is as strong as ever. 

Q    Just to follow up on the storm as well.  The — in addition to the
trip to Africa, the president was going to Germany and had meetings with
a number of top allies, including in Ramstein with President Zelenskyy. 
Is that going to be rescheduled, or will a different U.S. — you know,
the secretary of Defense or State go in the president’s stead?  Do you
have any update on that?

MS. SIMONS:  Yeah.  So, for this weekend, given the trip was pulled down
today, we’re still working through exactly how the Ramstein engagement
may play out.  Our commitment to Ukraine was a big piece of this, and
that is unwavering, including the security and financial announcements
that come along with that.  That is not going anywhere.

     And we are committed to the transatlantic alliance.  It’s a huge
reason why we were going to Germany.  I know the president said that
he’s hoping to connect with Scholz today, so hopefully we’ll have more
to read out soon. 

Q    Will he talk to the other European leaders and — and President
Zelenskyy who are planning to attend or just Chancellor Scholz?

MS. SIMONS:  Our team throughout this morning has been in touch with a
variety of officials from the different countries to inform them that
due to the strength of the hurricane, we had to change our plans

Q    Could I — if I could just follow on Justin on the Woodward aspect
of the — the Bibi rel- — revelation and the very rough language that the
president allegedly used?  One, are you — did that — did that happen, or
are you saying it didn’t happen?

And then, more broadly, is — how is that helpful at, like, this time? 
Is th- — is there any concern that that’s going to further, you know,
hurt the relationship at a critical time? 

MS. SIMONS:  Well, first of all, when it comes to the Woodward book,
there are plenty of books that are being written about this
administration and others.  That’s normal.  We’re not going to comment
on each anecdote that may come out of different reporting.

On specific — about the relationship between the president and
Netanyahu, they have a long-term relationship.  They have a very honest
and direct relationship.  And I don’t have a comment on those specific
anecdotes. 

Q    Emilie, can you talk a little bit about the president’s
conversations with Governor DeSantis related to the storm?  You said
earlier that they had a good conversation.  Can you tell us a little bit
more about that and — and if it came up about whether or not he’s going
to speak with the vice president, or his public comments to that?

MS. SIMONS:  Yes.  Last night, President Biden spoke with Governor
DeSantis and he spoke with Tampa Mayor Castor ahead of landfall for
Milton and also about the ongoing recovery efforts with Helene.  It was
a very productive conversation.  It was expressed that the state has
what it needs, the city has what it needs, but that it is going to be
catastrophic, and everyone needs to heed local warnings. 

One thing that we are hearing continuously about the storm is debris
removal and the issues relating to the debris left by Helene and what
the risk can be as winds pick up because of Milton. 

So, to that point, FEMA is supporting the state of Florida to expedite
the removal of debris from Hurricane Helene in the Tampa region in
advance of Hurricane Milton’s landfall.  There’s a few ways we’re doing
this: We are surging additional resources to get as much debris picked
up as possible, management sites are open 24 hours a day, and contracted
trucks are now collecting debris around the clock. 

The governor of Florida has additionally activated 4,000 state
active-duty National Guard, many of whom are going to help with that
debris removal. 

Q    They didn’t discuss anything about the vice president’s outreach to
the governor?

MS. SIMONS:  So, the president and the governor kept their conversation
to the storm at hand.  I know that the vice president’s office has been
in touch with various local officials, as our team has as well, from the
city all the way up the state and back down.  So, we’re all going to
continue that important engagement. 

Q    And just one other one on a different topic.  Elon Musk, again, was
joking in a recent interview or a conversation with Tucker Carlson about
the assassination — or hypothetical assassination of Vice President
Harris.  And after that, former Congressman Adam Kinzinger, among
others, noted that this is a person who happens to be the largest
contractor with the Defense Department, who the government — who just
has billions of dollars in federal contracts.  And Congressman Kinzinger
said that that should be reconsidered, that some of those contracts
should be revoked, because no member — no person with ties to the
Pentagon, no serviceman, would be allowed to say those things. 

Does the administration have any response to that, or are there any
reviews that may come as far as those contracts based on the things that
Elon Musk is saying? 

MS. SIMONS:  I’m not going to get into any hypotheticals about
government contracts.  But what I can say is that we take rhetoric very
seriously.  Want to be mindful of any comments about assassinations or
attempted.  This is a — these are volatile words.  But I don’t have
comments on government contracts.

Q    Emilie, just back to the hurricane.  North Carolina is weighing
loosening absentee ballot restrictions for people in the western part of
the state who are obviously impacted by flooding, and the mailing system
is out of whack still.  Does the president support states this close to
the election changing their electoral rules, one, to allow those people
to vote, but just looking back on all of the chaos we saw in 2020, both
before and after the election?

MS. SIMONS:  We know that people are facing a variety of obstacles in
everyday life, including in voting.  Karine spoke to this from the
podium yesterday.  We would direct you to state and local officials
about their own state and local voting rules.  But we know that this is
an issue that folks are facing in a variety of states this close to an
election.

Q    And then, total change of topics.  How closely is the president
following these hacks of U.S. telecom companies?

MS. SIMONS:  The president has been made aware of these reported
intrusions into U.S. telecom companies.  Congress has also been
briefed. 

I would refer you to FBI and CISA, who are looking into this. 

Q    Just a quick follow-up.  Is there any indication that Beijing is
involved in this, or are these independent actors?

MS. SIMONS:  I would refer you to FBI and CISA. 

The U.S. government has warned many times about the risk posed by PRC
state-sponsored cyber actors, but I would refer you to the FBI.

Q    Dr. Biden’s office today announced that she’s going to be visiting
five battleground states in the coming weeks.  The president has been in
Pennsylvania.  Why — why aren’t we seeing the president in more
battleground states?  How much of this is about scheduling?  How much of
it is — this about that he just can’t be an effective surrogate in these
places outside his home — or his birth state?

MS. SIMONS:  I need to be mindful of the Hatch Act when it comes to the
campaign and the election.  But we are going to continue traveling to
very important states around the country. 

Today, we’re traveling to Wisconsin.  We’ll be in Pennsylvania later. 

I’ll let the first lady’s office speak to her travel, especially as it
relates to being a surrogate or the campaign.

But in the next few weeks, you will see us continue to travel across the
country.

Q    Will he campaign outside of Pennsylvania?

MS. SIMONS:  You will continue seeing us travel the country, as we are
today, to very important states.  Everyone is important.  But I have to
be mindful of campaign — campaign talk.  But we’re excited to go to
Wisconsin today, and we’ll be in Pennsylvania later.

Q    I’ll just ask one on Russia.  What does the White House make of the
revelation in the new Woodward book that Trump has spoken to Putin
several times since leaving office?  Are there national security
concerns around this?

MS. SIMONS:  So, once again, when it comes to the book, I’m not going to
comment on the specific antidote — anecdotes that are coming out.  It’s
very common for books to be written about this administration and
others, so I’ll leave others to speak to that. 

Meanwhile, we have a continued commitment to President Zelenskyy and
doing everything that we can to support Ukraine in their unprovoked
aggression from Russia.

Q    But do you have concerns about Trump speaking to Putin several
times since leaving office?

MS. SIMONS:  I don’t have a specific comment on that.

Q    I — I guess I just wanted to follow or push a little bit on that. 
It is a national security concern.  We — we have one president at a
time, right?  Why are we having multiple — a former president talking to
foreign leaders that were — in pretty tense times?

MS. SIMONS:  President Biden has been crystal clear about his views of
Putin as a dictator.  He’s made that clear repeatedly and whenever
asked. 

There are — I — I won’t get into the former president’s engagements with
president — with Putin, both when he was president when — sorry, when
Trump was president and today. 

But we are focused on doing everything that we can to secure our
relationship with Ukraine and ensure they have everything they need to
continue to fight against Russia’s aggression.

Q    Is the administration aware that the — the calls were happening?

MS. SIMONS:  I don’t have anything further to say on the Woodward
anecdotes.

Q    Can I ask one last one on the hurricane response?

MS. SIMONS:  Yes.

Q    The president canceled his trips to Germany and Africa.  Is it fair
to assume that he won’t be traveling to Delaware at all this weekend?

MS. SIMONS:  I do not have any weekend travel to purview — to preview. 
We are — just as the storm updates are continuing to roll in, we are
taking this hour by hour, day by day, making sure that every city, every
impacted community and family has what they need to get through this
storm. 

The president is the president wherever he goes, so we will keep you
posted.

Q    Would he like the vice president to stick around Washington to help
him with — handle the storm?

MS. SIMONS:  I would refer you to her team for the vice president’s
schedule.

Q    I was asking you about, would he like her?

MS. SIMONS:  Would he like her?  They are in close contact.  They’re
both in touch with the various impacted states and their relevant
governments and local state leaders.  So, they’re continuing to do the
job on behalf of those who may be affected.

Q    One more quick one, Emilie.  Does the president have a plan B to
stop the proliferation of ghost guns and other related tech should the
Supreme Court rule against them in this challenge that started today?

MS. SIMONS:  So, while I can’t comment on pending cases before the
Court, what I can say broadly is that we know ghost guns are the weapon
of choice for many gun traffickers because they are very difficult for
law enforcement to trace and are available without a background check. 

In 2021, there were approximately 20,000 suspected ghost guns reported
to the ATF.  That’s a 1,000 percent increase compared to 2017. 

So, our administration remains committed to stopping illegal
manufacturers and sale of kits and parts that can easily be made into
functional ghost guns.

Q    Does the president — is he confident those rules and executive
actions he took are legally sound?

MS. SIMONS:  We stand by the Justice Department’s rulemaking to do this.

Okay?

Q    Thank you so much.

MS. SIMONS:  Thank you.

Q    Thanks, Emilie.

MS. SIMONS:  Thanks, guys.  
  
12:52 P.M. EDT
