---
date: '2024-10-07'
published_time: 2024-10-07 18:03:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/07/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-70/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:06 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good afternoon, everyone.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, today is a solemn day and a day of remembrance.

One year ago, on October 7th, Hamas launched a heinous attack against
Israel. On a day that was supposed to be a joyous Jewish holiday of
singing and dancing, Hamas terr- –terrorists streamed across the border
from Gaza into Israel and massacred more than 1,200 innocent people,
including 46 Americans, at a music festival.

They committed horrific acts of sexual violence. In many cases, these
terrorists recorded their acts of barbarity and carnage, chilling,
documenting the unspeakable atrocities they committed for others to see.

This morning, the president and the first lady lit a yahrzeit candle to
remember all those who were massacred by Hamas in what was the deadliest
day for the Jewish people since the Holocaust.

The president and the first lady were joined by Rabbi Aaron Alexander of
Adas Israel Congregation for the candle lighting in remembrance of the
victims of the October 7th attacks.

The rabbi recited “God Full of Mercy,” a Jewish prayer for the soul of a
person who has died. It is recited during bur- — burial services and
memorial services.

Rabbi Alexander is a family friend of the Goldberg-Polin family. Hersh
Goldberg-Polin was abducted by Hamas on October 7th and held hostage for
almost 11 months until he was murdered by Hamas.

The president also issued a statement mourning those who were killed and
recognizing the more than 250 innocents, including 12 Americans, who
were taken hostage. The president has met with many of their families
and grieved with them. As he said this morning, “They have been through
hell.” So many families have lost loved ones on October 7th and will
never be the same.

President Biden and Vice President Harris have stood strongly in support
of the people of Israel and they made clear again today they fully —
they fully co- — they are fully committed to the safety of the Jewish
people, the security of Israel, and its right to exist.

As both the president and the vice president said, we must bring the
hostages home that are being — who are being held in Gaza.

President Biden continues to work around the clock to try to reach a
ceasefire and hostage release deal that would not only bring the
hostages held by Hamas home to their families, but also end the fighting
and alleviate the suffering of the Palestinian people in Gaza, many of
whom have been living in hellish conditions, and enable a much-needed
surge of humanitarian aid in Gaza.

As we reflect on the past year and all that has happened since October
7th, we also mourn the loss of innocent life in Gaza where tens of
thousands of Palestinians have lost their lives as a result of the
conflict that Hamas’ terro- — terrorism has unleashed.

President Biden will never stop working to end the suffering of all
people. And he continues the work to build the conditions for a lasting
peace in the region so that after this conflict is over, Israelis and
Palestinians can live securely, side by side, in a lasting peace with
equal measures of safety, opportunity, and dignity.

Now, moving on to the hurricane — Hurricane Helene.

President Biden and Vice President Harris continue to s- — to use every
tool available to help communities devastated by Hurricane Helene.

Over the weekend, President Biden ordered another 500 active-duty troops
to move into western north Cali- — Car- — Carolina — North Carolina,
pardon me, in addition to the 1,000 troops the president previously
ordered to deploy to the state. This is on top of the more than 6- —
6,100 National Guardsmen and over 7,000 federal personnel all working
together with their state and local counterparts to help people begin
their road to rebuilding.

Over the last few days, the administration has contracted — contacted
nearly 450 state and local officials across the region to offer further
support.

And, to date, the president — the president — this administration has
helped thousands of Helene survivors — Helene survivors just —
jump-start their recoveries, providing over $210 million in direct
financial assistance, with more coming every day. As the president has
said, when it comes to this whole-of-government response, we are
sparring no — sparing no — no resource here.

Unfortunately, scam artists and bad-faith actors and others who are
putting politics over people are promoting misinformation about our
efforts, including falsehoods about federal assistance. This is wrong,
dangerous, and must stop immediately.

Elected officials at every level and on both side of the aisle have also
called for an end to these conspiracy theories.

False information following a disaster can discourage people from
seeking critical assistance when they need it the most. Everyone,
especially those in positions of power, must do everything they can to
encourage survivors to register for assistance, not discourage them by
allowing these falsehoods to fester.  
   
And finally, the president was briefed yesterday and again today on the
potential impacts of Hurricane Milton, which forecasts to become a
Category 5 storm and make landform — landfall Wednesday on the western
coast of Florida.

As with Helene, FEMA and other federal agencies are actively
pre-positioning lifesaving resources in advance of the storm.

And earlier today, the president approved the governor of Florida’s
request for an emergency disaster declaration, which unlocks additional
federal resources to help the state respond to the storm.

To everyone in the path of Milton: The time to prepare is right now.
Visit Ready.gov or — or go download the FEMA — the FEMA app to make a
plan today. The time is right now.

Please, please, please listen to local officials. It could save your
life.

Now, the Biden-Harris administration is committed to preventing,
detecting, and responding to health emergencies globally.

On Sep- — on September 27th, Rwanda’s Ministry of Health announced an
outbreak of Marburg virus disease — MVD — and the Biden-Harris
administration is working closely with the government of Rwanda to end
the outbreak as quickly as possible.

As we have all experienced in recent years, health emergencies are a
global issue we must address together.

CDC assesses that the risk of the infection with this virus in the
United States is low, and there are currently no confirmed MVD — MVD
cases outside of Rwanda.  
   
Since learning of this outbreak, the United States has committed to ma-
— to making nearly $11 million available to address urgent health needs
in Rwanda and surrounding countries, and although there are currently no
FDA-approved vaccines or drugs against MVD, the United States also
contributed investigational vaccine and therapeutic doses, which arrived
in Rwanda this weekend, just one week after we learned of the outbreak.

In addition, to keep Americans safe, we are implementing additional
precautions for a small, select group of travelers arriving in the
United States from Rwanda, including additional health screenings. These
measur- — measures will advance ongoing efforts to protect public health
and reassure the traveling public that the risk of MVD spreading during
air travel is minimized.

And today, we saw the Supreme Court decision and what it means that
women in Texas could still be denied critical emergency medical care
because of the state’s dangerous and extreme abortion bans. We have been
— we have seen and have heard the horrific stories of women being denied
the care they need because of these laws.

Also today, in Georgia, the state Supreme Court reinstated an even more
extreme abortion ban.

All of these laws were made possible when the former president han- —
<s>handicapped</s> \[handpicked\] three Supreme Court justices to
overturn Roe v. Wade. They are creating chaos and confusion for women
and doctors.

The administration has been clear that all patients, including women
experiencing pregnancy loss and other pregnancy-related emergency, must
be able to access the emergency medical care they need, and that is
required by federal law.

The stories we hear of women being denied care they need in emergency
situation is completely unacceptable. That’s why the Biden-Harris
administration has taken a number of important steps to make it easier
for women to file complaints if they are denied this essential care and
investigate and enforce federal protections under EMTALA.

But our fight is not over. After the Supreme Court’s order earlier this
year, HHS issued a letter reminding hospitals and provider associations
of their obligations under EMTALA, including providing abortion care as
a necessary, stabilizing treatment.

We will continue to make those obligations clear. We will also continue
to fight Republican elected officials’ extreme, extreme agenda. And we
will continue to enforce federal law, support hospitals complying with
the obligations, and defend the administration’s long-standing view that
women have the right to access the emergency medicar- — medical care
that they need.

And with that, Aamer. Thank you for your patience, you all.

Q Sure. If I could just follow up on two of your toppers.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q First on the abortion access rulings today. Not much is going to
change with the shape of the courts immediately after November. So, what
— what other avenues can the administration pursue —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — in the little time that you have left?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: As you know, when Roe v. Wade was originally overturned
because of the Dobbs decision that was done more than two years ago, the
president and the vice president took action. The president, on that
same day, made — announced some executive actions that he was moving
forward with — obviously, with a whole-of-go- — -of-government approach
here.

And so, we’ve taken actions. We’ve taken this very seriously. I don’t
have anything to preview — preview to you right this time, at — at this
moment, but we’re going to take this very seriously, as we have — as we
have for the past two — two years.

And, look, it is important. It is important for people to be very aware
of what’s at stake here. It is important for us to continue to voice
what we’re seeing here: women being denied care and their lives putting
— being put at risk. And so, we’re going to continue to fight.

As you know, there’s EMTALA. There’s other measures that the DOJ is
using to protect doctors and also women who are looking for that care
that they should be making on — about their own body themselves.

And we’re going to continue to call out these extreme agendas that we’re
seeing from — from the other side, from Republicans.

Look, we’re going to — don’t have anything to preview today, but it is
important to call this out. It is important to say how dangerous this is
and how this is a freedom that has been taken away from women.

Q If I could just follow on the storms.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q What’s the confidence that FEMA is prepared to handle what could be
two major disasters at the same time? And can you talk a little bit more
about what’s — what they’re doing, specifically —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — with Milton, while they’re still handling Helene?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q And then, finally, there was a report — I believe it was NBC — just as
we were coming out, that Governor DeSantis is dodging calls with Vice
President Harris and President Biden.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look —

Q Is that an issue? Is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So —

Q Is politics starting to sink into this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, that’s really for the governor to speak to,
right? I — we’ve — I — you’ve heard me mention — I believe in the gaggle
last week when we were heading to Florida and Georgia — we invited the
governor — right? — to come and survey the damaged areas with the
president. Obviously, we were in Florida. We invited the — the governor
of Florida to come. It was his decision to — to not — to not attend or
not be there with the president.

The president has reached out around Hurricane Helene. He reached out.
It is up to the governor. It is really up to the governor.

We know, I can say — and I think you’ve heard this from the FEMA
administrator — she has been able to — to speak with the governor. She
spoke with him yesterday in regards to Milton, that hurricane coming
shortly. And so, we have been in touch with state — state and local
officials — we — in order to be able to help the people of Florida who
are dealing — who are going to be impacted, who were — who were
impacted, certainly, by Helene.

And we’re going to continue to certainly pre-position on the ground. And
we’re going to support — we’re going to con- — support the communities
with whatever and — whatever they need and when- — whenever. That is our
commitment. That is our commitment to the folks who are going to be
impacted.

So, we’ve been in touch with state and local officials in Florida, and
we’re going to ensure that we meet in advance what their needs are going
to be. And FEMA is — and FEMA is on the ground supporting that —
supporting that. So, that’s important.

It’s up to the governor. It is up to him. We are doing our part in — in
the Biden-Harris administration, working –obviously, FEMA is work- — is
on the ground, all-hands-on-deck, whole-of-government, robu- — robust
approach here.

And so, again, that’s for Governor DeSantis to speak to.

Q Is it — but is it accurate that the president and the vice president
have made outreach efforts —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We — we — I mean — you —

Q — and they have not been answered?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — you have — you — you’ve asked us. We have made
outreach and — regarding, certainly, Hurricane Helene. And as I
mentioned, the good thing is the FEMA administration — administrator,
pardon me, was able to connect with the governor yesterday. I think
that’s important.

But, look, we’re going to — we’re going to do the work. We’re going to
continue to talk to local and state officials. That is important as
well. We’re going to pre-position as this hurricane, Hurricane Milton,
is com- — coming — coming towards, as it — as it seems, towards Florida.

Category 5 — that’s nothing to joke about. That is very, very serious.
And so, we’re taking this serious, as the president has done many, many
times when we’ve seen these types of storms coming — coming our way. So,
we’re going to do our job, do our work here.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. We’re learning that DeSantis refused to take a call
from Vice President Harris specifically around Hurricane Milton. Can you
just talk about that and any communication —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — this —

Q — around this —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: This is —

Q — new hurricane?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, that is something for the governor to speak to
himself.

If you have the president and you have the vice president reaching out
to offer up assistance, provided to the pe- — your constituents, the
people who live in your state, to make sure we are doing everything that
we need to do, from federal response, and we’re reaching out, offering
our support. That’s for the governor. And the governor — it’s up for —
to him if he wants to respond to us or not.

But what we’re doing is we’re working with state and local officials to
make sure that we are pre-positioned, to make sure that we are r- —
ready to be there for the communities that are going to be impacted. We
are doing the job that is needed — that we believe is needed for — to
protect the communities and to make sure that they have everything that
is needed.

You heard me talk about the declaration. We approved that for Florida.
That’s moving forward. And so, we’re taking this very, very seriously.
That’s for the governor to speak to. That is.

Q Trump and some of his Republican allies have been spreading
misinformation about the federal response to Hurricane Helene. So, what
exactly is the White House doing to combat that misinformation? And can
you just talk about the impact it’s already having on the ground?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — it’s a great question. Combating misinformation and
disinformation is always, always critically important. It is.

You s- — you heard the lay down that I gave at the top. The reason I did
that at the top is because we wanted to make clear that things are
available to — to the public, folks who are impacted, and that
misinformation, disinformation is indeed dangerous. It gets in the way
in what we’re trying to do here. It does.

And there has been a lot of falsehoods. And let me just fact-check a
couple of things, because it’s really important. It is — again, it is
wrong; it is dangerous. And I also called out the — there are important
people, people who have power, privilege, who are spreading these —
these falsehoods, and they need to stop. They need to stop doing that.

So, disaster relief — this is a falsehood: disaster relief funds used on
immigrants illegally in the U.S. The fact is no money is being diverted
from response needs. That’s the fact.

Another falsehood: FEMA confiscating Helene survivor property. That’s
false. That is not true. The fact is FEMA cannot seize your property or
land, period.

Another falsehood that’s out there: FEMA will only provide $750 to
disaster survivors to support their recovery. That is a falsehood. That
is not true. The fact is this is an upfront payment for urgent needs
like food and medication. Many survivors — many survivors will qualify
for more assista- — assistance.

Another falsehood: FEMA, FAA are restricting airspace in North Carolina.
That is not true. That’s false. The fact is there are no airspace
restrictions in North Carolina.

So, we’re going to continue to combat these. It’s important to combat
them. But people of — people who have a microphone and a podium should
not continue to spread this falsehood. It is dangerous. It is incredibly
dangerous.

Q But is the administration tracking that having an impact on the ground
in terms of people being — people not seeking the aid they need because
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s a concern.

Q Is that — is that happening?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: But — but that’s a concern. That is a concern. And it —
you know, people who need help should seek help from the federal
government. There is assistance out there. I talked about hundreds of
millions of dollars are ready — already being provided to impacted
areas.

And now we have Hurricane Milton coming. We can’t have this. We cannot.
This needs to stop. This needs to stop.

If you care about your constituents, if you care about the people, if
you care about Americans, you shouldn’t do this. You shouldn’t spread
these falsehoods. It is dangerous.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. Did the president get an update from President
Herzog when they spoke this morning about the Iranian response?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, just a couple of things on that. And, look, the
president — what you saw the president do is honor and commerme- —
commer- — commemorate lives that were lost, as I sted — said at the top.
And the president called President Herzog because he believed it was
appropriate person for the president to call to express his condolences.
It was a meaningful and important conversation.

And so, that’s what they spoke about. It — it was focused on
commemorating this incredibly sad day.

Q Okay. So, there was not a detailed conversation about Iran?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything beyond that. It was about
offering up his condolences and what — and what the Israeli people must
be going through right now.

Q Hama- — Hamas reiterated over the weekend that they see Netanyahu as
being the stumbling block to a ceasefire deal. It seemed like the
president’s own remarks recently in the briefing room here kind of left
open the — the opportunity for taking that analysis away as well. Do —
does the president feel like he needs speak with Prime Minister
Netanyahu?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: As the president said himself, there will be — he’s
going to — there will be a call shortly, soon. I don’t have anything to
preview for you at this time. As you know — you hear us say this many,
many times — they have decades-long relationship. And in those
conversations that they do have, it’s very honest; it’s very frank. And
that will continue.

I don’t have anything else beyond what the president stated at this
podium on Friday or many times before about this particular issue.

Look, we believe the best chance at getting these hostages home is
through a ceasefire deal. That’s what the president is directing his
team to continue to work on, and that’s going to be our focus.

Go ahead.

Q Karine, just given the projected path and strength of Milton that you
were talking about, is any consideration being given to the president
perhaps skipping his trip to Germany and Angola?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, the president is monitoring this very, very
closely. I just talked about how he’s gotten updates about the hurricane
and, obviously, continuing to get updates on what is happening on the
ground as af- — after — after the horrible hurricane, Hurricane Helene.

And so, that will continue. I don’t have anything to share about a
change in travels or his schedule. And so, certainly, if that — if that
were to be, we would cert- — share that with all of you.

Q Is that something that has been discussed at all, the possibility —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I — what I —

Q — of a schedule change?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — can say is that we are monitoring the — the
hurricane, Hurricane Milton. As you just — as you just heard me at the
top, it’s going to be a Category 5. Our — our job right now is to make
sure we make it very, very clear to folks who are on the ground to
please listen to local officials, to please be ready and take this very,
very seriously.

And FEMA and other federal — federal agencies are preparing or
pre-positioning on the ground to offer up assistant and to be ready — to
be ready for the — when the hurricane hits. I just don’t have anything
to share about any change in schedule.

Q Just a quick question on the Middle East. Is the White House currently
doing anything to actively push the Lebanon ceasefire proposal that you
all announced a couple weeks ago?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, what I can say is that — look, when it comes
to — when it comes to the proposal that you just stated, the — the
21-day proposal, what we believe is ultimately — ultimately — and the —
the Isr- — the Israelis have said this themselves as well — is that it
needs — there needs to be an agreement that allows civilians to safely
return to their homes on both sides of the border over the long term.

So, we’re going to be having regular consultations with the Israelis,
with the Lebanese, and others regarding the right moment to — to press
for such an agreement. But ultimately, that’s where we need to be in
order for both sides — both — civilians on both sides to return home.

Q When you say you’re looking for the right moment to make a push for
that proposal, are you saying that moment is not now, that you’re not
actively pushing for that right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, we are in regular conversations. As I said, we
continue to have those discussions with the Israelis and the Lebanese on
this particular issue. We believe that we need this. We need to have a
space — I mean, you tal- — you heard me speak about this — to have some
space, some diplomatic dialogue in order to get there.

And so, you know, that’s what you would need, is a ceasefire, in order
to get there. We’re going to have those conversations, and we’re
certainly — when the right moment to press for such an agreement, we
will do so. But the conversation — those dis- — discussions continue.

Q Okay. But it would be correct to say that the White House is not
currently, actively pushing on that proposal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I can tell you is we continue those consultations
with the Israelis and the Lebanese. That’s what I can share.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Following up on the president’s trip, can you just
explain a little bit why the president is taking these trips now when
there’s less than a month before the election? What is he trying to
accomplish?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, you’ve heard us talk about the importance
of this travel. As you — he’s going to be going to Germany, obviously,
and also Angola. The president is certainly looking forward to that
travel. And I would say that — you know, we — as it relates to — I mean,
each of them is very different than — than the other.

But we think it serves as a powerful symbol — a powerful symbol of the
U.S.-Germany re- — partnership, as you think about the German piece of
this trip, and our close cooperation on the world’s most pressing
challenges, and so — and to ensure our people have every opportunity for
safety and prosperity.

And what this visit is going to do, it’s going — it’s going to
underscore the deep commitment and that transatlantic security resolute
support. If you think about Ukraine and the self-defense of Ukraine,
that’s going to be a big part of this visit — and continuing that
support, continuing to do everything that we can to stop the Russian
aggression. And so, that is going to be certainly a big part of that.

Continuing contributions to — to meet the NATO pledge also is going to
be a big component of that.

And so, this is important, as we see what’s going on in Ukraine, as we
continue to see Russia’s aggression, to have that conversation. You have
seen the president’s leadership when it comes to Ukraine and what he’s
been able to do to make NATO stronger, to have more than 50 — 50
countries’ support to support Ukraine in their fight against that
aggression of Russia. And so, that’s a big part — certainly, it will be
a big part of that — of that trip.

And when it comes to Angola, there’s going to be a bilateral meeting
that the president will have, and this speaks to the U.S.-Africa
relationship that we want to continue, that we want to strengthen. And
so, that’s what you’re going to see. They’re very — two important
relationships that is very much connected to what this president has
done over the three and a half years, if you look at his global
leadership. And the president is loo- — very much looking forward to it.

Q But let me put this way.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. Sure.

Q He cou- — he could have taken these trips after the election. I mean,
he could have taken them in — in December or January before he leaves
office. So, what is so urgent about this moment —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: There’s not —

Q — that he needed to do it in October?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I appreciate that, but there’s not a lot of time. There
really isn’t. Three months is going to fly by. There’s not a lot of
time. And so, the president wanted to get this done. We had said when it
— as it relates to Ang- — Angola and going to the continent, the
president had made a commitment and a promise to go to Africa, to
continue to show his commitment to that relationship. And that’s what —
the president wanted to keep that promise.

And so, three months is not a lot of time. And so, this was the right
period of time to go to get that done.

And we’re also going to go to Germany. As I talked about, that NATO —
the — the — continuing that NATO pledge, continuing what we’re doing on
— for Ukraine as they’re fighting against Russia’s aggression — all of
these things are really important to our — yes, to our — to our
relationships with those — with those partners but also to what we’re
trying to do on behalf of this country, on behalf of Americans.

And so, it’s — three months is not a long time. As you know, that’s
going to fly by. That’s going to fly by.

Go ahead.

Q Karine, the other day, the president said that if the Israelis strike
back in Iran, they ought to do so in a proportionate fashion. He said
that he did not believe they should strike nuclear sites, and then he
seemed to suggest he didn’t think they should strike energy sites
either. So, what, in the president’s view, would be proportionate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) I’m not going to get into — (laughs) — I
appreciate the question. I’m not going to get into what’s proportionate,
not proportionate — get into that back and forth.

What I can say is we are continuing to have discussions with the
Israelis about their response, obviously, responding to Iran’s attack —
almost 200 missiles — right? — that went flying into Israel — that we
were able to, obviously, at the president’s direction, with the military
being — the U.S. military aiding in — in the defense of Israel, which
the president was really proud to be able to have done that. Our se- —
our commitment continues to be very clear on Israel’s security. That’s
ironclad.

Those conversations continue. I just don’t have anything to — to add
beyond what the president stated.

Q From the best we can tell, the president hasn’t spoken with Prime
Minister Netanyahu since around August 21st. That’s a long time given
the degree of — of high activity the Israeli forces have been involved
in. And it would seem to suggest that, at this point, they don’t have a
whole lot to say to each other. But tell us why you think they’ve gone
that long.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) So, look, I would say this: In the past year,
the president and the prime minister have spoken more than a dozen times
— in the past year, and they’ve seen each other, as you know. I think
you might have been with us at those moments when they’ve seen each
other. And — and we have said — the national security advisor has said
this, the president said this himself during — especially, as you said,
during these past week or so, in these high-stake moments, if you will,
the president’s team has been in touch regularly — regularly —
practically daily — with the Israelis’ government.

And so, we’ve been in close communication and close contact, and that
continues. That has been the case for the past year. And so, that’s
certainly going to continue.

And, look, the president is going to say — is going to speak to the
prime minister. He has said that. And once we have a — a call to speak
to, we will certainly do that.

Go ahead, Jon.

Q Thanks, Karine. When the president came here into the briefing room
late last week, he said that he expects the election will be “free and
fair,” but he also said, “I don’t know whether it will be peaceful.”
What can the administration do — what is the administration doing
proactively to prevent that possibility of the election not being
peaceful in any way, either leading up to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — November the 5th or in the aftermath?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’m not going to get into specifics from
here. I think the president was asked a question, and he answered it
very straightforward and very directly. And I think the president and
myself and many others have spoken to what we saw on January 6th of
2021.

And so, obviously, we are — there’s always concerns, but — and — and not
only that, you know that Americans care about our democracy. They care.
They care about preserving and protecting the democracy. And I think
that’s something a — this president has promised to do and will continue
to do this in his remaining couple of months of — in this term.

I’m not going to get into specifics here. I think the president, as I
said, was asked a question. He answered it directly, but he also said
this is going to — I think this is really important — that this — he
believes this is going to be a free and fair election. And so, I’m going
to leave it there. I’m not going to get into details.

Q Separately — separately, in regards to the relationship or — or lack
of a relationship between the governor of Florida and the leadership of
this administration, does it make a coordinated response to tropical
weather that much more difficult if the governor is not speaking to the
vice president or to the president?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, here’s what I can say. We have been talking to
state and local officials on the ground, and I think that’s important —
over 15 local officials from communities along the likely path of the
storm as we think about Hurricane Milton. And so, we have FEMA on the
ground. Administrator Criswell is going to be in Florida — if she’s not
there already — assisting, guiding, providing that help. She has spoken
— she spoke to the governor yesterday.

And so, look, we’re going to do our job. We’re going to do what we need
to do to make sure communities have what they need as this hurricane is
coming our way at Category — potentially Category 5. And so, that’s not
going to stop the federal assistance. That’s not going to stop the job
that this president wants to see his team do. We’re going to have a
robust — robust, all-of-government, if you will, federal response to
this.

And you have seen that. You have seen that over the last three and a
half years. When it comes to these natural disasters, we are going to
make sure that we are there for the American people.

And anything else, I would have to leave it to the governor, to his
actions, to how he wants to move forward in this. That is for him. That
is a question for the governor.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q Thanks, Karine. You used the phrase “incredibly dangerous” a couple
times, talking about the misinformation on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — the hurricane.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It is.

Q And given how widespread it has been over the past few days and how
much of an effort FEMA and the administration has made to combat that,
how concerned is the president that what we’re seeing now with this
storm is perhaps a preview of the misinformation we might have on
Election Day or in the days following that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, misinformation, disinformation is a problem
across the board, and we have to combat it. It is. It is — it is
something — whether it’s the election, whether what we’re seeing
currently right now with Hurricane — Hurricane Helene that just came
through — and obviously, Milton is on its way, sadly — we have to combat
that.

And you’re — and I’m saying they’re dangerous, yes, because they are.
They’re critically dangerous to have this misinformation,
disinformation. And that’s why, at the top, I called out — you know, you
have some powerful people out there who continue to — to spread
conspiracy theories.

It is not helpful. It is not helpful to what we’re trying to do as we’re
trying to assist Americans on the ground and trying to figure out how
the best way to respond, what they ne- — what their needs are. And so,
yeah, it’s not — it’s not ideal. It is dangerous, in fact.

And let’s not forget — I do want to say this — when dealing with
Hurricane Helene, you heard from Republican governors, Democratic
governors say — speak to their response. South Carolina Governor
McMaster: Federal assistance has “been superb,” we “were asking for
everything we need.” And Virginia Governor Youngkin: incredible —
“incredibly appreciative of the rapid response.” Governor of Georgia,
Governor Kemp, appreciated the president’s call offering any “other
things we need”; thanked the president for giving aid to more counties.

I mean, this is — there’s a bipartisan response to Hurricane Helene, and
you see that, you hear that from elected officials on both sides of the
aisle. They’re very thankful for what the federal government has done
and continues to do. But you have this misinformation, disinformation
that wants to tear it apart. And this is a time for communities to come
together, for all of us to come together. It doesn’t matter if you have
an “R” or a “D” behind your name; it is a time to come together to
actually deliver for these impacted communities.

So, yeah, it’s dangerous.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. On the Boeing strike. Boeing is returning to wage
talks, and just wanted to see if the White House is participating in any
of those conversations, if there’s anything you can share on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, as we’ve always stated, collective bargaining
is something that this president believes in. It has worked. You have
seen that work over the past couple of years in — in — under this
administration, when we’ve called for it. I don’t have anything to share
beyond — beyond that.

We always believe that it is important for both sides to come to the
table in good faith and to make sure that the workers — right? — the
workers certainly get their fair share.

Q And on the upcoming foreign travel. You — you mentioned that the trip
Bi- — that Biden is going to — to Germany and Angola, but you were asked
if it was being — you know, talked about maybe being pulled down. Just
wanted to clarify that the trip is happening.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any changes to the president’s schedule.
That’s what I’ve said. And the president is looking forward to going on
the trip, certainly — certainly. And you all know, you all will be the
first to know — one of the first to know if any — if that changes.

Q And do you expect a call with Bibi before the election, or is Biden
holding out until — or is the president holding out until after the
election?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The president said he was going to call the prime
minister. I don’t have anything else to share on timing.

Go ahead, Nadia.

Q Thank you, Karine. I was wondering whether you could comment on
remarks that former President Trump made this morning linking migration,
crime, and genetics and, more specifically, this sentence, quote, “We’ve
got a lot of bad genes in our country right now,” end quote.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Ugh. Well, that type of language is hateful, it’s
disgusting, it’s inappropriate and has no place in our country. I just
talked about misinformation, disinformation, and how we have seen a
bipartisan response when it came to Hurricane Helene and how we’re
trying to bring our country together. It is important to bring people
together.

And tearing people apart, tearing communities apart is dangerous. And
this comes from the same vile statements that we’ve ha- — that we’ve
heard about im- — migrants being poisoned — poison the blood. That’s
disgusting.

And so, this president, this vice president, we’re going to continue to
forcefully reject this kind of vile, disturbing, hateful, hateful
speech. It has no place — no place in this country. And we have to
respect the rights of all — respect the rights of — of all of us coming
together. That’s what we want to see — not tearing communities apart;
bringing it together.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. A few questions on China. Could you please share
what message President Biden sent to President Xi on China’s National
Day in the past weekend? And are they planning to talk by phone very
soon? What’s the main purpose of this phone call, gi- — considering the
upcoming government transition in the United States?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, to your question, on the National Day, the
president certainly conveyed the same message that he has done in the
past — the past couple of years, which is congratulating the Chinese
people on — on occasion of PRC National Day on October 1st.

As it relates to a call, I just don’t have anything to share with you at
this time.

Go ahead.

Q The president wrote a letter to congressional leadership asking them
to add additional funding to the disaster relief effort, and I wondered
if there was any more conversations behind the scenes happening to bring
them back early.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, first, the letter is focused on SBA’s
disaster loan program, which is — could soon run out of funding. And so,
the president wanted to alert Congress on that. That’s what the letter
primarily focused on. And in addition, the FEMA Disaster Relief Fund
faces a shortfall at the end of the year.

And so, the president’s letter was urging Congress to — to speed up and
provide that funding. And that’s what the president wants to see, and
that’s what the president was calling for.

We want Congress to move appropriately, at appropriate speed to get this
done. And here’s the thing: In the past, Congress has been able to take
quick action even when there is a recess to address urgent problems, so
this is nothing new. This is nothing new at all.

And so, the president wanted to be very, very clear about where we are
and what the needs are and — and wanted to show — show to Congress by —
in this letter the urgency of them acting.

They need to act.

Q Does he believe they should come back early?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: As I stated, this is not the first time Congress has
been able to take action and to act on — when it comes to urgent
problems, urgent matter. They’ve been able to do that during recess.

What we are going to continue to do is lay out the urgency of this
getting done. We’re talking about SBA disaster loan program. This is
important — important to communities, especially communities that are
impacted.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q Thank you. I have questions on two topics. The first one, you
mentioned the Supreme Court case regarding emergencies and abortions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q The administration has not done much to enforce its interpretation of
that law that hospitals have to provide abortions in medical
emergencies, particularly for hospitals that patients have reported
that’s not happening. Can you talk about the administration’s efforts to
ramp up enforcement in that area in the next couple months?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. So, I would refer you to HHS. This is under their
— their purview. So, I would refer you to them.

Q And on the storms that are coming, and also on Helene. Florida and
Georgia both have voter registration deadlines today. Some of the states
that are in the path of the storm have them upcoming. Is the
administration going to ask the states to extend those deadlines, or are
you doing anything to prepare for storm damage to exist around Election
Day —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look —

Q — making it difficult for people to go vote?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No. Understand. And I’ve gotten this question multiple
times, in var- — in variations. So, look, what we — this is why it’s
important to do this type of response that we’re doing. We want to make
sure that these — the communities are getting the response, they’re
getting the recovery from this disaster, and we want to make sure that
their voices can be heard in November.

So, I would certainly refer you to state el- — state election officials,
and certainly CISA as well, to speak to that specifically. I just don’t
have anything else to share.

But this is why — this is why what we’re trying to do, trying to combat
this misinformation, disinformation, workly — working closely with local
and state officials to make sure these communities have what they need
so that we can get them back on their feet is so critical — is so, so
critical.

As it relates to that specific question, I would have to refer you to
the state though.

Q Are you seeing misinformation about the storm and voting, or just the
storm response —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I am saying —

Q — in general?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — is that misinformation, disinformation — I’m speaking
to our response on the ground. Right? We’re trying to get funding on the
ground. We’re trying to make sure that people who have been affected can
reach out to FEMA, can reach out to federal — federal government asking
for assistance. And that is something that’s really important, and
that’s the misinformation, disinformation that I’m speaking to.

And so, what our focus is is making sure that that recovery, that
response is getting to communities, because we do want to make sure — we
want to make sure that communities, they’re able to have their voices
heard in November.

Q Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. Congratulations on the promotion.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you.

Q You’re not leaving us in the briefing room, are you?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Unless you want me to. Do you want me to leave the
briefing room?

Q No, sure don’t.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Okay.

Q So, the arms dealer that President Biden freed in a prisoner swap,
Viktor Bout, is now, according to the Wall Street Journal, selling
weapons to the Houthis. Does President Biden think that is a problem?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, a couple of things. I can’t confirm that
report today, in — I believe, in the Wall Street Journal.

I do want to put out a couple of facts here that is important to note.
Look, securing the release of Americans who are being held hostage and
wrongfully detained is a big priority — is a priority for this
administration. And I would note that we have been extraordinarily
successful in getting that done. It is a top priority to get these
Americans, again, wrongfully detained and held hostage.

And so, that is something — and it’s not easy. It is not an easy de- —
easy thing to do. It is not — there are some difficult decisions that we
have to make. We’ve been very transparent about that — very transparent.

As you’re talking about Viktor Bout, that was in rele- — in — related to
Brittney — Brittney’s release. And so, even then, a year and a half ago,
we were clear about decisions that have to be made on a number of
occasions. And it’s — it’s incredibly difficult. And we’ve been
transparent about it. We’ve been very transparent.

So, look, we’re going to continue to do what we can — do everything that
we can to bring Americans home who are wrongfully detained and held
hostage. And, again, frankly, we have had an extraordinary record of
doing just that, and that’s going to be the president’s top priority.

Q And on this issue of funding, the administration has money to send to
Lebanon without Congress coming back, but Congress does have to come
back to approve money to send to people in North Carolina. Do I have
that right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Here’s what I’m going to be very clear about: The
president and the vice president has had a — a robust,
whole-of-government response to this. Hundreds of millions of dollars —
I said it at the top, more than $200 million — that we have directly put
towards survivors here for the di- — for disaster help, and that’s
because of this president’s commitment to make sure that we are there
for communities that are impacted.

We take this very seriously. Again, we take this very seriously. And
before — before the hurricane hit, we pre-positioned more — more than
1,500 federal — federal folks on the ground to help.

And so, we have made sure that every state has gotten their storm —
requested emergency declaration. They requested it, and we made sure
they received it. We’ve taken this very seriously — more than $200
million that we have provided to the impacted areas.

And — but instead, people want to do disinformation, misinformation,
which is dangerous — which is dangerous, because then it — what that —
when — when folks on the ground hear that, they may not want to ask for
the help that they need that is there for them — that is there for them.
That’s our focus here.

Q But President Biden is fond of saying, “Show me your budget, and I
will tell you what you value.” If he has got money for people in Lebanon
right now, without Congress having to come back, what does it say about
his values that there is not enough money right now for people —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: His values —

Q — in North Carolina who need it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: His —

Q That’s not misinformation.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Wait. No, that is. Wait, your whole — your whole
premise of the question is misinformation, sir.

Q Excuse me.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What you don’t — yes, yes.

Q Which part?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s misinformation.

Q Did — is there money —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just — I just mentioned —

Q — to send to Lebanon right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just mentioned — I just mentioned to you that we
provided more than $200 million to folks who are impacted in the area,
and I just shared with you that people are deciding not to —

Q $157 million is not (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — not — no — but people are deciding not to —

Q 157 million is not (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — no — no, but people are deciding not to —

Q President Biden sent a letter to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — not — wait —

Q — Congress that there’s not enough money to help people in North
Carolina —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’re talking about the SBA disaster loan. Yes.

Q That’s money for people in North Carolina.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And that’s important. And people in North Carolina need
that. Con- —

Q The president is the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Wait. This is nothing new.

Q — one saying it’s running out.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Peter, this is nothing new. Congress comes together.
They provide money — millions of dollars for disaster relief. We’re
asking them to do the job that they have been doing for some time.

Q And I’m reading from a letter that President Biden sent to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Been doing for some time.

Q — Johnson, McConnell, Schumer, and Jeffries. The president’s letter is
not misinformation. Would you agree?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, the way you’re asking me the question is
misinformation. There is money that we are allocating to the impacted
areas, and there’s money there to help people who truly need it. There
are survivors who need the funding — who need the funding, and it’s
there.  
Q You can’t call a question that you don’t like “misinformation.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I said that —

Q That’s very unfair.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I actually said we have the money available to help
survivors of Hurricane Helene and also Hurricane Milton.

Now, we’re — now, there’s going to be a shortfall — right? — because we
don’t know how bad it’s — Hurricane Milton is going to be, and so we’re
going to need additional funding. We’re going to need additional
funding.

Q That’s exactly what I just asked about, and you said it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No —

Q — was misinformation.

Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What you’re asking me is why Congress needs to come
back and do their job. That’s what you’re asking me.

Congress needs to come back and do their job and provide extra
assistance, extra funding to Disaster Relief Fund. That’s what Congress
needs to do, and we’re going to continue to urge that.

You may not want that, but that’s okay. That’s what this president
wants, and that’s what the vice president wants.

Thanks, everybody.

2:55 P.M. EDT
