---
date: '2024-10-25'
published_time: 2024-10-25 16:08:40-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/25/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-34/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:42 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks for joining us on a Friday
afternoon.  Kirby has a few words here at the top, and then we’ll take
some questions. 

MR. KIRBY:  Good afternoon, everybody.  Sorry we’re a little bit late. 
Had some technical difficulties here. 

But I just wanted to start by letting you know that, today, our National
Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, met with his South Korean and Japanese
counterparts: the Republic of Korea’s National Security Advisor, Shin
Won-sik, and the Japanese National Security Advisor, Akiba Takeo. 

They met here in Washington, D.C.  It’s the second trilateral national
security advisors meeting since the leaders of all three countries met
at Camp David back in August of ’23, and it’s the fifth one of this
administration.

The three national security advisors reaffirmed their commitment to
address common regional and global challenges and to promote security
and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond. 

In particular, the national security advisors expressed grave concern
over troop deployments by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to
Russia, potentially for use on the battlefield against Ukraine.  This
deployment is the latest in a series of concerning indicators of
deepening military cooperation between the DPRK and Russia, including
arms and ballistic missile transfers that are in direct violation of
U.N. Security Council resolutions. 

The national security advisors call on Russia and the DPRK to cease
these actions that only serve to expand the security implications of
Russia’s brutal and illegal war beyond Europe and into the
Indo-Pacific. 

They also — all three national security advisors strongly oppose any
unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force or coercion in the
waters of the Indo-Pacific, and they underscored their commitment to the
global maritime order based on international law, as reflected in the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 

National Security Advisor Sullivan, National Security Advisor Shin, and
National Security Advisor Akiba resolved to institutionalize efforts to
build a new era of trilateral partnership that will be a force for peace
and stability in the Indo-Pacific and beyond for years to come.  They
committed to work toward holding another trilateral leaders’ summit at
the earliest opportunity.

And with that, we can take some questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And again, as Kirby said at the top, we’re
having some tech glitches, so just bear with us while we get through
questions. 

Our first question will go to Barak with Axios.

Q    Hi, John.  Thank you for doing this.  CENTCOM announced, I think an
hour ago, about another squadron of F-16s that arrived in its area of
responsibility in what, at least to me, seems to be as a signal of the
preparation for an Israeli attack on Iran.  Anything you can tell us
about that?

MR. KIRBY:  I really can’t offer you more detail than CENTCOM did,
Barak.  As you know, and I think they expressed, our commitment to
Israel’s security remains ironclad, and that means, as appropriate,
making force posture changes that we think need to be made to help
Israel defend itself.  And I don’t think I can really go beyond that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Ron Kampeas.  You
should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Yeah, can you hear me now?

MODERATOR:  Yep.

Q    Great.  Thank you for taking this call.  So, two questions, and I
realize they’re a little bit out of date.  But when Yahya Sinwar was
killed, of course Netanyahu gave a speech in Hebrew and in English.  I
didn’t hear the English, but in Hebrew he said, “Those who said that we
should not have gone into Rafah, those who said — were calling for a
ceasefire, now they know they are wrong.”  And that seems to me directly
— directed particularly at you guys, at the White House.  And I wondered
if you had any reaction to that. 

And the second question is: There’s talk of holding Sinwar’s body in
exchange for hostages.  I just wondered if you had any comment on that.

MR. KIRBY:  No comment on your second one.

And on your first one: Look, again, I don’t think it’s useful for us to,
you know, get into publicly parsing everything that the Prime Minister
or the Prime Minister’s office is saying.  They can speak for
themselves, as they do.

I would just tell you that the Prime Minister knows very well how
strongly Joe Biden supports Israel and how stridently he’s been working
to make sure that they have what they need to defend themselves,
including the support that went to the Israeli Defense Forces while they
were operating in Rafah. 

And just to put a fine point on it, we did not tell the Israelis that
they could not operate in Rafah.  So, if that’s the public narrative out
there, or that’s the impression that people have, I can assure you that
that’s not the case.  We did express concerns, of course, about densely
populated areas and the damage that that could have and the impact on
civilians, but there was no mandate by the United States that they
couldn’t operate in Rafah.  And even as they did operate in Rafah, they
continued to get support from the United States. 

Q    Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Akayla with
Bloomberg.

Q    Hey, John.  I’m wondering if you could say what options the U.S.
has to respond to North Korea sending troops to Russia.  Is there
anything that you guys would have the power to do?

MR. KIRBY:  We’re in discussions with allies and partners right now,
Akayla, on this development.  We are still trying to learn more about
what the North Koreans and the Russians are actually up to.

And so we are, again, actively consulting allies and partners.  And I
wouldn’t want to get ahead of those conversations and preview what
options are being considered and talked about. 

But as I said the other day, you know, you’ll hear more from us in
coming days about where we are on this and what we and our allies and
partners think is the appropriate next steps.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Sara with CBS.

Q    Hey, Kirby.  Thanks for doing this.  Can you confirm reports that
Elon Musk and Putin have held phone calls with each other?  Is that
something the U.S. government has been tracking? If so, how many calls
have they had?  And does the U.S. know what they’ve discussed?

And just in general, is the U.S. government concerned that a private
citizen with a security clearance is having conversations with Putin?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I’ve seen the reporting out of the Wall Street
Journal.  I’m not in a position to corroborate the veracity of those
reports, and we would refer you to Mr. Musk to speak to his private
communications.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to David Klepper.

Q    Yes, hello.  Thank you for doing this today.  There have been
reports that Russia is providing targeting data to the Houthis via
Iran’s Revolutionary Guard to target ships in the Red Sea.  And I’m
wondering if you can confirm those reports and tell us a little bit
about what the U.S. is doing in response.

MR. KIRBY:  No, I cannot confirm those reports.  What we’re doing is
operating in the Red Sea with a coalition of some 20 other nations to
continue to knock down the missiles and drones that the Houthis continue
to fire at commercial shipping there.  And our presence remains robust
there.  Our capabilities remain significant.  And as Secretary Austin
himself said earlier this week, we are and we’ll continue to do
everything we can to degrade Houthi capability in that regard.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Joe Barnes.

Q    Thank you.  Joe Barnes from The Daily Telegraph newspaper.  Two
questions, if I may, John.

Did Jake Sullivan’s South Korean counterpart tell him anything new today
in their meeting?  If so, could you share any details about the North
Korean deployments inside Russia? 

And then secondly, where are discussions with the UK and Ukraine about
using U.S. enablers to fire British Storm Shadow missiles at targets
inside Russia, please?  Thank you very much.

MR. KIRBY:  On your first question, I certainly won’t get into
intelligence assessments and discussions at a classified level that may
have taken place between the national security advisors. 

I think you know very well the South Koreans have been watching this
development as closely as we have been, and they have expressed, as we
have expressed, deep concerns about the potential here for North Korean
troops to be used in the fight against Ukraine.  Again, no surprise, I
don’t think to anybody, that when I talk about discussing this with our
allies and partners, the South Koreans are right at the top of the list
of the allies and partners that we’re having discussions with. 

So it absolutely came up in the meeting today with the three national
security advisors, no question.  But as for the exact details of what
was shared between us, I will leave inside the room.

On your second question: Again, I can’t — I won’t certainly pretend to
be qualified to speak for the UK in any way, shape, or form.  All I can
do is tell you, from the United States’ perspective, there’s been no
change to our policy about the use of long-range strike to hit targets
deep inside Russia. 

We are in constant communication, not only with the UK and the Germans,
as the President was in Germany on Friday of last week and had a chance
to meet with other leaders of the Quad, including Prime Minister
Starmer, but also our counterparts in France and Germany as well. 

We continue to talk about what Ukraine needs on the battlefield, and we
continue to talk directly with the Ukrainians about what their needs
are.  But I’m not in a position today to speak to any changes in the
President’s policy with respect to long-range strike.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Jake Epstein.

Q    Hey, thanks for having this.  President Zelenskyy said today that
the first North Korean soldiers are expected to deploy by Russia to
combat zones as early as Sunday.  I’m wondering if the White House can
confirm this or has any additional information on the potential
deployment. 

And as a second question, I’m wondering if there’s any information you
can provide about the aftermath of last week’s strikes on the
underground Houthi targets, the ones that involved the U.S. bombers. 
Thanks. 

MR. KIRBY:  On your second question, what more do you want?

Q    I mean, can we get, like, a battle damage assessment?  Is there
sort of an indication of, you know, what the strikes were able to
degrade, how many weapons they were able to take out? 

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I’d refer you to the Pentagon on that.  They do battle
damage assessments.  That’s their job.  So, I’ll let them speak to
that. 

The only thing I would say on that one is that, as I hope was
demonstrated, not only do we have unmatched capability to target the
Houthis, but that, as Secretary Austin said, we’re going to continue to
do what we have to do to degrade their capability to go after commercial
shipping.  And this was — those strikes were an example of how serious
we’re taking that task.  But as for the battle damage assessment, I
would refer you to the Pentagon.

On your first question, I’ll say this: We’re monitoring this very, very
closely, and we’re continuing to consult with the intelligence community
to see what more we can glean. 

I will go so far today as to say that it is possible that there are now
more than 3,000 troops from North Korea that have been dispatched to
Russia for outfitting and for training.  The other day, I said it was
about 3,000.  We believe that it’s possible, and we’re looking into
reports, that the number could be north of that. 

I can’t give you a specific estimate at this time, but as we said the
other day, it was entirely possible that that number could change, and
we are closely examining the reports about that, in fact, happening.

On where they’re going to go and what they’re going to be deployed to
do, if they’re going to be deployed, I don’t have firm intelligence
assessments that I can speak to today about that.  We’re still, again,
watching closely to see what’s afoot.

That said, we believe that it is certainly possible, and I’d just go so
far as to say perhaps even likely, that at least some of these North
Korean troops could be deployed to the Kursk area.  But in what
capacity, for what purpose, that still remains unclear. 

So, this is going to be — and, I mean, I hope it’s coming across this
way — this is going to be an evolving situation.  We will share with you
what we can, and we’ll give you an honest assessment of our confidence
in that as we go along.  But that’s kind of where we are here on Friday
afternoon.

Q    Great, thanks. 

MODERATOR:  Awesome.  Thanks, everyone.  And thanks for joining.  As
always, if anything comes up, reach out to the press distro, and we’ll
get back to you as soon as we can.  Thank you. 

12:57 P.M. EDT
