---
date: '2024-10-25'
modified_time: 2024-10-26 08:48:36-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-25 23:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/25/background-press-call-on-israels-targeted-strikes-against-military-targets-in-iran/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on Israel\u2019s Targeted Strikes Against Military Targets\
  \ in\_Iran"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:15 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Good evening, everyone.  Thanks so much for joining the
call, especially one on short notice and late on a Friday. 

As a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to a senior
administration official.  For your awareness, not for your reporting, on
the call today we have \[senior administration official\]. 

This call is embargoed until the conclusion of the call. 

\[Senior administration official\] is going to have a few words at the
top, and then we’ll take your questions. 

Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, everybody, for joining here
late on a Friday. 

So, I’m here to provide some brief comment and background on Israel’s
response earlier this evening against Iran.  And just as you will
recall, on October 1st, so a few weeks ago, Iran launched an
unprecedented attack of nearly 200 ballistic missiles at Israel, which
was a significant escalation.  Many of these missiles targeted Israel’s
most populated city of Tel Aviv.  Those missiles had the potential to
kill hundreds of civilians. 

Fortunately, that attack was defeated and ineffective thanks in no small
part to U.S. assistance.  President Biden directed the U.S. military to
help defend Israel during the attack.  And in the hours after that
attack, we promised serious consequences for Iran. 

The next morning, on October 2nd, the President spoke with his G7
counterparts to coordinate a diplomatic response.  And over the course
of the following week, we and our partners implemented a coordinated
series of sanctions against Iran.

And just to review:

The United States, we issued new sanctions against Iran’s oil sector,
including its so-called Ghost Fleet that carries illicit oil products
around the world. 

The European Union for the first time sanctioned Iran’s civilian
airliners, including Iran Air, rendering those airlines no longer able
to access European destinations. 

The United Kingdom and Australia issued new and sweeping sanctions
against Iran’s missile program. 

This is a coordinated effort across multiple jurisdictions that
President Biden led, and those efforts are ongoing with allies and
partners. 

Tonight, Israel carried out a direct military response against Iran. 
Specifically, Israel conducted precision airstrikes against multiple
military targets across Iran and outside populated areas. 

The United States was not a participant in this military operation. 

The President and his national security team, of course, worked with the
Israelis over recent weeks to encourage Israel to conduct a response
that was targeted and proportional with low risk of civilian harm, and
that appears to have been precisely what transpired this evening. 

The President discussed the overall situation with Prime Minister
Netanyahu last week.  He encouraged the Prime Minister to design a
response that served to deter further attacks against Israel while
reducing risk of further escalation.  And that is our objective; it’s
Israel’s objective, as well, as they have stated this evening.

Should Iran choose to respond, we are fully prepared to once again
defend against any attack.  We recently deployed a THAAD battery, which
is a ballistic missile defense system, to Israel.  And we have worked to
strengthen Israel’s air defense systems in the run-up to tonight’s
response.

President Biden and Vice President Harris have demonstrated clearly that
we will always help defend Israel and secure its people and territory
from Iran and its proxy terrorist groups.

If Iran chooses to respond once again, we will be ready, and there will
be consequences for Iran once again.  However, we do not want to see
that happen.  This should be the end of this direct exchange of fire
between Israel and Iran.  Israel has made clear to the world that its
response is now complete. 

Accordingly, we would call on all countries of influence to press Iran
to stop these attacks against Israel so that we can move beyond this
direct cycle of attacks.

Over the coming days, we are prepared to lead an effort to secure an end
to the war in Lebanon through an agreement that allows civilians on both
sides of the Blue Line to safely return to their homes.  We are also
prepared to lead an effort to finally achieve a ceasefire in Gaza
together, with the return of hostages, which must happen without delay. 

The overall contours of those arrangements are in place.  Tony Blinken
was in the region last week.  This week, there will be further
engagements, including a meeting of hostage negotiators over the coming
days.  And it’s time to bring these deals to a resolution once and for
all.  

I would just note for some color on the recent hours here over the
course of this evening: Of course, the President was briefed throughout
the evening by Jake Sullivan, his National Security Advisor, as we are
here at the White House.  Secretary Austin spoke with his Israeli
counterpart, Minister Yoav Gallant, a couple of hours ago.  And we just
issued a — the Defense Department just issued a readout of that call,
again, affirming Israel’s full right to self-defense against Iran and
our support for its actions tonight, and our commitment to help defend
Israel should Iran make the mistake to respond to this attack. 

And with that, I’m happy to take a few questions. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’ve got time for just a couple of questions. 

First up, we’ll go to Aamer Madhani.  You should be able to unmute
yourself. 

Q    Hey.  Thank you both.  Did the U.S. assist in any manner at all? 
Target selection, intel, jamming?  And do you assess this action to have
had significant-enough impact on Iran’s ability to continue to strike
Israel directly or its ability to arm Hezbollah?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, as I said in my statement, we did
not participate in this military operation, and I think that’s very
clear. 

I would just say: I’ll leave it to the Israelis to describe the scope
and breadth of their response this evening.  It was extensive.  It was
targeted.  It was precise.  It was against military targets across
Iran.  It was in multiple waves.  It was very carefully prepared.  And
again, I think it was designed to be effective. 

And I think — again, I will leave it, though, to the Israelis to
characterize and to provide more details, given that this was their
military operation. 

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to Trevor Hunnicutt.

Q    Hey.  Thanks for doing this.  Could you talk a little bit about
what, if any, communications or indications you had from Iran heading
into this about what level of response they’re willing to engage in? 
And could you talk a little bit about the President’s — any plans for
the President to follow up with Netanyahu after this?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We do have multiple channels with Iran,
direct and indirect.  We try to avoid any sense of miscommunication. 
And they know exactly what our position is on multiple issues, including
the dangers and risks of their course of conduct, particularly the
launching of 200 ballistic missiles focusing primarily on densely
populated areas in Israel’s most populated city, which also includes
tens of thousands of Americans. 

That is totally unacceptable.  We will not accept it.  We will support
Israel defending itself.  And, obviously, we’ll support Israel fully in
its right to self-defense.  Iran knows our position on that is
unequivocal.  And we are quite clear that there’s no misunderstanding or
miscommunication between us and Iran.

In terms of communication with the Israelis, we are in constant
communication with the Israelis up and down their system — military to
military, intel to intel, and at the political level.  That is something
that is ongoing and continuous. 

Again, Jake briefed the President multiple times throughout the evening
as this was unfolding and, of course, throughout the day today as it was
developing.  And I think that will obviously continue through the
weekend.  But I don’t have any calls to preview or read out.

MODERATOR:  We have time for one last question.  We’ll go to the line of
Kayla Tausche.

Q    Thank you, guys, so much for doing this.  We appreciate it. 

I have two questions.  The first is: You’ve described these strikes as
“designed to be effective.”  Can you elaborate on what effect they were
intended to have and whether they, in fact, did?

And then, you’ve suggested that this should be the end to the conflict,
but does the administration believe it will be the end of the conflict?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, first of all, the effect, it’s a
proportionate self-defense response to an unbelievably brazen and
reckless ballistic missile attack, almost unprecedented in history, that
has launched almost three weeks ago.  So, the effect is to deter future
attacks and also to degrade the capabilities of Iran being able to
conduct those types of activities.

As to specific targets, I will say we know them, but I would leave it to
the Israelis to discuss them in any further detail. 

What was your second question?  I’m sorry.

Q    The second question was: You have suggested that this should be the
end of the conflict, but does the administration actually believe that
it will be?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, this should be the end of the
direct military exchange between Israel and Iran.  And so, we had a
direct exchange in April, and that was closed off, and we’ve now had
this direct exchange.  Again, a direct — 200 ballistic missiles fired
from Iran at Israel.  Israel did not attack Iran.  Iran attacked Israel,
200 ballistic missiles.  And Israel, tonight, has responded to that
attack as an exercise of self-defense.  As far as we’re concerned, that
should close out that direct exchange between Israel and Iran.

As to the broader conflicts in the region, obviously much more complex. 
I mentioned and alluded to them in my statement.  We do have a number of
initiatives ongoing with respect to those. 

But as to the direct military exchange between Israel and Iran, we do
think this should complete that direct exchange.  And, again, should
Iran choose to respond, we are fully prepared to defend Israel and
support Israel, and there will be consequences should Iran make that
unfortunate decision. 

But as far as we’re concerned, this direct exchange, this should be the
end of it.  I will say we’ve heard the same thing from many across the
region, including many with close ties to Iran.  So we’ll see how that
unfolds. 

But that is our very strong view.  That’s been communicated to our
partners throughout the region, and obviously it’s been communicated
through multiple channels, indirectly and directly, to Iran. 

MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone.  That’s all the time we have for tonight. 
As a reminder, this call was on background to a senior administration
official, and the embargo is now lifted.  Thanks so much, and have a
good night.

11:27 P.M. EDT
