---
date: '2024-10-08'
modified_time: 2024-10-07 15:48:02-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-08 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/08/white-house-press-call-by-deputy-chief-of-staff-natalie-quillian-epa-administrator-michael-regan-and-a-senior-administration-official-previewing-the-president-trip-to-wisconsin/
tags: press-briefings
title: "White\_House Press Call by Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian, EPA Administrator\
  \ Michael Regan, and a Senior Administration Official Previewing the President Trip\
  \ to\_Wisconsin"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:34 A.M. EDT

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Hi.  Good morning, everyone.

Thank you for joining today’s press call to preview President Biden’s
trip to Wisconsin and the Biden-Harris administration’s efforts to
ensure every community has access to clean, safe drinking water.

Today’s call will begin with on-the-record remarks from White House
Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian and EPA Administrator Michael
Regan.  After their remarks, we will have a question-and-answer period,
which will be on background and attributable to “senior administration
officials.”

As a reminder, the contents of this call and the written materials you
received over email are embargoed until tomorrow, October 8th at 5:00
a.m. Eastern.

With that, I will turn it over to Natalie.  

MS. QUILLIAN:  Great.  Thank you.  And thank you all for joining us
today. 

I’d like to begin with the big picture.  So, since day one, the
president and the vice president have been clear that all Americans, no
matter where they come from, should have access to their most basic
needs, including being able to turn on the tap and drink clean drinking
water without fear.

We know that there is no safe level of lead exposure.  Lead service
lines pose a severe health risk, especially in our children, damaging
the brain and kidneys.

That’s why the president committed to replace every lead pipe in the
country within a decade.

But he didn’t stop there.  He secured over $50 billion to deliver clean
water through his Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, including $15 billion
in dedicated funding for lead pipe replacement.

Since then, Americans have had their lead pli- — pipes replaced,
especially in disadvantaged communities, many of which are communities
of color that shoulder most of the burden of lead poisoning.

And tomorrow, the president is furthering his commitments to provide
clean, lead-free water nationwide. 

He’ll be traveling to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to announce EPA’s final rule
that will require water systems nationwide to replace lead service lines
within 10 years.  He will also announce an additional $2.6 billion from
his Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for drinking water upgrades and lead
pipe replacements.

This funding not only provides clean drinking water, but this effort is
also creating good-paying jobs, many of them union jobs, in replacing
lead pipes and delivering clean water.

This investment will accelerate lead pipe replacement, helping to
deliver clean water to families, kids, and communities across the
nation.

And in Wisconsin, we’re already seeing the results.  Wisconsin has an
estimated 340,000 lead pipes, the 10th most lead pipes of any state. 
And because of the president’s Bipartisan Infrastructure funding,
Milwaukee’s lead pipe replacement timeline has accelerated from 60 years
just down to 10 years.

And Milwaukee is now actively replacing lead pipes, using union labor,
prioritizing replacements in disadvantaged communities with the most
need.

And this announcement comes as part of the president’s commitment to
spend his remaining months in office sprinting to the finish and
delivering on his historic Investing in America agenda, which is
improving the lives of Americans and planting the seeds for a better,
more prosperous future for decades to come.

And now I’d like to turn it over to an amazing leader who is helping
make this all possible, Administrator Regan. 

Administrator.

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, good morning, everyone.  And thank you all
for joining this call.

(Inaudible) in implementing President Biden and Vice President Harris’s
Investing in America agenda.  Your partnership is helping EPA
(inaudible). 

Since the earliest days of this administration, and even before,
President Biden had a vision to build a 100 percent (inaudible).

(Inaudible) understands the urgency of getting the lead out of
communities, because he and Vice President Harris know that ensuring
everyone has access to clean water is a moral imperative.

We know that over 9 million legacy lead pipes continue to deliver water
to homes across the country.  But the science has been clear for
decades: There is no safe level of lead in our drinking water. 

In children, lead can severely harm mental and physical development,
slow down learning, and irreversibly damage the brain.  In adults, lead
can cause (inaudible) and even cancer.

But thanks to President Biden and Vice President Harris, we are moving
farther and faster than ever before to address this critical issue.

PARTICIPANT:  Do we have an audio issue, Angelo?

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Yep.  Can we try your connection one more
time?

PARTICIPANT:  Hold on one second.  We’re troubleshooting.  Sorry,
everybody.  Hold on one second.

We — anything — is this better, Angelo?  This is Nick with Administrator
Regan.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Yep, that is better.

PARTICIPANT:  Okay.  Should we start from the top or is there a certain
point we should pick up at?

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Let’s start at the top.  Thank you.

PARTICIPANT:  Okay.  Thank you.

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, good morning, everyone.  And thank you all
for joining today’s call. 

And I’d like to start by thanking the president’s deputy chief of staff,
Natalie Quillian.  Natalie, I’m so grateful for your leadership in
implementing President Biden and Vice President Harris’s Investing in
America agenda.  Your partnership is helping EPA to make a lasting,
tangible difference in communities all across the country. 

Since the earliest days of this administration and even before,
President Biden had a vision to build a 100 percent lead-free future.

The president understands the urgency of getting the lead out of
communities because he and Vice President Harris know that ensuring
everyone has access to clean water is a moral imperative.

We know that over 9 million legacy lead pipes continue to deliver water
to homes across our country.  But the science has been clear for
decades: There is no safe level of lead in our drinking water.  In
children, lead can severely harm mental and physical development, slow
down learning, and irreversibly damage the brain.  In adults, lead can
cause increased blood pressure, heart disease, decreased kidney
function, and cancer.

But thanks to President Biden and Vice President Harris, we are moving
farther and faster than ever before to address this critical issue, and
EPA is at the center of the solution. 

I am very proud to announce that today, EPA has taken another historic
step forward to ensure safe, clean drinking water for every child and
every person in our nation.  Today, my agency is issuing a final rule
requiring drinking water systems across the country to identify and
replace lead pipes within 10 years.  The rule also requires increased
rigorous drinking water testing and a lower threshold for communities to
act on and protect people from lead in drinking water. 

And these actions will help protect millions across this country.  In
fact, our new rule will protect up to 900,000 infants from having low
birth weight, reduce up to 1,500 cases of premature death from heart
disease, prevent up to 200,000 IQ points lost in children, and help
close the water equity gap every single year.  But these benefits not
only protect public health, they can also reduce health care costs,
improve school performance, and boost economic productivity. 

In addition to finalizing this historic rule today, EPA is also
announcing $2.6 billion in new funding under the president’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law to help cities and states fund infrastructure
upgrades to accelerate the removal of lead pipes. 

Folks, there has never been more federal funding available to remove
lead pipes.  And let me just add that investing in our water
infrastructure is not only an investment in public health, it’s an
investment in local economies.  For every $1 billion invested in water
infrastructure, we create approximately 15,500 jobs. 

President Biden is the president who is finally putting an end to this
generational public health crisis, and, folks, delivering a lead-free
America is President Biden’s legacy.

This is a matter of public health, a matter of environmental justice, a
matter of basic human rights, and it is finally being met with the
urgency it demands.  President Biden has kept his promises, and he is
fighting every single day for a cleaner, safer, and healthy America. 

I’m truly grateful to everyone who helped us reach this moment,
particularly those in EPA’s Office of Water, who worked tirelessly to
finalize this rule. 

With today’s announcement, we have more than enough reason to be
optimistic about what’s possible for the future of our country and the
future of our planet. 

Now, with that, I’m happy to take a few questions.  Thank you.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you, Administrator, and thank you,
Natalie.  With that, we will move to the question-and-answer portion of
the call.  As a reminder, this will be on background and attributable to
“senior administration officials” as they identify themselves.  Comments
from Natalie and the administrator will be attributable to them
specifically.

As some of you have done, please use the “raise hand” function on Zoom,
and we will take a few of your questions.

Okay.  As you’re called upon, please identify yourself and your outlet. 
We will start with Aamer. You should be unmuted now.

Q    Hi.  Thank — thank all three of you for doing this.  Two
questions.  One, can you just give us a little bit of a preview of, in
Wisconsin, where the president will be visiting and sort of how he will
be highlighting this announcement?

And then, secondly, is there any disappointment in the president —
considering the significance of this announcement — that Senator Baldwin
won’t be taking part?  Thanks.

MS. QUILLIAN:  I can — this is Natalie.  I can answer that.  I don’t
think we have any specifics yet on exactly — to share where he will be
visiting, but as soon as we do, we’ll make sure you have those.  And I
think it’s fair to say he will highlight the historic investments that
we have made so far, including an additional $2.6 billion that he’ll be
— he will be announcing tomorrow, as well as highlighting the stories of
Americans whose lead pipes in Wisconsin are being replaced or have been
replaced and the impact that’s had on their families and their
children. 

And then we’re — you know, Senator Baldwin is a — an amazing partner of
this administration and leading the charge in the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.  So, we are just pleased to have such a great
partner like her in Wisconsin.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you, Natalie. 

We will go to Rachel next.  You should be unmuted now. 

Q    Great.  Thank you, guys, for doing this and for taking my
question.  I recall in the proposed rule, there had been some concerns
raised about exemptions that could leave some places with lead pipes for
significantly longer.  I recall Chicago being one of them — having lead
pipes possibly for 40 or 50 years, even with these — this rule.  Is this
still the case in the final rule?  And could you also send us a copy of
the final rule on embargo?

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, Rachel, thank you for that question.  And
let me just say that the final rule is significantly more stringent than
the proposal was.  Some of those numbers that you raised just here and
now, those numbers have been slashed significantly.  So, what I would
like to say is we are very sure that 99 percent of these cities will
meet the deadline, and we’re still taking a look at those that fit in
that 1 percent category. 

But let me be very clear:  Those that may fit in that 1 percent
category, we will aggressively pursue a timeline that stays in line with
the president’s vision. 

Q    Could you give us some idea of, you know — you said those numbers
have been slashed.  Can you give us an example and how much it’s been
slashed by? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I’ll just say — and then I’ll
turn it over to — to \[senior administration official\], who is the
expert in our water office.  But, you know, the stringency — the
off-ramp, if you will — is a significantly much higher hurdle to obtain,
first and foremost.  We have really whittled down the flexibility in
this rule. 

And, you know, secondly, this rule is a significant, significant step
forward.  But we can’t forget — forget the resources from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and other programs in the water office that will help
these cities achieve the president’s vision. 

\[Senior administration official\], I don’t know if you want to add
anything to that. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, \[senior administration
official\].  I would just add only that, as you know, Rachel, the
numbers associated with number of lead service lines that exist in
places like Chicago at this point are estimates.  And as we get more
information about what number of lead service lines exist, then, through
the inventories that will be created — the first one is due October
16th, for example — we’ll be in a better position to determine whether
communities actually need more time.  And we’ll go through a process for
that.

I will add to that that in communities like Chicago, we’re not only
looking at and tracking where — how many lead service lines or whether
they need extension, but we’re working extensively to ensure that they
receive financing to tackle some of those lead service line issues. 

For example, recently, we announced a $336 million loan to the city of
Chicago for replacing lead service lines.  And I know that Chicago is
working with other cities in the Midwest and the Great Lakes regions to
share best practices to accelerate the removal of lead service lines. 

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We will go to Annie next.  You
should be unmuted now.

Q    Hi.  Annie Snider from Politico.  I have two questions.  First of
all, I hope you can speak to the vice president’s involvement in this. 
If I recall correctly, her office briefed the proposed rule, and my
understanding is that she played an important role in the regulatory use
of this. 

And then, second of all, this rule is coming out well within the
Congressional Review Act window.  Are you concerned at all about this
rule getting targeted if Republicans take control of Congress and the
White House next year?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, let me just say that the vice
president, as you have stated, has been a significant partner to EPA as
we have traveled the country and really highlighted the president’s
vision, which is a 100 percent lead-free future, as well as helping the
public understand the implications of lead exposure. 

And so, the vice president has been very, very involved.  We have had a
number of good, solid policy discussions.  And that engagement with the
vice president, under the president’s leadership, has led to a very,
very strong rule, as well as a very strong strategy for how we deploy
these resources in the cities and towns that need it the most. 

So, we’re very, very proud of our partnership with the vice president. 

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Okay.  We will go to Emma next.  You should be
unmuted now.  (Inaudible.)

Q    Hi.  This is Emma Gardner for Inside EPA at Inside Washington
Publishers.  Thank you so much for doing this.  I just have a couple of
questions. 

One, I’d be interested if you could give us a specific action level
threshold in terms of parts per billion in the new rule.  And, secondly,
I would love to know how the new rule approaches lead service lines that
run underneath private land and if there are any incentives for
landowners to replace them — the — those pipes themselves.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Emma, I’ll take a stab at answering
your two-part question.  The first question was, if I heard you
correctly: What — what’s the action level in the new Lead and Copper
Rule improvements?  It’s 10 parts per billion.  That’s the action level,
which, as you know, previously was 15 parts per billion. 

Just one thing to note: In terms of private side, our rule requires that
for full li- — full lead service line replacement where systems have
access to the full lead service line.  And we know that there are a
variety of rules and laws out there that may influence whether or not a
community have — has access to that or requires permission for a local
entity to — to enter into private property.

In the event that there’s private property that needs to be entered into
and permission needs to be granted, the rule requires that systems ask
the member of the — the owner of the property four different times about
— for permission to replace that lead service line in two wholly
different ways.  So, we’re trying to ensure that water systems around
the country, where they do have lead service lines that are in private
property, have a persistent way to get in touch with the landowner to
get permission to replace them.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We will go to Jacob next.  You
should be unmuted now. 

Q    Hey, folks.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I also have a two-part
question.  Firstly, just trying to follow up on a question from a
previous reporter that I don’t think was totally answered, but could you
just speak a little bit to the degree to which you’re concerned about,
you know, efforts to overturn this rule through CRA efforts in Congress
in, you know, a future Republican-led Congress? 

And, secondly, can you speak to what conversations you had with
stakeholders, particularly water service providers, and — and thinking
about possible legal challenges that this rule might face, especially as
the Supreme Court has, you know, limited the ability of the government
to — to issue these sorts of regulations moving forward.  Thanks.  

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, thank you, Jacob, for that question.  I’ll
take the first part, and \[senior administration official\] can follow. 

Listen, this rule is grounded in science and within the four corners of
our statutory authority.  And we have measured a number of times.  We’ve
measured twice and we’re cutting once here.  We believe that it’s on
solid legal footing, supported by the science. 

And listen, the outcomes are undeniable.  If you look at protecting up
to 900,000 infants from being born with low birth weight or the reducing
of 1,500 cases of premature death from heart disease, the cost benefits
are at a 13-to-1 ratio. 

This is an opportunity to reduce lead exposure to millions of families
all across the country, and we believe we’ve done it in a very strategic
way, a legally sound way, supported by the science.  And the health
benefits of this rule are undeniable.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Mr. Administrator, the second part of
the question was regarding conversations with stakeholders.  And I would
just say that we had repeated conversations with stakeholders throughout
this process. 

We also received over 200,000 comments on the proposed rule.  The vast
majority of them were supportive of the rule.  We met with stakeholders
throughout this process.  We visited the cities where lead service lines
are currently being replaced.

And we know that, as the administrator mentioned at the beginning, that
this rule is built on actions that have already been taken and already
underway both in states and communities across this country.  There are
four states that already have requirements to replace lead service lines
in 10 years — from Illinois to Michigan to Rhode Island to New Jersey. 
There are communities throughout this country that, before this rule was
in — put in place, where they’ve already been engaged in removing lead
service lines — from Milwaukee to Detroit to Cincinnati to Pittsburgh. 

All across the country, communities are supportive and engaged in this
effort today.

MS. QUILLIAN:  Angelo, can I just — this is Natalie.  Can I just jump in
on the first question, too, to add to what Administrator Regan said?

Look, I think that we believe and hope that ending the poisoning of our
kids from lead water should and could be a bipartisan priority.  And,
indeed, we’ve seen many Republicans vote for the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law that made this possible. 

Now Wiscon- — Wisconsin’s other senator, Ron Johnson, did not vote for
it, but we do think that this should be a bipartisan priority.  And I
hope that all of our — our members of Congress would vote for keeping
our water clean rather than continuing to have lead in the water.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you, Natalie.  We will have time for two
more questions. 

Let’s go to Michael.  You should be unmuted now.

Q    Hey.  Thank you for this.  Appreciate the time, as always.  Just
two kind of follow-up questions to some of the other questions that have
been asked here.  Can you confirm that the 10 percent action level is
not intended to be an individual homes action level? 

And then, secondly, how does the final rule deal with if — if a — if a
water system exceeds the 90 percent of — you know, tests above 10 parts
per billion, are — is that water system required to provide free filters
to its citizens?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Mr. Administrator, let me take a stab
at answering that question. 

Thank you, Mr. Hawthorne, for your question. 

I can confirm that the 10 percent action level is throughout the system,
as you indicated.  It’s not just on an individual home.  But any
individual who has an action level exceedance — it’s the 90th
percentile, as you know, Mr.  Hawthorne.  But any individual household
that has an exceedance of the action level will be required to be
communicated with, get their test results, and be able to take action
immediately. 

In addition to that, if the action level is exceeded on a repeated basis
— four times in a five-year period, for example — then the community
will be required to make filters available to all of the residents in
the community, not merely the residents where the action level was
repeated — reported.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you. 

And our final question will come from Miranda.  You should be unmuted
now.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking our questions. 

What are you hearing from water providers about progress they’ve made on
their inventories?  And any — you know, do — do you expect them to, you
know, meet the — the October 16th deadline?  Or could there — could
there be some — are you hearing about any challenges so far on that
front?  Thank you. 

ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, thank you for the question, Miranda.  And we
fully believe, as \[senior administration official\] has indicated, that
these systems are, in many cases, moving forward already. 

I think it’s important for us to note that we know through conversations
that these systems can step up and they can meet the challenge.  We have
designed a very durable, strong rule that is grounded in the science,
grounded in the law.  And we expect these water systems to step up and
meet this rule, because under no circumstances do we want our children
exposed to lead poison in their drinking water. 

And as Natalie indicated, this is a bipartisan effort here.  There have
been folks on both sides of the aisle for a number of years who have
been calling for the removal of lead service lines, which are the
largest source of lead exposure in this country. 

And so, we fully believe that everyone can step up in a very
cost-effective way and comply with this rule, and that is our
expectation. 

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you, Administrator.  And that’s all the
time that we have today.

As a reminder, the contents of this call and the materials you received
over email are embargoed until 5:00 a.m. Eastern tomorrow. 

If you have any questions, please feel free to follow up with us, and
thank you again for joining you.

12:00 P.M. EDT
