---
date: '2024-10-10'
modified_time: 2024-10-11 12:53:06-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-10 13:41:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/10/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-homeland-security-secretary-alejandro-mayorkas/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Homeland Security\
  \ Secretary Alejandro\_Mayorkas"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:12 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, before I turn it — turn to the latest — to the
latest on the hurricane, I wanted to briefly mention at the top that —
at the top regarding the passing of Ethel Kennedy. 

I expect you will have something from the president very, very soon. 
They were dear friends.  And I don’t want to get ahead of him in his
statement, but the president and first lady are sending their love to
her entire family and everyone whose life was touched by her strength
and service.

Now shifting gears to the storm.  This morning, the president and the
vice president were briefed on the impacts from Hurricane Milton and
will continue to be briefed throughout the day.

We are praying for those who lost their lives and all the communities
devastated by this storm.  The president and vice president will do
everything in our power to help — to help — to help with the respond,
the recovery, and rebuild.

Last night, in advance of Hurricane Milton making landfall, the
president spoke by phone with several officials in Florida, including
Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer, Sarasota Mayor Liz Alpert, and Representative
Gus Bilirakis and Kathy Castor.

This morning, President Biden also spoke to Governor DeSantis about the
impacts of Hurricane Milton.  The governor thanked the president for the
extensive federal support to prepare for and respond to the storm.

This afternoon, the president spoke with several additional Florida
officials following the impacts of Hurricane Milton across the Florida
Peninsula, including Senator Rick Scott, Representative Anna Paulina
Luna, Gainesville Mayor Harvey Ward, Fort Myers Mayor Kevin Anderson,
Orange County Mayor Jerry Demings, and Pasco County Chair Ron Oakley. 

The president told each of these leaders to call him directly if they
need additional assistance on rescue, response, and recovery efforts. 
The president also emphasized that he will be with them and their
communities no matter how long it takes.

Additionally, FEMA Administrator Criswell has been on the ground in
Florida since last night, and today she is survi- — surveying the damage
alongside her state and local counterparts and will work closely with
them to determine any unmet needs.

At the direction of the president, FEMA and the federal family began to
quickly deploy resources to assist with rescue and response operations,
including over 1,200 urban search and rescue personnel and the three
U.S. Coast Guard Swift Water Rescue teams, with rescues already underway
— over 1,000 federal personnel, all focused on helping the people of
Florida respond and recover.  And over 15 million meals and 13 million
liters of water are already in the region, with 20 million meals and 40
million liters of water ready to be deployed.

The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has two temporary power teams and a
roofing team to diagnose the need for short-term repairs to homes and
structures.

The Department of Defense has also provided 60 high-water vehicles and
personnel who can further aid in search and rescue efforts.

To the people of Florida, this is still a very serious situation. 
Please remain vigilant.  Listen to local officials.  As the president
has said, we will be here for you as long as it takes. 

Now, as you all know, this is an ongoing response and we are getting
information in real time.

We are very grateful that we have the secretary, Secretary of Homeland
Security Mayorkas, here, who is on the ground — here virtually,
obviously — who is on the ground in North Carolina surveying the damage
and helping with response to Hurricane Helene.

Regarding Hurricane Milton — Milton, we won’t have all of the answers
right now, but we want to provide as much information as we can. 

And so, with that, I will turn it over to the Homeland secretary and —
Homeland Security secretary.

Thank you so much, again, for joining us, sir.  The floor is yours.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  (Via teleconference.)  Thank you, Karine, and good
afternoon.

Can everybody hear me?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yes, we can hear you fine.  Thank you.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Thank you.  So, I am currently joining you from
North Carolina, where I’ve been meeting with our extraordinary FEMA
personnel and federal, state, and local partners on the ground about
Hurricane Helene’s devastating impact and the progress we are making in
our work to help North Carolina communities and aid in their recovery.

Before I share an update on the situation here in North Carolina, I’ll
provide you an update on Hurricane Milton, which, last night, made
landfall as a Category 3 storm near Siesta Key, Florida, following a day
of heavy rain and at least 27 tornado touchdowns.  Our hearts break for
the Floridians who have lost so much.

I was briefed earlier by FEMA Administrator Criswell, who is on the
ground in Florida, as Karine noted, along with more than 1,000 FEMA
personnel. 

There is significant water and wind damage across Central Florida.  As
of this morning, over 3 million customers are without power.  Structures
have been severely damaged or collapsed.  And tragically, we know that
lives have been lost.  We are praying for them and their loved ones.

Right now, search and rescue is our highest priority, and we are also
praying for those who are unaccounted for and for their safe return.

It is very significant that many followed local guidance and evacuated
ahead of landfall.  We cannot minimize the impact of that.

It is imperative that everyone continues to follow the direction of
local officials.  Milton may have passed, but the danger it poses has
not.  Downed power lines, flood waters, non-potable drinking water, and
debris are creating deadly conditions. 

Keep listening to local officials and shelter in place until it is safe
if told to do so.

Only use generators when and where it is safe to do so.

You can find — people can find more tips on staying safe after a storm
on the FEMA app or by visiting Ready.gov.

In the lead-up to Milton, our administration made robust preparations
for the storm.  President Biden approved emergency declarations for the
state of Florida and for the Seminole Tribe of Florida days before this
storm made landfall to provide full federal support for the response.

We’ve pre-positioned supplies, including food and water, 20 helicopters,
60 Department of Defense high-water vehicles with ladders, 1,300 U.S.
Coast Guard personnel, and 1,400 Urban Search and Rescue team members
across Florida in anticipation of the storm, and staged hundreds of
ambulances to assist in the transport of hospitalized patients.

Today, FEMA is joining the state to begin damage assessments to ensure
Floridians have what they need.  FEMA and our federal partners,
including the Department of Defense and the United States Coast Guard,
are already working closely to — to support the state of Florida in a
comprehensive, coordinated response to the storm.

To reiterate President Biden’s message yesterday, every available
resource is being deployed as fast as possible to impacted communities,
and we will not leave until the work is done. 

The same is true for communities devastated by Hurricane Helene,
including here in North Carolina.  President Biden and Vice President
Harris were here last week, as was I, and we will continue to support
impacted communities and first responders on the ground.  More than
10,000 federal staff are on the ground supporting Helene and Milton
response efforts across the Southeast.

Since Helene first made landfall, Urban Search and Rescue teams have
rescued over 4,300 people.  From a peak of 5.1 million customers without
power, we have helped restore power for more than 5 million of them, and
we are restoring more every day. 

We have helped quickly restore cell phone service across the region.  At
its peak, 3.4 million customers were without service.  I — we have
restored service now to more than 3.2 million of them. 

We have delivered more than 17.2 million meals and more than 13.9
million liters of water.  We have helped get over $350 million in
assistance out to Helene survivors, with millions more going out every
day.  All this and much more.

These first responders and their state and local partners are doing
truly heroic work in extremely difficult circumstances.  We are all
immensely grateful for their extraordinary, selfless service. 

The weeks since Hurricane Helene first made landfall have been
devastating and difficult, but I want to be clear: We have the
capability and the capacity to respond to and recover from multiple
simultaneous disasters.  No resources needed for Hurricane Helene
response will be diverted to respond to Hurricane Milton. 

We have made it clear we will be there for every impacted community
every step of the way. 

Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, Mr. Secretary.  We’ll go to questions. 

Okay.  Go ahead, Kayla.  (Laughs.)

Q    Thank you so much.  Mr. Secretary, this is Kayla Tausche from CNN. 
President Biden indicated that FEMA and the Department of Defense would
have enough money to get through their immediate needs in this recovery
phase.  I’m wondering, after your early assessments of the damage from
Hurricane Milton, now coupled with the damage from Hurricane Helene, do
you still believe that to be the case?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Yes, I do.  We have the resources to respond to the
immediate needs of individuals impacted by Hurricane Helene and
Hurricane Milton and the associated — and it’s very important to
remember — the tornadoes associated with the hurricane.  That being
said, we will need additional funds, and we implore Congress, when it
returns, to, in fact, fund FEMA as is needed.

Q    If I could, just a quick follow-up.  You said on CNN yesterday that
some of the misinformation that had been perpetuated around these storms
was already beginning to have an impact on individuals either applying
or deciding — deciding not to apply for government relief.  Can you
elaborate on what exactly you’re seeing and what exactly you determined
to be the cause of that?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, let me — let me repeat that, in fact, the false
information that is being spread deliberately does have a real-life
impact on survivors, and it is also demoralizing for those heroic
individuals who are risking their lives in the service of others. 

Let me give you one example.  There is false information that federal
employees, who are there to help people, will actually take their land. 
And what we have seen is people reticent, reluctant to access the relief
to which they are entitled and which will help them, because of the fear
that that false information has instilled in them. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Mary.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  That is just one example. 

Q    Thank you, Mr. Secretary.  Mary Bruce with ABC.  Another question
on misinformation.  You know, we’ve seen reports that some FEMA
officials, including the administrator, are being doxed and targeted
online in the wake of these hurricanes.  Are you concerned that
individuals involved in the recovery effort, you know, are — are being
threatened online?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  We most certainly are.  We are seeing horrific hate
speech of all types propagated on online platforms.  That deplorable
speech has an impact on people’s lives, and it is also a motivating
force for people to do harm.  And it has got to stop, and it is our work
in the Department of Homeland Security to combat hate in all its forms. 
We —

Q    And do you —

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  — will continue that work.

Q    Do you have any information to suggest that any foreign governments
have tried to take advantage and amplify this misinformation about the
response and recovery effort?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  I have not been alerted to that phenomenon.  We, of
course, have seen foreign nations disseminate false information for
other purposes.  I have not seen it in the context of Hurricane Helene
or the Hurricane Milton, which just transpired, but of course, we are
quite vigilant in monitoring that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thank you.  Secretary Mayorkas, it’s Nancy Cordes from CBS News. 
Sec- — Hurricane Milton knocked out power to more than 3 million
customers.  How does the scope of the power situation compare to other
disasters?  And what is the federal government’s role in coordinating
the restoration of that power?  How long will it take?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, Nancy, a number of questions.  Unclear how long
it’s going to take, because, quite frankly, the damage asses- —
assessment is still underway.  So, we’re — we’re at a very, very early
stage.   
  
Our role, generally, is to support the state and local officials, the
state and local resources to augment those resources and to work very,
very closely alongside them.  And we are doing so both in response to
Hurricane Helene and Hurricane Milton.   
  
Loo- — you know, the — the response is actually in a number of phases. 
The immediate phase is search and rescue, life and safety of
individuals.  And then we — we go from search and rescue to response and
then to recovery.   
  
We work very closely with the state and local officials to rebuild
whatever infrastructure has been damaged, to get power up.  We have the
capacity to assist.  And we also work with the private sector.  
  
We have the ability to deliver power immediately, but for the long term,
very often, infrastructure has to be rebuilt.   
  
My visit here in North Carolina underscored that fact, because one of
the long-term challenges is going to be to rebuild the water system in a
number of cities where it’s been completely decimated.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Mr. Secretary, it’s Jacqui Heinrich from Fox.  I
want to ask you about a different story.   
  
This Afghan national who was working for the CIA in Afghanistan was
arrested for planning an Election Day terror plot.  He was brought to
the U.S. after Afghanistan collapsed, your agency says, as part of the
SIV program.   
  
The State Department is telling us he was not part of the SIV program,
which had strenuous vetting.  They say he was never issued an SIV or
immigrant visa, and DHS paroled him into the U.S.  They further expect
the court document to be updated to reflect this from the DOJ side.   
  
So, Mr. Secretary, how was this man brought into the U.S.?  What
screening did he undergo?  What did he apply for to get here?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Jacqui, I — I’m here in North Carolina
communicating with the individuals who are still conducting search and
rescue operations.  Over 200 people have lost their lives in Hurricane
Helene.  We have reports that at least 10 individuals have lost their
lives as a result of Hurricane Milton.   
  
I’d be very pleased to answer your question in a different setting, but
we’re here to talk about emergencies and the support that we can deliver
to people in desperate need.  Thank you.  
  
Q    I appreciate that, Mr. Secretary, but we’re getting conflicting
answers from your agency and from the State Department about a man who
was arrested for an Election Day terror plot.  How do you not have those
answers prepared?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Oh, Jacqui, that’s not what I said.  What I said is
I’d be pleased to discuss this issue at a different time, but I am here
to speak about disasters that have impacted people’s lives in real time,
and that is the subject that I am addressing today.  
  
Q    Can you assure people, though —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to —  
  
Q    Mr. Secretary, can you assure people that appropriate steps have
been taken to secure the country against these kinds of threats? 
Because the outstanding question is whether this man was radicalized
before the U.S. government brought here — him here or afterward.  And
people should be concerned about that.  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Jacqui — Jacqui — Jacqui, your persistence in
questioning can be matched my — by my persistence in answers. 
(Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  We’re going to go.  Go ahead, Gabe.  
  
Q    Mr. Secretary, thank you.  Gabe Gutierrez here with NBC.  I want to
go back to the funding question a little bit more specifically.   
  
So, eight days into the fiscal year, the federal government has spent
nearly half of the money that Congress has allocated for disaster relief
for the next 12 months.  How concerning is that?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  It is very concerning.  But — but let me be clear:
We can meet the immediate needs arising from Hurricane Helene, Hurricane
Milton, and the tornadoes associated with it.   
  
When Congress returns, we will need them to act swiftly to appropriately
fund the Disaster Relief Fund upon which FEMA relies to deliver
assistance to people after extreme weather events.  And so, we can meet
the immediate needs.  We will need funding very rapidly.   
  
Q    What if there’s another disaster next week?

  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  We — we have — we are working on a continuing
resolution.  That is not stable footing for the work that we do in
disaster response, and so that is why I underscore the need for Congress
to act swiftly upon its return.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Michael.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Mr. Secretary, Michael Wilner with McClatchy. 
Just want to ask you specifically about the National Flood Insurance
Program.  Already this — the NFIP has been chronically in the red.  How
do you anticipate Milton will affect that program?  And is there a
specific ask of Congress?

  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Michael, I’ll — I’ll have to follow up with you on
that.  But I — you know, I’ve been in the Department of Homeland
Security as the director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
and the deputy secretary and now, of course, as the secretary, and I’ve
always known the — the Flood Insurance Program to be in the red.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Mr. Secretary, this is Courtney Rozen from Bloomberg
Government.  I would like to ask about the upcoming election in the next
couple of weeks.  Are you thinking about that issue in terms of voters
being able to access their polling places in states that are having such
significant damage?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Courtney, we have seen state and local officials
who are, of course, on point in ensuring access to voting.  We have seen
them make — take measures to ensure that people can, in fact, reach
their polling places.   
  
Some polling places have been damaged, for example, as a result of
Hurricane Helene, but they are pivoting to make sure that there are
other facilities available to them, and they’ll have different places at
which they can place their votes. 

And this is something that the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency of our department — CISA, as it — as it is known by its acronym —
works very closely with state and local officials to assist in that
regard.

Q    Can you give an example of one way that they are assisting in this
time?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, what we do — what — there —

Q    Can you give some examples of what that work looks like?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  There are three — there are three threat vectors. 
There’s physical violence — there’s the concern about physical
violence.  There is the concern about cyberattacks.  And there’s the
concern about disinformation.

An example is that we are protecting — protective security advisers in
each state that assist state and local officials in sharing best
practices about how to secure the facilities, both from a physical
perspective and a cybersecurity perspective.  That would be one example.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.  We’re going to start wrapping it up,
but go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Mr. Secretary.  This is Skylar Woodhouse with Bloomberg
News.  As you mentioned earlier, you said that FEMA, you know, will need
funds when — when Congress comes back.  But if there is another disaster
prior to Congress coming back to session and as you continue to work
with Helene and Milton, is there — will FEMA have to perhaps stop
offering services or sending out support for aid if you’re running out
of cash before Congress comes back?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  No, it — no, it will not.  We — we have the funds
to address immediate needs.  If we have to devote the resources that we
have to immediate needs, we will do so at the expense of perhaps other
long-term recovery efforts.  We need Congress to act swiftly upon its
return, but we will meet immediate needs.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Jared, you have the last question.

Q    Thank you.  Mr. Secretary, as you talk about the need for Congress
to come back and, obviously, replenish funds when they do that, I’m just
curious: Moving forward, as you look forward to future appropriation
battles, does Congress need to rethink how they are funding FEMA and
disaster relief?  In other words, is it, like, an underfunded service
and program of the federal government, as is?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Let me — let me take a step back and widen the
aperture of that question, if I may.  The — the — a continuing
resolution is not a stable way to fund the federal government.  Needs
change from year to year, and we need real budgets upon which we can
rely and upon which we can predicate responsible financial planning and
financial management.  So, a continuing resolution only retains a level
of instability in the work that we do, in terms of the assurance of the
funding that we need. 

We — the Disaster Relief Fund and the funding of it should be completely
nonpartisan and apolitical.  This is a fund that provides much-needed
relief to individuals, regardless of party.  And I have said publicly
many a time since Hurricane Hele- — Helene first hit in late September,
that when our brave individuals — and I say “our” meaning not just
federal but federal, state, and local — reach into flooded waters to
save an individual, they are not asking about that individual’s party
affiliation.  They are rescuing a fellow human being, and we need to be
funded accordingly.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank —

Q    And if I —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh —  
  
Q    — just one quick one to follow up —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    — with the secretary.  The — the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait, hold on.  Hold on.  Go ahead, Will.  I told him
it was the last question.

So, Mr. Secretary, we have one more for you.   
  
Go ahead, Will.

Q    Sorry.  Sorry.  It’s Will Weissert with AP.  You mentioned at least
10 people killed in relation to Milton.  Is that — were those tornado
deaths?  Can you give us a little bit more information about where that
number came from?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, let me — let me be clear.  And this is
something I want to echo that Karine mentioned at the very outset.  This
is a very fluid situation.  We are just beginning damage assessment. 
So, when I — we have 10 confirmed fatalities.  Our understanding is that
those fatalities were caused by the tornadoes.

But — but I just want to introduce a little bit of tentativeness to that
because of the fluidity of the situation and how nascent it — it is.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  It is our job to make sure that that number doesn’t
climb, through valiant search and rescue efforts, but we are dealing in
the immediate aftermath of a terrible hurricane and many, many tornadoes
ancillary to it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you so much, Mr. Secretary. 
Appreciate it.  Appreciate everything that you’re doing.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Thank — thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you. 

All right.  We don’t have too much time because the president, as you
all know, is speaking at 2 o’clock.

So, Will, what do you have for me?

Q    Okay.  I wanted to switch gears a little bit.  Does the White House
have a reaction to the U.N. Interim Force in Lebanon report that Israel
has fired on their position in — in Lebanon, and there’s been at least
two peacekeepers that were injured?  Does the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — yeah.

Q    — think that — that there should still be U.N. peacekeepers in the
region?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I want to be mindful.  I heard about those reports
coming in.  I — I need to talk to the team and get to the ground truth
of exactly what’s happening.  I just want to be super mindful, because I
don’t have all the information for me to respond to you at this time.

Once I have that, then we can certainly respond.

Q    Can you comment more generally on — on peacekeepers in —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean, obviously, peacekeepers — we want them to
be safe and protected, but I just don’t have anything for you on that
particular event that’s happening on the ground.  I just heard those
reports, and I just want to make sure I have the full — full breadth of
the information before I respond.

Go ahead, Danny.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  The readout of the president’s call with Prime
Minister Netanyahu yesterday said they’d be — remain in close touch. 
Just wondered if the president or the White House has heard anything
more about Israel’s plans for retaliation.  And, secondly, when — and,
secondly, do we know when they’re expected to speak again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I don’t have anything to preview on the next
call.  As you know — and I’ve said this many times before — since this
past little bit mo- — now, over a year, the president and the prime
minister have spoken over a dozen times.  We talked a little bit in this
room about the call yesterday — 30 minutes; it was direct; it was
productive.  There was a readout that we all put out.

And as I said yesterday and I’ll continue to iterate here, this was a —
as it relates to the — Iran’s attack, they had a contin- — they
continued the discussion that happened on the staff level, obviously, on
the leaders level. 

And I’m just going to be super mindful here.  I’m not going to read out
from here what Israel is going to do or not going to do.  And, frankly,
I’m certainly not going to read that out to the Iranians. 

So, going to be — going to keep that diplomatic conversation as it
should be.  It is a private conversation, and we read out as much as we
were able to just to give you a little bit of — of a sense of color of
what happened on that call.

Q    Can I ask if you do expect to hear from the Israelis after the
Security Cabinet meeting? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to — to share.  What I can say,
though, and we — and I — we’ve said this many times before: There is
regular communication that is happening with the Israeli government,
certainly on the staff level, on a daily — on a daily basis.  And
certainly, that will continue as — as we have done for the past more —
more than a year now. 

Go ahead, Kayla.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Earlier this week, Hezbollah’s deputy secretary
general expressed a willingness to renew talks for a ceasefire.  What is
the U.S.’s response to that, and what does the White House believe the
willingness of Israel is to begin those talks again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time — the beginning of that. 
Sorry.

Q    The deputy secretary general of Hezbollah expressed support for a
ceasefire deal. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I will say is, obviously, we do not have
conversations here with Hezbollah or any of the Iran-backed groups.  We
don’t speak to Iran.  That is not how we — we communicate. 

We will continue to have conversations with Israel about — about a way
forward with Lebanon, about a way forward here.  We believe a ceasefire
is the way to go in order to create space to have diplomatic
conversations — that’s what we believe — and so that both sides can
return back home to — to their respective borders. 

And that’s what we want to see.  And those discussions continue. 

Q    And just to follow up.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
has showed a willingness to disregard the preferences of President Biden
and the U.S. team in how he has prosecuted the conflict in the Middle
East.  And I’m wondering if the White House is giving any new
consideration to conditions being placed on aid delivered Israel.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Go ahead.

Q    I wanted to ask a question about the disinformation with the
hurricanes.  And has the White House been in touch with the leadership
of social media networks where a lot of this disinformation is being
spread?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, as we have stated, and you — the
president was very, very clear yesterday about misinformation,
disinformation and how dangerous it is, especially right now when we’re
— when he was speaking at the time — when we were dealing and trying to
respond to disasters and preparing — at the time, when he was
responding. 

So, we have made — we have certainly been in touch with — with trusted
online publishers, influencers, other trusted messengers to — to meet
people where they are, and that’s what we have been trying to do: be on
those platforms, those traditional media outlets as well, to be very
clear about making sure they have the accurate information. 

And so, that is one of the reasons, earlier this week, the White House
launched the Reddit — the first Reddit account to ensure that even more
people can — we can meet more people where they are so we can make sure
that <s>we</s> \[they\] have that accurate information. 

So, that’s what we’re doing to make sure that we’re on those platforms,
pushing out what we — what is the accurate information so folks out
there, people out there who are certainly impacted — now impacted by two
hurricanes has the information that they need.

Q    Are the platforms themselves doing enough to police the
disinformation that’s on there? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, they’re private companies.  So, I’m not
going to tell them what to do, what not to do.  I think everybody has a
responsibility here to try to make sure that the information that they
are providing — whether you are a leader, a national leader, a
congressional leader, a former president — you have the — certainly, the
duty to be accountable here and to make sure that you are sharing the
right information, truthful information, not falsehoods that, you know,
frankly, certainly put people in harm’s way and makes it hard for these
brave men and women — you heard the president talk about this yesterday
— who are on the ground providing assistance.  It puts them in harm’s
way as well. 

Go ahead, Mary.

Q    Thanks.  To that end, Congresswoman Luna, who represents the Saint
Petersburg area, said that she spoke with the president today about the
response.  She is one of those people who has been spreading
disinformation, misinformation about FEMA assistance.  Did that come up
in the conversation?  Did the president, you know, directly talk to her
about that and

encourage her to stop it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the president was certainly focused on what’s
happening on the ground and making sure that the federal government is —
is — any needs that are unmet are met, and that everybody who is on the
ground, certainly local officials, elected officials who are trying to
help their community has what they need. 

And, look, the president was very clear.  It is unacceptable.  It is
unacceptable for bad-faith actors — right? — to — to continue to push
out misinformation.  As I stated, it is dangerous.  It does not — it
gets in the way of providing the assistance that we need.  We have heard
— you all have reported on stories where people are not going for —
asking for assistance because of the misinformation. 

And so, the president was really clear.  It is very, very clear. 

And one of the — one of the issues that we have heard — or the lies or
falsehoods that are out there is the $750.  It is the beginning.  It is
something so that people are able to buy, you know, diapers, to buy
milk, are able to buy necess- — ne- — necessities that they need in the
moment at the time after dealing with such a horrible event.  And the
$750 is the beginning, and there is more to come. 

But it’s not helpful when people do that.  So, the president is not
going to shy away from that.  He was very straightforward, very forceful
about it twice yesterday when he spoke to the public.  And so, we’re
going to keep — be very, very clear.  It is unacceptable. 

But the calls that the president made today was about making sure that
Americans, people on the ground who had been affected by this hurricane
— this most recent hurricane, Hurricane Milton — they have what they
need on the ground.

Go ahead, Gabe.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Following up on Jacqui’s question from earlier on
the Afghan terror suspect.  NBC is reporting that he was a security
guard for the CIA before he came to the U.S. and that he passed two
rounds of vetting.  Does the administration believe there was adequate
vetting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is I cannot comment on this
directly because — because it is an active investigation.  As you know,
that the Department of Justice is currently un- –moving forward with. 
So, I’m going to be really careful. 

What I can say is every Afghan national who entered the U.S. was
screened and vetted by intelligence, law enforcement, counterterrorism
professionals, and with every new information that emerges that in- —
individual that — if that individual could pose a threat to public
safety, we take immediate action, and we take that action. 

And so, going to be — not going to speak to this particular case, but I
can speak more broadly, and that’s the actions that we normally take. 
That’s how we move forward. 

And the president has always been clear, protecting the American people
will always be — always be his top priority.

Q    More broadly, what would you say to critics who say there isn’t
enough vetting in these cases?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is how I just ended my last question to
you.  Protecting the American people is the president’s top priority.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  From what you and other officials have said, I
gather that the U.S. has at least two stated goals in Lebanon.  The
first one, you said that you don’t want it to turn into another Gaza — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — you’re working towards cessation of hostilities, but you also
support Israeli efforts in dismantling Hezbollah infrastructure in
Lebanon.  So, how can those two goals exist in the same time frame?  Is
the understanding to first allow Israel to push back against Hezbollah
before going into negotiations?

AIDE:  Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry.

(An aide shows Ms. Jean-Pierre a phone.)

Oh, gosh.  Okay. 

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We got to move s- —

Q    Can you share those developments, Karine? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have to move —

Q    What’s going on there? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m — I’m just trying to make sure that we’re out
of here because the president is speaking at 2 o’clock.  That’s what
they’re — they’re giving me updates on — on — we got to move pretty —
pretty quickly.

On answering that question, Patsy, I’ll say this: Look, I think two
things — both — both things could be true and — at the same time.  We
believe that — and I said this moments ago — we want to see a cease- — a
ceasefire deal — that’s what we want to see — to provide some space for
di- — diplomacy so that — that would enable civilians to go back home on
both sides — right? — to go back home — both sides of the border.

And so, we’re going to have those discussions.  We’ll — going to be able
— hoping to be able to achieve that goal.  And we — we believe,
ultimately, a diplomatic resolution is the way to — to move forward
here. 

And to your point about Israel, we believe Israel has the right to
defend itself.  That’s what we believe.  We’ve said that.

And what we understand is the operation that they’re moving forward with
in Lebanon are indeed targeted.  We’re having those conversations. 
We’re being very direct and having those doc- –conversations with the
Israeli government.  That will continue.  And we have been very clear
with this as well. 

Q    And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We protect — we believe and support and — in — in —
and certainly support Israel’s so- — right to defend itself and
certainly our — their — Israel’s security continues to be
<s>ironglad</s> \[ironclad\] — our support for them.

Q    And — and just to pick up on your point that it’s targeted.  Have
you — considering the fact that there are American citizens still in
Lebanon —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — have you received any Israeli guarantees that they won’t strike
the airport in Beirut, as well as the road to the airport, which I
understand goes through Hezbollah-controlled territory?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We continue to have very, very direct conversation
with the Israeli government.  That’s what we’re going to do. 

But how — how the shape and scope and the nature of their operations, of
their campaign moves forward, we are going to have, again, very direct
conversations with them.

Q    And then, finally, just quickly on Taiwan, Karine.  In response to
Taiwan National Day celebrations, China is feared to respond by either
conducting war games or sending its assets to the region.  Is the
administration prepared on such an event, considering a lot of the
military assets have been deployed to the Middle East?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you’re talking about the speech that the
Taiwan president made?

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, that — it’s — it is — it is tradition, as you
know, for — on that day, a long-standing tradition for Taiwan’s
president to deliver remarks on 10/10.  It — it is routine,
domestic-focus address that has historically prompted little response
from Beijing.  This year should be no different. 

We are not going to speculate on what the PRC will or will not do this
year, but we see no just- — justification, certainly, for a routine
annual celebration to be used as a pretext for military exercises. 

We urge Beijing to act with restraint.  Our One China policy has not
changed, and we’ve been really consistent about that in the past three
and a half years.

Go ahead, Michael.

Q    Karine, just following up on my colleague’s question about the —
the president’s call with some Florida officials and lawmakers.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    I know you mentioned that he had been clear yesterday with regard
to disinformation around the hurricane response, but did it come up
specifically in that call?  Was there a conversation with Florida
officials?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share besides the president
reaching out to elected officials, local and statewide, to offer up
their assistance — his assistance, the federal government assistance to
check in to see what else that they need.  We are dealing with,
obviously, the impact of a pretty powerful hurricane, Hurricane Milton,
and so that is his — was his focus on the call today. 

I think he’s been very — I mean, he said it publicly, right?  So, he’s
been very public about how he feels about misinformation.  And as
president, he felt that he needed to say something because it was
harming — harming Americans out there who were impacted by — have been
impacted, whether by Hurricane Helene, now impacted by Hurricane Milton,
and they need to get the assistance.  Right?  They need to make sure
that — we wanted to make sure they were pre-posi- — they were ready,
whether evacuating, sheltered before — ahead of this hurricane.  And
when you have this type of misinformation, disinformation out there, it
certainly steps on that. 

And so, as president, he spoke very publicly twice — twice yesterday,
and I think that message was sent loud and clear.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Since President Biden postponed his foreign trip
due to — due to Hurricane Milton, has the president spoken with German
Chancellor Scholz yet just about, you know, maybe rescheduling the trip,
just kind of talking since there was a lot planned?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, I think we’ve stated that we’re going to be
rescheduling the trip.  That’s what we’re — we’re trying to work out all
of the details.  That’s important to the president to do that. 

Wh- — when I have more information, obviously, you all will be one of
the first to know.

And the president is planning to speak to both of the leaders very, very
soon.  And so, once we have that information, we’ll certainly share that
with all of you as well. 

I think I have to wrap it up here.

Q    On the trip?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep. 

Q    So, the — will the leader-level Ukraine Defense Contact Group be
rescheduled, or will it happen in the coming weeks at the ministerial
level? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say: On the leader level, I understand
that that’s going to be the — that conversation is going to be
postponed.  And so, that I can speak to. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s going to definitely be postponed. 

Okay.  All right.  All right.  In the back.  I haven’t called on you in
a while. 

Q    Oh, thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Go ahead.

Q    Just on the calls.  Florida Senator Rick Scott said that President
Biden agreed that Congress should come back early to fund FEMA.  So, is
there a more urgent need, and is the administration all in line with
what we heard from the secretary, Mayorkas, talking about getting
Congress to come back or not?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, what we have — what we have been very
clear about is Congress needs to act.  We had a CR.  We had a pretty
robust ask in the CR for — for — to make sure that we continued to fund
that — that emergency disaster funding.  Pardon me.  And so, that didn’t
go through.  It was not — we were disappointed that it didn’t make it
into the CR.  And so, that is unfortunate.   
  
But we’ve also been clear that Congress needs to act.  And what we have
seen in the past is what — Congress can still act on emergency items,
move forward emergency asks in — during recess.  That is something that
they can do.  
  
And so, we’re going to continue to say that.  We’re going to continue to
be very clear.  We have to see this moving forward. 

You saw the letter from the president earlier this week saying that
there’s SBA disaster funding that’s about to run out in weeks — in
weeks.  
  
Q    But is he going to call them to come back?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We believe that Congress can do the job, right?  They
can do this job.  They can make sure that we get that additional funding
during recess.  We have seen them do this before.  It is not unusual. 
It is something that they’ve been able to do when there has been an
important decision to be made.  And so, that’s what we want to see.  
  
All right.  I know we got to go.  The president is about to speak, so I
don’t want to hold you guys up.  
  
Thanks, everybody.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
1:56 P.M. EDT
