---
date: '2024-10-15'
modified_time: 2024-10-16 10:47:11-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-15 13:42:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/15/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-31/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

1:47 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks for joining.  As always, sorry we’re
a little bit late.  Kirby has a few words here at the top, and then
we’ll get through as many questions as we can. 

MR. KIRBY:  Hey.  Good afternoon, everybody. 

So, just real quick on Moldova, if you’ll indulge me.  In recent months,
the U.S. government, Moldovan President Sandu, the Moldovan security
services, and other allies and partners have warned that Russia is
seeking to undermine Moldovan democratic institutions in the lead-up to
the presidential election and referendum on Moldova’s EU membership. 

Now, with Moldova’s election just days away, we remain confident in our
earlier assessment that Russia is working actively to undermine
Moldova’s election and its European integration. 

Today, I’m here to reaffirm that the United States and its allies stand
shoulder-to-shoulder with all Moldovans in their efforts to uphold the
integrity and the security of their elections.  The U.S. government and
the government of Moldova have worked hand-in-hand to expose Russian
influence efforts and sanction those involved.

Since September, when we last spoke publicly about Russian efforts to
undermine Moldova’s election, we have become aware that Russia is
spending millions of dollars to support its preferred candidates.  In
fact, in the last several months, Moscow has dedicated millions of
dollars to influencing Moldova’s presidential election.  We assess that
this money has gone toward financing its preferred parties and spreading
disinformation on social media in favor of their campaigns.  The Russian
state has authorized this effort to spend significant sums of money to
influence the election. 

Additionally, known Russian influence actor Ilan Shor has invested tens
of millions of dollars per month into non-profit organizations that
spread narratives about the election that are in line with Russian
interests.  These nonprofits have promoted pro-Russian content on
traditional media, on local websites, and, of course, through social
media applications as well.

As we’ve said before, we continue to have full confidence in Moldova’s
ability to manage these foreign influence threats.  We are taking a
range of measures to support those efforts.  We have shared the
information outlined above with our Moldovan partners, of course, so
that they can further investigate, further attempt to thwart and disrupt
Russia’s plans, and, again, preserve their democratic institutions. 

Since Moldova’s 2021 elections, the United States has used its sanction
authority to target Russia’s malign influence campaigns in Moldova. 

In 2022, Treasury designated Mr. Shor and his network of cronies,
Russian businessman Igor Chayka and his Russian enablers. 

In 2023, Treasury imposed additional sanctions on seven leading members
of a Russian intelligence-linked project. 

Most recently, in September 2024, the United States imposed sanctions on
other entities and individuals for attempting to influence the Moldovan
election.  So that’s just last month.

Our allies have implemented sanctions as well to support Moldova.  The
United States has partnered with the Moldovan government, private
companies, and others to offer critical expertise and technical
assistance to bolster Moldova’s cybersecurity across the government,
across critical infrastructure, and, of course, through independent
media. 

So, look, our message today is very clear: The United States will
continue to support Moldova and the Moldovan people, and to expose and
counter Russian efforts to undermine Moldovan democracy. 

With that, we can take some questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Aamer with the
AP. 

Q    Hey.  Thank you both.  It’s nice to hear you back, John.  I hope
your family and loved ones in South Florida are doing okay. 

I wanted to ask you about Secretary Austin and Secretary Blinken’s
letter calling for the potential reassessment of military assistance to
Israel if food and other aid to Gaza is not increased within a month. 
Can you talk about why they saw the need to send this letter now?  And
what does it say, that this had to be put into a letter form, about the
relationship?  And can you explain the rationale in also giving Israel
30 days before facing potential consequences?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, thanks, Aamer.  And thanks for the kind words.  I
appreciate that very much. 

So, look, I can confirm that Secretary Austin and Secretary Blinken
co-signed the letter you’re talking about, and it was sent to their
Israeli counterparts. 

I would note that the Biden-Harris administration made a similar request
for concrete measures with respect to humanitarian assistance back in
April through a similar form, a letter.  And that letter did receive a
constructive response from the Israelis. 

This particular letter that we’re talking about now follows a relatively
recent decrease in humanitarian assistance reaching the people of Gaza,
which is obviously something we’ve been very, very concerned about since
the beginning of the conflict and through which we aim to try to get
more concrete measures in place to increase that humanitarian
assistance. 

So the question on why and when: Again, because there’s been a decrease
in humanitarian assistance and it matters to us is the “why.”  When? 
Why now?  Because, again, tied to a recent decrease.  But it’s not like
we haven’t communicated these concerns in writing before to the
Israelis.  We have.  And, you know, we’ll continue to stay on this very,
very important topic.

As for the 30 days, I would refer you to the State Department to speak
to the timeframe itself.  I really don’t have a good answer on why it’s
exactly 30 days.  The only thing I would address with respect to that
particular question is just the sense of urgency that we all have here
about the desperate need of the people of Gaza for this humanitarian
assistance.  So, when we take the step of talking to our Israeli
counterparts orally or in writing about this, there’s obviously a deep
sense of urgency about it.  But why 30 days in particular?  I’d have to
refer you to State.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Trevor with
Reuters.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing this, John.  Really appreciate it.  Just one
more on the letter.  Could you talk about whether the President was
aware of the letter and signed off on it?

And then, on India, could you talk a little bit about what intelligence
the United States has about whether the Modi government has been
involved in these extrajudicial killings and assassination attempts? 
And what concerns are there about Sikhs being targeted on U.S. soil at
this point?

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Trevor.  On the first question, the President has
been very consistent in expressing our concerns to the Israelis about
humanitarian assistance getting into Gaza, and certainly he’s mindful of
our efforts to communicate those concerns to the Israelis, whether that
communication is, as I said, done orally or in writing. 

So this is not an issue, this is not an effort, this is not an
initiative that the President was at all surprised by.  It’s very much
in keeping with the communications that he has had with Prime Minister
Netanyahu and we’ve all had across the government with the Israelis.

On your second question, I would just say a couple of things.  One, the
Indians have an inquiry committee that is looking into these issues. 
That committee is visiting here in the United States today to deal with
the U.S. case specifically.  I can’t speak to the case in Canada, and I
wouldn’t speak for the Canadians one way or another. 

But we have expressed our deep concerns about this to our Indian
counterparts.  They have expressed to us that they are taking it
seriously.  The fact that they sent an inquiry committee here I think
demonstrates that they are taking this seriously.  It is something they
absolutely need to take seriously. 

But beyond that, I really can’t say much given that it’s an ongoing
case, and the Justice Department is really the best place to go for
that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to MJ with CNN.

Q    Hey, John.  Thank you.  Two Israel questions for you.  First, in
terms of both the potential timing and the contours of Israel’s
retaliation against Iran, is Israel sensitive to the upcoming U.S.
presidential election?  You know, have they indicated to U.S. officials
in any way that they would not want whatever actions they take to affect
the politics here?

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, MJ.  I’m going to let the Israelis speak to any
prospective operations they may or may not conduct, and therefore would
let them speak to, you know, issues of timing, scope, scale, size, that
kind of thing.  That’s not really for me to get into. 

And as for their decision-making process and whether and to what degree
it’s tied to our election cycle here, again, I wouldn’t be qualified to
speak to that one way or another. 

Again, whether and to what degree Israel conducts any kind of response
is really for them to speak to and not us, and we need to be very
circumspect about not inserting ourselves into that kind of operational
decision-making by the Israelis. 

Q    Okay.  My second question was on the decision to deploy a THAAD
system, along with U.S. personnel, to Israel.  Was that a direct —

MODERATOR:  Sorry, MJ, you got cut off there.  Do you want to try again?

Q    Hi.  Can you hear me?

MODERATOR:  Yeah. 

Q    I don’t know if you heard the first part of my question, but just
the decision to deploy a THAAD system to Israel.  I was asking whether
that was a direct result of certain assurances that the Prime Minister
offered to the President about how Israel would conduct itself going
forward, whether it’s related to Iran or otherwise.  Did that come from
the conversation that they most recently had last week?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, you know, we issued a readout of that

conversation, and I’m not going to go beyond that one way or another. 
We’re not going to get into the details of the specific back-and-forth
beyond what we issued in a readout.  So that’s sort of point one.

And point two that I think is really critical to make is that it’s not
the first time that a THAAD has been deployed into the region.  We
deployed one after the October 7th attacks in the region specifically. 

It’s also not the first time that a THAAD has gone to Israel.  I mean,
back in 2019, we sent one there for some training and exercise
purposes.  So that’s — it’s not a completely unprecedented move.

But the main point I want to make is that it is very much in keeping
with our commitment to help Israel defend itself.  It’s commensurate
with putting fighter jets in the air to knock out drones and missiles. 
It’s commensurate with deploying guided missile destroyers that are
ballistic missile defense capable in and around the waters off of
Israel.  So it’s very much in keeping with the President’s strong desire
that, from an air defense perspective, our ally has what they need to
defend themselves against clearly a very real, present, viable threat by
Iran and its proxies.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Weijia with CBS.

Q    Thank you, Sam.  And thank you, Admiral.  So, days before that
conversation between the President and the Prime Minister, President
Biden told us that they would speak after Israel made a decision about
how to respond.  So, during that phone call, did Netanyahu brief
President Biden on his intentions with how to respond?  And did the
President offer any guidance with regard to how to respond?  For
example, not to attack nuclear sites or oil refineries, et cetera.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I do appreciate the question, and it’s similar to
MJ’s, and I hope you’ll appreciate that I’m simply not going to get into
the specific back-and-forth between the Prime Minister and the
President.  We issued a readout, and I’m not going to go beyond that,
and certainly not going to detail operational discussions one way or
another. 

Q    Okay —

MR. KIRBY:  If, when, how — wait a second.  If, when, and how Israel
decides to conduct some kind of counterstrike, that’s going to have to
be for them to speak to: how they do it, if they do it, when and in what
manner they do it.  That’s not something that we’re going to speak to
here.  And we’re certainly not going to get ahead of any of that
operational decision-making and characterize it publicly. 

The President and the Prime Minister had, as they have had since the
beginning of this conflict, another constructive but very candid
conversation, and we stand by the need for Israel to defend itself. 
They live in a tough neighborhood.  Got very viable threats against
them; we saw that on the 1st of October.  They absolutely have a right
and responsibility to defend themselves.  And they need to know, as I
think they do, that the United States will continue to do what we can to
help them — help them in that regard. 

Q    Thank you.  And just because we haven’t had a chance to talk to you
since the report came out, have you ever heard the President
characterize Prime Minister Netanyahu with flowery language that was
reported by Bob Woodward?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get into the details that — you know, that
are written about in the book.  I would just tell you, as I’ve said
many, many times before, these are two guys that know each other very,
very well, going on four decades now.  They are able to be very frank
and forthright with one another.  And they, frankly, I think, appreciate
the fact that they can speak plainly to one another.  I’d leave it at
that. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to David with the New
York Times.

Q    Thanks, John, and hope that all is well in your house in Florida.

There have been a lot of reports lately, most of them coming from the
Ukrainians, a little bit from the South Koreans, both of whom are
(inaudible) interested in this, about North Korean troops who are being
used by the Russians in the war in Ukraine.  Should be a significant
change in the North Korean approach to this.  Do you have any
independent confirmation that, in fact, the North Koreans have moved
from just being a supplier of missiles and other weaponry to a supplier
of actual troops?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, David — no, we cannot independently confirm those
reports.  That said, those reports are concerning to us.  This idea of
North Korean soldiers fighting on behalf of Russia, we believe, if true,
would mark a significant increase in the DPRK and the Russia defense
relationship, a relationship I would remind that we’ve been talking
about now for many months as burgeoning and growing and deepening.  And
this, if true, would represent a significant deepening of that
relationship. 

It would also, if true, David, indicate what I think can only be
classified as a new level of desperation by Putin as he continues to try
to make progress in Ukraine. 

And I think it’s — you know, again, I’m not confirming the reporting,
but I think it’s important to put it in some context.  I mean, if it’s
true, it’s coming at a time when Russia continues to suffer
extraordinary — in fact, I’d go so far as to say historic levels of
casualties in a modern conflict.  I mean, more than a thousand
casualties per day just in recent months. 

So it would be important, again, if true, to keep it in that context. 

Q    John, I understand why you said “if true,” but has anybody been
tasked to go, given the magnitude of the import here, to go figure this
out?  Because (inaudible).

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, look, I mean, the reports are concerning, so I don’t
think it should surprise anybody that we’re obviously looking into those
reports to see if it’s accurate.  Of course, we’re going to do that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Andrea Mitchell
with NBC.  Andrea, you should be able to unmute yourself. 

Q    Hi, John.  Let me join in saying that we’re hoping that your family
is well and that you’ve done what you can in this terrible situation. 
We’re sorry for what you’ve been going through, and thanks for doing
this today. 

Let me ask you about Lebanon and Hezbollah.  Could you talk about the
complaints by the United Nations about UNIFIL, but the strong complaints
from Israel that UNIFIL permitted — which is unarmed — but permitted
Hezbollah to store weapons in tunnels right under their noses in what
should have been — what was supposed to be a buffer zone, and whether
there is now an opening for the U.S. to try to, with Hezbollah weakened,
restore or help the Lebanese restore their independence from Hezbollah,
in terms of their leadership and the Lebanese army?

MR. KIRBY:  Just a couple of points on that.  First of all, the U.N.,
through UNIFIL, plays an important role, a peacekeeping role in Lebanon,
and we respect that role.  We want everybody to respect that role,
including Israel. 

And I think — you know, as we’ve said, we’ve told Israel very directly
that we oppose their near-daily strikes here in densely populated areas
in Beirut, and we understand that they’re conducting targeted operations
that are designed to go after Hezbollah infrastructure.  And we
recognize that they have a right to do that, but they also have a
commensurate responsibility to do it in a way that doesn’t threaten the
lives of civilians or U.N. peacekeepers or, quite frankly, members of
the Lebanese Armed Forces who have suffered some casualties here.  It’s
unacceptable, and we’ve pressed the Israelis for more details about
that. 

I’m in possession of no information that confirms that the U.N. was
witting in terms of what Hezbollah infrastructure was nested beneath
their buildings.  I can’t confirm that particular allegation.  But,
again, it doesn’t even — you know, I mean, again, I can’t confirm that,
but it doesn’t diminish our concerns about the lives and livelihoods of
U.N. peacekeepers.

Q    But can you — the U.S. is not going to challenge the evidence that
Israel has provided of weaponry being stored in tunnels and homes along
their border, are they?

And secondly, do you see opportunities here, with Hezbollah as
diminished in its leadership, to have a diplomatic initiative, a U.S.
diplomatic initiative, which we’ve been seeing evidence of, to try to
help the LAF stand up?

MR. KIRBY:  I mean, I don’t want to get the cart before the horse here,
so a couple of things. 

One, certainly we’re not challenging the idea that Hezbollah, like
Hamas, uses hidden facilities underground for storing arms and
ammunition or for facilitating the freedom of movement of their
fighters.  No challenge to that allegation. 

On your second point, all I can say at this point is that we continue to
believe that a diplomatic initiative is important to pursue to bring the
conflict to an end — yes, up there in the north as well — and to try to
prevent further escalation of the conflict in the region. 

So I don’t want to get into the guts of what that diplomacy is
considering in terms of whose role and how it would be facilitated, just
except to say that we continue to support a diplomatic initiative and a
diplomatic resolution to this. 

Q    Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nick with PBS.

Q    Hey, John.  Thanks very much.  And let me add my words about your
house and everything that you’ve been through.  Thank you. 

If you’ll forgive me, three quick ones.  Just to put a point on the
NSM-20 conversation at the top, because we saw language from Secretary
Austin and Blinken about this, is the President willing to cut off some
weapons to Israel, as U.S. law would dictate, if indeed the U.S. decided
that Israel was arbitrarily blocking U.S. aid into Gaza?  That’s number
one.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, Nick, look, I don’t want to get into speculating here
on a hypothetical.  We have made clear our concerns to Israel since the
beginning of the conflict about the way in which they prosecute their
operations, about the need to get humanitarian assistance in and to
increase that flow.  I mean, heck, that’s one of the reasons why we were
pushing so hard for, you know, a six-month ceasefire so that we could
supervise or help — I shouldn’t say “supervise” — help facilitate a
surge of humanitarian assistance into Gaza.  So it’s deeply concerning
to us that there has been a decrease in that assistance.

And the letter just simply restates what we made clear to the Israelis
back in April in a similar letter, which is, you know, we have to follow
the law of the land here.  We don’t want to have to have any kind of an
impact on our assistance to Israel, which is why, as friends and allies
do, we have those kinds of frank and honest conversations, and we lay
bare our forthright concerns about humanitarian assistance.

Q    And then, on Iran, has the U.S. communicated to Iran that if Israel
only attacks military targets, this should be the end of this round? 
And have the steps the U.S. taken — including the THAAD, including
sanctioning Iran, including trying to get a new Lebanese president —
have those helped convince the Israelis to get the conversation about
the nature of their response closer to (inaudible) the U.S.?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, our deployment of the THAAD, as I said earlier, is
very much in keeping with our commitment to Israel’s defense.  That’s
what it’s all about.  I’m not going to get into direct communications or
indirect communications that we might have with other parties in the
region, to include Iran, except to say that we have spoken in deed, not
just in word, about how important it is that Israel is able to defend
itself and how critical we take our obligations to help them in their
defense.  And there’s little doubt that the Iranians know how seriously
we take that commitment and that requirement.  But I don’t think it’d be
useful for me one way or the other to get into the specifics of the
diplomacy.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Alex Ward with the
Wall Street Journal. 

Q    Thank you, John.  A couple questions.  Just want to be sure about
this letter, and then I’ll move on to another subject.  But is the
intent of this letter to signal that Israel actually is at risk of
losing military aid funding?  Like, is that an actual credible threat
that is now on the table thanks to this letter?

MR. KIRBY:  The letter was not meant as a threat.  The letter was simply
meant to reiterate the sense of urgency we feel and the seriousness with
which we feel it, about the need for an increase — a dramatic increase
in humanitarian assistance.  And that’s what you can do with your
friend.  That’s what you can do with your ally.  And it’s not the first
time we’ve communicated that to Israel, but hopefully we won’t have to
communicate it again.

Q    Okay, thanks.  Appreciate that.  And then one quick follow-up on
that, and then I’ll move to the last subject.

You mentioned before you couldn’t confirm the 30 days.  Does that mean
that was a solely State Department decision not coordinated with the
NSC?

MR. KIRBY:  No, no, no, no.  What I said was I can’t speak to why the 30
days.  I wasn’t separating myself from the 30 days.  It’s in the
letter.  I just don’t know, you know, why that timeframe was chosen, and
I’d refer you to the State Department to speak to that with more
specificity.  That’s just really a reflection of my ignorance, not
necessarily any kind of talking point.

Q    Gotcha.  And then quickly, on this India inquiry.  You mentioned
that the Indians have said that they are serious about this.  What have
they done to prove to you and the administration that they are serious
about this inquiry and that it isn’t just a box-checking exercise where
there won’t be any accountability in the end?  What specifically have
they done to show you that they are serious about this, especially after
what we’ve seen in Canada, where they — clearly, the Canadians are —
don’t seem to believe that there’s a lot of credibility in their
process?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, look, they got their inquiry committee here today.  We
take that as a sign that they’re taking this seriously.  Sending over a
team here today to talk to the Justice Department to glean and to learn
perspectives from us about the U.S. case specifically — can’t talk about
the Canada one, of course — but we take that as a step in the right
direction. 

And I would also point to conversations that we’ve had with Indian
officials at various levels, including at the leader level, about our
deep concern over this and how that’s been reflected in those
conversations. 

But we’re going to monitor this going forward, Alex.  We’re going to
stay in close touch with them as they move forward with their own
inquiry, and we’ll be watching closely.  But thus far, in the main, it
appears to us that they are taking this seriously.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Akayla with
Bloomberg.

Q    Hey, John.  We’ve reported that Biden is traveling to Germany this
week.  Can you preview that trip at all?  And can you speak to why
Angola is no longer part of that trip?

MR. KIRBY:  I can’t confirm any travel for the President later this
week, but I would just say stay tuned.  There’s not a lot I can do to
answer that question today.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Asma with NPR.

Q    Hey.  Thanks, John.  An iteration — I realized that my question was
just actually asked, but I guess I have a quick follow-up here on the
letter.  We saw the VP yesterday — or the other day tweet out that the
U.N. was reporting no food had entered northern Gaza in nearly two
weeks.  I just want to understand: Is that the administration’s
assessment as well that no food has been able at all to enter in two
weeks? 

And then, if I can go back to the 30-day timeframe then.  I guess that
seems like an awfully long time then, from two weeks plus 30 days, for
food to come in and for folks to survive.  So I just wanted to
understand that timeframe and what you all are seeing. 

MR. KIRBY:  I’m going to take your first question, Asma.  I don’t know
the answer to that.  And so, rather than guess, I’ll ask the team to go
look at that and get back to you on the delivery of food.

And again, on the 30 days, I truly just don’t know.  I’m not trying to
be cute with you all.  I just don’t know why the 30-day limit was put in
that letter.  You know, and that’s really a question I think better put
to the State Department, Secretary Blinken and his team, about that
particular point of the letter. 

The only thing that I would add, which doesn’t necessarily answer your
second question but I do want to foot-stomp, again, is that we all have
a sense of urgency here.  So while I can’t speak to 30 days, it’s not as
if our messages to the Israelis are, you know, “You can do nothing for
30 days.”  We want humanitarian assistance increased now.  The letter
follows a marked decrease in humanitarian assistance, which has us
concerned and which prompted the expression of those concerns in
writing. 

We want that situation turned around now, as soon as possible.  You
know, yesterday would have been a better day to increase humanitarian
assistance into Gaza.  So there’s a keen sense of urgency throughout the
administration on this. 

I just — again, I can’t speak to that particular point in the letter.  I
apologize — I probably should have anticipated that question before the
gaggle, but I just don’t have the context for it, and the State
Department’s probably the best place to go.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Jihan with The
National.

Q    Thank you, John.  I have a question about the letter again.  Is
this concern over the entry of humanitarian aid — is there, with it, a
concern for the wider conduct of the Israeli army in Gaza?  We saw over
the weekend the burning of a tent camp.  There’s an image of a man on an
IV burning to death.  Have you seen those images? 

And like I said, is there concern, with the no access to food to Gaza,
that there’s also the targeting of civilians in Gaza that should perhaps
not happen? 

MR. KIRBY:  Of course there’s concern about destruction of civilian
infrastructure and civilian casualties.  And, yes, I’ve seen some of
those images, and they’re ghastly.  They’re deeply troubling.  And we
have asked the Israelis urgently, over the weekend, for more details
about those operations specifically.  But, of course, there’s deep
concern about that. 

The letter itself — I mean, again, I’d refer you to State and DOD.  It’s
Secretary Austin and Secretary Blinken who signed that letter.  But as
you, I’m sure, have read the letter, it’s primarily focused on
humanitarian assistance.  But that doesn’t mean that we aren’t deeply
concerned as well about civilian casualties and damage to civilian
infrastructure in general.  As I said earlier, the way in which the
Israelis prosecute their operations matters greatly to us.

Q    And so, what measures will there be in order to curb that sort of —
that behavior?  I mean, is there also a time limit to the target- — to
stopping the targeting of civilians, or is it a separate conversation? 
I mean, in what context is that conversation being had?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, I think I would add, you know, if you look at the
letter — in the last paragraph of the letter, it talks about civilian
harm mitigation and setting up a channel between the United States and
Israel to — a channel that had been agreed to previously, and that still
has not been put in place, to mitigate civilian harm.  So, no civilian
casualty should be accepted, and we aren’t.

Q    Finally, on Lebanon, is there concern now that humanitarian aid —

MR. KIRBY:  You asked how long is it going to — we don’t want to see any
civilian casualties.  So that is a perennial concern here with respect
to this conflict, and it’s why, again, we’ve been working very closely
with our Israeli counterparts to see what can be done to ensure greater
precision and discriminant targeting, to improve deconfliction with aid
workers on the ground and other civilian institutions on the ground, and
to, again, try to develop civilian harm mitigation measures that we can
help our Israeli counterparts develop and deploy.

Q    Yeah, is there a concern now that humanitarian aid and food will
also now not be accelerated in Lebanon?

MR. KIRBY:  That remains a concern.  I mean, one of the reasons why
we’ve been trying to prevent escalation and to bring that conflict up in
the north to an end as well is because of the effect that it’s already
having on the Lebanese population who have fallen victim to this
conflict between Hezbollah and Israel at no fault of their own. 

So, yes, that remains a concern.  And that’s why, again, we’ve been
working so hard diplomatically to try to find a way to bring the
conflict to an end. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nathan with KAN TV.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for that.  I’d like to know if there’s any negotiations
going on, on behalf of the U.S., regarding the hostages and the hostage
ceasefire deal in Gaza.  Or are these talks on hold?  And if so, is
there any thought in the administration to try and advance an
alternative deal to release the hostages?

MR. KIRBY:  We still, obviously, want to see a ceasefire in place so we
can get all them home and to get that surge of humanitarian assistance
into Gaza.  I wish I could tell you that there are fresh negotiations at
hand.  There aren’t.  But that’s because Mr. Sinwar has shown absolutely
zero interest in continuing that discussion. 

So we’re going to keep at it.  We’re still working on it.  We still
believe that that’s the best way to get those hostages back home with
their families where they belong.  And we’re not going to give up on
those efforts.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  That is all the time we have, but I think Kirby
has a few words he wants to close with. 

MR. KIRBY:  I just wanted to thank you all for the kind words with
respect to how me and my family fared during the storm.  

I just wanted to add, you know, that I’m very lucky.  This is just a —
it’s a little cottage on the beach.  It’s a second home.  It’s not my
primary home.  And unlike — I mean, unlike friends I know, and so many
other people down in Florida, particularly the Tampa Bay area where I’m
from, I mean, my losses are minuscule and insignificant compared to what
so many other people have gone through.  I know people who are literally
homeless, and I am fortunate that that is not my situation. 

So I do appreciate the kind words.  I really do.  But I’d ask you to
throw those prayers and those thoughts to people that are much, much
more in need and much more heavily impacted by the devastation of those
two hurricanes than me and my family. 

But thanks again.  It was very thoughtful of you.  I appreciate it. 
Very glad to be back in D.C. and back at work.  Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thank you again, everyone, for joining.  As always, if we
weren’t able to get to you, please reach out to the NSC distro and we’ll
try to get back as soon as we can.  Thanks, everyone.

2:27 P.M. EDT
