---
date: '2024-10-21'
modified_time: 2024-10-21 18:34:34-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-21 18:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/21/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-october-21-2024/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, October 21,\_2024"
---
 
1:56 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Good afternoon, everyone.

Q Good afternoon.

Q Hi, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It feels like there’s an echo.

Q Yes, there is.

Q There is.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t know if you guys want to hear me twice. I don’t
know if they’re fixing it or not.

Okay. Let’s get going.

Q (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I know. It does.

Q (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) Okay. Today, the Biden-Harris administration
is taking a major step to expand contraception coverage under the
Affordable Care Act.

Since Roe v. Wade was overturned, Republican elected officials have made
clear they want to ban or restrict birth control, defund federal
programs that help women excess — access contraception, and repeal the
ACA. Congressional Republicans have also repeatedly blocked federal
legislation to safeguard the fundamental right to birth control for
women in every state. It’s dangerous, and it’s unacceptable.

This new action under our administration would help ensure that millions
of women with private health insurance can access the contraception they
need, including over-the-counter contraception, at no cost.

At a time when contraception access is under attack, President Biden and
Vice President Harris will continue to fight to protect access to
reproductive health care and call on Congress to restore the protections
of Roe v. Wade into federal law.

Now, the president and the vice president response — their response to
the recovery efforts continue to deliver for the people of North
Carolina, Florida, and all communities affected by Hurricanes Helene and
Milton. Over 5,500 federal personnel are deployed to North Carolina and
Florida.

Today, Administra- — Administrator Deanne Criswell is in North Carolina
with Governor Roy Cooper and state officials to continue surveying
damage and ensure that resources continue to make it to the communities
and survivors who need them.

In total, nearly $2 billion in federal assistance has been approved for
those affected by recent storms. In North Carolina, the administration
has approved more than $300 million in assistance. This includes over
$130 million for nearly 90,000 households. Additional, FEMA —
additionally, FEMA has approved more than $189 million for debris
removal and reimbursement of ener- — of emergency protective measures
for the state.

And the administration also announced that the government will create a
brand-new program for assistant impact \[to assist impacted\]
communities with their recovery and rebuilding efforts. Additionally, 15
disaster recovery centers are operating in the impacted areas in North
Carolina and have served more than 5,700 visitors, and power has been
restored to 99 percent of impacted North Carolina customers due to
thousands of utility personnel working around the clock.

All of this is thanks to the leadership of the president, the vice
president, FEMA, and other administration leaders and the many state and
local officials who have helped ensure a robust and well-coordinated
response and recovery effort. We will continue to use every tool at our
disposal to help these communities respond and recover from these
disasters.

And now, next, we have the first lady. First Lady Jill Biden is
unveiling a new, enhanced educational White House public tour for
visitors today at the White House. As a classroom teacher for 40 years,
Dr. Biden knows that learning has to be engaging and interactive and
that you have to meet students where they are, giving them what they
need to spark their curiosity and imagination.

This is the first significant improvement to the tour in decades. And as
the first lady said, and I quote, “We’ve added flex- — flexible,
versatile, and dynamic tools of learning to the tour; created more
pathways in the house to bring people fur- — further into the rooms;
expanded the tour to now inc- — to now include the Diplomatic Reception
Room; and we’ve included more educational content that visitors can
touch, hear, and see up close.”

Get on that tour, folks.

The first lady hopes the tour inspires everyone who visits the White
House to learn more about our shared history.

And on the week ahead, the president will be hitting the road this week
to discuss the Biden-Harris administration’s work to deliver for the
American people.

On Tuesday, tomorrow, the president will host a bilateral meeting with
Prime Minister Robert Golob t- — of the Republic of Slovenia before
heading to Concord, New Hampshire, where he will join Senator Bernie
Sanders to discuss the Biden-Harris administration’s work to lower cost
of prescriction \[prescription\] drugs. During that event, the president
is expected to discuss new data on savings for the first year — for the
first year thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act. He will also make a
campaign-related stop while he is in the Granite State.

Then the president will travel to Phoenix, Arizona, on Thursday and
Friday where he will deliver remarks at the Gila River Indian Community
and discuss the Biden-Harris administration’s record of delivering for
Tribal communities, including keeping his promise to make this historic
visit to — his historic vis- — visit to Indian Country as well. This —
he will be — this will be the first as president to do this — his first
as president to do this.

As always, we will be sharing more information as we get closer,
certainly, to Arizona and tomorrow as well.

Okay. Darlene.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And we fix —

Q Apologies. Can you clarify one thing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q You just said the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sure.

Q — after you were talking about New Hampshire, that he’s making a
campaign-related stop.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Is that in New Hampshire, or were you talking about Arizona?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s going to be in New Hampshire.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yep, the Granite State. He’ll be making a
campaign-related stop, and certainly the campaign will have more to
share on that.

Q And then on the leak of information — classified information about
Israel’s plans toward Iran. There was a leak of classified information
last year in April. A member of the National Guard had posted a bunch of
documents and whatnot online.

Has the Pentagon and the intelligence community done enough since then
to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So —

Q — protect —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I can say is —

Q — this material?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — certainly we are aware of — of the reporting.
Certainly, we are concerned — very concerned by them. Anything about —
about the process and this — and — and how it’s being investigated by
the U.S. government, I would have to refer you to the IC, the DOJ, and
certainly DOD. I’m not going to get into particulars or specifics from
here.

But we are aware of the reports, and we are definitely, and we are
definitely very concerned about them.

Q Can you speak to any changes the president might have in mind that he
might want to see going forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’m not going to get ahead of it. As I just
mentioned, the U.S. government is investigating this and — through the
appropriate authorities. So, I’m going to let them d- — move through
their process, see exactly what happened. I’m not going to get into it
from here.

Q And speaking of classified information, what is the president’s plan
for voting in the November 5th election?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, the president certainly looks forward —

Q That was a joke.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh. (Laughter.) So ser- — I’m sorry. I’m so serious
today. Very funny, Darlene. Very good joke.

Q That’s okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.)

Q We can move on.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, the president is certainly looking forward to
casting his ballot in the upcoming election. When we have more to share
about what that looks like, where — you know, where he’s going to be, we
certainly will share that.

Go ahead. Go ahead, Weijia.

Q Thank you, Karine. So, we just heard from Kirby that the White House
is monitoring the progress of the investigative effort to figure out how
this happened, not whether this happened. But just for the sake of
clarity, can you confirm that the — the documents in question are
authentic and do, in fact, include U.S. classified intelligence?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I appreciate the question. We’re — like I said,
we’re certainly aware of the reports. We are very concerned. I’m not
going to get into specifics. I’m not going to get into details. That’s
something for DO- — DOJ, IC, and DOD to get into it, and certainly they
can hopefully answer any questions that you may have on this particular
matter.

But, look, as the reports are out there and what they’re — what we are
hearing, certainly we are very concerned by them. They are being looked
into. It’s being investigated by the appropriate authorities, by the —
obviously, the U.S. government here. And so, I’m going to let them speak
to it directly.

Q Kirby characterized the concern as stemming from the fact that they
were in the public domain. So, I mean —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, it’s true. Any —

Q — as he talked about it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — the implication was that this was classified information. I’m just
asking, yes or no, was it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, look, any time — any time there are leaks like
these that end up in the public domain — I just reiterating —
reiterating what he said — of course, it is concerning. We have the
appropriate authorities who are looking into this on our side of things.

And I’m going to be really mindful. I am not going to get into
specifics. Was this, you know, classified? Was this not class- — I can’t
get into that from here. That is something IC and DOD and DOJ can get
into it on those specifics.

But any time we see any type of classified information that are — that
is leaked and that is out there in a public domain, of course we are
concerned — of course. But they can speak to their — you know, their —
their — the — how authentic, how real — any of those pieces, they can
speak to that. I’m not going to speak to that from here.

Q And then just a quick follow-up on Darlene. I know you’re figuring out
his Election Day plans, but given the potential for political unrest in
the days that follow, will the president be here? Does he plan to be
here in Washington in the days that follow the election?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, the president is president wherever he is.
The number one — obviously, the number one priority of this president is
the American people. Obviously, the security of the American people is
also a priority of his as well.

And I don’t have — I don’t want to get ahead of where he’s going to be,
if he’s going to be here or not. We’ll have more to share as we get
closer, certainly, to — to November 5th and what his schedule will —
will look like.

But he is, indeed, president wherever he is. And so, his number one
priority — his number one priority is the American people.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Selina.

Q Thanks, Karine. Elon Musk is pledging to give away $1 million every
day up until the election to voters in battleground states. Some experts
are saying this is clearly illegal vote buying. Does the White House
believe what he’s doing is illegal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’m going to have to refer you to the FEC. I’m not
going to comment from it — from here.

Q Can you talk about how the president is reacting to this in terms of
does he believe it’s appropriate? Does he agree with what Governor
Shapiro is saying about how this needs to be investigated?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I would leave it to Governor Shapiro and the legal
authorities to speak to this. I’m just not going to speak to it from
here and would have to leave it to FEC.

Q And if you could just talk broadly about what Trump has also said
about making Musk the head of a new “government efficiency commission.”
Does the White House see that as a conflict of interest, given the fact
that Musk’s companies have so many contracts with government agencies —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — and it could potentially give him the power to regulate the agencies
that hold sway over his own companies?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, since that’s a campaign-related item there, what
they’re planning to do next or what it looks like under — you know, and
— and their platform for his campaign, I’m just not going to respond to
it from here.

Q Any reaction from the president or White House about Elon’s — Musk’s
role at this moment in the political discussion?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I have no response, no — no comment on that at this
moment.

Go ahead, Monica.

Q On the apparent leak of classified information. How concerned is the
president about the message it sends to allies about the way the U.S.
handles some of the most sensitive, top-secret information?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, what I can say is we take this very seriously.
And as I’ve said many times already, we are very concerned. That’s —
this is why the DOD, this is why IC, this is why DOJ are all looking
into this. And so, I would have to refer you to them.

And as I stated many times, it’s being investigated. We need to get to
the bottom of it. We need to get answers before I can give you anything
further from here. But it’s being investigated by the appropriate
authorities. We’re looking into it.

Are we concerned? Yes. Are we very concerned? Yes, we’re very concerned.
And so, the appropriate authorities are looking into this.

Q And you just mentioned the president is going to be making a
campaign-related stop —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yep.

Q — tomorrow in New Hampshire. He has so far only campaigned alongside
Vice President Harris in an official campaign event capacity once. We
have reporting that we don’t expect to see the two of them together in
these final two weeks. What is the reason for that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I would remind folks that he was in Philly —
Philadelphia — just last week doing a campaign event — just last week —
on his own. And so, would remind folks that he was doing that.

There’s going to be a campaign-related event, as I just mentioned,
tomorrow. And there will be more to come. I think they’ll — there will
be more to come.

Look, we cannot forget what we have seen this past couple of weeks: two
historic hurricanes. Right? Let’s not forget that. The president was
able to — because of his leadership and what his administration was able
to do, we avoided a port — a port strike. Right? That’s something that
he was able to do. And there are just many other, obviously, pressing
issues that are not just here domestically but around the world, and the
president has led on those issues.

And so, the most important thing that — the president believes that his
job is to continue to be there for the American people, deliver for the
American people, and that’s what you have seen him do.

Now, he’s going to be out there. I would say stay tuned. There is more
to come. I just mentioned New Hampshire. There’s more to come in the
upcoming days, and we’ll certainly share — share that with all of you.

Q And then, just finally, former President Trump is in North Carolina
today. He was talking about some of the FEMA efforts there. He called
the rescue effort, quote, “non-existent.” He repeated some misleading
information about where some of the funds have been directed to.

So, how concerned is the White House still about what that might do to
not just people taking in this information, again, that’s misleading but
to voters specifically in key states where the devastation of the
hurricanes has been evident?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I’m glad in your question you said “misleading
information,” which is true — misleading information that is being put
out there. And — and it’s not just from us. You’ve heard from
Republicans and Democrats — right? — in North Carolina who have said —
who have — who have made it very clear by pushing these types of
conspiracy theories — they are dangerous, they are unhelpful. And it is
— it is not — it is not what leadership looks like. I’ll say it there —
like that.

And — and it is a time, when you see something like that, these types of
hurricanes that have impacted communities the way that they have — both
of them, Hurricane Helene and Hurricane Milton — it’s time that you
bring a c- — you bring a community together and stand by each other.

And so, you’ve heard from, again, the governors of all of these states —
well, in partic- — in particular, certainly, as we’re talking about
governor in — in New Ham- — in, sorry, North Carolina, he spoke to this
today. And he said, “The Biden-Harris administration has responded
quickly and positively to our request. The federal government has been
responsive to all — to our call for help.” That’s coming from the
governor of North Carolina. We also heard from the mayor of Asheville as
well.

And so, we have seen a bipartisan reaction to this, appreciation for
what the amdin — for what this administration has been able to do. And
the reason we’ve been able to do this work on the ground is because
we’ve had a good partnership with local and state officials on the
ground. And this type of conspir- — conspiracy theory that’s out there,
it is dangerous. To your point in your question, it’s dangerous, it’s
unhelpful, and it gets in the way.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Secretary Blinken is headed back to the Middle East
today. Does the White House have any hope that this trip will be more
successful than past trips, given that this comes after the death of
Sinwar?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. So, a couple of things. I know the State
Department — my colleagues over at the State Department spoke to this in
greater detail, about the secretary’s trip, which is — starts tomorrow.
He’s going to be going throughout the region. He’s going to discuss the
importance of ending, certainly, the war in — in Gaza, securing the
release of all hostages, alleviating the suffering of the Palestinian
people. And he’s going to underscore the importance of getting that
food, medicine, and other humanitarian aid — it’s important to get that
delivered to c- — civilians in Gaza. And he’s going to also discuss —
continue to have the discussions that we’ve been having for the past
several months now about the diplomatic solu- — resolution to the
conflict between Israel and Hezbollah.

And so, we’re going to reaffirm — what — what you — what you’re going to
see from this trip that the secretary is — is having throughout the
region is reaffirming our commitment to what I just laid out to our
partners across the region. And we do want to de-escalate the tensions
and — and also, obvi- — obviously, provide that lasting stability. And
that is the commitment that we — that — that we continue to have.

Look, you’re asking me — I know your question. Your question was do we
think this will have an effect. We believe and this president believes
when — a diplomatic resolution, diplomatic conversation is certainly key
to dealing with issues that we’re seeing across the — across the globe.

Q And does the president have any reaction to former President Trump
using this rhetoric about the “enemy from within” and specifically tying
it to former Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Adam Schiff this weekend?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, it is — that type of language is un-American.
It’s dangerous. I was just asked about misinformation that we’re — that
we have been seeing during — certainly before the hurricanes hit and
certainly now as it — after the impact and what we’re seeing on the
ground and how we’re trying to work with our partners on the ground to
make sure we get relief to folks on the ground. And that is — that type
of misinformation, conspiracy theories, is only hurtful, and that is not
what Americans want to see as a leader. That is not what they want to
see as a lea- — leader.

And it’s also disrespectful to our military to ask our military to — to
react or to do something in such a political — in a — such a political
way. We should respect our men and women. They should be respected. They
put their lives on the line for us, and we should respect them. And it’s
incredibly disrespectful to them as well.

And so, it’s un-American, it’s dangerous, and it should stop.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. Is there any latest understanding from the White
House on when Israel is going to respond to Iran’s missile attacks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I think we’ve been pretty consistent on that.
This is something for — that decision, any military operation —
operational decision has to — is up to Israel. We’ve been very clear in
our commitment — in our commitment to Israel’s security. That is —
continues to be ironclad. But that is something for the Israeli
government to speak to.

Q And is there any word on what that re- — that response would look
like? And is there sort of a red line that the U.S. would not allow?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I — I’m just not going to preview that from here.
Us previewing that from here would certainly give a heads-up to the
Iranians. It’s something that we’re not going to be doing. But that is —
aside from that, that certainly is something for Is- — Israel to speak
to.

Go ahead, K- — Kayla.

Q Thank you, Karine. I wanted to ask about the contraception rule that
the administration is putting out today. As you mentioned at the top,
the president is proposing a rule that would require insurers to cover
the cost of over-the-counter contraception. The Congressional Review Act
allows lawmakers to overturn federal regulations that are implemented in
the final stages of a presidential term. And I mu- — I’m wondering if
the White House believes that this type of rule could withstand that
threat or if you think that anything that happens in these last few
months is potentially subject to congressional reversal.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’m going to be — I’m not going to — that’s
getting into a hypothetical that I’m just not going to do from here.

Look, it’s going through a rulemaking process, as you know. From the
moment that the president made this announcement, it’s now in a
rulemaking process. We’ll hear back from the public. We feel pretty
confident this is going to move forward.

And the reason why — as I stated at the top, why we’re doing this is
because of the Dobbs decision. It’s because now we have women out there
who don’t have the protections that they need on their own health care
because Roe v. Wade, which was law of the land for almost — a
constitutional right for almost 50 years were stripped away. And we have
made that commitment from this administration, the Biden-Harris commi- —
administration, to protect women, to do everything that we can.

Now we’re expanding ACA. Now we’re providing this potential opportunity
to give the women — women oppor- — opportunity to make those difficult
decisions and to have the — also the availability, obviously, of
contraception.

And so, that is — that is our commitment that we have made here. I can’t
get into, you know, what Congress is going to do, the hypotheticals from
here. What I can — what we can focus on is keeping that commitment that
we have made to women and families across the country.

Q And then tomorrow in New Hampshire. CNN is reporting that President
Biden will appear with Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders tomorrow. It’s an
interesting contrast to Vice President Kamala Harris, who today is
appearing at a campaign event with Republican Liz Cheney. I’m wondering
if you can just talk about the rationale of the president’s to appear
with Senator Sanders tomorrow and what message that’s meant to send to
the party.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I think if you think about the commitment
that both of them have had, the president and Senator Sanders, you are
correct. He is going to be traveling when — to the Granite State with
Senator Sanders, and they have been partners, right? They have been
partners on a lot of these issues, including — including lowering cost
for health care. We know that this is an issue that’s incredibly
important to Senator Sanders.

So, for us, it makes sense. It makes sense to be doing this event
together. They have been partners not just on this but on other
important, critical needs of the American people. And this is what
you’re going to see.

I’m not — I cannot speak for the vice president’s campaign. She’s doing
what she needs to do. I’m going to let her campaign speak to that.

The president is going to continue to go into states and have really
important conversation. And let’s not forget, the Inflation Reduction
Hact \[Act\] was incredibly historic in lowering costs on health care,
was important in one of the most — most historic pieces of legislation
to deal with climate change.

There’s a lot there that we believe that the American people need to
continue to hear it — hear from him. And he’s going to have Senator
Sanders, which he really looks forward to being in — in the state with
him on that issue.

Q So, would you say that — that it’s accurate, as some strategists have
argued, that this is an effort by President Biden to embrace the more
progressive flank, while Vice President Harris tacks to the center in
these final days?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What the president is doing is going out there,
speaking directly to the American people, and talking about how he’s
delivering for them — how the — Biden-Harris is delivering for — for
them, whether it’s lowering costs; climate change; pow- — powering up an
economy, continuing to move that economy forward. That’s what you’re
seeing from this president. And he’ll — he’s not going to shy away from
it.

Go ahead.

Q Karine, thanks. Zooming out from this breach, which I know that you’re
not going to discuss the specifics of. But you’ve had, over the last
week, private correspondence between the secretaries of State and the
Pentagon, the — to Israel; this Air National Guard leak from — from a
year ago on Discord; the investigation into Rob Malley. Is there a
problem safeguarding sensitive information?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I will say is the president continues to have
complete confidence in his — in — in the agencies — right? — whether
it’s DOD, I- — IC, or DOJ. And — and he has complete confidence in them.
There is a — it — this is being looked into, investigation being done by
the appropriate parties. And I’m not going to get into it. I’m not going
to get into it.

Q Since —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Are we concerned? We are very concerned. We are. We’ve
been very clear about that. And it’s being looked into. And so, I’m not
going to — going to go beyond that.

Q Since the Discord leak, has the administration — what has the
administration done to further safeguard national secrets?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to get into — into any specifics on that.
As it relates to this particular moment of what we’re seeing with the —
the reports out there, it’s being looked into. We are very concerned.
DOD, IEC — IC, DOJ can speak to that, this particular incident, more
broadly — these reports. I just don’t have anything else to share beyond
that.

Q And do you know yet if it’s a leak or a hack?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Again, this is why I’m referring you to IC, DOD, DOJ.
They can speak more to this, and I would leave it to them.

Go ahead, Sara.

Q Thanks, Karine. While the president was in Germany, did the issue of
authorizing Ukraine’s use of long-range missiles deeper inside Russia
come up during his bilateral meetings with the Germans or his meeting
with the European Quad? Particularly, given the approval that some NATO
Allies have provided, did they urge him to provide support for this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to get into beyond what we’ve been able
to share in the readouts. What I can say is that policy has not changed.
And we said that. We said that going — I remember saying this at this
podium before the president left to go to Berlin, Germany, just last
week, and said our — our policy stance on that hasn’t changed, and it
wasn’t going to change, and don’t expect any announcements.

So, it still says — stays the same. I don’t have anything to share
beyond that, beyond what we’ve shared in — in readouts.

Q And then on a different topic. There’s a report that Israel gave the
U.S. a document outlining its conditions for a diplomatic solution to
end the war in Lebanon and allow people to return their o- — to their
homes on both sides of the border. Can you confirm this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I can say is that many times we get, certainly,
views from the Israeli government. We get their views on things and
certainly the back-and-forth. I’ve said many times that we have regular
conversation with — with our counterparts at — in the Israeli
government, but I’m not going to get into diplomatic or private
conversations from here.

Go ahead.

Q So, this administration has warned Israel that it could lose access to
some U.S. weapon fundings if it doesn’t produce a dramatic increase in
humanitarian aid coming into Gaza. Have you seen so far any dramatic
improvement in delivering of aid?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, here’s what I’ll say to that. We are working to
surge humanitarian assistance into Gaza. So, just a couple of things
just to update all of you. Over the weekend, we welcomed an airdrop by
the UAE of food parcels into central Gaza. We also noted the re- — the
resumption of deliveries last week into nor- — northern Gaza as well,
including through the vital lifeline from Jordan, with 129 trucks
entering northern Gaza last week after an unacceptable slowdown since
October 1st, which we’ve talked about just last week.

That number must further increase over the coming week, and we are
grateful for Jordan’s leadership in organizing these deliveries. We also
call on all parties to wo- — cooperate in dis- — in distributing the
many hundreds of truckloads now on the Gaza side of the Kerem Shalom
crossing. The — the armed gangs threatening and looting deliveries from
this platform are keeping vital supplies away from those in desperate
need.

And we, here at t- — in the U.S., as the largest — are the largest
contributor to the humanitarian response in Gaza and will continue to
support all efforts to surge and safeguard assistance and enable its
dis- — distribution into all — all areas of Gaza.

And one of the things, as I just stated earlier, is that the secretary
is going to speak about — Secretary Blinken — is how do we continue to
upsurge the humanitarian assistant into Gaza. So, that is going to be a
priority, part of a — part of his — part of his discussions throughout
the region as well.

Go ahead, Jared.

Q The task force — the House task force investigating the Butler,
Pennsylvania, attempted assassination came out with an interim report
today —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — pretty critical of the Secret Service, especially as it relates to
the coordination and communication with local police.

One, does the White House, the president have a reaction to that? And,
two, does the president still have full confidence in the current
leadership at Secret Service?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, the president has deep respect for the Secret
Service. And he knows that they — they have an extremely difficult job.
He knows that the men and women who are part of the Secret Service put
their lives on the line, day in and day out.

And so, we’re going to review the report. I’m not going to comment on
the report right now. We’re going to review it. As you just said, it
just came out this morning.

So, you know, and — and, I would add, Secret Service has also
acknowledged their own shortcomings, and they have taken several steps
to enhance the former president’s protection. And so, they’re continuing
to do that work.

And the president has also been clear, from his point of view as well,
to the Secret Service to make sure that they provide the highest level
of protection for the former president. And so, that is what — that is
what he’s asked for.

We know that the Secret Service has made — has made some changes —
enhancing, certainly, the — the protection of the former president.

And as it relates to the report, we are going to review it.

Q Is President Biden confident in his own protection?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you. I have a question about Cuba. There have been multiple
power outages on the island in recent days. So, I was wondering: Is the
White House monitoring the situation, particularly for signs of unrest?
Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we are closely monitoring the blackouts on the
island. And so, we are concerned about the potential humanitarian
impacts on the Cuban people.

(A reporter sneezes.)

And so — bless you.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And like we have seen over the past few years, Cuba’s
economic condition stemming from long-term mismanagement of its economic
policy and resources has certainly increased the hardship of the people
in Cuba.

And so — so — and so, certainly, just want to make clear that this is
not — the U.S. is not to — is not to blame for the blackouts on the
island or the overall energy situation in Cuba.

So, the Cuban — the Cuban government has not requested any assistance at
this time, and so we will assess the appropriate next steps if they do
request any assistance.

And so, a critical tenet of the Biden-Harris administration policy as it
relates to — to — towards Cuba is to always advocate for the support of
the Cuban people, and we’ve been always very clear about that. And so,
we’ll continue.

Q (Inaudible) a follow-up. And I know —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — this is a hypothetical. But if the Cuban government were to request
assistance, would the Biden-Harris administration be willing to provide
it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we’re going to — if that were to happen, we’re —
certainly would assess the next best steps. I just — they have not.
Again, it’s a hypothetical. And so, we’re going to assess what’s the
next best step to do.

Oh, go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. The — there’s a recent report about how a number of
Senate Democrats that are running for reelection are having ads that
show images of President Trump touting their own cooperation with
President Trump when he was in office, people like Senator Bob Casey
saying that he bucked President Biden on fracking and supported
President Trump on trade and tariffs.

Does the president, as the leader of the Democratic Party, have any
thoughts about members of his own party talking about how much they’ve
worked with President Trump in the past?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q You all have talked about the former president as a threat to
democracy, talked about how much danger he — he would be if elected once
again. The fact that other Senate Democrats aren’t having that same
message, is that concerning at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I’m not going to speak to each individual
campaign and what they’re doing in their campaign. That’s a political —
certainly a political campaign and a political reaction to however they
need — whatever they need to do on the ground, so I’m not going to speak
to that.

The president stands by his comments, his fight for democracy. He stands
by what he saw on January 6th. He stands by the threat to democracy that
we saw on that day — a dark day in our democracy, when you saw 2,000
people go to the Capitol because they were told to by the former
president — because they didn’t believe or were told not to believe free
and fair elections; while, meanwhile, dozens of Republican judges were
able to say, “Hey, yeah, no. This was a free and fair election,” and
they didn’t believe that because they were told not to.

And what we saw on that day was horrific. It was horrific, and it was
indeed an attack on our democracy. The president has spoken to this
many, many times.

And so, that’s who I can speak to. I can speak for the — the president.
I — I’m not going to speak for other senators and how they — how they
decide to move forward with their campaign.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q Thank you. I wanted to ask about the upcoming presidential transition.
When was the last time that Jeff Zients and the group of people working
on the transition met with representatives from both campaigns? And can
you provide an update on where you are in getting ready to hand off?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I don’t have any specifics for you at this time.
I’m happy to get more information on where they are with that particular
piece. I just don’t have anything to share on that.

As you know, we’ve been — we’ve offered our — our assistance to both —
to both campaigns as we — as we move forward to a — a transition at some
point, but I just don’t have an update on meetings on the — from here.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Naomi, in the back.

Q Thanks. The president likes to tout his deficit-cutting measures since
he’s come into office. But, last week, the Treasury Department actually
reported that the deficit grew to $1.8 trillion for fiscal 2024. What’s
the White House’s response to that data?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, that’s why we’re — that’s why we’ve done the work
that we have done as — especially moving forward with — with his- —
these historic piece of legislation that speaks about how we’re — we’re
going to deal with the deficit. Right? When we signed the pro- — the
president signed, for example, last year, the $1 trillion debt deal that
would cut the deficit by a trillion dollars. You saw that in other
pieces of legislation that he was able to sign and move — pass through.
And that’s why we have shown our commitment to dealing with the deficit.

And what we’re also seeing is what the former administration did. The
former administration passed tax cuts for billionaires and — and
corporations that had led to where we are currently with this deficit.

And so, the president has done the work and will continue to do the work
to try and deal with — with, as you just laid out, the deficit that
we’re seeing. And, look, what you’re see- — what we’re trying to do here
from this administration is make sure that the economy continues to
grow; that jobs are available, continue to grow; that we’re lowering the
unemployment rate and lowering costs. That is something that the — this
president and this vice president are trying to do.

Meanwhile, Republicans are doing the opposite. They want to continue to
give these tax cuts to billionaires and corporations. They want to make
it harder for middle-class families. And so, there’s a difference there.
There — the contrast could not be more different in what we’re trying to
do and what the other side is trying to do.

Q But do you not think this data sort of plays into public perceptions
that Democrats are weaker in handling the economy as opposed to
Republicans?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: But it’s not true. And so, what we’re going to speak to
is how we have done the work to turn this economy around. We cannot
forget where we were when the president walked into this administration:
an economy that was in a downturn, and we saw a situation with the
pandemic where there was no strategy. Businesses were closing down.
Schools were — majority of schools were closed.

And so, this president has been able to turn that around with the help
of the vice president. And so, this is why we’re going to — we’re going
to go to New Hampshire tomorrow. We’re going to speak to the Inflation
Reduction Act, what the president and the vice president has been able
to do to lower costs, because we understand that there’s more work to
do. We understand this is — when you think about health care, this is
incredibly important.

You heard the announcement that we just made on contraception, making
sure that we — expanding the ACA, because that’s important to women. And
everything that we’re talking about, Republicans in Congress — majority
of them don’t want to see. They’re on the other side of what we’re
trying to do.

And so, look, we understand there’s more work to do, and we’re going to
continue to push forward.

Go ahead, Jon.

Q Thanks a lot, Karine. I wanted to ask you about the vice president and
the difficult position that she’s in, in the sense that she’s running
for president and she is currently vice president. And it’s difficult,
we’ve seen in interview after interview, for her to separate herself in
terms of public positions from President Biden. Does she have a green
light that if she wanted to express a differing point of view than the
administration on any topic, foreign or domestic, she could do so? Or
does — is she required to be a loyal vice president to President Biden?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I disagree. I mean, the interviews that I have
seen, you’ve seen a incredibly strong, very clear-eyed vice president in
how she sees this country moving forward and saying that, you know, she
has been, indeed, a partner with this president and in these successes
that we have seen from this administration.

And I would also note — now, this is to the rest of your question — just
last week, in Philadelphia, the president spoke to this — spoke to you,
asking about loyalty, about her cutting — certainly, cutting her own
path. He talked about that. He talked about how, you know, every
president has to cut their own path. He talked about how he was loyal to
Barack Obama, but then, as a president, he was able to cut his own path
forward.

And so, that’s what he — Kamala is going — going to do. This is, in his
own words, what he wants to see the vice president do. And she — he sees
her as being someone who has been loyal, just like he was loyal to
Barack Obama. But she is going to certainly cut her own path.

And so, that’s what we’re seeing from — from this vice president. And
he’s very proud to have seen her move forward in — in her — in her
campaign. And, you know, I think what you’re seeing is a strong leader,
someone who he understood and knew that she would be able to lead on day
one.

Q You say you disagree with the premise of my question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, well — well, not —

Q Can — can I just ask you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — the premise of the question —

Q — something about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — but you saying that —

Q May I — may I ask you something about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, no, you — you just said that I disagree with you.

Q No, but I — I just want to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m clear- —

Q — clarify.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yep. Go ahead. Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, yeah.

Q Can you think of any issue, foreign policy or domestic policy, in
which the vice president has a differing point of view than the
president?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Here’s what —

Q Any daylight between them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: W- — well, hold on. Here’s what I will say. I will say
that they have been critical partners, as I’ve said many times, and it
is true. You’ve heard that from both of them. And they are partners in
the way that this administration has moved forward on many issues and
the issues that they’ve had to really answer to to the American people,
because that’s what they both care about, is making sure that we deliver
for the American people.

The question, as I heard it — not this one, not this second go-around —
the first go-around, the way that you asked the question was she hasn’t
been able — she has been having a difficulty, if you will, in answering
that question. And I have said to — and I was saying to you, I have not
seen that. I’ve seen a president — a vice president, who is running for
president, obviously, who has been — who has showed strength, leadership
— and that’s what this president has seen as well; he has said this —
and — and cares about the American people.

That’s what we have seen. And that’s what many of the American people
want to see. They want to see a fighter, and that’s who she is.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q Thanks, Karine. Later today, the president is doing the National Arts
and Humanities reception. Can you tell us about that event: Who’s going
to be honored? Who’s coming here to the White House today for that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, it’s a good question. We’ll have more to share as
we get closer. Obviously, that’s about — in three hours or less. So,
we’ll have more information to share about who’s being honored.

And you’re right. The president is looking forward and the — and the
first lady are looking forward to honoring the attendees today.

All right. Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. So, Tuesday, the countries in BRICS are going to be
going to Russia for a meeting. How concerned is the administration that
this bloc of countries could undermine U.S. economic or trade strength
that we have?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, what we’re focused on is on the work- — the —
working with partners around the world and to build the broadcast
\[broadest\] and deepest coalitions possible to help achieve our shared
goals. That’s what we’re going to be focused on. And, you know, we’re
not looking at BRICS as an — evolving into some kind of geopolitical
rival. That’s not how we look at it — to the United States or anyone
else.

And so, we’re going to continue to work with — with our relationships,
our partnerships, whether it’s with Brazil, India, South Africa. And so,
we’re going to continue to manage, certainly, those relationships. And —
with China, for example. And — and so, that’s going to be our focus
right now.

Q One of the newest members of BRICS is the United Arab Emirates.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q And in September — on September 23rd, the administration signed a deal
with them to develop new AI technologies. How concerned, then, is the
Biden administration that the — what we give to the UAE will then end up
in Russia, China, or Iran’s hands through the BRICS agreements?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we’ve worked extensively with UAE on — on advanced
technology. That is something that we have done, and we’ve done that for
the last two years. And — and so, that partnering is moving forward. And
— and we believe it’s moving forward in the right direction.

So, we recognize — and this is why the president did an e- — an
executive action, took an executive action on AI — we recognize the
potential good — right? — of — of AI and look forward to, certainly,
fur- — further- — furthering that and solidifying our collaboration in
AI as we try to build the safeguards and protections. Again, that’s why
we did the EO, an executive action on it.

Q But the transfer of — of technology — are you concerned about, through
the BRICS agreement, that the transfer of technology will happen?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, again, we’ve worked extensively — really,
truly extensively — with the — the UAE. And we are — we’re — I think
where we’re headed, the movement, how we’re moving forward, is in a good
place. And so, this is — this is a conversation that we’ve had over the
last two years.

And so, we’re going to continue to have those conversation. We’re going
to continue to work through this. And so, we believe it’s moving in the
right direction.

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Thanks, everybody. Thanks, everyone.

Q Thanks, Karine.

2:40 P.M. EDT
