---
date: '2024-10-29'
modified_time: 2024-10-29 23:48:21-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-29 23:48:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/10/29/background-press-call-on-u-s-efforts-to-address-u-s-investments-in-certain-national-security-technologies-and-products-in-countries-of-concern/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on U.S. Efforts to Address U.S. Investments in Certain\
  \ National Security Technologies and Products in Countries of\_Concern"
---
 
Via Teleconference

2:38 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Thanks so much for joining
today’s call.  As a reminder, this call will be on background,
attributable to senior administration officials, and it is embargoed
until 5:00 p.m. Eastern today.

For your awareness, not for your reporting, on the call today we have
\[senior administration official\], \[senior administration official\],
\[senior administration official\], and \[senior administration
official\]. 

We’ll follow up shortly after the call with embargoed materials as well,
but I will turn it over to \[senior administration officials\] who will
have a few words at the top, and then we’ll take your questions. 

Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Eduardo, and thanks to
everybody for joining us today.

Since the earliest days of the administration, President Biden has said
we are at an inflection point with respect to advanced technologies. 
And as he’s often said, we will see more technological change in the
next 10 years than we saw in the last 50.

And that has motivated historic investments, mobilizing hundreds of
billions of dollars in private investment to rebuild American
manufacturing and innovation. 

The flipside of that, of course, of promoting critical technologies is,
of course, protecting them.  And recognizing how transformative certain
technologies can be, the President directed his national security team
to ensure that where we have significant advantages, our world-leading
technologies and know-how are not used against us to undermine our
national security.  That’s been the guiding principle for the
Biden-Harris administration’s export control policies, as well as the
Outbound Investment Program that we’re glad to announce is being
finalized today. 

As many of you know, we’ve been working on this approach to address
certain outbound investments in sensitive technologies and critical
sectors that could undermine American national security for some time. 
And, in particular, we’ve been focused on the exploitation of certain
intangible benefits that often accompany U.S. outbound investments and
that help companies succeed through, for example, enhancing their
standing and prominence, providing certain types of assistance,
introducing investment and talent networks, opening up market access,
and enhancing access to additional financing. 

The People’s Republic of China has a stated goal, as you know: to
develop key sensitive technologies that will directly support the PRC’s
military modernization and related activities, including weapons
development, and it has exploited U.S. investments to develop domestic,
military, and intelligence capabilities. 

So, today, the Treasury Department will issue a Final Rule to implement
President Biden’s Executive Order 14105, from August of 2023, which is
entitled “Addressing United States Investments in Certain National
Security Technologies and Products in Countries of Concern.” 

The Final Rule provides the operative regulations and a detailed,
explanatory discussion regarding its intent and application.  And as
directed in the President’s executive order, the Final Rule does
prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in certain transactions involving a
defined set of technologies and products that pose a particularly acute
national security risk to the United States. 

The Final Rule also requires U.S. persons to notify the Treasury
Department of certain other transactions involving a defined set of
technologies and products that may contribute to a threat to the
national security of the United States. 

Covered technologies fall into three categories: semiconductors and
microelectronics, quantum information technologies, and artificial
intelligence.  This set of technologies, we believe, is core for the
next generation of military, cybersecurity, surveillance, and
intelligence applications, providing what we believe are force
multiplier capabilities. 

The United States already prohibits and restricts the export to
countries of concern of many of the technologies and products covered by
the Final Rule.  This program complements the United States’ existing
export control and inbound screening tools by preventing U.S. investment
from advancing the development of these technologies and products in
countries of concern. 

The Treasury Department, as \[senior administration official\] will lay
out, has used feedback through the notice and comment process to help
design a carefully tailored approach.  And we also want to commend
Senators Casey and Cornyn, Representatives DeLauro, Fitzpatrick, and
Pascrell, as well as Representatives Meeks and McCaul in particular, for
their leadership on this issue. 

The overwhelmingly bipartisan vote on Senators Casey and Cornyn’s
Outbound Investment Transparency Act as an amendment to the Senate NDAA
demonstrates the shared will of Congress and the administration to
meaningfully regulate outbound investments. 

So, with that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official\]
to provide more detail on the content of the Final Rule. 

Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks very much.  As mentioned today,
Treasury is issuing, at the direction of the President, a targeted and
narrowly scoped regulation that implements a new program to address this
threat to U.S. national security.  The Final Rule has clear thresholds
and definitions to implement the executive order, and provides detailed,
explanatory discussion regarding its intent and application to assist
investors and other stakeholders to help them navigate this new
program. 

The Final Rule does two things at its core, as previewed: First, it
prohibits U.S. persons from engaging in certain transactions involving
semiconductors, quantum, and artificial intelligence.  And second, it
requires U.S. persons to notify Treasury of certain other transactions
involving semiconductors and artificial intelligence. 

The rule explains in detail the scope of the program, definitions,
processes, requirements, and penalties for non-compliance, among other
things.  Importantly, this rule has benefited from the input of a
variety of stakeholders, industry experts, and allies and partners. 

We had two rounds of formal comments on the rulemaking to implement the
executive order, first with the August 2023 ANPRM that was issued
alongside the ENO and on which we got 60 comments from stakeholders. 
Those comments were integral in developing the Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking that we issued in June of this year and on which we received
more than 40 additional comments, which further informed the development
of the Final Rule.

Over two-plus years, Treasury, along with the Departments of State and
Commerce, have led extensive engagements with stakeholders across the
globe.  These engagements and our deliberate decision to offer two
rounds of public comment have helped us receive insightful feedback that
has helped inform the Final Rule to ensure to choose our national
security objectives while taking into account the need to be focused,
targeted, and clear. 

Now, I’ll briefly discuss a few key aspects of the rule. 

First, as \[senior administration official\] suggested, the rule imposes
requirements on U.S. persons.  This includes prohibiting U.S. persons
from engaging in certain transactions with what the rule identifies as
covered foreign persons, and requires the U.S. persons to notify the
Treasury Department about other transactions that involve covered
foreign persons. 

Second, the Final Rule focuses on specific categories of investment
transactions where the target of the investment has a nexus to the PRC
and activities involving sensitive technologies and products. 

In terms of what transactions are covered, the Final Rule applies to,
among other things, a U.S. person’s acquisition of an equity interest or
contingent equity interest, certain debt financing, certain greenfield
investments, or investments that could result in corporate expansion and
joint ventures.  This would include, for example, a U.S. investment firm
taking an equity stake in an advanced semiconductor manufacturer in the
PRC.  It would also cover a U.S. company’s purchase of land in the PRC
to develop a quantum computing research facility. 

There are exceptions for certain types of transactions that are less
likely to contribute to the national security threat we’re worried
about. 

For example, the Final Rule excepts or carves out certain investments by
a U.S. person to publicly trade securities and certain investments made
by a limited partner in a pooled investment fund, among others.

In light of our ongoing conversations with allies and partners on the
importance of multilateral efforts in this area, the Final Rule also
includes an exception for certain transactions involving a person of a
country or territory outside the United States where the Secretary of
the Treasury has determined that the country or territory is addressing
national security concerns posed by outbound investment. 

And third, in terms of the technologies and products in scope for the
program, the Final Rule provides technical details on the subsets of
semiconductors, quantum, and artificial intelligence that are relevant
to the program. 

For example, a U.S. person is prohibited from acquiring equity in a PRC
entity that manufactures advanced semiconductors or that is developing
an AI system designed exclusively or intended for a military end use.  A
U.S. person would be required to notify Treasury if they are acquiring
equity in a PRC company that manufactures legacy semiconductors. 

Other examples include direct equity investments by a company or private
equity fund into any PRC company that is repurposing an AI model for
penetration testing or automated vulnerability detection and
exploitation, which would be covered under the rule as either notifiable
or prohibited, depending on the design end use and computing power used
to train an AI system. 

In addition to direct investments, indirect investments through a parent
of a PRC company that is using AI models to improve targeting,
intelligence, reconnaissance, and surveillance, or autonomous weapons
systems for military use would be prohibited, as would such indirect
investments in a PRC company developing or scaling quantum computers or
networks to undermine encryption systems.  These technologies can be
used for advanced code breaking, the development of next-generation
military applications, or offensive cyber operations. 

Additionally, in general, the rule is based on a U.S. person’s knowledge
of the relevant facts, rendering a transaction to be covered under the
rule.  Enforcement and penalties are consistent with the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act, or IEEPA, the authority by which the
President issued the executive order. 

The Final Rule takes effect on January 2nd, giving stakeholders time to
organize internal infrastructure and processes to ensure compliance with
the rule. 

The lengthy preamble to the rule summarizes the response to the comments
received, as well as provides an explanation of the changes since the
proposed rule issued over the summer. 

And let me make two additional and final points before concluding. 

First, this program is calibrated to help ensure our actions can be
supported multilaterally, which is a critical component to maximize its
effectiveness and reduce backfill from other investors.  The
administration has been engaged in extensive conversations with allies
and partners on the issue, and we are encouraged to see some allies and
partners, including the European Commission and the United Kingdom,
exploring the issue of outbound investment security in their own
jurisdictions.

Second, cross-border investment flows have long contributed to U.S.
economic vitality.  This targeted action is focused on national security
and scope to address specific risks posed by certain U.S. outbound
investment, and it maintains our longstanding commitment to open
investment. 

Thanks.  And back to you, Eduardo, for questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We now have time for a few questions.  If you’d
like to ask a question, please use the “Raise Your Hand” feature on
Zoom, and we’ll come to you. 

First up, we’ll go to Michael Martina.

Q    Hi there.  Appreciate you doing this.  So, what you described
sounds quite similar to the notice for proposed rulemaking earlier in
the year.  I’m wondering if you can detail any specific or key changes
that you made to the original notice you said it was used to inform this
Final Rule.  So, are any changes from earlier?

And just an effort at clarification.  You know, given the exemptions for
publicly traded securities, is it the White House’s contention that
China has not significantly exploited publicly traded security purchases
by U.S. investors to enhance their military or intelligence
capabilities?  My understanding is that this is perfectly fine — you
could trade public securities for Chinese defense companies under this;
that’s totally within the rules.  Is that correct?  Thanks. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, maybe I’ll take the first question,
Eduardo.  And then, \[senior administration official\], if you want to
chime in on the second from a White House perspective.

So, I think while largely consistent with the NPRM in scope and
structure, the Final Rule does contain some changes, including with
respect to clarity of the rule and thinking forward to compliance. 

So, for example, we’ve selected clear technical thresholds for
notifiable and prohibited transactions involving AI systems based on the
amount of compute power to train an AI system that is open in the NPRM;
refine how the rule applies to U.S. persons with investment banking
authority and non-U.S. entity, such that it clearly applies only to
those who actually exercise authority, for example; and clarifying with
respect to compliance and enforcement with the rule. 

And so, there are a number of areas where we have honed and focused and
sharpened the rule since then, and those are some examples.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the question, Michael.  So,
I will say we do have existing authorities to address the threat you
were discussing.  So, for example, Treasury has authorities — the
Chinese military industrial complex sanctions regulations that are
intended to address U.S. persons from purchasing or selling publicly
traded securities and companies that are involved in this sector, and
there are others as well. 

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to the line of Anita Powell.

Q    Thank you so much.  As you guys are surely aware, Elon Musk is
developing a data center in China to train the algorithm to work on
self-driving cars.  That’s a lot simpler than I think it really is.  But
anyway, is this the type of investment that might be restricted under
this new rule?  Can you just kind of flesh that out for us?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Happy to start. 

Look, I don’t think we’re going to get into hypothetical scenarios, but
just reiterate some of the points that I’ve said. 

What the rule is really targeted on is capital and the intangibles that
can flow from such American capital to go into the development of
PRC-based — not just based, but PRC-based entities that are developing
these advanced technologies.  And so, that’s sort of the scope of the
rule. 

And one thing I will mention is that Treasury will provide some guidance
and other documents during this interim period before the rule goes
online.  That’s certainly our intent to help flesh this out.  But I
think going back to the core tenets of the rule is the best way to
answer that.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to the line of (inaudible).

Q    Yeah, hi.  Thanks for doing this and for taking my question.  Could
you talk a little bit more about the engagement with allies and partners
in the process of finalizing this rule, specifically which allies
specifically you engaged with and whether there are any allies who are
going to create similar rules of their own?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\],
maybe you could start with engagements with allies that you’ve had, but
then maybe, \[senior administration official\], if we could go to you,
you could talk a little bit about the G7 as well.  That might be
helpful.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:   Yeah, sure.  Thanks. 

So, in terms of — just to sort of put a topper before going to \[senior
administration official\], we’ve had a number of engagements with
partners and allies, which have resulted in not only sort of technical
exchanges about what we are doing and why we’re doing it, but also
various statements.  And \[senior administration official\] will allude
to one of them with regard to the G7, but obviously the European
Commission and the United Kingdom have made statements in support of
these goals.  And so, it’s an ongoing process and one that will
continue.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, and just to add on to what
\[senior administration official\] said, this is something that, you
know, even from the White House level we engage with our closest allies
and partners on.  And \[senior administration official\] referenced, you
know, a line in the G7 leaders’ statement from Apulia early this year
that refers to, you know, recognizing that appropriate measures designed
to address risk from outbound investments are important to complement
our existing toolkit. 

So, it’s a conversation that we’re frequently having with our key
partners and allies.

MODERATOR:  And we have time for one more.  We’ll go to the line of
Patrick Tucker.

Q    Hey.  Thanks.  Patrick Tucker from Defense One.

So, when you say the rule prohibits people from acquiring equity in a
PRC entity that manufactures semiconductors that might be used in
autonomous weapons systems or that might be repurposed for AI
penetration testing, is that based on an observation that there are U.S.
firms that currently have investments in those areas of autonomous
weaponry and penetration testing for China?  Or are you making the rule
now in anticipation that firms might begin to invest in that sort of
thing?  I’m trying to get a sense of the degree to which U.S. firms have
exposure and have willingly made investments in these areas of the
Chinese military.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So let me start, \[senior
administration official\], and then perhaps, \[senior administration
official\], pass it to you. 

I think what we are worried about, which I would focus on, is the kinds
of scenarios that we have outlined, which is supported by data.  And one
statistic that comes to mind — and I won’t get it exactly right, so I’d
refer you to the Georgetown Center for — I think it’s Technology — that
had a statistic that said something to the effect of: For a five-year
period, I think between 2016 and 2020 or 2021, 17 percent of investment
in Chinese artificial intelligence companies included U.S.
participation, and of that, 91 percent was at the venture capital
stage. 

I think if you think about those sets of facts and scenarios, that’s the
kind of situation that when it comes to certain artificial intelligence
capable of impacting our national security, from military intelligence,
cyber, other related perspectives, that’s what we’re concerned about. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I would just add to that that
part of the motivation, as we were looking at some case studies to
inform the development of this executive order and the regulation,
actually was focused on cybersecurity, where we had a number — we saw a
number of VC investments directly into firms working on cybersecurity
that ended up on the entity list for working with Chinese military or
intelligence services.

MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone, for joining.  That’s all the time we have
for today.  As a reminder, this call was on background, attributable to
senior administration officials, and the contents of the call are
embargoed until 5:00 p.m. Eastern. 

We’ll follow up shortly with embargoed materials as well. but do reach
out to us, to the NSC or Treasury, with any questions in the meantime. 
Thanks so much.

3:00 P.M. EDT  
