---
date: '2022-06-28'
published_time: 2022-06-28 11:51:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/28/statement-by-president-biden-on-the-tragic-loss-of-life-in-san-antonio-texas/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President\_Biden on the Tragic Loss of Life in San Antonio,\_\
  Texas"
---
 
The tragic loss of life in San Antonio, Texas that took place yesterday
is horrifying and heartbreaking.  Our prayers are with those who lost
their lives, their loved ones, as well as those still fighting for their
lives. As always, I am grateful for the swift work of all of the
Federal, state, and local first responders.

While we are still learning all the facts about what happened and the
Department of Homeland Security has the lead for the investigation,
initial reports are that this tragedy was caused by smugglers or human
traffickers who have no regard for the lives they endanger and exploit
to make a profit.

This incident underscores the need to go after the multi-billion dollar
criminal smuggling industry preying on migrants and leading to far too
many innocent deaths. In Los Angeles two weeks ago, I announced that the
United States has launched a first-of-its kind anti-smuggling campaign
with our regional partners.  In the first three months, we have made
over 2,400 arrests, and that work will only intensify in the months
ahead.  

Exploiting vulnerable individuals for profit is shameful, as is
political grandstanding around tragedy, and my Administration will
continue to do everything possible to stop human smugglers and
traffickers from taking advantage of people who are seeking to enter the
United States between ports of entry.

\###
