---
date: '2022-06-20'
published_time: 2022-06-20 09:52:10-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/20/statement-by-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-on-world-refugee-day-2022/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. on World Refugee Day\_2022"
---
 
Today, on World Refugee Day, I join people around the world in
recognizing the strength, resilience, and humanity of the millions of
refugees forced to flee violence, persecution, and war.  This is also a
moment to honor the incredible generosity of host communities, the
private sector, and state and local government across the United States
who work tirelessly to welcome refugees and provide them with essential
support.  We also laud the bravery and dedication of humanitarian
workers who show up, time and again, to provide life-saving assistance
in challenging and often hazardous conditions.

As a result of Russia’s war against Ukraine we recently reached a grim
milestone:  According to the UN Refugee Agency, more than 100 million
people are now forcibly displaced, more than at any other time in
history.  On this day, we reaffirm our commitment to work with the
international community to achieve sustainable, long-term solutions to
support refugees—including through resettlement.  We also recommit to
engaging in diplomatic efforts to address the root causes of
displacement and bring an end to the ongoing conflicts that drive
refugees to seek safety across borders.  

The United States will do our part to ensure that those who have sought
refuge here have access to the life-saving assistance they deserve,
including healthcare and shelter, and opportunities to pursue
livelihoods and education that allow them to rebuild their lives with
dignity and hope for a brighter tomorrow. We will also continue to
support vulnerable refugee populations such as women, children, lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTQI+) persons, and persons
with disabilities.

As Americans, protecting and welcoming refugees is part of who we are. 
Our nation of immigrants was founded by individuals fleeing religious
persecution.  As we lead the world in responding to the needs of
refugees, we honor our past, enhance our economic and social fabric, and
exemplify our highest values.  We do this because it’s the right thing
to do, but helping refugees is also good foreign policy, contributing to
making the world more stable and secure, which benefits us all.   This
is why the United States is the largest single provider of humanitarian
assistance worldwide and why I raised our annual refugee admissions cap
to 125,000 for Fiscal Year 2022.  My Administration is working as
quickly as possible to rebuild the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, to
improve processing times, and to expand our domestic capacity to welcome
refugees so that we are better positioned to reach this ambitious goal. 
We have already demonstrated, by welcoming more than 80,000 Afghans to
our country over the past year, and by committing to provide temporary
safe haven to tens of thousands of Ukrainians, that we will lead by
example.  Those who find refuge on our shores enrich our communities, as
they always have, and bring a determined and entrepreneurial spirit that
makes our country stronger.

\###
