---
date: '2022-06-15'
modified_time: 2022-06-15 14:08:26-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-15 14:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/15/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-21/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Appointments"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the following
individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Senator Evan Bayh, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board
-   Donna Brazile, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
    Board
-   Ambassador James Costos, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign
    Scholarship Board
-   Stephen Schneck, Commissioner, United States Commission on
    International Religious Freedom

**President’s Intelligence Advisory Board**  
The President’s Intelligence Advisory Board is an independent element
within the Executive Office of the President. The President’s
Intelligence Advisory Board exists exclusively to assist the President
by providing the President with an independent source of advice on the
effectiveness with which the Intelligence Community is meeting the
nation’s intelligence needs and the vigor and insight with which the
community plans for the future. The President is able to appoint up to
16 members of the Board.  
  
**Senator Evan Bayh, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board**  
Evan Bayh is a former two-term United States Senator from Indiana. While
in the Senate, he served on several committees including the Senate
Armed Services Committee and Senate Intelligence Committee for 10
years.  Following his Senate service, Bayh served on the Central
Intelligence Agency External Advisory Board, under both Presidents Obama
and Trump.  Prior to being elected to the Senate, he was elected to two
terms as governor of Indiana and also served as Secretary of State in
Indiana. Bayh earned a B.S. in economics from the Kelley School at
Indiana University and a J.D. from the University of Virginia. He was
awarded an Honorary Doctor of Laws by Indiana University.  
  
**J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board**  
The J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board supervises the
Fulbright Program and certain programs authorized by the Fulbright-Hays
Act and for the purpose of selecting students, scholars, teachers,
trainees, and other persons to participate in the educational exchange
programs. Appointed by the President, the 12-member Board meets
quarterly in Washington, DC. The Board establishes worldwide policies
and procedures for the Program and issues an annual report on the state
of the Program.  
  
**Donna Brazile, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
Board**  
Donna Brazile, ABC News contributor and veteran political strategist, is
the former interim Chair of the Democratic National Committee. She
became the first African American woman to serve as the manager of a
major party presidential campaign, running the campaign of former Vice
President Al Gore.  She is the author of several books, including the
2017 *New York Times *bestseller *Hacks: The Inside Story of the
Break-Ins *and *Breakdowns That Put Donald Trump In The White House.*  
  
Brazile has lectured at over 237 colleges and universities across the
country.  In 2013, Brazile was appointed by President Obama to serve on
the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. Brazile has served
as an adjunct professor at Georgetown University since 2002 and spent
the fall of 2017 serving as a Joan Shorenstein fellow in Media, Politics
and Public Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School.  She is currently the
Gwendolyn S. and Colbert I. King Endowed Chair in Public Policy at
Howard University. She is the proud recipient of more than ten honorary
doctorate degrees from major colleges and universities, including her
alma mater Louisiana State University. In October 2017, Brazile was the
recipient of the W.E.B Du Bois Medal, Harvard’s highest honor in African
American studies.  Brazile was the recipient of a Daytime Emmy Award for
Outstanding Daytime Program, *Good Morning America* (2016-2017) in
connection with her work with ABC and she was a member of the Peabody
Award-winning “Best Political Team on Television” on CNN during the 2008
election cycle.  
  
**Ambassador James Costos, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign
Scholarship Board**  
Ambassador James Costos, a diplomat and former U.S. Ambassador to the
Kingdom of Spain and Principality of Andorra, has dedicated himself to
building the important relationship between the United States, Spain,
and Andorra. Costos remains focused on supporting innovation and
entrepreneurship, illustrated by the launch of the annual “IN3 -INCUBED”
Innovation and Tech Conference he co-founded in 2014. Costos received
the Sorolla Medal for excellence and contribution to Hispanic arts and
culture from the Hispanic Society of America, the Medalla de Oro de
Canarias, and the Navy Distinguished Public Service Award, and he
currently sits on the International Council of The Hispanic Society in
NYC and the Reina Sofia Museum in Madrid.  
  
Costos is a passionate supporter of the creative and visual arts and
cultural organizations, including the Hispanic Society of America and
the Whistler House Museum, and is a strong advocate for cultural
diplomacy and a defender of global human rights. He is currently
President of Secuoya Studios in Madrid, a Senior Advisor at FC
Barcelona, and Senior Managing Director in the Global Venture
Technologies Group at Dentons. Costos sits on the Boards of Directors of
PJT Partners, Grifols, and the Human Rights Campaign, and sits of the
advisory boards of two early-stage tech enterprises focused on Consumer
Retail Artificial Intelligence and XR/VR electronics experiences, and he
also enjoys mentoring Fellows at the Obama Foundation and the Schmidt
Science Fellows Foundation. He authored a book, *El Amigo Americano, El
Hombre de Obama en España,* and has written numerous articles on
business and politics. Costos splits his time between Los Angeles,
California, New York City, and Madrid with his partner of 20 years,
Michael S. Smith, and their three dogs.  
  
**United States Commission on International Religious Freedom**  
The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom is an
independent, bipartisan U.S. federal government commission created by
the 1998 International Religious Freedom Act that monitors the universal
right to freedom of religion or belief abroad. USCIRF uses international
standards to monitor religious freedom violations globally, and makes
policy recommendations to the President, the Secretary of State, and
Congress. USCIRF Commissioners are appointed by the President and
Congressional leaders of both political parties.  
  
**Stephen Schneck, Commissioner, United States Commission on
International Religious Freedom**  
Stephen Schneck is a political philosopher by training who retired from
The Catholic University of America in 2018, after more than thirty years
as a professor, department chair, and dean. At the university he was
also the founder and long-time director of the Institute for Policy
Research & Catholic Studies. He received his doctorate from the
University of Notre Dame.  
  
As an activist, Schneck currently serves on the governing boards of
Catholic Climate Covenant, which advocates for environmental justice and
care for creation, and of Catholic Mobilizing Network, a Catholic
organization working to end the death penalty and advance restorative
justice. Previously, he was the executive director of Franciscan Action
Network, which promotes environmental, economic, racial, and social
justice on behalf of the Franciscan communities of the United States. He
served the administration of President Barack Obama as a member of the
White House Advisory Council for Faith-Based and Neighborhood
Partnerships. Born and raised in Clinton, Iowa, Schneck now lives with
his wife, Suzanne, on Bald Head Island, North Carolina.

\###
