---
date: '2022-06-08'
modified_time: 2022-06-08 09:12:17-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-08 09:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/08/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-celebrates-world-ocean-day-with-actions-to-conserve-americas-deepest-atlantic-canyon-cut-plastic-pollution-and-create-americas-first-ever-o/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:  Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Celebrates World Ocean Day\
  \ with Actions to Conserve America\u2019s Deepest Atlantic Canyon, Cut Plastic Pollution,\
  \ and Create America\u2019s First-Ever Ocean Climate Action\_Plan"
---
 
*President Biden: “During National Ocean Month, we celebrate the beauty
and bounty of our ocean and reaffirm our commitment to protecting and
conserving our marine environments for a sustainable future.”*****

Following President Biden’s proclamation of June to be [National Ocean
Month](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-ocean-month-2022/),
and in recognition of June 8 as World Ocean Day, the White House today
announced a series of new steps the Administration is taking to conserve
and restore the health and productivity of the ocean for the benefit of
all Americans.

Today’s actions include initiating the designation process for a new
national marine sanctuary to conserve Hudson Canyon in the Atlantic
Ocean, a phase out of single-use plastics in national parks and public
lands, and the launch of efforts to create America’s first-ever Ocean
Climate Action Plan and to center environmental justice in ocean science
and technology activities and investments.

Over the course of June, Federal agencies will be making additional
announcements that showcase the scale and pace of the Biden-Harris
Administration’s ocean agenda, including through the President’s America
the Beautiful conservation initiative, unprecedented investments in
coastal resilience and restoration through the President’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the rapid deployment and construction of offshore
wind farms, U.S. engagement with the international Ocean Panel to spur
sustainable ocean economic development, and the use of science to guide
ocean planning and management.

The specific steps that the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing
today in recognition of World Ocean Day are:

-   Hudson Canyon, which is located approximately 100 miles off the
    coast of New York and New Jersey and reaches depths of 2-2.5 miles,
    is an ecological hotspot, providing habitat for endangered,
    protected, and sensitive species including sperm whale, sea turtles,
    and unique and diverse seep communities. The canyon boasts deep sea,
    cold-water coral communities, and contains various shipwrecks,
    including freighters and United States military radar platforms,
    dating back to the mid-19th Century. In proposing to conserve the
    area as a national marine sanctuary, NOAA will seek public comment
    on the potential boundaries for the sanctuary and other factors
    related to its future management.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of the Interior will reduce and eventually phase
    out the sale of single-use plastic products in national parks,
    wildlife refuges, and other public lands.** As part of World Ocean
    Day, Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland will issue Secretary’s
    Order 3407, which aims to reduce the procurement, sale, and
    distribution of single-use plastic products and packaging with a
    goal of phasing out single-use plastic products on
    Department-managed lands by 2032. The Order is part of the
    implementation of President Biden’s [Executive Order
    14057](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/08/executive-order-on-catalyzing-clean-energy-industries-and-jobs-through-federal-sustainability/),
    which calls for Federal agencies to minimize waste and support
    markets for recycled products. The Order also directs the Department
    to identify nonhazardous, environmentally preferable alternatives to
    single-use plastic products, such as compostable or biodegradable
    materials, or 100 percent recycled materials, in an effort to reduce
    the more than 14 million tons of plastic ending up in the ocean
    every year.  ** **

<!-- -->

-   **The Federal government and Tribes in the Bering Sea are beginning
    nation-to-nation coordination on the stewardship of the Northern
    Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area.** In response to direction from
    President Biden when he reinstated the [Northern Bering Sea Climate
    Resilience
    Area](https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/the-press-office/2016/12/09/executive-order-northern-bering-sea-climate-resilience),
    the Bering Intergovernmental Tribal Advisory Council (which includes
    membership from 11 Tribes representing more than 70 Tribes in the
    Northern Bering Sea region) and the Bering Sea Federal Task Force
    (co-chaired by the Department of the Interior, NOAA, and the U.S.
    Coast Guard) [convened a historic
    first](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/06-2022-Readout-of-the-NBSCRA-JOINT-BFTF-BITAC-Meeting.pdf)
    meeting on June 3 to identify the ways they will work together to
    implement the Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area. The two
    bodies, coordinated by the Office of Science and Technology Policy,
    represent a new model for nation-to-nation coordination for a large
    ocean area. ** **

<!-- -->

-   The Office of Science and Technology Policy and the Council on
    Environmental Quality, Co-Chairs of the [Ocean Policy
    Committee,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2021/10/29/readout-of-the-first-ocean-policy-committee-meeting/)
    announced that the Committee will work in coordination with the
    White House Climate Policy Office to develop a whole-of-government
    Ocean Climate Action Plan that will guide significant ocean-based
    climate mitigation and adaptation actions, including green shipping,
    ocean-based renewable energy, blue carbon, and other ocean-related
    solutions. The Committee will [also
    develop](https://www.noaa.gov/sites/default/files/2022-05/OPCPublicReadout_20220512_Meeting.pdf)
    a National Sustainable Ocean Plan that will help guide sustainable
    economic development of U.S. ocean and coastal waters.  

<!-- -->

-   The interagency Subcommittee on Ocean Science and Technology, which
    is led by the Office of Science and Technology Policy, today
    released an [Environmental Justice Position
    Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/06/07/ocean-agencies-commit-to-environmental-justice-outcomes-for-ocean-science-and-technology/),
    which commits the Federal government to advancing environmental
    justice across Federal ocean science and technology activities and
    investments and identifying immediate opportunities for action and
    investment to meet environmental justice goals across Federal
    agencies.

<!-- -->

-   On June 3, the United States became the newest member in the UN
    Environment Program’s Clean Seas Campaign.  Launched in 2017, the
    Clean Seas Campaign serves as a voluntary, multi-stakeholder
    platform for individuals, civil society groups, industry and
    governments to promote policies, standards, and practices to reduce
    marine litter. The United States joins 64 countries, covering more
    than 60 percent of the world’s coastlines. Earlier this year, the
    United States also joined more than 90 other countries in signing on
    to the High Ambition Coalition for Nature and People and its goal to
    conserve or protect at least 30 percent of the global ocean by 2030.
    And since we cannot reach that global target without equally
    ambitious action within national waters, the United States announced
    the Ocean Conservation Pledge, by which countries commit to take
    voluntary actions to conserve, protect, and restore at least 30% of
    waters under their national jurisdiction. The pledge is non-binding,
    but aims to catalyze political action to significantly enhance ocean
    conservation efforts.   

The Biden-Harris Administration’s ongoing work to harness the clean
energy potential of the ocean, conserve and restore its health and
productivity, and lead the world toward sustainable ocean policies is
informed and motivated by an understanding that a healthy ocean is
indispensable to our economy, our health, and to our climate.

A
[report](https://www.noaa.gov/news-release/carbon-dioxide-now-more-than-50-higher-than-pre-industrial-levels)
issued last week by scientists at NOAA and the Scripps Institution of
Oceanography at the University of California San Diego, for example,
found that carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere are now more than 50%
higher than pre-industrial levels. The effects of climate change on
weather systems are widely known, but these rising levels of greenhouse
gas pollution are also deeply disruptive to ocean systems, leading to
increasing sea surface temperatures, rising sea levels, and an increased
absorption of carbon, which makes sea water more acidic, leads to ocean
deoxygenation, and makes it more difficult for some marine organisms to
survive.

In addition, tomorrow, NOAA and the Bureau of Economic Analysis will
release the latest update to the Marine Economy Satellite Account
(MESA), a report that provides statistics on some of the contributions
to the U.S. economy from the nation’s oceans, seaports, Great Lakes, and
other major water bodies (e.g., Puget Sound, Chesapeake Bay). Many of
the activities covered by the MESA, including commercial fishing,
coastal tourism, and recreation, rely on the ecological health of the
marine environment. The U.S. Natural Capital Accounts, announced on
Earth Day, will align with the MESA to make these dependencies explicit,
expand the accounts to include other economic values; and enable further
development of a sustainable ocean economy. This year’s report will show
the impact to the marine economy caused by the coronavirus pandemic in
terms of employment, sales, and GDP contribution. The report identifies
industries and activities most affected by the 2020 downturn, but also
areas of growth and innovation in several marine sectors. 

\###
