---
date: '2022-06-10'
published_time: 2022-06-10 18:34:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/10/joint-readout-of-president-joe-biden-vice-president-kamala-harris-meeting-with-leaders-of-the-caribbean-community-caricom-and-the-dominican-republic/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Readout of President Joe\_Biden & Vice President Kamala\_Harris\u2019\
  \ Meeting with Leaders of The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and the Dominican\_\
  Republic"
---
 
President Biden and Vice President Harris met yesterday with leaders of
the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and the Dominican Republic at the
Ninth Summit of the Americas to develop a plan to partner in addressing
the unique vulnerabilities and urgent economic challenges facing these
countries, which are facing overlapping economic challenges stemming
from the COVID-19 pandemic, the impact of climate change, food and
energy insecurity, and lack of access to financing. Seized with these
challenges, President Biden and Vice President Harris committed to
working with CARICOM and the Dominican Republic to form three high-level
committees tasked with developing immediate and concrete, joint, and
near-term solutions.  
  
Building on Vice President Harris’ April 29, 2022, meeting with these
Leaders, the United States  launched the U.S.-Caribbean Partnership to
Address the Climate Crisis 2030 (PACC 2030) to facilitate renewable
energy infrastructure development, including by increasing access to
financing, and to bolster the region’s resilience to climate based
natural disasters.  The joint effort will facilitate collaboration
between the U.S. private sector and Caribbean companies to support
renewable energy infrastructure project development from concept to
financing, including through technical assistance and blended finance
tools to create Caribbean equity in energy projects.  Under PACC 2030
and as part of the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity, the
United States will work with international financial institutions to
develop financial tools that respond to the Caribbean’s unique
challenges, including by exploring alternatives to the World Bank’s
national income criteria for eligibility to concessional or grant
financing.

In addition to the Caribbean’s vulnerability to natural disasters,
rising international debt, and out-migration, food and nutrition
insecurity is on the rise with approximately 67.5% of the population
experiencing moderate or severe food insecurity.  To address these
challenges, the United States and CARICOM will launch a Caribbean Zero
Hunger Plan to promote food and nutrition security in the Caribbean. 
President Biden also announced the United States will provide $28
million in new food security assistance to Caribbean countries.  
  
The leaders discussed the need to strengthen security cooperation and
engagement, including countering small arms trafficking.  The United
States and Caribbean countries reaffirm longstanding cooperation on core
Caribbean Basin Security Initiative (CBSI) priorities and broader
engagement complementary to CBSI, such as combatting trafficking in
persons, cybersecurity, and cybercrime.  The United States and CARICOM
member states support the development of national action plans to
counter firearms trafficking, as part of the firearms priority actions
and roadmap implementation process. These national action plans can help
the United States more effectively tailor our support to CARICOM member
countries, to address especially the supply and flow of illegal handguns
and assault weapons trafficking throughout the region.  The leaders also
applaud the work of CBSI countries and CARICOM Implementation Agency for
Crime and Security (IMPACS) to implement the firearms trafficking
priority actions and the road map.  The United States and CARICOM concur
on the utility of acceding to the Treaty of San José concerning illicit
maritime and air narcotics trafficking. This treaty provides states with
a valuable legal mechanism that facilitates international cooperation to
disrupt illicit maritime trafficking and transnational criminal
organizations in the Caribbean.

Finally, the United States and CARICOM reaffirm our commitment to
promoting and defending democracy and the rule of law, as enshrined in
the Inter-American Democratic Charter.  Our nations are bound together
by shared values, culture, history, and family ties. As governments, we
will work in partnership with civil society and the private sector to
ensure that democracy delivers for all our people and to build safe,
inclusive, prosperous, equitable, and climate-resilient societies.

\###
