---
date: '2022-06-15'
modified_time: 2022-06-15 10:13:01-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-15 10:12:10-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/15/president-biden-names-nineteenth-round-of-judicial-nominees/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Names Nineteenth Round of Judicial\_Nominees"
---
 
The President is announcing seven new federal judicial nominees, all of
whom are extraordinarily qualified, experienced, and devoted to the rule
of law and our Constitution.

These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country — both in terms of personal and
professional backgrounds.

For example, if confirmed, this slate would include the first Latino to
serve on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit, the first woman of color to serve on the United States Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, the first South Asian person to serve on
the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and the first
openly LGBT federal district court judge in Puerto Rico.  
  
This is President Biden’s nineteenth round of nominees for federal
judicial positions and his sixth slate of nominations in 2022, bringing
the number of announced federal judicial nominees to 105.  
  
President Biden has spent decades committed to strengthening the federal
bench, which is why he continues to move rapidly to fill judicial
vacancies. And he has won confirmation of the most lower court judges
for the first year of a presidency since the Kennedy Administration.

**<u>Circuit Court Press Bios</u>**

1.  **<u>Roopali H. Desai: Candidate for the United States Court of
    Appeals for the Ninth Circuit</u>**

Roopali H. Desai is a partner at Coppersmith Brockelman where she has
practiced since 2007.  From 2006 to 2007, Ms. Desai was an associate at
Lewis & Roca. She served as a law clerk for Chief Judge Mary Schroeder
on the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit from 2005 to
2006. Ms. Desai received her J.D. in 2005, her M.P.H in 2001, and her
B.A. in 2000, all from the University of Arizona.

1.  **<u>Judge Dana M. Douglas: Candidate for the United States Court of
    Appeals for the Fifth Circuit</u>**

Dana M. Douglas has been a United States Magistrate Judge on the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana since
2019. Prior to joining the bench, Judge Douglas was a partner at Liskow
& Lewis, where she worked from 2001 to 2018. Judge Douglas served on the
New Orleans Civil Service Commission from 2003 to 2013. She served as a
law clerk for Judge Ivan L. R. Lemelle on the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana from 2000 to 2001. Judge
Douglas received her J.D. from Loyola University New Orleans School of
Law in 2000 and her B.A. from Miami University of Ohio in 1997.

1.  **<u>Bradley N. Garcia: Candidate for the United States Court of
    Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit</u>**

Bradley N. Garcia is a Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the
Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel, a role he has held
since 2022. Prior to joining the Department of Justice, Mr. Garcia was a
partner in the Supreme Court and Appellate Practice Group at O’Melveny
and Myers LLP, where he worked from 2013 to 2022. As an appellate
litigator, Mr. Garcia represented clients in over 50 cases before
federal and state appellate courts. He has argued 13 cases before
federal and state appellate courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court and
the U.S. Courts of Appeals for the First, Third, Fourth, Ninth, Eleventh
and Federal Circuits.  He served as a law clerk for Justice Elena Kagan
on the United States Supreme Court from 2012 to 2013 and for Judge
Thomas Griffith on the United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia Circuit from 2011 to 2012. Mr. Garcia received his J.D.,
*magna cum laude*, from Harvard Law School in 2011 and his B.A. from
Johns Hopkins University in 2008.

**<u>District Court Press Bios</u>**

1.  **<u>María del R. Antongiorgi-Jordán: Candidate for the United
    States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico</u>**

María del R. Antongiorgi-Jordán has served as the Clerk of Court for the
United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico since 2019.
From 2018 to 2019, she was the Chief Deputy Clerk for the United States
District Court for the District of Puerto Rico. Ms. Antongiorgi-Jordán
was a partner at McConnell Valdés in San Juan, Puerto Rico, where she
worked from 1995 to 2018. Ms. Antongiorgi-Jordán received her LL.M from
Georgetown University Law Center in 1994, her J.D. from the
Interamerican University of Puerto Rico in 1992, and her B.A. from Seton
Hill University in 1989.

1.  **<u>Jerry W. Blackwell: Candidate for the United States District
    Court for the District of Minnesota</u>**

Jerry W. Blackwell is a founding partner of Blackwell Burke, where he
has worked since 2006. From 2000 to 2006, Mr. Blackwell was a partner at
Blackwell Igbanugo in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Previously, Mr. Blackwell
was a partner at Nilan Johnson Lewis from 1996 to 2000 and a partner at
Robins Kaplan from 1987 to 1996. Mr. Blackwell received his J.D. in 1987
and his B.S. in 1984, both from the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill.

1.  **<u>Judge Gina R. Méndez-Miró Candidate for the United States
    District Court for the District of Puerto Rico</u>**

Judge Gina R. Méndez-Miró has served as a judge on the Puerto Rico Court
of Appeals since 2016. From 2013 to 2016, Judge Méndez-Miró served as
the Chief of Staff for the President of the Senate of Puerto Rico. She
previously served in the Puerto Rico Office of Court Administration as
the General Counsel and Director of the Legal Affairs Office from 2010
to 2012 and as the Director of Judicial Programs from 2008 to 2010. From
2006 to 2008, Judge Méndez-Miró served as the Assistant Attorney General
for Human Resources for the Puerto Rico Department of Justice. Judge
Méndez-Miró was an associate at O’Neill & Borges in San Juan, Puerto
Rico from 2001 to 2006. Judge Méndez-Miró received her J.D. from the
University of Puerto Rico School of Law in 2001, her M.A. from Princeton
University in 2000, and her B.A., *magna cum laude*, from the University
of Puerto Rico in 1996.

1.  **<u>Judge Camille L. Vélez-Rivé Candidate for the United States
    District Court for the District of Puerto Rico</u>**

Judge Camille L. Vélez-Rivé has served as a United States Magistrate
Judge for the District of Puerto Rico since 2004. Previously, she served
as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney’s
Office for the District of Puerto Rico from 1998 to 2004. From 1994 to
1997, Judge Vélez-Rivé was an associate at Pietrantoni Méndez & Alvarez
in San Juan, Puerto Rico. She served as a law clerk for Justice
Francisco Rebollo-López on the Supreme Court for the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico from 1993 to 1994. Judge Vélez-Rivé received her J.D.,
*magna cum laude*, from the University of Puerto Rico Law School in 1993
and her B.A. from Washington University in St. Louis in 1989.

\###
