---
date: '2022-06-27'
modified_time: 2022-06-27 05:12:20-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-27 04:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/27/fact-sheet-the-united-states-and-g7-to-take-further-action-to-support-ukraine-and-hold-the-russian-federation-accountable/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The United\_States and G7 to Take Further Action to Support Ukraine\
  \ and Hold the Russian Federation\_Accountable"
---
 
In Germany today, President Biden will meet with G7 leaders and
President Zelenskyy to continue delivering on our unwavering, unified
commitment to support Ukraine and build on our unprecedented sanctions
to hold President Putin accountable.  The G7 will issue a statement of
support for Ukraine, which will include significant new sanctions
commitments to further intensify our economic measures against Russia.

The United States has rallied over 30 allies and partners around the
world to impose drastic costs on Russia and the U.S. led coalition will
continue to increase pressure on Putin. In the span of a few months,
U.S. exports to Russia, including of critical technology inputs Putin
needs to maintain his military, have decreased approximately 97%.
Russia’s imports of goods from around the world could fall by 40%.
Factories across Russia are struggling to maintain production. Russia’s
GDP will likely decline by double digits, inflation is rising to over
20%, Russia’s struggling to make bond payments, and [Russia’s defaulted
on its sovereign debt for the first time in more than a
century](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-06-26/russia-defaults-on-foreign-debt-for-first-time-since-1918#xj4y7vzkg).
 

Our measures will continue to sap Putin’s military-industrial complex of
critical components, prevent the central bank’s foreign reserves from
propping up an ailing economy and deprive Putin of the resources he
needs to wage his war, and hold the kleptocracy to account for its
ill-gotten gains. The effectiveness of our measures will only compound
over time to further isolate Russia from the world economy.

The United States, in coordination with the G7, will implement
significant commitments, including sanctions on hundreds of individuals
and entities that adds to the over 1,000 already sanctioned, take action
on evasion by targeting companies in several countries that adds to the
over 300 Entity Listings already in place; impose tariffs on hundreds of
Russian products worth billions of dollars to Russia, among other
things:  
  

**Measures targeting the Russian military production and supply
chains.** G7 Leaders will align and expand targeted sanctions to further
restrict Russia’s access to key industrial inputs, services, and
technologies produced by our economies, particularly those supporting
Russia’s armament industrial base and technology sector.  The United
States Departments of State and the Treasury will aggressively target
Russian defense supply chains by imposing blocking sanctions on major
state-owned defense enterprises, in addition to defense research
organizations, and dozens of other defense-related entities and
individuals and limit Russia’s ability to replace the military equipment
it has already lost during its brutal war against Ukraine.

**Using tariffs on Russian goods to help Ukraine.** Earlier this year,
G7 leaders committed to strip Russia of “most favored nation” trading
status, which guaranteed low tariff rates for Russian goods sold
globally. President Biden and other G7 leaders will seek authority to
use revenues collected by new tariffs on Russian goods to help Ukraine
and to ensure that Russia pays for the costs of its war. President Biden
is also announcing that, pursuant to Congress’s revocation of Russia’s
trade status in the U.S., the U.S. will implement a higher tariff rate
on more than 570 groups of Russian products worth approximately $2.3
billion to Russia. These measures will restrict Russia’s ability to
benefit economically from sales to the U.S. market and are carefully
calibrated to impose costs on Russia, while minimizing costs to U.S.
consumers.

**Restrictions on Russia’s participation in the global market and
further crack downs on evasion attempts.** G7 Leaders are determined to
limit Russia’s revenues, including from gold, Russia’s second largest
export after energy. The United States will take several key actions to
implement these commitments. The U.S. Department of the Treasury will be
issuing a determination to prohibit the import of new gold into the
United States, which will prevent Russian participation in the formal
gold market**.** G7 Leaders will also commit to continue to target
efforts by those engaging in evasion and backfill activities. The U.S.
Department of Commerce will take its first action against companies
engaging in backfill activities in support of Russia by adding several
companies around the world to the Entity List, which will prohibit those
companies from purchasing U.S.-made origin goods and technologies, such
as semiconductors. State and Treasury will implement blocking sanctions
against persons tied to aiding Russia’s evasion efforts. Commerce and
Treasury will jointly issue an alert to financial institutions to aid in
detecting potential violations of export controls. ** **

**Imposition of costs on those responsible for human rights abuses –
including war crimes, profiteering, and illegitimate authorities.** G7
Leaders will decide to impose sanctions on those responsible for human
rights abuses – including war crimes, exercising illegitimate authority
in Ukraine, and involved in Russia’s tactics to steal Ukrainian grain or
otherwise profit illegitimately from the war. The U.S. Departments of
Treasury and State will implement blocking sanctions on private military
companies operating in Ukraine, Russian military units that have been
credibly implicated in human rights abuses or violations of
international humanitarian law in Ukraine, and Russia-installed senior
officials in areas besieged or held by Russia’s forces, including
ministers and mayors of contested cities. State will impose visa
restrictions on approximately 500 officials for threatening or violating
Ukraine’s sovereignty, territorial integrity, or political independence,
or suppressing dissent in Russia.

**A significant G7 Commitment for Budgetary Support and other support
for Ukraine.** The G7 will commit to help Ukraine cover its short-term
budgetary funding shortfalls, including a $7.5 billion commitment from
the United States from the recently passed second supplemental. Leaders
will also make an unprecedented, long-term security commitment to
providing Ukraine with financial, humanitarian, military and diplomatic
support as long as it takes. The commitment by the leaders will include
maintaining Ukraine’s credible military readiness and defense, including
through the timely provision of modern defense equipment and advanced
weapons systems.

\###
