---
date: '2022-06-21'
modified_time: 2022-06-21 00:10:07-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-21 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-pay-raises-supports-for-wildland-firefighter-workforce-from-bipartisan-infrastructure-law/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:\_BIDEN-HARRIS ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCES NEW PAY RAISES & SUPPORTS\
  \ FOR WILDLAND FIREFIGHTER WORKFORCE FROM BIPARTISAN INFRASTRUCTURE\_LAW"
---
 
Our nation’s wildland firefighters safeguard vital benefits for
communities across the nation: protecting our nation’s critical
infrastructure, defending lives and private property from the risk of
catastrophic wildfire, preserving forests so they can help us combat
climate change, and protecting landscapes that contain cultural and
natural resources of significance and value to Tribes, provide habitat
to fish and wildlife, and serve as a source of drinking water for more
than 60 million people. Investing in our wildland firefighting workforce
is a matter of national security as there are more than 460 million
acres of land at moderate to very high risk from wildfire this year, and
the number of acres burned in 2021 is the highest on record.

For decades, Federal wildland firefighters have faced the challenges of
longer, more severe fire years with pay that has lagged behind their
counterparts. Shifting development patterns, land and fire management
decisions, and climate change have turned fire “seasons” into fire
“years” in which increasingly destructive fires are exceeding available
Federal firefighting resources.  Federal firefighters also lack an
official, uniform occupational series and a clear path for career
advancement through the Federal government.

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing a series of bold
steps to increase pay, create new mental wellness and health supports,
and establish a new wildland fire management job series for federal
firefighters.  These unprecedented actions on behalf of the wildland
firefighter workforce are funded by $600 million from President Biden’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. These measures are a significant step
forward that will deliver an immediate, temporary pay raise to Federal
wildland firefighters across the nation, and sets Federal agencies on a
path to continue working with stakeholders towards an updated,
competitive, and equitable pay structure, along with a support system
that will address the many challenges that have plagued our wildland
firefighter workforce for decades.

**INCREASING PAY  
**  
Under [President Biden’s 2021
initiatives](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/30/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-acts-to-address-the-growing-wildfire-threat/)
to support federal wildland firefighters and ensure they receive a
minimum of $15 per hour, more than 11,300 firefighters received pay
increases last year at a cost of $24.3 million.  This increase in the
minimum wage was a critical first step for the dignity and respect of
all Federal employees.  Over the coming summer months, the
Administration is implementing a new set of temporary pay increases that
will put retroactive pay (from October 1, 2021) into wildland
firefighter pockets increasing their bi-weekly pay, up to the lesser of
$20,000 or 50% of their annual base salary through September 2023.  The
Federal agencies will begin processing these payments in the coming
weeks, with additional payments to occur throughout July and into
August.  The $600 million in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law serves as
a bridge for two years as the Administration works with Congress on
longer-term reforms.

**CREATING NEW SUPPORTS FOR FIREFIGHTERS  
**  
During a visit to the National Interagency Fire Center (NIFC) last week,
Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland announced the establishment of an
interagency wildland firefighter health and wellbeing program. Wildland
firefighters work in incredibly stressful environments that can take a
significant toll on their overall health and wellbeing, as well as on
those who love them. Standing up a targeted interagency effort to
provide trauma-informed mental health care is critical. The Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law directs the Departments of the Interior (DOI) and
Agriculture (USDA) to increase focus on wildland firefighters’ physical
and mental wellbeing.  The newly established joint DOI- U.S. Forest
Service program will address mental health needs, including
post-traumatic stress disorder care for permanent, temporary, seasonal
and year-round wildland firefighters at both agencies, along with
addressing environmental hazards to minimize on-the-job exposure for
wildland firefighters. The joint program will also connect existing
efforts and establish year-round prevention and mental health training
for wildland firefighters and create critical incident stress management
staffing response.  The Forest Service along with each of DOI’s wildland
fire management bureaus — the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Bureau of Land
Management, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and National Park Service —
will also add staffing capacity specifically to focus on mental health
and employee support efforts for firefighters.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also provides increased support to the
Joint Fire Science Program, an interagency partnership with USDA’s U.S.
Forest Service that funds wildfire science research projects. A total of
$3.1 million will be used to support research towards a better
understanding of firefighter mental health, landscape resiliency, and
other climate-related studies on the beneficial uses of prescribed fire,
carbon storage, and greenhouse gas and smoke emissions.

**IMPROVING RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION  
**  
Because the pay increase under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is
temporary, the Biden-Harris Administration supports a new firefighter
pay structure that is both sufficiently competitive and equitable to
address longstanding nationwide recruitment and retention challenges and
consider the longer work shifts, pressures and risks associated with
these jobs. The Administration is committed to working with Congress to
secure much needed investments and to grow this critical workforce.  The
costs in firefighter turnover brought about by not having an adequately
compensated and supported firefighting workforce will far exceed the
amount needed to invest in them. 

**ESTABLISHING NEW WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT OCCUPATIONAL SERIES  
**  
The U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) has taken the necessary
step of creating the Wildland Fire Management occupational series
established under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. No such series has
existed for 50 years.  The new occupational series better identifies
Federal firefighters with the work they do. It defines the duties of
wildland firefighters and is responsive to the calls of firefighters and
their unions to provide opportunities for career advancement.  It also
gives a boost to recruiting, as agencies can now post clear job
opportunity announcements that specifically target people interested in
wildland firefighting jobs.  And it will help with retention, as our
wildland firefighter workforce will benefit from a clear career path
with detailed requirements for advancement, providing wildland
firefighters with a job title and description that more accurately
reflects their contributions.

Agencies will implement the new series in the coming months, though
current Federal firefighters will be able to choose whether to opt-in to
the new Wildland Fire Management series or stay in their current
occupations.  Once fully implemented, the series will provide a solid
foundation for recruitment and retention, further strengthening our
wildland firefighter workforce and contributing to the fire safety of
communities across our Nation.

\###
