---
date: '2022-06-15'
modified_time: 2022-06-15 11:31:19-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-15 08:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/15/president-biden-announces-former-atlanta-mayor-keisha-lance-bottoms-as-senior-advisor-for-public-engagement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Former Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms as Senior\
  \ Advisor for Public\_Engagement"
---
 
*Additional Promotions Announced Ahead of 2022 Midterm Elections*

Today, President Biden announced that Keisha Lance Bottoms will serve as
Senior Advisor to the President for Public Engagement. In this role,
Bottoms will oversee the White House Office of Public Engagement, which
works at the local, state, and national levels to ensure community
leaders, diverse perspectives, and new voices have the opportunity to
inform the work of the President in an inclusive, transparent and
responsible way.

*Statement from President Biden:* “Mayor Bottoms understands that
democracy is about making government work for working families, for the
people who are the backbone of this country. She led the city of Atlanta
with strength through the pandemic, through a summer of protests and
pain, and through the mass shooting that left Atlanta’s Asian American
community in fear. Keisha is bright, honorable, tough and has the
integrity required to represent our Administration to the American
public. Jill and I have known Keisha for a long time and look forward to
working with her more closely.

**Keisha Lance Bottoms, Senior Advisor to the President for Public
Engagement**

Keisha Lance Bottoms is a CNN Political Commentator, based in Atlanta,
Georgia, where she served as the 60th Mayor. She is a visionary leader
in bringing equitable outcomes to the forefront of government and
commerce. Keisha became the first Mayor in Atlanta’s history to have
served in all three branches of government, having previously served as
a Judge and a City Councilmember. As Mayor, she committed herself to
realizing her vision of “One Atlanta” – an affordable, resilient, and
equitable Atlanta.

Sworn in on January 2, 2018, Keisha served as Mayor during one of the
most challenging times in the history of Atlanta. After dealing with a
cyberattack that nearly crippled city operations, and in the midst of a
global pandemic and a racial justice movement, Keisha became a leading
spokesperson regarding the challenges and opportunities facing cities
and leaders across America.

While navigating these unprecedented challenges, the Bottoms
Administration was able to remain focused on the resilience of Atlanta,
negotiating and closing the largest real estate redevelopment
transaction in the history of Atlanta, and one of the largest in the
Southeast United States, delivering millions of dollars in community
benefits to people across the city.

Keisha took proactive measures to deal with the impact of the COVID-19
pandemic on the City and its agencies. As a result, during one of the
worst economic downturns the world has ever faced, the Bottoms
Administration delivered four years of balanced budgets, without
resorting to property tax increases, layoffs or furloughs of City
employees. At the conclusion of her term, the City’s reserves remained
at a near high of $181M, far exceeding the requirements of the City
Charter. The Bottoms Administration made historic strides related to
criminal justice reform, became a model city for LGBTQ affairs, and
reclaimed its title as running the world’s busiest and most efficient
airport.

Shaped by a childhood and professional career that highlighted the
inequalities amongst Americans, Keisha led her Administration in
undertaking several major initiatives that would seek to eradicate
systemic issues facing Atlanta, while creating a model for all cities to
follow.

**The President announced additional promotions to his senior team ahead
of the 2022 midterm elections.**

*Statement from the President: *“In advance of the midterms, I am proud
to announce two historic promotions to our senior team. Stuart Delery
and Julie Rodriguez are dedicated public servants that bring diverse
perspectives and a shared commitment to tackling the critical issues our
nation faces today. 

“I am immensely grateful for the service of Dana Remus, who has been an
invaluable member of my senior staff for the past 3 years and helped
reinstate a culture of adherence to the rule of law. I wish her the best
as she moves forward.”

**Stuart Delery,** **Assistant to the President and White House
Counsel**

The President announced that Stuart Delery will become the next
Assistant to the President and White House Counsel. He will step into
the role next month after Dana Remus departs the White House.

Stuart Delery currently serves as Deputy Counsel to the President, where
he has advised on key Administration priorities including the COVID-19
response, the American Rescue Plan, and the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Framework. Stuart is the former Acting Associate Attorney General of the
United States, the third-ranking position at the U.S. Department of
Justice, and is the most senior openly-LGBTQ+ official in DOJ history.
Before that, Stuart served as Senate-confirmed Assistant Attorney
General for the Civil Division, and supervised legal defense of
Congressional statutes including the Affordable Care Act and agency
actions, as well as the government-wide implementation of the Supreme
Court’s landmark decision on LGBTQ+ rights *United States v. Windsor*.
Stuart has also worked as a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP and
WilmerHale. Stuart clerked for Supreme Court Justices Sandra Day
O’Connor and Byron White and Judge Gerald Bard Tjoflat of the Eleventh
Circuit. Originally from Louisiana, Stuart is a graduate of the
University of Virginia and Yale Law School. Stuart and his husband live
in Washington, D.C., and have two children.

**Julie Rodriguez, Senior Advisor and Assistant to the President and
Director of the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs**

The President announced that Julie Chavez Rodriguez will be promoted to
Senior Advisor and Assistant to the President and continue serving as
the Director of the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. 

Julie Chavez Rodriguez currently serves as Deputy Assistant to the
President and Director of the White House Office of Intergovernmental
Affairs. Prior to joining the Biden-Harris Administration, she served as
a Deputy Campaign Manager on the Biden-Harris presidential campaign.
Before that, she was the National Political Director and traveling Chief
of Staff for then-Senator Kamala Harris’ presidential campaign. Before
launching Senator Harris’ campaign, she served as California State
Director in her Senate office. During the Obama-Biden Administration,
Chavez Rodriguez served as Special Assistant to the President and Senior
Deputy Director of Public Engagement in the Office of Public Engagement.
She also worked in the Department of the Interior as the Director of
Youth Employment and as Deputy Press Secretary to former Secretary of
the Interior Ken Salazar. She is the former Director of Programs at the
Cesar E. Chavez Foundation. A native of California, she is a graduate of
the University of California, Berkeley.

**\###**
