---
date: '2022-06-28'
modified_time: 2022-06-28 19:35:04-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-28 19:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-monkeypox-outbreak-response/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019s Monkeypox Outbreak\_\
  Response"
---
 
For years, the United States has invested in research on monkeypox and
in tools to effectively respond to the disease. Monkeypox is a virus
that is generally spread through close or intimate contact, with
symptoms that include a rash and fever. It is much less transmissible
than fast-spreading respiratory diseases like COVID-19, and this
outbreak has not caused any deaths in the United States.  The virus,
however, is spreading in the United States and globally, and requires a
comprehensive response from federal, state, local, and international
governments and communities. Since the first United States case was
confirmed on May 18, President Biden has taken critical actions to make
vaccines, testing, and treatments available to those who need them as
part of its whole-of-government monkeypox outbreak response.

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced the first phase of its
national monkeypox vaccine strategy, a critical part of its monkeypox
outbreak response. The vaccine strategy will help immediately address
the spread of the virus by providing vaccines across the country to
individuals at high risk. This phase of the strategy aims to rapidly
deploy vaccines in the most affected communities and mitigate the spread
of the disease.

This announcement is a critical component of the Administration’s
broader public health response, which includes rapidly scaling up and
decentralizing testing alongside continued provider education and
community engagement across the country. The Administration’s monkeypox
outbreak response is also informed by the multiple times over the last
twenty years that the United States has effectively responded to the
virus. The United States government’s response is coordinated by the
National Security Council Directorate on Global Health Security and
Biodefense – more commonly known as the White House Pandemic Office –
which President Biden restored on day one of his presidency, in
collaboration with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).

Collectively, the Administration’s efforts aim to **expand vaccination
for individuals at risk** and **make testing more convenient for
healthcare providers and patients across the country**. The Biden-Harris
Administration remains committed to working with urgency to detect more
cases, protect those at risk, and respond rapidly to the outbreak.

**Scaling and Delivering Vaccines to Mitigate New Infections**: Thanks
to prior investments in health security and the nation’s prior
experience responding to the monkeypox virus, the United States has
effective vaccines and treatments that can be used against monkeypox. To
date, HHS has received requests from 32 states and jurisdictions,
deploying over 9,000 doses of vaccine and 300 courses of antiviral
smallpox treatments. **With today’s national monkeypox vaccine strategy,
the United States is significantly expanding deployment of vaccines,
allocating 296,000 doses over the coming weeks, 56,000 of which will be
allocated immediately. Over the coming months a combined 1.6 million
additional doses will become available.**

**Making Testing Easier**: The new national monkeypox vaccine strategy
builds on the Administration’s efforts to make testing more widely
available and easier to access. On day one of this outbreak, providers
had access to a high-quality, FDA-cleared test to detect monkeypox. The
CDC has since scaled testing capacity to 78 sites in 48 states,
primarily at state public health laboratories, with spare capacity to
conduct nearly 10,000 tests per week nationwide. **Last week, CDC**
[**began shipping  tests to five commercial laboratory
companies**](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/06/22/hhs-expanding-monkeypox-testing-capacity-five-commercial-laboratory-companies.html)**,
including some of the nation’s largest reference laboratories, to
further increase monkeypox testing capacity and access in every
community.** **This action will dramatically improve convenience for
patients and health care providers across the nation.**

**Activating Community Leaders and Stakeholders**: The response to
monkeypox requires a whole-of-society effort between federal, state,
territorial, and local governments and communities. The Biden-Harris
Administration is communicating with healthcare providers, public health
officials, and affected communities on a daily basis to share
information on what the virus is, how to treat it, and which communities
are most at risk. The Administration is also sharing information on how
to access testing, treatments, and vaccines, and how to prevent
transmission with local, government, and community leaders in
geographies and communities where transmission rates have been the
highest. The Administration is grateful for the leadership and activism
of advocates in the LGBTQI+ community who have thus far been most
affected and have quickly mobilized to promote information and
awareness.

**<u>The</u>** **<u>Biden-Harris Administration is</u>** **<u>providing
vaccines to protect high-risk groups across America.</u>**

As part of the monkeypox outbreak response, the Biden-Harris
Administration is launching a national strategy to provide vaccines for
monkeypox for individuals at higher risk of exposure. The strategy aims
to mitigate the spread of the virus in communities where transmission
has been the highest and with populations most at risk. This plan
distributes the two-dose
[JYNNEOS](https://www.fda.gov/vaccines-blood-biologics/jynneos) vaccine,
which the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for protection
against smallpox and monkeypox in individuals 18 years and older
determined to be at high risk for smallpox or monkeypox infection.
States will be offered an equitable allotment based on cases and
proportion of the population at risk for severe disease from monkeypox,
and the federal government will partner with state, local, and
territorial governments in deploying the vaccines.

The goal of the initial phase of the strategy is to slow the spread of
the disease. HHS will immediately allocate 56,000 vaccine doses
currently in the Strategic National Stockpile to states and territories
across the country, prioritizing jurisdictions with the highest number
of cases and population at risk. To date, vaccines have been provided
only to those who have a confirmed monkeypox exposure. With these doses,
CDC is recommending that vaccines be provided to individuals with
confirmed monkeypox exposures and presumed exposures. This includes
those who had close physical contact with someone diagnosed with
monkeypox, those who know their sexual partner was diagnosed with
monkeypox, and men who have sex with men who have recently had multiple
sex partners in a venue where there was known to be monkeypox or in an
area where monkeypox is spreading.

In the coming weeks, HHS expects to receive an additional 240,000
vaccines, which will be made available to a broader population of
individuals at risk. HHS will hold another 60,000 vaccines in reserve.

As additional doses are received from the manufacturer, HHS will make
them available to jurisdictions to expand availability to the vaccine
for individuals with elevated risk. HHS is increasing the availability
of doses by leveraging its long-standing partnership with the
manufacturer of JYNNEOS to expand vaccine supply and by accelerating
completion and shipment of doses to the United States.  HHS expects more
than 750,000 doses to be made available over the summer. An additional
500,000 doses will undergo completion, inspection, and release
throughout the fall, totaling 1.6 million doses available this year.

To supplement the supply of JYNNEOS, states and territories may also
request a second vaccine,
[ACAM2000](https://www.fda.gov/vaccines-blood-biologics/vaccines/acam2000).
ACAM2000 is FDA-approved for protection against smallpox, caused by the
variola virus. ACAM2000 is also believed to confer protection against
monkeypox, and is available under an expanded access investigational new
drug protocol sponsored by CDC for vaccination of individuals at risk of
monkeypox infection. However, ACAM2000 [carries greater risk of certain
serious side
effects](https://www.fda.gov/vaccines-blood-biologics/vaccines/acam2000-smallpox-vaccine-questions-and-answers)
than JYNNEOS and cannot be provided to individuals who are
immunocompromised or who have heart disease. The CDC will work with
state, territorial, and local health departments requesting the ACAM2000
vaccine to ensure that individuals are fully informed on the benefits
and the risks before receiving the vaccine.

HHS will work closely with local and state partners and health providers
to continuously evolve and strengthen its vaccine strategy to ensure
that vaccines are being made available to communities most at risk and
where transmission has been highest.

**<u>The Administration is expanding testing supply and
availability.</u>**

Last week, CDC began shipping its FDA-cleared orthopox test to five
major commercial laboratory companies to rapidly increase monkeypox
testing access across the country. This action will dramatically expand
testing capacity nationwide and convenience for patients and health care
providers. These laboratories will begin to come on board for testing in
early July and increase capacity through the month.

This expansion reflects the latest, most significant increase in testing
accessibility, building on the capacities already available within the
Laboratory Response Network (LRN). CDC has worked with the LRN to
increase public health testing capacity by more than 50% since the start
of the outbreak, increasing testing capacity from 6,000 tests per week
to approximately 10,000 test per week. This network continues to provide
spare testing capacity to jurisdictions across the country. CDC is
working with state, territorial, and local health departments to make
the monkeypox testing process more accessible to health care providers.

To further expand access to testing early in the outbreak, CDC published
its protocol from their [FDA-cleared
test](https://www.cdc.gov/poxvirus/monkeypox/lab-personnel/lab-procedures.html)
on June 9, 2022 for any laboratory to test for monkeypox. The FDA is
exercising enforcement discretion regarding CDC’s tests, which permits
the use of tests beyond the current network. FDA has also authorized the
use of additional reagents and automation to increase the capacity of
laboratories using the CDC test.

Since the start of the monkeypox outbreak, the number of days from
average symptom onset to test has decreased by approximately 35%,
enabling patients to more quickly learn their diagnosis, access care,
and prevent spread to others. The expansion of testing aims to
facilitate further reductions in the gap between symptom onset and test
result, maximizing access to treatment and vaccines for patients and
high-risk contacts early in the course of disease.

**<u>The Administration has launched a robust community and stakeholder
engagement strategy.</u>**

The most effective response to infectious disease outbreaks is a
community-based response. The Biden-Harris Administration is
communicating with healthcare providers, public health officials, and
communities on a daily basis to raise awareness of the monkeypox
outbreak and educate the public and local and community leaders about
what the virus is, how it is transmitted, and which populations are most
at risk of the virus. As part of its robust engagement strategy, the
Administration is facilitating access to vaccines, treatments, and
tests. The Administration will also continue to engage directly with
leaders and stakeholders in the LGBTQI+ community to work together to
prevent and combat stigma and bias, and promote testing and vaccine
access and health equity for LGBTQI+ communities. Through its
comprehensive stakeholder engagement strategy, the Administration is
also creating a critical feedback loop – learning from the experiences
of those most at risk and responding based on their insights and needs.

HHS has provided a range of public health information to inform
providers and high-risk communities, including:

-   Updating and expanding the monkeypox case definition by June
    1<sup>st</sup> to encourage health care providers to consider
    testing for all rashes with clinical suspicion for monkeypox;
-   Releasing emergency information on May 20<sup>th</sup> and June
    14<sup>th</sup> covering clinical testing, treatment, contact
    tracing, and other topics to health providers, sexual and community
    health centers, and public health officials across the nation;
-   Providing over 570 case consultations to healthcare providers and
    health departments;
-   Clarifying how to transport and dispose of medical waste that
    allowed healthcare facilities and waste management companies to
    operate confidently and safely; and,
-   Regularly speaking with global, community, clinical, and public
    health stakeholders to solve challenges and answer questions.

HHS and CDC will continue to engage with the public and communities most
impacted and at risk on a daily basis throughout the response.

**<u>The Administration is leading efforts to combat monkeypox
globally</u>**

There is no domestic-only response to a global outbreak. The
Biden-Harris Administration is committed to combatting monkeypox in the
United States and around the world, including in countries where it has
been historically endemic. The United States has also supported
international efforts to combat monkeypox in endemic countries for
years, including in Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The Biden-Harris Administration is dedicated to assisting endemic and
non-endemic countries combat their outbreaks and is exploring options to
further support the international response.

The Administration is also developing key U.S. monkeypox research and
evidence priorities, led by the White House Office of Science and
Technology Policy, to drive efforts to improve our arsenal of medical
countermeasures, strengthen real-time monitoring, enhance our
understanding of the monkeypox virus, and energize the broader U.S. and
global scientific community around urgent monkeypox research and
evidence challenges.

The Biden Administration has been responding to the outbreak since the
first domestic case was identified with urgency, humility, and
transparency, adapting our approach as we learn more about how this
virus is spreading. It will continue to ensure a whole-of-government
response to the monkeypox outbreak moving forward, and will lead the
government in adapting our response as the situation develops.

To learn more about monkeypox, signs and symptoms, treatments, and
prevention, please visit the CDC page
[here.](https://www.cdc.gov/poxvirus/monkeypox/index.html)
