---
date: '2022-06-27'
modified_time: 2022-06-27 06:25:42-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-27 06:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/27/joint-statement-by-president-biden-and-president-von-der-leyen-on-european-energy-security/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement by President\_Biden and President von der Leyen on European\
  \ Energy\_Security"
---
 
Following the further invasion of Ukraine, Russia continues to use
natural gas as a political and economic weapon.  Russia’s energy
coercion has put pressure on energy markets, raised prices for
consumers, and threatened global energy security. This was most recently
demonstrated by the politically motivated acute disruptions of gas
supplies to several European Union Member States. These actions only
underscore the importance of the work both the United States and the
European Commission are doing to end our reliance on Russian energy. We
are also working together to find ways to further reduce Russia’s
energy-derived revenues in the coming months to further curtail Russia’s
ability to fund its unprovoked war in Ukraine. These actions are
important, necessary, and immediate steps we can take, but we also
recognize the enormity of the challenge is significant. To meet the
challenge and support Europe’s efforts, we established on 25 March 2022
the Task Force on European Energy Security. Since then the United States
and the European Commission have made important strides towards reducing
the European Union’s dependence on Russian fossil fuels by decreasing
natural gas demand, cooperating on energy efficiency technologies, and
diversifying energy supplies. The United States and the European
Commission are also taking decisive action to reduce overall demand for
fossil fuels in line with the Paris Agreement and our shared goal of net
zero emissions no later than 2050. 

The Task Force has met regularly to discuss options to reduce Europe’s
demand for natural gas and has also met with key stakeholders to promote
the deployment of heat pumps, smart thermostats, and energy demand
response solutions.  We will encourage Member States and European and
U.S. companies to reach an initial goal of deploying at least 1.5
million energy saving smart thermostats in European households this
year.  In the coming days we will reconvene with Member States and
stakeholders to discuss actionable policy recommendations to accelerate
smart thermostat and heat pump deployment and production in an effort to
ensure supply for key energy efficiency solutions are ramping to meet
the growing demand. 

We are also partnering to diversify energy supplies to Europe. While
Russia has cut supplies of natural gas to several EU Member States, the
United States and other producers have stepped up.  Since March, global
LNG exports to Europe have risen by 75 percent compared to 2021, while
U.S. LNG exports to Europe have nearly tripled.  To facilitate these
efforts, the European Commission and Member States, in line with a
mandate given by the European Council in March 2022, established the EU
Energy Platform to coordinate measures to secure reliable and
diversified energy supplies for the EU, including through the voluntary
common purchase of pipeline gas, LNG, and hydrogen. The Commission has
also established the first Regional Energy Platform for South East
Europe to support gas diversification of the region traditionally
dependent on Russian supplies. The United States is a key partner for
the sustainable diversification of gas supplies to this region and other
acutely impacted EU Member States, including by supporting demand
reduction and accelerating clean technologies. 

Mindful of the environmental impact of LNG production and consumption,
the United States and the European Commission will step up their
cooperation to reduce methane emissions, to ensure that EU-U.S. LNG
trade is aligned with the scope of an internationally accepted
measurement, reporting and verification standard for methane emissions
while working to reduce venting and flaring in natural gas production,
and methane leakage in the transmission and LNG supply chain. We will
also continue our cooperation on reduction of methane emissions
globally. Most recently, the joint launch with 11 other countries of the
Global Methane Pledge Energy Pathway will advance both climate progress
and energy security internationally.

\###
