---
date: '2022-06-17'
modified_time: 2022-06-18 13:38:37-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-17 06:40:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/17/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-galvanize-global-action-to-strengthen-energy-security-and-tackle-the-climate-crisis-through-the-major-economies-forum-on-energy-and-climate/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:\_ President\_Biden to Galvanize Global Action to Strengthen Energy-Security\
  \ and Tackle the Climate Crisis through the Major Economies Forum on Energy and\_\
  Climate"
---
 
President Biden today will reconvene leaders of the Major Economies
Forum on Energy and Climate (MEF) to galvanize actions that will
strengthen energy security, enhance the resilience of global food
security, and tackle the climate crisis.  These actions are all the more
urgent following Russia’s further invasion of Ukraine, which has
disrupted energy markets, strained economies with rising prices, and
threatened vulnerable countries with severe food shortages. 

At today’s meeting, President Biden’s third MEF convening since taking
office, world leaders will raise ambition and, following U. S.
leadership, join new efforts and initiatives aimed at tackling the
climate crisis while advancing energy security and food security,
including:

-   **Global Methane Pledge Energy Pathway**: Tackling methane leaks,
    venting, and flaring from the oil and gas sector by capturing wasted
    gas and bringing it to market — bolstering our energy security and
    climate goals;
-   **Collective 2030 Zero-Emission Vehicle Goal** and **Green Shipping
    Challenge**: Putting more zero-emission vehicles on the road and
    decarbonizing ocean-based shipping — reducing emissions in the
    transport sector while breaking our dependence on volatile oil
    markets and prices;
-   **Clean Energy Technologies Demonstration Challenge**: Speeding the
    commercialization of new technologies — enabling us to break
    dependence on other unabated, volatile fossil fuels and advance the
    clean energy transition; and
-   **Efforts to Enhance Food Security**: Increasing fertilizer
    efficiency and alternatives — reducing agriculture emissions while
    bolstering global food security.

The major economies that compose the MEF together account for roughly 80
percent of global GDP and global greenhouse gas emissions.  Leader-level
MEF meetings convened by President Biden in April and September 2021
contributed to the progress achieved at the United Nations Climate
Change Conference in Glasgow (COP 26), where new commitments and
initiatives brought the world much closer to keeping a 1.5-degree
Celsius limit on warming within reach.

The MEF meeting will continue President Biden’s consistent engagement
with leaders since Glasgow to further accelerate climate action,
including at the recent meeting of the Quad, the U.S.-ASEAN Special
Summit, the launch of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for
Prosperity, and this month’s Summit of the Americas.

Citing a recent round of international scientific assessments urgently
underscoring the narrowing window for decisive action, President Biden
will urge leaders to step up their climate efforts and to achieve
further progress at COP 27 this November in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt.  He
will emphasize that the market disruptions triggered by the Ukraine
crisis underscore the urgency of accelerating the clean energy
transition — to alleviate both climate and energy security risks — and
enhancing the resilience of the global food system.

To this end, several countries are expected to announce new 2030
emission targets as part of their nationally determined contributions
(NDCs) under the Paris Agreement, with many intending to strengthen
their existing 2030 NDC targets before COP 27.  Leaders will also join
collective efforts launched by President Biden across the energy,
transportation and agriculture sectors, as described below.

The President will underscore that as we come together to reduce
emissions, we must also continue to drive progress on adaptation.  To
this end, President Biden and Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi
will announce that the United States and Egypt will partner on an
Adaptation in Africa event, focusing on tangible steps to improve
people’s lives and build climate resilience.

**<u>GLOBAL METHANE PLEDGE ENERGY PATHWAY:</u>**

*Increasing Energy Security and Reducing Near-Term Warming by Capturing
Flared, Vented, and Leaked Methane in the Oil and Gas Sector*

Every year, the world flares, vents, or leaks an amount of natural gas
equivalent to over one-third of Russia’s annual gas production.  At the
same time, the International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that nearly
half of the oil and gas sector’s methane emissions can be captured and
utilized at no net cost.  Methane emissions account for nearly half of
net warming to date, and rapidly reducing them is the most effective
strategy to avoid near-term warming.  Stronger action in the oil and gas
sector is the fastest and most cost-effective way to cut global methane
emissions, with the potential to avoid nearly 0.1-degree C of warming by
mid-century—equivalent to eliminating the greenhouse gas emissions of
the entire road transport sector.  These steps have the dual benefit of
increasing global gas supplies from existing production, simply by
capturing gas that is otherwise wasted and bringing it to market. 

At the September 2021 MEF meeting, the United States and the European
Union invited other countries to join them at COP 26 in launching the
Global Methane Pledge (GMP) to reduce global anthropogenic methane
emissions at least 30 percent below 2020 levels by 2030.  And today,
building on the success of the GMP, the United States and the European
Union invited countries to join the new GMP Energy Pathway, to advance
global progress on climate and energy security.  The GMP Energy Pathway
aims to encourage all nations to capture the maximum potential of
cost-effective methane mitigation in the oil and gas sector, and to
eliminate routine flaring as soon as possible, and no later than 2030. 
Participating countries commit to support these efforts by providing new
technical and financial resources and/or by enhancing domestic project
and policy action.  The initiative will bring together some of the most
significant global gas producers and consumers in the world.  To support
the GMP Energy Pathway, the United States will provide $3.5 million in
technical assistance through the Global Methane Initiative, and intends
to support a transfer of at least $1.5 million remaining in the Pilot
Auction Facility to the World Bank Global Gas Flaring Reduction
Partnership.

Domestically, the U.S. is continuing its progress in reducing oil and
gas methane emissions across the value chain, supporting American gas
companies in cutting emissions and saving consumer costs.  Building upon
the new source performance standards and emissions guidelines proposed
in November 2021, the Environmental Protection Agency will issue a
supplemental proposed rule for public comment in 2022 to reduce methane
and other air emissions from new and existing oil and gas facilities. 
The Department of Interior is evaluating new regulations to reduce the
wasteful flaring and venting of gas produced on public lands.  The
Department of Transportation is developing a comprehensive set of
safety-related regulations that aim to reduce methane emissions from gas
pipeline systems that stretch from production-related gathering lines,
through trunk line transmission pipelines, and into local distribution
pipelines.  In addition, new funding provided under the Bipartisan
Infrastructure law is enabling the Department of Transportation to spend
$1 billion on replacing unsafe and leaking gas distribution pipelines.

**<u>CLEAN ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES DEMONSTRATION CHALLENGE:</u>**

*Raising $90 Billion for High-Priority Demonstration Projects This
Decade*

Achieving net-zero emissions by 2050 requires developing and scaling
innovative clean technologies not yet commercially available.  The
IEA’s Net Zero by 2050 roadmap identifies at least $90 billion in public
investments needed by 2026 for large-scale clean energy technology
demonstration projects around the world to be completed this decade.
 Investing in the first several commercial-scale demonstrations of
transformative technologies during this decade will enable their
large-scale deployment to achieve global net-zero emissions by
midcentury in every sector of the economy, including heavy industry and
long-distance transport.  Targeted technologies could include, for
example, clean hydrogen, carbon dioxide removal, grid-scale energy
storage, industrial decarbonization and carbon capture, advanced
nuclear, advanced clean fuels, and next-generation offshore wind.  

At the MEF meeting, the President will challenge other countries to join
the United States in supporting a collective goal to reach the $90
billion in public investment recommended by the IEA.  These public
investments will leverage additional private investments and advance
innovative technologies already in demand by the world’s largest
companies through the First Movers Coalition launched by the United
States and the World Economic Forum.  The President will invite
interested countries to come prepared to announce specific investment
levels at the Global Clean Energy Action Forum that the United States is
hosting this September in Pittsburgh, along with preliminary action
plans identifying how they will deploy these technologies to promote an
inclusive and equitable transition.

Under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law signed by President Biden, the
United States is devoting $21.5 billion to high-priority clean
technology demonstration projects.  And just last week the President
invoked the Defense Production Act to boost manufacturing of
electrolyzers that will be used to produce clean hydrogen and the
Department of Energy recently issued a loan guarantee to construct one
of the world’s largest clean hydrogen storage facilities.

**<u>COLLECTIVE 2030 ZERO-EMISSION VEHICLE GOAL:</u>**

*Reducing Emissions and Dependence on Volatile Oil Markets by
Accelerating Zero-Emission Vehicle Deployment*

Achieving net zero will require a profound transformation of other
sectors, including transportation.  To keep a 1.5 C limit within reach,
the global market share of zero-emission vehicles (ZEVs) must reach at
least 50 percent of new light-duty vehicle sales by 2030.  In some
advanced economies, transportation is the single-largest emitting sector
and vehicle purchases are causing rapid emissions growth in many
developing economies.

Accelerating the deployment of ZEVs will also have the additional
benefit of reduced oil dependence — enhancing energy security and
insulating economies from price volatility driven by geopolitical and
other supply disruptions.  Accelerated ZEV deployment will also improve
public health by reducing emissions of conventional pollutants.

With the support of automakers, labor, and states, President Biden
earlier this year set a goal of ZEVs – including battery electric, fuel
cell electric, and plug-in hybrid vehicles – achieving 50 percent of all
new light-duty U.S. vehicle sales in 2030.  At the MEF, the President
will invite participants to join the United States in a collective goal
of 50 percent ZEVs by 2030.  By accelerating action in key markets, this
collective goal will help speed a fully global transformation of the
automotive sector.  Other countries are invited to join the ZEV
deployment goal on the road to COP 27.

To advance this goal in the United States, the Environmental Protection
Agency and Department of Transportation have, working closely together,
finalized stronger vehicle standards through 2026 and are now
considering ambitious standards to at least 2030.  The Biden
Administration is also implementing the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to
deploy $7.5 billion in funding for a national network of electric
vehicle chargers and more than $7 billion to build a strong domestic
battery supply chain and create high-quality jobs.

**<u>GREEN SHIPPING CHALLENGE:</u>**

*Catalyzing Action This Decade to Decarbonize Ocean-Based Shipping*

Emissions from the shipping sector are significant, rising, and on a
trajectory incompatible with the goals of the Paris Agreement.  If
shipping were a “country,” it would be the world’s eighth-largest
emitter.  At COP 26, many countries, recognizing the urgency of reducing
emissions from the shipping sector, joined the Declaration on Zero
Emission Shipping by 2050 and the Clydebank Declaration supporting the
establishment of green shipping corridors.  The United States also
announced in 2021 that it is co-leading the Zero-Emission Shipping
research Mission in Mission Innovation together with Norway and Denmark.
 Further efforts on shipping decarbonization followed at the recent Our
Ocean Conference co-hosted by the United States and Palau.

To build on these efforts, the United States and Norway will announce
the launch of a Green Shipping Challenge for COP 27.  This initiative
encourages governments, ports, maritime carriers, cargo owners, and
others in the shipping value chain to come forward with concrete steps
that will help put the international shipping sector on a credible
pathway this decade toward full decarbonization no later than 2050. 
These could include, for example, steps to produce zero-emission fuels;
develop zero-emission bunkering and recharging capabilities; deploy low-
or zero-emission vessels; and create, or provide financial and technical
support for, green shipping corridors.  President Biden will invite
leaders to express their support for the Green Shipping Challenge and to
announce specific actions under the initiative at COP 27.

**<u>GLOBAL FERTILIZER CHALLENGE:</u>**

*Strengthening Food Security and Reducing Agriculture Emissions by
Advancing Fertilizer Efficiency and Alternatives *

Russia’s further invasion of Ukraine has shocked the global food system,
showing just how vulnerable it is to disruption.  Wheat and fertilizer
prices have increased more than 40 percent in some regions, exacerbating
food insecurity concerns globally.  Even before the invasion, food and
fertilizer prices were rising as a result of the combined effects of the
COVID-19 pandemic, climate-related impacts, armed conflicts, and low
supply-chain resilience.  Climate-driven food security shocks will
continue to cause food scarcity and suffering if steps are not taken to
increase food system resilience. 

Inability to access fertilizer hampers agricultural productivity in many
low-income countries, while in most major economies, more than 50
percent of fertilizers do not reach the intended crop.  A 10 percent
reduction in global fertilizer loss and waste would free up more than
the total amount of mineral fertilizer used by all African countries.
 In addition, nitrogen fertilizer production consumes up to 4 percent of
global natural gas supply; increasing fertilizer efficiency in the short
term and transitioning to more affordable alternatives in the medium
term will reduce natural gas dependence.  Steps to increase the adoption
of innovative, alternative, and efficient fertilizer and cropping
practices will alleviate pressure on fertilizer and natural gas
supplies, increase fertilizer availability, lower nitrous oxide
emissions, and reduce food insecurity globally.  

In recent months, as part of a continuing effort to add resilience to
the agriculture and food supply chains, the United States has
established a $500 million program to support innovative and sustainable
U.S. fertilizer production and has strengthened support to farmers for
the use of precision agriculture and other techniques to improve
fertilizer use efficiency.

To spur broader efforts, President Biden will invite countries to join
the United States in launching the Global Fertilizer Challenge with the
goal of raising $100 million in new funding by COP 27.  The Global
Fertilizer Challenge will support innovative research, demonstrations,
and training to help countries with high fertilizer usage and loss adopt
efficient nutrient management and alternative fertilizers and cropping
systems.  It will be implemented in partnership with the Agriculture
Innovation Mission for Climate, which now has over 200 government and
non-government partners.

\###
