---
date: '2022-06-28'
modified_time: 2022-06-28 05:30:32-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-28 05:30:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/28/fact-sheet-the-united-states-continues-to-strengthen-cooperation-with-g7-on-21st-century-challenges-including-those-posed-by-the-peoples-republic-of-china-prc/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The United\_States\_Continues to Strengthen Cooperation with\_\
  G7\_on 21st\_Century Challenges, including those Posed by\_the People\u2019s Republic\
  \ of China\_(PRC)"
---
 
Today President Biden met with G7 leaders to strengthen our cooperation
on economic issues, cyberspace and quantum, and other
21<sup>st</sup> century challenges, including those posed by China to
our workers, companies, and national security. The G7, representing over
50% of the world economy, is demonstrating that it is among the most
potent institutions in the world today, with like-minded democracies
solving problems.  

**Committing to a unified approach to confront China’s unfair economic
practices:**  The G7 will release collective, unprecedented language
acknowledging the harms caused by the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC)
non-transparent, market-distorting industrial directives. They will
commit to working together to develop a coordinated approach to remedy
the PRC’s non-market policies and practices to ensure a level playing
field for businesses and workers. 

**Elevating supply chain resilience:** The G7 will share insights and
best practices to identify, monitor, and minimize vulnerabilities and
logistic bottlenecks in advance of supply chain shocks, as well as
coordinate on long-term risk that undermine global security and
stability. The G7 will make a commitment to intensify development
of responsible, sustainable, and transparent critical minerals supply
chains and establish a forward strategy that takes into account
processing, refining and recycling.

**Cooperating on Cyber and Quantum Technology:** The G7 will make a
commitment to intensify and elevate our cyber cooperation; working with
our close partners to achieveaccountability and increasing stability and
security in cyberspace. The G7 will also commit to new cooperation to
deploy quantum resistant cryptography with the goal of ensuring secure
interoperability between ICT systems and fostering growth in the digital
economy.

**Advancing Trade and Technology Council standards for democratic,
market-oriented approaches to trade:** The G7 will include a commitment
to standards in technology, trade and innovation that represent our
values as G7 partners compete with China. Through fora, such as
the U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council, we will demonstrate to the
world how democratic and market-oriented approaches to trade,
technology, and innovation can improve the lives of our citizens and be
a force for greater prosperity.  

**Improving the multilateral framework for debt restructuring:** The G7
will underscore its commitment to successfully implementing the G20
Common Framework for Debt Treatments beyond the Debt Service Suspension
Initiative. The G7 will urge all relevant creditors, including non-Paris
Club countries – such as China – and private creditors, to contribute
constructively to the necessary debt treatments as requested. The G7
will also reaffirm its commitment to promoting transparency across all
debtors and creditors for improved debt sustainability.

**Committing to tackle forced labor and upholding human rights:**  The
G7 will condemn a range of human rights abuses occurring globally,
including abuses linked to Russia’s further invasion of
Ukraine, the PRC’s repression in Xinjiang and Tibet,the military coup in
Burma, and ongoing suppression of freedom in Iran.  The
G7 will also commitd to accelerate progress to tackle forced labor, with
the goal of removing all forms of forced labor from global supply
chains, including state-sponsored forced labor, such as in Xinjiang. G7
countries committed to take further measures to strengthen cooperation,
including through increased transparency and business risk advisories,
and other measures to address forced labor globally.As one important
example of action to combat forced labor in the PRC, the United States
is implementing the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, which President
Biden signed into law in December 2021.  

**Reaffirming the Importance of Democratic Resilience:**  The G7
Leaders – along with the leaders of Argentina, India, Indonesia,
Senegal, and South Africa
– released a [statement](https://www.g7germany.de/resource/blob/974430/2057608/61edf594f5ca30fb7b2ae4b79d16f1e6/2022-06-27-g7-resilient-democracies-statement-data.pdf?download=1) on
Democratic Resilience, affirming the importance of strengthening
resilience to authoritarian threats within our own democracies and
around the world. This Statement will amplify the shared democratic
values across G7 countries; condemn Russia’s invasion of Ukraine as an
attack on democracy; affirm the importance of civil society and
independent media; and outline how G7 members will strengthen actions in
response to rising foreign threats related to illicit finance and
corruption, foreign malign influence, and transnational repression.

\###
