---
date: '2022-06-27'
published_time: 2022-06-27 17:14:04-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/27/president-biden-to-award-medal-of-honor/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden to Award Medal of\_Honor"
---
 
On July 5, 2022, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. will award the Medal of
Honor to four U.S. Army Soldiers who fought in the Vietnam War:  Staff
Sergeant Edward N. Kaneshiro (posthumous), Specialist Five Dwight W.
Birdwell, Specialist Five Dennis M. Fujii, and retired Major John J.
Duffy.      
  
Staff Sergeant Edward N. Kaneshiro will receive the Medal of Honor
posthumously for acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the
call of duty while serving as an infantry squad leader with Troop C, 1st
Squadron, 9th Cavalry, 1st Cavalry Division, near Phu Huu 2, Kim Son
Valley, Republic of Vietnam, on Dec. 1, 1966.  Staff Sergeant Kaneshiro
and his team entered the village of Phu Huu 2 while on a search and
destroy mission and were attacked by North Vietnamese.  Staff Sergeant
Kaneshiro destroyed one enemy group with rifle fire and two others with
grenades, which enabled the orderly extrication and reorganization of
the platoon and ultimately led to a successful withdrawal from the
village.  He served in Vietnam between July 18, 1966, until his death on
March 6, 1967, as a result of a hostile gunshot wound.  
  
Specialist Five Dwight W. Birdwell will receive the Medal of Honor for
acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty
while serving with Troop C, 3rd Squadron, 4th Cavalry, 25th Infantry
Division, in the Republic of Vietnam on January 31, 1968.  That day, a
large enemy element initiated an assault on the Tan Son Nhut Airbase
near Saigon.  They disabled or destroyed many of the unit’s vehicles and
incapacitated Specialist Five Birdwell’s tank commander.  Under heavy
enemy small-arms fire, Specialist Five Birdwell moved the tank commander
to safety and fired the tank’s weapons at the enemy force.  Afterwards,
he dismounted and continued fighting until receiving enemy fire to his
face and torso.  He refused evacuation and led a small group of
defenders to disrupt the enemy assault until reinforcements arrived.  He
then aided in evacuating the wounded until he was ordered to seek
attention for his own wounds.  He was honorably discharged on December
29, 1968, and today practices law in Oklahoma City.  
  
Specialist Five Dennis M. Fujii will receive the Medal of Honor for acts
of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty while
serving as crew chief aboard a helicopter ambulance during rescue
operations in Laos and the Republic of Vietnam from February 18 – 22,
1971.  During a mission to evacuate seriously wounded Vietnamese
military personnel, Specialist Five Fujii’s medevac helicopter took on
enemy fire and was forced to crash land.  Although injured, he waved off
a rescue from another helicopter and remained behind as the only
American on the battlefield.  During that night and the next day,
although wounded, he administered first aid to allied casualties. On the
night of February 19, he called in American helicopter gunships to
assist in repelling an enemy attack.  For more than 17 hours, he
repeatedly exposed himself to hostile fire as he left the security of
his entrenchment to better observe enemy troop positions and to direct
air strikes against them until an American helicopter could attempt to
airlift him from the area.  Upon completion of his tour, he joined the
Army Reserve and today resides in Hawaii.  
  
Major John J. Duffy will receive the Medal of Honor for acts of
gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty while
serving as the senior advisor to the 11th Airborne Battalion, 2nd
Brigade, Airborne Division, Army of the Republic of Vietnam, from April
14 – 15, 1972.  Two days earlier, the commander of the 11th Airborne
Battalion had been killed, the battalion command post destroyed, and
Major Duffy was twice wounded.  He refused to be evacuated.  In the
morning hours of April 14, after a failed effort to establish a landing
zone for resupply aircraft, he moved close to enemy anti-aircraft
positions to call in airstrikes and was wounded again, but still refused
evacuation.  In the late afternoon, the enemy began a ground assault
from all sides, and Major Duffy moved from position to position to
adjust fire, spot targets for artillery and direct gunship fire.  In the
early morning of April 15, after an enemy ambush, he led evacuees, many
of whom were seriously wounded, to an evacuation area, where he directed
gunship fire on enemy positions and marked a landing zone for the
helicopters. Only after ensuring all evacuees were aboard, did he board
as well, assisting a wounded friendly foreign soldier and administering
aid to a wounded helicopter door gunner. Major Duffy’s service included
three tours in Vietnam in a myriad of Special Forces assignments.  He
retired from the Army on May 31, 1977, and currently lives in Santa
Cruz, California.    
  
**ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE MEDAL OF HONOR**:  
  
The Medal of Honor is awarded to members of the armed forces who
distinguish themselves conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the
risk of their own lives above and beyond the call of duty while:

-   engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States;
-   engaged in military operations involving conflict with an opposing
    foreign force; or
-   serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in an armed conflict
    against an opposing armed force in which the United States is not a
    belligerent party.

The meritorious conduct must involve great personal bravery or
self-sacrifice so conspicuous as to clearly distinguish the individual
above his or her comrades and must have involved risk of life.  There
must be incontestable proof of the performance of the meritorious
conduct, and each recommendation for the award must be considered on the
standard of extraordinary merit.
