---
date: '2022-06-06'
published_time: 2022-06-06 17:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/06/president-biden-announces-five-new-nominees-to-serve-as-u-s-attorneys-two-to-serve-as-u-s-marshals/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Five New Nominees to Serve as U.S. Attorneys, Two\
  \ to Serve as U.S.\_Marshals"
---
 
President Biden is announcing five new nominees to serve as U.S.
Attorneys across the country, as well as two new nominees to serve as
U.S. Marshals. These are officials who will be indispensable to
upholding the rule of law as top federal law enforcement officials.

These individuals were chosen for their devotion to enforcing the law,
their professionalism, their experience and credentials, their
dedication to pursuing equal justice for all, and their commitment to
the independence of the Department of Justice.

The President has proposed a budget that would significantly increase
funding for law enforcement as part of a comprehensive approach to
tackling the rising crime rate this administration inherited last year.

The President has also launched a comprehensive effort to take on the
uptick in gun crime that has been taking place since 2020—putting more
cops on the beat, supporting community prevention programs, and cracking
down on illegal gun trafficking. Confirming U.S. Attorneys as the chief
federal law enforcement officers in their district is important for
these efforts.

The President has now announced 53 nominees to serve as U.S. Attorneys,
and 11 nominees to serve as U.S. Marshals.

**<u>U.S. Attorney Announcements</u>**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Adair Ford Boroughs, United
States Attorney Nominee for the District of South Carolina</span>

Adair Ford Boroughs is a founding partner of Boroughs Bryant, LLC where
she has practiced since 2021. From 2017 to 2019, she was the Executive
Director of Charleston Legal Access. Ms. Boroughs served as a law clerk
for Judge Richard M. Gergel on the U.S. District Court for the District
of South Carolina from 2013 to 2017. She was previously a trial attorney
in the Tax Division of the United States Department of Justice from 2007
to 2013. Ms. Boroughs received her J.D. from Stanford Law School in 2007
and B.S., *summa cum laude*, from Furman University in 2002.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">E. Martin Estrada, United
States Attorney Nominee for the Central District of California</span>

E. Martin Estrada is a partner at Munger, Tolles, & Olson LLP where he
has practiced since 2014. He also served as an associate at the same
firm from 2004 to 2007.  Mr. Estrada previously served as an Assistant
United States Attorney in the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Central District of California from 2007 to 2014.  He served as a law
clerk for Judge Arthur L. Alarcón on the United States Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit from 2003 to 2004 and Judge Robert J. Timlin on
the United States District Court for the Central District of California
from 2002 to 2003. Mr. Estrada received his J.D. from Stanford
University, *with distinction,* in 2002 and B.A., *magna cum laude*,
from University of California, Irvine in 1998.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Gregory J. Haanstad, United
States Attorney Nominee for the Eastern District of Wisconsin</span>

Gregory J. Haanstad has served as an Assistant United States Attorney in
the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin since 2002. Mr. Haanstad was previously United States Attorney
for the Eastern District of Wisconsin from 2016 to 2018, and also served
as the Acting United States  Attorney for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin from 2015 to 2016. He served as a law clerk for Magistrate
Judge William E. Callahan, Jr., on the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Wisconsin from 2000 to 2002. Mr. Haanstad
received his J.D., *cum laude*, from the University of Wisconsin Law
School in 2000 and B.S. from the University of Wisconsin, La Crosse in
1995.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sopen B. Shah, United States
Attorney Nominee for the Western District of Wisconsin</span>

Sopen B. Shah is Counsel at Perkins Coie LLP where she has practiced
since 2019. Ms. Shah was previously a Deputy Solicitor General of
Wisconsin from 2017 to 2019. She served as a law clerk for Judge Debra
Ann Livingston on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from
2016 to 2017 and Judge Amul R. Thapar on the U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Kentucky from 2015 to 2016. Ms. Shah received her
J.D. from Yale Law School in 2015 and A.B., *magna cum laude*, from
Harvard College in 2008.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Natalie K. Wight, United States
Attorney Nominee for the District of Oregon</span>

Natalie K. Wight has served as an Assistant United States Attorney in
the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Oregon since
2012. She was previously an Assistant United States Attorney in the
United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California
from 2008 to 2012. Ms. Wight was an attorney at the Federal Bureau of
Prisons from 2003 to 2008. Ms. Wight received her J.D. from the
University of Notre Dame Law School in 2003, M.S. from California State
University in 2000, and B.S. from the College of Idaho in 1996. 

**<u>U.S. Marshal Announcements</u>**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Chrissie Latimore, United
States Marshal nominee for the District of South Carolina</span>

Chrissie C. Latimore has served as Chief of Police for the Laurens
Police Department since 2018. Chrissie C. Latimore has served as Chief
of Police for the Laurens Police Department since 2018. Chief Latimore
previously served as Assistant Chief of Police of the Laurens Police
Department from 2014 to 2018, and in various other roles with the
Department from 1999 to 2013. She was a Special Agent for the South
Carolina Law Enforcement Division from 2013 to 2014. Chief Latimore
received her M.S. from Anderson University in 2014, her B.S. from Lander
University in 2011, and her A.S. from Piedmont Technical College in
2007. Chief Latimore is a veteran of the United States Army and Army
Reserve. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Kirk Taylor, United States
Marshal nominee for the District of Colorado</span>

Kirk Taylor is the Sheriff of Pueblo County, Colorado where he has
served since 2007. He was previously an Investigator for the 10th
Judicial District Attorney’s Office in Pueblo, Colorado from 1994 to
2007. From 1987 to 1992 he was a patrolman for the Alamosa, Colorado
Police Department. Sheriff Taylor received his J.D. from University of
Colorado School of Law in 2002 and B.A. from University of Southern
Colorado in 1995. Sheriff Taylor is a veteran of the United States Navy.
