---
date: '2022-06-15'
modified_time: 2022-06-15 11:16:33-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-15 11:16:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/15/the-biden-harris-administration-celebrates-the-contributions-of-dreamers-on-ten-year-anniversary-of-daca/
tags: statements-releases
title: "The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Celebrates the Contributions of Dreamers\
  \ on Ten-Year Anniversary of\_DACA"
---
 
**By Betsy Lawrence**

On June 15, 2012, the Department of Homeland Security announced
the [Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)
policy](https://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/s1-exercising-prosecutorial-discretion-individuals-who-came-to-us-as-children.pdf),
which has allowed hundreds of thousands of noncitizens who were brought
to the United States as children to live, study, and work in our
communities—contributing to our economy and the future of our
country—without fear of removal.  Today, on the
10<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of DACA, the Biden-Harris Administration
celebrates the remarkable contributions of Dreamers and DACA recipients,
reaffirms its commitment to preserving this landmark policy, and calls
on Congress to pass legislation to provide lasting protections to
Dreamers.

**Economic Contributions and Educational Achievements of DACA
Recipients**

DACA has profoundly improved the lives and economic circumstances of
individual recipients and their families—and by extension, the
communities in which they live, and our country as a whole.  Since 2012,
approximately 825,000 individuals have been granted DACA. 

*DACA recipients have increased earning potential*.  According to
a [2021 study by the University of Texas at San
Antonio](https://www.utsa.edu/today/2021/10/story/study-daca-protection.html),
DACA beneficiaries experienced increases in college enrollment and
degree completions, as well as more professional job opportunities, as
compared to their non-DACA-eligible counterparts.  During the period of
2012 to 2016—

-   the number of DACA recipients with a Bachelor’s degree tripled;

<!-- -->

-   professional job attainment for DACA recipients grew by 34%; and
-   the incomes of DACA recipients more than doubled. 

The benefits of this increase in prosperity extend well beyond DACA
recipients and their families. [DACA households have significant
spending
power](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/the-demographic-and-economic-impacts-of-daca-recipients-fall-2021-edition/#:~:text=DACA%20has%20enabled%20recipients%20to,in%20their%20communities%20and%20nationwide.)—they
own more than 68,000 homes across the country, contribute $760 million
in mortgage payments and $2.5 billion in rental payments annually, and
pay $6.2 billion in federal taxes and $3.3 billion in state and local
taxes each year.

*DACA recipients enrich our lives and make us safer*.  Approximately
343,000 DACA recipients are [employed in industries deemed
essential](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/the-demographic-and-economic-impacts-of-daca-recipients-fall-2021-edition/) by
the Department of Homeland Security. This includes an estimated 20,000
educators in our nation’s schools and classrooms, 34,000 healthcare
workers, and 100,000 food supply chain workers who have worked
tirelessly to support and sustain us during the COVID-19 pandemic.  

*DACA strengthens American families*. With the peace of mind that comes
with protection from removal, DACA keeps families together.  An
estimated 300,000 U.S. citizen children have at least one parent with
DACA, and [roughly three-fourths of DACA recipients have a U.S. citizen
child, sibling, spouse, or
parent](https://americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/DACA-Survey-20201.pdf?_ga=2.16623926.1462940483.1654022316-1443532221.1653581699).  

**Economic Benefits of Permanent Protections for Dreamers**

Of the 825,000 noncitizens who have been granted DACA since
2012, [76,000 have since become lawful permanent residents (green card
holders)](https://sgp.fas.org/crs/homesec/R46764.pdf) and
approximately [4,000 have gone on to become naturalized U.S.
citizens](https://sgp.fas.org/crs/homesec/R46764.pdf).  While
strengthening and fortifying DACA is essential, providing permanent
protections to Dreamers and others will generate even more economic
value for the country.

At a time when American employers are struggling to find workers in
critical industries, providing an opportunity for DACA recipients and
Dreamers to obtain lawful status will increase the [effective labor
supply and boost economic
growth](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2021/09/17/the-economic-benefits-of-extending-permanent-legal-status-to-unauthorized-immigrants/).
Permanent protections would allow this population to contribute
indefinitely to the economy in sectors that are heavily reliant on
immigrant workers, such as [agriculture, construction, and leisure and
hospitality](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2021/09/17/the-economic-benefits-of-extending-permanent-legal-status-to-unauthorized-immigrants/),
while also providing increased job mobility and better employment
options with long term trajectories for growth.  Studies show that new
permanent residents have greater productivity than their undocumented
counterparts and generate increased [tax
revenues](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2021/09/17/the-economic-benefits-of-extending-permanent-legal-status-to-unauthorized-immigrants/). 

**Conclusion**

DACA recipients enrich our nation with their deep community ties,
exceptional talents, and work ethic.  On Day Oneof this Administration,
President Biden directed the Department of Homeland Security and the
Department of Justice to take [all appropriate actions to “preserve and
fortify”
DACA](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/preserving-and-fortifying-deferred-action-for-childhood-arrivals-daca/).  The
Biden Administration has worked vigorously to defend DACA in court and
is working expeditiously on a rule to codify and preserve the
policy.  Ultimately, however, only Congress can provide the permanent
relief that Dreamers need and that our country deserves.   

Unfortunately, for more than two decades, efforts to pass legislation
providing a durable solution for Dreamers have failed.  It was 2001 when
Senators Durbin and Hatch introduced the first bipartisan Dream Act,
offering conditional residency and a path to permanent residence to
undocumented immigrants who entered the United States as children. In
March 2021, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6, the American
Dream and Promise Act, introduced by Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, with
bipartisan support.  On the ten-year anniversary of DACA, the
Biden-Harris Administration celebrates DACA recipients and again calls
on Congress to pass legislation to protect and honor Dreamers who make
our country stronger.  

\###
