---
date: '2022-06-23'
modified_time: 2022-06-24 08:57:16-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-23 08:07:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/23/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-council-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:46 P.M. EDT

Q    Hi, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  Good afternoon, everybody.  So today we have —
John Kirby has joined us.  And he’s going to talk — talk to us a little
bit, talk to you all a little bit about the trip, give a preview of the
trip, G7 and NATO — the President, as you all know, is leaving on
Saturday for five days — and give a little bit of an update on the PDA,
right?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yes, ma’am.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Our next security assistance to Ukraine. 

Okay.  All yours, Kirby.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you.  Okay, just off the top here, I think today you
saw that the United States announced another additional $450 million
worth of security assistance to Ukraine as part of our commitment to
help Ukraine defend its democracy in the face of unprovoked Russian
aggression.  
  
This package contains weapons and equipment, including new High Mobility
Artillery Rocket Systems, tens of thousands of additional rounds of
ammunition for the artillery systems that have already been provided as
well, and patrol boats to help Ukraine defend its coast and its
waterways.  
  
Now, this is the 13th time that President Biden has authorized a
Presidential Drawdown package during this crisis, bringing the total
amount of security assistance that we provided to Ukraine to
approximately $6.1 billion just since February 24th; approximately $6.8
billion since the beginning of this administration.  
  
As President Biden told President Zelenskyy when they spoke last week,
the United States will continue to bolster Ukraine’s defenses and
support its sovereignty and its territorial integrity.  
  
The bravery and determination of the Ukrainian armed forces, let alone
their fellow citizens, continues to inspire the world.  And we are
committed to standing with them as they fight for their freedom.  
  
Now, this announcement comes just before the President’s trip, leaving
Saturday for Europe, at a watershed moment in transatlantic solidarity
in the post-Cold War era, not just for European security, but for an
alignment like we’ve never seen before in how we confront some of the
biggest challenges of our time.  And not all of those challenges are
driven by borders.  
  
Throughout the G7 Summit in Germany and NATO Summit in Spain, you’re
going to see clearly how the President’s day-one focus on revitalizing
alliances and partnership — partnerships has allowed us to seize this
moment to benefit the American people, support Ukraine, and hold Russia
accountable, all while staying focused on the other challenges that
define the coming decades, and that includes the challenges posed by
China.  
  
The President will be conducting in-person, face-to-face diplomacy with
a diverse range of leaders and international organizations throughout
this trip.  
  
He knows — he knows better than most that there’s no substitute for that
kind of personal engagement.  You don’t surge trust, you got to build
it.  
  
In Germany, the President will meet with Chancellor Scholz, who holds
the G7 presidency, to continue close coordination on the G7 agenda and
the core priorities we will advance together in the coming days.  
  
Some of these priorities include new commitments to further isolate
Russia from the global economy, target the Russian defense supply chain,
and continue cracking down on the evasion of these unprecedented
sanctions.

Because of our actions, Russia is struggling to make bond payments,
edging closer to default.  And our measures will only tighten the screws
and restrict revenue Mr. Putin needs to fund this war.  
  
You will also see new commitments on managing the impact that Putin’s
war has already had on energy and food prices.  
  
All this is in keeping with the principles President Biden outlined
before Russia’s further invasion of Ukraine, and that is that we will
work together to ensure Ukraine can defend itself on the battlefield and
be in the strongest possible position at the negotiating table as we
maximize the cost of Putin and his enablers and minimize the impact of
his war on the U.S. and our allies.  
  
You also see the G7 come together on some of the key challenges posed by
China, as I said.  
  
And last but not least, President Biden will formally launch the Global
Infrastructure Partnership that G7 leaders agreed to explore last year
to offer a positive alternative to infrastructure models that sell debt
traps to low- and middle-income partner countries and advance U.S.
economic competitiveness on our national security.  
  
These lines of effort at the G7 will build on the work we’ve done over
the past year to drive the global economic recovery and serve as a
leader in imposing significant and swift costs on Russia for its war.  
  
We’ve heard for years now people talking about how the G7 was becoming a
spent force.  But President Biden’s leadership and this pivotal
inflection point have buried that storyline.  
  
The G7 is among the most potent institutions in the world today, with
like-minded democracies solving problems.  
  
Now, after the G7, the President will meet with President Sánchez and
the King and Queen in Spain.  Spain, as you know, is hosting the NATO
Summit.  
  
At the NATO Summit, leaders will announce new force posture commitments
to strengthen NATO’s defense and deterrent posture.  The U.S. will
announce steps to strengthen European security, alongside expected major
new contributions from Allies.  
  
And for the first time, the summit will include Indo-Pacific leaders
from Australia, Japan, New Zealand, and the Republic of Korea, making
clear that whether it’s in Europe or the Indo-Pacific region, the United
States and our Allies and partners will defend the principles of
sovereignty and territorial integrity.  
  
Now, finally, the trip will also serve as a clear contrast to some early
predictions that never really played out.  Instead of a shaken West, for
instance, we are more resolved than ever to support Ukraine and are
leading that effort head on at both the G7 and the NATO Summit.  
  
Instead of distracting us from the Indo-Pacific and China, the
President’s leadership with respect to supporting Ukraine has actually
galvanized leaders in that region and effectively linked our efforts in
Europe and in Asia.  And those Asian countries that will be
participating in the NATO Summit, I think, speak volumes about that
fact.  
  
And on top of all that, we’ve strengthened our determination to advance
a democratic vision that will define the coming decades in terms of
building fair economy, shaping the rules of the road for tech, cyber,
quantum, space, climate change, and a whole lot more.  
  
The President has never been more confident that this vision will win
out over more autocratic and corrupt visions.  And he’s looking forward
to this trip to advance all those elements.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, questions.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  With that, we’ll take questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    John, NATO is expected to come out with a new strategic concept
aimed at China.  What is that?  And why is it necessary?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The strategic concept last was written in 2010.  And, my
goodness, a lot has changed in the world and on the security landscape
since 2010.  And, certainly, a lot has changed in the Alliance’s
focus.  
  
Back in 2010, you might recall, the NATO — NATO was very deeply involved
in the war in Afghanistan.  And again, the security landscape has
changed.  And it’s time now for a new strategic concept, 12 years
later.  
  
And not only has the landscape changed, particularly from Mr. Putin’s
war in Ukraine, but military capabilities and organizational concepts
and operational concepts have changed as well.  And it’s time for the
Alliance to step up to those — to those new developments.  
  
I think it’s a reflection — you asked about China specifically — I think
it’s a reflection of our allies’ equal concerns over the effect of
Chinese economic practices, use of forced labor, intellectual theft, and
coercive, aggressive behavior not just in the region, but elsewhere
around the world, that they believe it’s important to factor China into
the new strategic concept.  
  
It builds on — you might remember, less than a year ago, the defense
ministers, for the first time in NATO, put mention of China in the
communiqué.  So it’s building on what has been months and months of
discussions and deliberations with the Allies about the threat that
China poses to international security well beyond just the Indo-Pacific
region.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Phil.  
  
Q    Hey, John.  Thanks for doing this.  The durability of the coalition
or alliances that have been put into place to respond to the invasion,
what’s the level of concern right now about how that can be sustained?  
  
And you mentioned food and energy prices.  Are there things that the
President or the U.S. will specifically put on the table to try and ease
some of the issues that have been rattling elements of that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  To your second question, the answer is yes.  I don’t want to
get ahead of specific deliverables right now, Phil.  But I think it’s
fair to say that — that there will be announcements forthcoming about
how to impose further cost and consequences on Russia.  
  
But again, I don’t want to get ahead of that.  
  
On your first question, I mean, my goodness, he’s going — he’s going
into a NATO Summit where the Alliance has truly never been more
unified.  And now there’s active discussions about adding to that list
of nations another two — two countries willing to seek accession in
NATO.  
  
It’s just truly never been more relevant or viable.  And the same goes
for the G7.  And the — if you just look at the scope of the things
they’re going to be talking about, from climate, energy, food, food
security, as well as the war in Ukraine, and the fact that there are
additional countries coming to the G7 — four additional countries —
there’s an awful lot — there’s an awful lot of unity to see here.  
  
You know, we — we’ve had this discussion since before the invasion: You
know, can NATO stay solid?  Are they going to be fractured?  Because, of
course, the last thing Mr. Putin wants is a strong NATO on his Western
flank.  And, of course, he’s gotten just that.  And we haven’t seen any
fractures or fissures.  
  
I mean, every country speaks for themselves, every country has concerns
for what they’re willing to do or not do.  But as far as the Alliance
goes, it truly has never been stronger and more viable than it is
today.  And the President is looking forward, when he gets to Spain, to
— to seeing that, to seeing that in real time.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to go to the back.  Nadia.  
  
Q    Thank you.  John, I noticed that you have invited other countries
to join, like South Africa, Argentina, Senegal, and India.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  India and Indonesia.  
  
Q    And Indonesia.  Some of them have huge economy and others have
lesser economy.  What was the significance of inviting these countries? 
And is it an attempt from the administration to take them off from any
alliance with Russia?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  To splinter them off from alliances with Russia?  
  
Q    It could be a potential — potentially could be.  Some of them, not
all.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So these — these additional countries that you mentioned,
they have been invited because there’s certain agenda items at the G7
that — that will apply to them.  And I’ll let them speak for their
involvement in those sessions and — and the relevance to them.  But —
but because the agenda is so diverse and so deep, it was — it was deemed
appropriate to bring them into that discussion.  
  
It is not about trying to splinter them off or coax them away from any
other association or partnership that they might have with another
country.  That’s not the goal here.  
  
The goal is to unify around a set of common principles and initiatives
that the G7 — you know, you’ll — you’ll hear more about this at the
summit — but that the G7 wants to advance in terms of climate change,
energy and food security.  
  
As I said, adding additional costs and consequences to Mr. Putin,
further isolating Russia — all these nations have a pi- — a piece of
that.  And certainly in the G7, there’s — there’s unity around that sort
of an agenda.  
  
Q    You were talking about the effort to add two additional countries
to NATO right now.  There’s obviously been real challenges as it relates
to Turkey with the addition of Finland and Sweden.  Can you take us, as
best possible, behind the scenes of the status of that, if there’s going
to be a direct contact between President Biden and President Erdoğan,
and how you go about shifting that?  Because I know there’s unity among
the members of NATO, but there’s not unity among the members of NATO
about the addition of the fast track of those two countries.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  So, clearly, the potential accession here of Sweden
and Finland will be on the agenda at the summit.  No question about
that.  And, actually, there is terrific support inside the Alliance for
their accession.

Right now, the conversations are — are trilateral between Sweden,
Finland, and Turkey.  We’re confident that they’re going to be able to
get there, that they’re going to be able to work out the differences
that they have, and that Sweden and Finland will be able to join the
Alliance.  
  
When exactly, I couldn’t tell you that.  I mean, these discussions are
still ongoing.  But we’re confident that it’s going to lead to 32
nations in the Alliance.  
  
And we have also indicated that — that should it be desired, we’d be
willing to help in those — in those conversations.  But right now, it’s
between those nations. 

And I don’t have anything in particular in terms of bilateral
discussions to speak to or to announce today with respect to President
Erdoğan.   
  
Q    John, you mentioned food security is — food security is one of the
—  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yes, sir.  
  
Q    — topics.  A couple days ago, you spoke to us a bit about the grain
trapped in Ukraine.  Is that going to be a subject of conversation at
the G7?  Or can you give us an update on either the bloc’s efforts or
U.S. efforts specifically to get some of that grain out?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, I do think food security in general will be a topic at
the G7.  And I certainly think that with — inside the context of what’s
going on in Ukraine, it absolutely will as well.  Again, I don’t want to
get ahead of specific announcements one way or the other.  
  
I would tell you that we are already working with Allies and partners to
help try to get this grain out of the country.  
  
As I said the other day, we know it’s a perishable good and it’s an
important good.  And we have been able to increase the flow of some
grain through the west by ground routes out of Ukraine, but it’s not
sufficient, it’s not enough, given the immense amount of grain that —
that’s sitting unused right now inside Ukraine.  
  
So, we know we have to find other ways to do this.  And we’re willing —
as I said the other day, the President is willing to keep an open mind
about that.  
  
Obviously, it would certainly help if the Russians would lift what is
essentially a blockade in the Black Sea and a blockade over Odessa,
which they have obviously shown no — no desire to lift.  But that’s a
real key here.  
  
And so, you — I know you know, you’re aware that — that Turkey is
talking to Russia about this.  We certainly welcome Turkey’s involvement
in trying to broker some sort of arrangement where that grain can tran-
— can be transferred by — by sea.  But I think it just remains to be
seen whether that’s going to be viable.  
  
Q    There were some reports out of Turkey that there might be some kind
of meeting next week on this.  Is there anything you can share on
that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any details on that.  I’d refer you to our
Turkish counterparts and our Turkish allies on that.  I — again, we
welcome their efforts to try to get this to happen because it is
absolutely — I mean, it’s critical.  I mean, as we — Putin is
weaponizing food, literally, and this is a prime example of that.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Yes, if I may ask you a question on a different topic.  Is there
any consideration being given to fully unfreezing Afghan reserve funds? 
I know that, given the devastating earthquake this week, there has been
an appeal to do that.  Is that something you all are considering?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  What I can tell you is two things.  One, we’re still working
through the processes here with respect to that three and a half billion
dollars that you’re referring to.  That was assets frozen here in the
United States.  We’re working through a series of processes, including
on the legal front, to see how we can get that access quicker than —
than we can right now.  But we want to make sure — it has to be done the
right way.  And so there’s a — there’s a process here that we’re working
through.  
  
But we’re not waiting.  That — that money is set aside, and President
Biden was wise to do that, to set that money aside for use in
Afghanistan for humanitarian assistance purposes.  And that’s still the
intent every — in every way.  
  
But there’s an urgent need now.  And so the President, while we’re
working on that process and we want to get it solved as quickly as
possible — and there’s a lot of hoops to jump through — we’re also
working very, very stridently right now through USAID and their
international partners to get aid and assistance to the Afghan people
now.  I think the death toll is now over 1,000.  We understand that, and
we’re working hard to get that aid and assistance to them.  And frankly,
it’s already starting to show up through our international partners,
through USAID’s international partners.

Q    Can you articulate at all, when you say that there are some
loopholes to go through and that it may take some time, some of the
legal challenges?  Can you help us understand what — what has been some
of the hang-ups?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, it’s not loopholes.  There’s a — there’s a —

Q    I’m sorry, (inaudible).

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  There’s a legal process here that has to be pursued
to be able to apply that — to be able to apply that funding for that
purpose.  And we’re still working our way through that. 

And I think because we’re still working through a legal process here, it
wouldn’t be wise for me to talk in too much detail here from the podium
about that.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Thank you, John.  So, earlier, you talked about
the debt trap that — you know, you won’t address that issue on this
trip.  The Global Infrastructure Partnership, which is going to be
announced on this trip, how —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    — is it a reboot on the Build Back Better World?  And is it
supposed to be an alternative to China’s One Belt and One Road
Initiative?

And I want to add a question on the Allies.  You’re talking about the
Allies have never been stronger.  However, we see yesterday China is
hosting a BRICS business forum, and we see India and Brazil sitting down
with Xi Jinping and Putin.  So, what’s the White House reaction to that?

MR. KIRBY:  So, let me take the second one first, because I tend to
forget questions if I do them in the order you ask them.  (Laughter.)

Q    Sorry.

MR. KIRBY:  No, it’s okay.  It’s just age.  (Laughter.) 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  Sad, but true. 

So, on the — on the BRICS, we’ll let those countries speak for
themselves and for the meetings they’re having and the discussions and —
and whatever outcomes there might be from that.  They can speak for
themselves.

What I think is important for us to speak to today is this weekend is G7
and the NATO Summit, and multilateral efforts that President Biden is
applying to revitalizing these alliances and partnerships and really —
and really putting forth ideas and concrete initiatives that are going
to — that are going to help — help our national security, help economic
security, help food security.  And so that’s what we’re focused on. 

Those countries can speak for themselves.  And it’s obviously not the
first time that they have gotten together, but I’ll let them speak for
their agenda.  I can only talk about ours, and I just laid that out in
the opening statement.

On the Global Infrastructure Partnership, I think, you know, this was
something that the President unveiled at the G summit — G7 summit last
year.  And so, this year, what you’re going to see is him and his G7
partners really actualizing this. You’ll — I don’t want to get ahead
here of announcements, but you’ll — you’ll see the G7 really putting
some energy and some resources behind this going forward.  And it is
about — as I put in my opening statement, it is about alternatives to
other models out there that — that are highly transactional and actually
work to the disadvantage of lower- and middle-income countries.

We think there’s — there’s better ways of doing business, there’s better
ways of fostering economic development and infrastructure than some of
the models out there.  And we believe that this is one of them, and
we’re excited to get it started.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Next.  Nancy?

Q    (Inaudible) my question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  I had a question about NATO and Sahel, because you
mentioned Russia, China, but I understand Spain and also France pushed,
like, for, you know, the summit to also address threats originating on
the southern front —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    — like jihadism, and, you know, non-military threats linked to
climate change, food and security, migration, et cetera.  So, will this
part be part of the discussions as well?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, in general, the security situation on the southern
flank of NATO is almost always on the agenda.  And we recognize the
challenges and the threats that continue to affect security of our NATO
Allies on that southern flank. 

You know, there’s a lot of focus right now on the eastern flank, as it
should be.  But there remains a continued effort to make sure we’re also
paying attention to the southern flank.  So, I think, in general, it
will come up. 

I won’t get into details about the Sahel specifically.  And that’s
really a better question left to — to those countries in the Alliance to
speak to. 

But just in general speaking, security along the southern flank remains
key.

Q    John, how much longer does the White House believe the war in
Ukraine will last?  How much longer would you say that the White House
believes the war in Ukraine will last — weeks, months, or years?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t think anybody can know for sure, sir.  We’ve said
when Mr. Putin decided that he was going to focus on the Donbas region,
which is a more confined geographic space, that it could be a prolonged
fight.  And that was — what? — a couple of months ago.  And we’re
starting to see that now play out.

This is an area of Ukraine that both armies know well. They’ve been
fighting over it since 2014.  And it’s largely a gunfight.  It’s largely
about artillery. 

And what you’re seeing now is movement in almost block by block, street
by street.  I mean, much smaller movement of smaller-sized units and
smaller progress.  The Russian progress has been incremental at best,
and they have been thwarted at almost every turn.  The Ukrainians
continue to fight hard for this.

So, I think if anybody told you they could predict how long this was
going to go, they’d be fooling you.

Q    Let me follow up on that.  The longer it drags on, does that
increase the risk U.S. soldiers could be pulled into a hot war with
Russia the longer it goes by?

MR. KIRBY:  The President has been crystal clear that there’s not going
to be U.S. troops fighting in Ukraine.  What we are going to do is
continue to help Ukraine defend itself.  And that’s why we just
announced yet another package — $450 million today — to help that — to
help that be the case.

Q    But what about Russia condemning Israel?  Russia has been
threatening Israel for helping Ukraine and also for Israel’s bombing of
the Damascus, Syria, airport.  Any response to Israel that’s being
threatened by Russia?

MR. KIRBY:  I think our response would be the same as it has been now
for the last several months.  I mean, obviously, Russia is feeling the
pressure — the pressure of being isolated, the pressure of having a
military on the ground that clearly has not performed as advertised.

I mean, they still haven’t solved their command-and-control problems,
their logistical problems, their unit cohesion problems, their joint
fires integration problems.  And so they tend to lash out at countries
that are providing support to Ukraine.

We’re grateful for the support that Israel has been — has been
providing, as well as so many other nations.  More than 50 have signed
up to provide some measure of security assistance to Ukraine.  And that
shows you that this is not just a Europe problem.  It’s nations around
the world that are stepping up to hear — to defend Ukraine.

Q    Regarding G7 and concrete initiatives, does the administration
support Germany’s proposal for G7 countries to set specific minimum
standards for each country to cut fossil fuel emissions and combat
climate change — a “climate club” idea?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I don’t want to get ahead of specifics here on the
discussion.  Obviously, climate change and cutting emissions is a key
component of President Biden’s agenda here.  I mean, he just met today
with — with executives for offshore wind capabilities.  I mean, that’s a
key — that’s a key focus of our agenda on climate. 

But I don’t have anything specific with respect to this proposal and to
what degree, you know, it’s going to be —

Q    Do you expect this to be part of the bilateral with Scholz?

MR. KIRBY:  I think there’ll be a whole range of issues that he’ll be
talking about with the — with Chancellor Scholz.  And I have no doubt
that climate change will be — will be on that.

Yeah.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Jane, and then the woman behind you.

MR. KIRBY:  Janny (ph), how you doing?

Q    Good to see you.

MR. KIRBY:  Been a long time.

Q    Yeah, thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  I know what’s coming.  (Laughter.)

Q    Yes, I (inaudible).  I have two questions for you, on NATO Summit
and Korea.  Do you have any plans to hold a trilateral summit between
U.S. and South Korea and Japan at the NATO Summit?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any additional meetings to talk about today,
outside of the agenda of the G7 Summit.  So I don’t have anything to
announce with respect to a trilateral meeting.

I think you know, and we’ve talked about this many times, that President
Biden is keen to see greater trilateral cooperation between us and our
two allies.  In fact, he just was — just visited there not long ago, in
Japan and South Korea.

We also are keen to see increased bilateral cooperation between Japan
and South Korea.  And that’s happening.  So he’s very much looking
forward to seeing them.

Q    Yeah, second question.  China opposes South Korea’s participation
in the NATO Summit.  Do you think if South Korea operating defensively
within NATO, it will sufficiently contain China and Russia?

MR. KIRBY:  So a couple of thoughts there.  China doesn’t get a veto on
what meetings the South Koreans attend and associate themselves with. 
And this isn’t about an Asian version of NATO.  NATO is a transatlantic
security alliance, the most effective, the most viable one in the world,
the most successful one in the world.  And we’re excited that the South
Koreans are going to be there to talk about this.  And as I said — to be
part of the agenda there.

And as I said at the outset, it’s an indication of the linkage of global
security between Europe and the Indo-Pacific.  It’s — it’s not one or
the other anymore.  It’s not binary.  The same kinds of assaults on
territorial integrity and sovereignty that we’re seeing in Europe can
happen in the Indo-Pacific.  And, of course, our South Korean allies
know that better than most.

So we think it’s significant that they’re going to be there.  We’re
excited to have them there.  But this isn’t about — this isn’t about
creating some like version of NATO in the Pacific.

Q    Thanks.  You just noted that the U.S. intends to continue,
obviously, supporting Ukraine, but I’m wondering if — how much the
administration is weighing its aid to Ukraine in terms of the economic
hardships here at home, and if there’s a point at which the U.S. will
curb its support for Ukraine down the line.

MR. KIRBY:  Can you repeat the first part?  How much what?

Q    How much the administration is weighing its aid to Ukraine with the
economic hardships that Americans are seeing here at home.

MR. KIRBY:  That’s a — that’s a great question.  So, you know, we just
got an additional supplemental from Congress for $40 billion.  Not all
of that is designed for security assistance; a lot of it is for
humanitarian assistance as well.  And it was passed on a bipartisan
basis.

It’s clear that members of Congress from both parties believe strongly
that we have to continue to support Ukraine, and so we’re going to do
that.  And will we need to go back for additional funding?  We just
don’t know right now.  I mean, war is, by nature, unpredictable.  And so
President Biden has made it clear we’re going to continue to support
Ukraine as much as we can, as fast as we can.  And we’re doing that. 
And we’ll see where this goes going forward.

But obviously, the President is not insensitive to the — to the
pressures, particularly in gas and food prices, that the American people
are facing.  And you have to balance that, and he’s trying to strike
that balance.

He said, and — I mean, he has said this since he said it — but when he
made clear that we were going to support Ukraine in this fight,
literally, for their lives, let alone their democracy, that there were
going to be costs incurred by that.  And we’re starting to see — we are
seeing that — that happen right now.  The President was nothing but
honest with the American people about that.

Q    Mr. Kirby, does the President support —

MR. JEAN-PIERRE:  The gentleman in the blue.  The gentleman in the blue.

Q    Mr. Kirby, does the President —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll get — we’ll get to you, Simon.  Simon, right
after the gentleman in the blue.  Right behind her. 

Q    Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  They’re all in blue.  (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, this guy has, like, a light blue, aqua thing
going on.

MR. KIRBY:  Okay, I got you.

Q    That’s how we’re deciding, by the way, is fashion?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not fashion.  Just pointing him out.

Q    If it’s okay, I want to go off topic just for a second and ask you
about a letter that’s been —

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, great.

Q    — a letter that’s been sent by Democratic senators to the President
regarding the Shireen Abu Akleh killing, asking for a full U.S.
investigation.  I’m wondering if the NSC has seen this.  Do you have a
reaction?  And do you support or agree with their assessment that the
Israelis can’t be trusted to conduct their own investigation?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know if the — I don’t know the status of the letter
here at the White House, sir.  So you’re going to have to let us take
that question and get back to you.  I’m not aware.

But I can tell you that we’ve been nothing but consistent that this
death needs to be fully and transparently, thoroughly investigated.  And
that’s our expectation.  We’ve made that very, very clear to all
parties.  And we’re going to continue to — continue to —

Q    Is there any discussion about an independent U.S. investigation
(inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  I know of no discussion about an additional independent U.S.
investigation.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Simon, go ahead. 

Q    Okay.  On the Countering Malign Russian Activities in Africa Act
that has been debated or prepared in the Senate to actually compel
African nation to choose between Russia and the U.S., does the President
support it?  And is he concerned that by trying to almost compel African
nations to choose between working with Russia and working with the U.S.,
he’s really making it difficult for those nations, especially because
African nations have had really good relationships with the U.S. and
good relationship with Russia at the same time?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, every nation has to make a sovereign decision for
itself, but — who it’s going to associate with.

Q    But I’m talking about the act.  The act says they will identify
Africans who continue to work with Russia; it will identify government
and sanction government that continue to work with Russia.  So, I’m
asking you, does the President support that act (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t — I don’t — I’d have to get back to you on that.  I
don’t know if we’ve taken a position on this pending legislation.  

We understand that there are a range of security challenges in Africa. 
And those challenges aren’t getting any easier or any better by the
involvement of nations like China and Russia on the continent.  Every
nation there has to make their own decisions about who they’re going to
associate with.

Look, one of the things that — back to the G7 — that this partnership
for infrastructure — the Global Partnership for Infrastructure that the
— that the President is looking forward to actualizing will do is help
economic development and infrastructure in places like that, that
empower these nations to improve them — to improve their own situations
and that of their citizens.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Last question.  Go ahead, Niels.

Q    Thank you.  When — since we’ve been here, there’s been some
reporting that the Senate Intelligence Committee yesterday, when they
were marking up the intelligence authorization, included a provision
from Senator Wyden seeking to end the practice of denying security
clearances based on past marijuana or cannabis use.  I don’t know if the
administration has seen that yet or if you have a — if there’s a
position on that. 

MR. KIRBY:  You’re going to have to let me take that question, sir.  I
don’t have any for you on that. 

James, why don’t you go ahead.

Q    Thanks very much.  I appreciate it.  I wanted to ask two questions
about Russia/Ukraine.  First, I wonder if you could address a disparity
that has exhibited itself in the President’s conduct and rhetoric over
the course of the Russia-Ukraine crisis: At certain times, he opts to
withhold certain lethal forms of assistance from the Ukrainian armed
forces.  And he says that he does this because to provide those forms of
assistance would be to risk initiating World War Three.  At other times
he opts to provide more lethal forms of assistance and even boasts
publicly, as has the Secretary of Defense and others, that it is this
very U.S. aid that is helping the brave and skillful Ukrainian armed
forces to inflict casualties on the Russians and to destroy their
hardware. 

So, my first question is: I wonder if you could address for us the
President’s decision-making surrounding these steps up what you all have
called the “escalatory ladder.”

MR. KIRBY:  So, a couple of thoughts there.  The one escalating here is
Mr. Putin, James.  He’s the one who decided on the 24th of February that
he was going to invade a sovereign, independent nation next door.  He’s
the one who flowed in more than 100,000 troops and thousands of tanks,
aircraft; has launched literally thousands of missiles into Ukraine. 
That’s the escalation.

And I think, quite frankly, I would, with all respect, take issue with
the premise of the question — that we have been sort of not consistent
in the kind of aid and assistance that we’ve been providing to Ukraine.

We are working with Ukraine in lockstep every day about what their
capabilities — gaps are, what they need for the fight.  And the reason,
James, that we do it in parcels like this is so that we can keep it
relevant to what’s going on on the battlefield. 

And so you remember, in the opening weeks, everybody wanted to talk
about Stingers and Javelins.  And you know why?  Because Stingers and
Javelins were relevant to the fight at the time when Mr. Putin was
advancing on Ukraine along three major geographic axes — north, south,
and from the east. 

He has now constrained and limited himself to the Donbas, to a flat,
more rural environment that is very reliant on artillery.  And so, we
started flowing in howitzers. 

The other thing that we started to do was to train on some of these
systems.  In the early goings, we were focused on systems that we knew
the Ukrainians could use quickly because they’d already been trained on
it, because they grew up with these systems.  And so that’s why we’re
working so hard with other countries to provide long-range air defense
systems like the S-300, because that’s what they’re used to using.

So as the war has changed and evolved, which war does, their needs have
changed and evolved, and our contributions have changed and evolved too.

Q    And my follow-up, if I may.  A few weeks into the conflict, the
administration declassified and disclosed fresh intelligence — passed to
us through a number of administration spokespeople, including yourself —
suggesting that President Putin was receiving sanitized and inaccurate
reporting from his own team about the status of the Russian war effort
in Ukraine. Is that still your assessment?  Or is it the assessment of
the United States that somewhere along the line — and if you can tell us
when, that would be helpful — President Putin rectified this problem? 
And do you believe that he has for some time now been receiving accurate
reporting from his own team about the status of the war effort?

MR. KIRBY:  We — we did provide some context about the intelligence
reporting, which was relevant and true at the time.  I don’t have
additional intelligence or context on intelligence to provide today. 
So, I can’t tell you definitively exactly what briefings and reports Mr.
Putin is getting and how accurate they are or inaccurate, or, frankly,
how that information changes his decision-making calculus.

It is clear to us, just in the main, that he very much is in charge of
this war; that he very much is making

the decisions; that he very much is responsible for the activities, the
actions, the atrocities that his troops are conducting on the
battlefield.

Q    Thank you. 

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, everybody.  I got to go.  Karine is going to —

Q    What about Israel, Africa —

MR. KIRBY:  — Karine is going to kick me out.  I got to go. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  We’ll never kick you out.  Don’t forget —
  

MR. KIRBY:  (Inaudible) my old-man glasses. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — your glasses.

MR. KIRBY:  All right.  Thanks, everybody.

Q    Thanks, John.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Okay.  Thanks, John.  I just have one thing for all
of you. 

This morning, the number of Americans on insuredunemployment hit the
lowest level since 1970 — lower than any year of the presidencies of
Reagan, H.W. Bush, W. Bush, or Trump.

Today’s weekly UI data is consistent with a job market where
unemployment is low and people can seamlessly find jobs. That’s not
\[at\] all what a recession labor market looks like.  We brought
unemployment below 4 percent, four years faster than forecasters thought
was possible before we passed the American Rescue Plan.

We have added an average more — on average more than 400,000 jobs per
month in recent months.  And as we make a transition to steady and
stable growth over the course of the next year, even something closer to
the range of 150,000 jobs per month would be consistent with an
unemployment rate as low at is — at it is now and a sign of a healthy
economic transition.

With that, Aamer, you want to kick us off?

Q    Why yes. Thank you.  On the Supreme Court decision today on New
York’s concealed carry law, is the administration concerned that — and
this comes, you know, on the cusp of major legislation here in
Washington.  But I was wondering if — is the administration concerned
that for whatever efforts you might make on gun legislation — we’re now
in an era of a conservative high court that’s going to probably be
conservative-leaning for a while that is oriented towards gun owner
rights.  Are we now in a period where, for whatever the President may
try, that gun owner rights are just going to be expanding?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me just say that we are disappointed by the
Supreme Court’s ruling today.  The Second Amendment, as you’ve heard the
President say, is not absolute and permits commonsense gun regulation.

The Justice Department defended New York’s concealed carry law, which
had been in place since 1911 and imposed only a modest burden on most
gun owners.  The law applied only to hand guns and public places and
contained an exception for people who could establish an actual
articulable need for self-defense.

Despite the setbacks, the President earlier urged states to continue to
enact and enforce commonsense laws to make their citizens and
communities safer for gun violence. 

As it relates to what’s happening in Congress right now, we think that’s
separate and apart, clearly.  That is a bipartisan effort.  The
President is encouraged by what he is seeing.  The cloture vote happened
today, so it’s moving along in the right direction.

Look, when the President went to Uvalde, when he went to Buffalo with
the First Lady, those are trips that he does not want to do again.  The
President understands.  He’s had a long career in doing gun reform, in
ending gun violence, since he was a senator. 

We have not seen this type of — bipartisan type of coming together to
push this legislation in decades, so we are definitely encouraged by
what we’re seeing.  And the President wants them to move quickly so it
could get to his desk and he can sign that. 

Q    And if I could ask just one more.  Secretary Granholm met with oil
executives today.  I guess, has peace between the administration and the
oil executives broke out?  And more importantly, have some concrete
ideas come out of this meeting?  And finally, just why did the President
— he stopped by the wind executive meeting we were just in.  Why didn’t
he spend some time with the oil executives as well?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me take your — let me take your first
question.  And I have a bit of a readout for you here on the meeting. 

So, at — at President Biden’s direction, Energy Secretary Granholm, who
was in front of you all yesterday, met with the CEOs and executives of
the seven major U.S. oil companies this morning at the Department of
Energy headquarters in Washington, D.C.  The meeting was a productive
dialogue focused on creating an opportunity for industry to work with
government to help deliver needed relief to American consumers. 

The Secretary highlighted the fact that the U.S. has achieved record oil
production under the Biden administration and that President Biden is
taking historic actions — actions to add to that supply. 

So, the Secretary made clear that the administration believes it’s
imperative that companies increase supply of gas, and she reiterated
that the President is prepared to act quickly and decisively using the
tools available to him, as appropriate, on sensible recommendations as
well. 

So, this is an ongoing dialogue.  I think you’ve heard — and some of you
may have heard from the oil companies themselves saying it was
productive.  And so what — what Secretary Granholm has called on is for
her team to continue having conversations with the oil companies.

As it relates to your second question — as to your second question:
Look, the President — it was a stop-by.  This is something that he does
very often.  It was — there were governors in that meeting who were
virtual and in person.  

So we see this as a — part of his schedule where there was actually a
meeting here at the White House.

Go ahead.

Q    Just to follow on that, you’ve described this as, you know, a
productive dialogue, they’re going to continue to have ongoing
conversations.  But should we take that to mean that there were no, sort
of, concrete steps taken?  I mean, yesterday you said that the hope was
that some solutions —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — would come of this.  Where they able to identify and agree on any
solutions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I think what we — what I was saying and
Secretary Granholm was — was conveying as well: This is a first step,
with — with a continued dialo- — dialogue.  
  
Clearly, we want to come to solutions.  And I think that’s going to —
there’s going to be multiple other steps to get there.  
  
Look, the President asked Secretary Granholm to do this so that we —
that ideas can come forward and, hopefully, we can get to a solution. 
We want oil company to get to a higher capacity.  That’s what we’re
asking for, so that we can bring down gas prices, as you know, as we
have been saying.  
  
So they’re going to continue to have dialogue.  And hopefully we get to
a point where there is a solution and we can figure this out together.

  
Q    And on the Supreme Court, as we await a decision on Roe, you know,
you said that the administration is, you know, looking into options for
executive action.  I understand you’re not ready to detail what those
might be, but does the administration have executive actions that are
ready to go that we could expect to see if and when a decision is
announced?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I appreciate the question, and it’s an important
question, because this decision that we are all anticipating coming
forth is — is going to be — it’s going to change so many lives, so many
people’s lives, take away women’s rights.  
  
So we — we understand the question.  We are just still trying to figure
— go through in having that discussion to see what our options are
before we move forward.  
  
We don’t want to get ahead of the President, clearly.  But if — you
know, and I’ve said this before — if indeed there is a — the Supreme
Court, in the decision, the Dobbs decision, is — overturns Roe, we will
ask Congress to restore Roe.

  
Q    And just to be clear, will the President accept this decision as
legitimate, even if he disagrees with it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It — well, it’s going come from the Supreme Court, so
it’s going to be a decision that we’re certainly going to respond to. 
So I’ll leave it at that.  I mean, it’s just like any other Supreme
Court decision, just like the one that they did today on guns.  
  
So as we know, the — the draft was leaked, so we can’t really — you
know, we don’t want to speak to that too much until there’s an actual
decision, which we know is — is supposed to be coming.  So we’re all,
just like you, waiting to see when that happens.  
  
But in the meantime, we’re doing our due diligence to be prepared.  I
just don’t have anything for you at this time.   
  
Q    Thanks.  Back to the gas tax, since I see you have a —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh!  
  
Q    — a graphic up there on the screen.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.  Oh, my gosh.  I have a graphic.  
  
Q    Was the President surprised or disappointed by the lukewarm
reaction that his gas tax holiday proposal got on Capitol Hill?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I just want to step back for a second, because this
is very important.  So the President wanted to be sure and wanted to
find a way to simply and straightforward — find a straightforward way to
give consumers relief at the gas pump.  
  
The next three months — this is a three-months, 90-day suspension on the
gas tax — a gas tax holiday, as we — as we all know it’s called.  And
it’s an important time during — during when people are driving a lot
around the country, you know, visiting their families, going on
vacation.  And so, you know, it is important to — to give people a
little bit of relief.  
  
If you think about it on the federal level, that’s 18 cents.  He also
called on states — we’ve seen some states — this is one of the states
here, Maryland — do the same and average — and average — the average
amount in states is about 30 cents.  So already you’re at 48 cents right
there, almost 50 cents.   
  
That matters for people.  That matters for people, like teachers, like
healthcare aides, like — like construction workers, like plumbers, who —
who spend a lot of time driving from one place to another as part of
their jobs.  That’s going to make a difference.  
  
And if the oil refineries do their part, we’re looking at a dollar being
taken off per gallon.  So that — that matters.  And we know it works. 
We know the policy works.  
  
I mentioned Maryland up here.  Connecticut has done the same.  Georgia
has done the same, suspended their gas tax — and most of their tax
relief was passed to consumers.  
  
And as you see from this chart here, you see when it was — here’s where
it was when it was enacted, and then it dropped.  And then when it end,
it went back up.  So it did make a difference.  
  
So — so, the President is calling on other states to take similar
measures and for Congress to suspend the national gas tax <s>on</s>
\[and\] oil companies to pass that relief on to consumers.   
  
Q    But Maryland is now actually getting ready to increase its gas tax
next month, I guess to make up for some of the revenue that it lost when
it imposed this gas tax holiday.  And given the level of ambivalence or
opposition on Capitol Hill, how hard is the President willing to fight
to try to convince Congress to change its mind?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This is important to the President, which is why he
asked Congress to take this on.  This is a — the way that we see it is a
simple, fast way to give American families, the American public a little
relief for 90 days.  
  
As you know, there are — there are plenty of legislation that’s on the
Hill right now that talks about cutting — cutting taxes.  This is one of
them.  This is something that’s simple, that’s easy, that’s 90 days
during a critical period for the American public.  
  
Q    So he’s going to keep fighting for it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s going to keep — he’s going to keep fighting for
it.  We think it’s a simple thing to do.  And he’s going to keep
fighting for it.  
  
Q    So, I wanted to go a little bit deeper on the trip or the
ramifications of it.  The President heads overseas at sort of a thorny
time for his domestic agenda.  You know, the gas tax holiday.  There
could be the first movement on gun reform in a generation.  We’re all
awaiting the Supreme Court decision. 

Is there any concern about his ability to shepherd his domestic agenda
from 4,000 miles away?  Is there anything different being done, given
how many, you know, balls are in the air at the same time?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we believe that a president could do his job
anyplace, anywhere, at any time.  So that is not a concern for us. 
Clearly, yes, to your point, Cleve, there is a lot going on in the
world.  But that is what is expected of a president.  
  
There is always multiple issues, sometimes multiple crises that a
president has to deal with.  But it doesn’t stop them for — from doing
the work that they need to do. 

The — what he’s doing abroad, as you heard from my colleague, is
critical, is important — that leader-to-leader engagement, talking to
our NATO Allies, being there at the G7, especially what’s going on with
Russia’s war. 

For the President to be there and to continue to be a leader in bringing
those countries together and talk about real issues that matter to all
sides is also an important — is an important agenda for the President to
continue to move forward.  
  
Q    Sure.  And to the second question, is there anything special or
different being done about this trip as opposed to other foreign trips?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, because —  
  
Q    Given — given how many things are — yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, not at all.  We’re — we’re moving forward like we
do with any OCONUS trip that we have had.  I think this is — I’ve lost
track — maybe the fourth or fifth trip, as you guys are probably keeping
track better than I am, that the President has done.  
  
And during a time — I mean, this past year and a half has not been an
easy year.  The President walked in having to turn back on the economy,
if you will.  He walked in having to deal with a COVID — a COVID crisis,
a pandemic — once-in-a-generation pandemic.  So he has had to deal with
multiple things on his plate.  So this is just part of another trip that
he’s going on.  
  
Let me try and — go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  The President isn’t really doing everything he
can to bring gas prices down, is he?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I feel like there’s a — what — is there something else
to the question?  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Oh, there’s a lot to the question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Oh, okay.  Well —  
  
Q    For example —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — as you mentioned earlier, he’s meeting today with people
installing offshore wind equipment but not oil and gas CEOs who are
rarely ever in town, but they are today.  So how did that help lower gas
prices?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the President has done a — so let me step back
for a second.  
  
Q    But — no, no, no —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no —  
  
Q    Just by —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, on —  
  
Q    — by meeting with offshore wind folks —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no.  You’re asking me —  
  
Q    — and not with gas —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re asking me the question —  
  
Q    — oil and gas CEOs, how does that lower gas prices?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Peter.  Peter.  
  
Q    You said he’s done everything in his power.  They were a mile
away.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Peter, you’re asking me a question.  Let me — can I —
may I answer?  
  
Q    Yes, please.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, here we go.  I just want to take this back a
second on how we got here, right?  So we have seen gas prices go up by
$2.00 a gallon.  One of the reasons we have seen that — the reason we
have seen that is because of Russia’s war in — in Ukraine.  
  
And once that happened, once we saw what that impact was going to be,
the President took action.  He took action.  He made his- — he made a
historic choice to tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve — 1 million
barrels a day — and that was for six months.  And that helped blunt the
impact of what we’re seeing right now with prices going up.  So that
matters.  
  
The — the ethanol 15 that the President — the action that the President
took, that matters, because it’s going to — it’s going to bring down gas
prices in gas stations — over 1,000 gas stations across the country,
including the Midwest.  That matters.  
  
And so the President is trying to figure out and take — take steps in
how we can bring the gas prices down.  And we have a high level of oil
production.  So what we are asking the oil refinery companies to do is
to take that — that production, turn it into — refine that oil so that
there is capacity.  
  
We are not at capacity right now.  And it does matter that the Secretary
of Energy, which is her purview — that is her portfolio, to meet with
these oil execs, that she does on pretty regular basis.

  
Q    But your point was about how we got here.  The President said, as a
candidate, “No more drilling on federal lands.  No more drilling,
including offshore.  No ability for the oil industry to continue to
drill, period.”  
  
Wouldn’t that — aren’t some of those things that would bring the price
of gas down now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me tell you how we got here, since you just
said how we got here.  Due to a decreased demand at the start of the
pandemic, U.S. oil companies reduced production and refining capacity,
which is what I was just saying, Peter.  
  
Refiners, for instance, cut their capacity by more than 800,000 barrels
per day in the year before the President took office.  
  
Oil production is now back — back to near pre-pandemic levels.  In fact,
we produced more oil in the first year of the President’s administration
than in the first two years of the previous administration.  And we are
on track to set a new record for oil production next year this time. 
But oil refiners have still not brought refinery capacity back online.  
  
At the same time, as I was just stating to you about Putin’s war,
Putin’s invasion of Ukraine disrupted the global oil supply, and gas
prices have gone up nearly to $2.00 since the beginning of the year,
before the invasion.

President Biden has taken historic actions, again, to alleviate the
pressure and to blunt what — the impacts that we have seen because of
Putin’s war.  And that matters.  And that’s what the President has been
focused on.

Q    Okay.  And the President, yesterday, was talking about this
transition to greener energy someday.  A lot of people can’t afford a
$60,000 electric car, and they also are having a hard time affording gas
right now.  That sounds like a painful transition.  So how much of that
kind of pain is the President okay with?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, that transition — we are in a transition to clean
energy.  That is something that — that is important.  It is going to
create jobs, when you think about electric vehicles.  It is going to
give — give families some — some tax credits.  It’s going to be really
important to have —

Q    But right now, who can afford an electric car?  The average price
is $61,000.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What we’re going to continue to move forward with, and
what — we have put forward the bipartisan infrastructure —

Q    Is that a realistic — is that the choice: $5.00-a-gallon gas or a
$61,000 electric car?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is not — first of all, you’re — that’s apples and
oranges.  It is not the same.  What we’re trying to do right now is to
deal with an acute problem right now, which is why the President, again,
asked for a 90-day suspension of the gas tax — the gas tax holiday.  It
is going to make a difference.

Peter, we’re talking about 18 cents on the federal — on the federal
level; we’re talking about an average of 30 cents on the state level. 
And if the oil refinery does their job, if they do what we are asking
them to do, which is put their profits back in so that gas prices can go
down — that’s almost $1.00 per gallon.  That matters.  That matters to
teachers, that matters to home healthcare aides, that matters to
construction workers, that matters to plumbers, that matters to
lifeguards.  Those are the people that — and many others — who are going
to feel this in a way that will give them relief at the pump.

All right.  We’re done.

Q    A Supreme Court follow-up?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    On the Granholm meeting, the refiners wanted to dissuade the White
House from any sort of ban on fuel exports.  Did Granholm agree to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry, I was distracted.  Can you say that one
more time, Steve?

Q    The ban on fuel exports — the refiners don’t want that.  Was that
discussed at the meeting today?  Did Secretary Granholm agree to set it
off the table?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can tell you, Steve, that decision has not been
made.  There’s no decision on that at this time.

Q    And secondly, on the gas tax holiday, has the President talked to
lawmakers today about this to try to get them on his side?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any meetings to preview for you at
this time, but we are going to — our Office of Leg Affairs is in
constant communication with folks on the Hill.  So that is going to be
an ongoing conversation.  And the President — this is something that the
President thinks is going to be really important for the American
people, to give them that relief — a little bit of breathing room, as
you’ve heard the President.

I’m just going to take a couple more.  Go ahead.

Q    On refinery capacity, refiners right now are operating at about 93,
94 percent capacity.  When you talk about asking them to increase their
capacity, bringing other refineries online is not as simple as flipping
a switch.  Do you want them to take 93, 94 percent up to 98 percent? 
How are you guys thinking through the problem as it exists in terms of
what they can do?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So there’s a difference between the share of existing
capacity being utilized and the amount of total capacity available.  The
overall capacity of the U.S. refining industry fell due to the pandemic,
which is what I was going through earlier.  And that capacity has not
been brought back online, even as consumers’ demand has returned thanks
to the President’s recovery plan.

So, the President is calling, again, on U.S. refiners to increase
capacity and output in the near term, and making clear he is committed
to using all reasonable tools and authorities, as appropriate, to help.

And so there is a difference there.  And so we’re asking them to
increase that capacity, which we have not seen yet.

Q    Bringing those back online, one of the issues has been, you know,
willing to invest on the capex side.  Is the administration looking
anything on the regulatory side they think they can do to help that
process along?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything here to share on what else
we might be looking at.  Again, the President is willing to use his —
his executive authorities.  We just haven’t made a decision.  We want to
come to a resolution here, or a solution.  That’s why Secretary Granholm
had this meeting today.  We’re — they’re going to continue to have the
discussion.  And so that’s what we would prefer, and so that’s where —
the direction that we’re going.

At the same time, making sure that, you know, the gas — that gas tax
holiday, making sure that we’re doing other things as well, to do our
part.  Again, the gas tax holiday is a — is a — is a — one of the
solution, right?  It’s not the whole thing.  We’ve done a series of
things, and the President is going to continue to see what else he can —
he can do to give relief to the American people.

Go ahead.  I’m just going to take a couple more. 

Q    Does the administration have any response to Intel announcing that
it is indefinitely delaying the groundbreaking of its very large
semiconductor facility in Ohio?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — I don’t have any more information
on that.  I heard that reporting.  I would have to check in with our —
with our team.  But I don’t have anything for — to share from the podium
today.

Q    One of the things that has come up before today’s meeting with
Secretary Granholm was Jones Act waivers.  Is that something that was
discussed in the meeting, or do you know if that’s still on the table
for the President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have more to share from — from the meeting,
from what I just read out.

Q    So we don’t know whether it was —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything from what I just read out.

Q    But the President hasn’t ruled it out?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything for you right now, Josh.

Q    Okay.  Then, going to Phil’s question, I mean, part of the reason
capacity has shrunk is because facilities are being converted to produce
— or some of them are being converted to produce renewable diesel
instead of petroleum-based fuels. 

Others are simply, you know, old.  They’re like old cars being taken off
the road.  They can’t just turn on again. 

Do you think those conversions should be reversed or halted?  Or do you
think the refiners are overstating the sort of pain that they’d have to
go through to turn off — turn on some of these plants again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What we believe is that they are not operating at full
capacity.  That is what we believe.  And, you know — so, just to give
you a little bit here, and I said this yesterday and I’m happy to share
it again: You know, as of yesterday, I said crude oil prices have
dropped by nearly 15 percent from two weeks ago, but prices at the pump
have barely budged.

The last time the price of crude oil was $110 a barrel and the price of
gas was $4.60 a gallon.  Today, it’s about 35 cents higher. 

That difference is a result of companies’ record-high profit margins for
refining oil.  Refinery margins have tripled since the beginning of the
year.  It’s just the first three months of this year.  The biggest oil
companies made $35 billion — four times what they made in their first
quarter of last year.  We want them to put their profits back into
refining oil so that we can bring prices down.  And that is what we are
seeing.  And, you know, there are 9,000 approved drilling permits that
remain unused. 

So, there are things that — that could be done that we are just not
seeing happen.  This is why we’re having the conversation.  This is why
the President wrote the letter. 

I’m just going to try and get other questions. 

Q    Sure.  But on the G7 very quickly: One of the things the President
has tried to do is boost gas shipments to Europe that aren’t coming from
Russia.  Is there any discussion about that that we should expect at the
G7, or is that more of a medium-term thing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have more to add.  I don’t want to get
ahead of what the agenda is going to be on G7.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No problem.  Thanks, Josh.

Go ahead.

Q    In terms of ensuring that savings from any sort of gas tax holiday
would be passed along to the consumers, Secretary Granholm seemed to say
yesterday that the administration, at least at first, would be relying
on asking them, like just dialogue with these companies.  Is it the
White House’s view that that is the only option to actually ensure
savings are passed on to the consumer?  Or is there anything Congress
can mandate, or any regulatory action you could do to force these
companies?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I mean, I can’t speak to what Congress could do
to mandate it.  Here’s what we know: We know that this has worked.  It’s
worked in Maryland.  It’s worked in Connecticut.  It’s worked in
Georgia.  Maryland and Georgia are Republican governors who have this —
who have made that decision, and consumers have felt the relief.  So,
it’s doable.  We have examples of doing that.

And so — so, we’re going to — like Secretary Granholm said, we’re going
to talk to — we’re going to talk to the companies and make sure that the
families and the American people should feel that directly.  They should
not be holding on to any of the — to any of the funds, any of that 18
cents at the federal government.

Q    But at this point, though, is that the only option for the
administration — just to ask those companies?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  At this point, that’s basically what Secretary
Granholm stated, is where we are at this point.

Q    On expanding capacity of refineries as well, you’ve talked about
the need — you know, the need to do that, but there are some options the
administration could take.  There’s a refinery that has had plenty of
accidents in the past, has sparked environmental concerns.  And, you
know, some have said the administration could also loosen permit
regulations.  This refinery is in St. Croix, Virgin Islands; it’s had
environmental concerns in the past.  Would the administration consider
loosening any permitting regulations for refineries that have had
environmental concerns to expand capacity?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have anything to share on the two points that
you just made.  All I can say is the President is willing to use his
executive authority to do what he can to give relief to the American
public.

Right now, we’re focused on — on calling on Congress to do the gas
holiday tax — or the gas tax holiday, and also having this conversation
with oil refinery to make sure that they are refinery — refining that
crude oil that is — that is at a high level, that they can do to help
bring down gas prices.

And I’ll take one last question. 

Q    A Supreme Court follow-up, Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m trying to call — go ahead.  I’ve never called on
you before.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I know you’ve addressed this a little bit before,
but I’m wondering if you can kind of quantify how much of these January
6th hearings the President’s been watching and what his overall reaction
is.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can say that, you know, the President catches it
from time to time.  He’s — you know, he has a busy schedule, obviously —
and we have said this before — and keeps updated on what’s happening.

You know, we’ll just continue to reiterate that what we saw on January
6, 2020, was one of the darkest chapters of our nation.  And it was a
brutal attack on our democracy, a brutal attack on law enforcement, and
we believe that Americans should be watching and paying attention to
learn exactly what happened on that day.

And we have full confidence in the January 6th Select Committee and the
work that they’re doing.

Okay.  Thanks, everybody.  We’ll be back tomorrow.  I’ll be back
tomorrow.

4:50 P.M. EDT
