---
date: '2022-06-21'
modified_time: 2022-06-21 13:58:11-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-21 13:57:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/21/president-biden-to-nominate-dr-arati-prabhakar-to-lead-office-of-science-and-technology-policy/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden to Nominate Dr. Arati Prabhakar to Lead Office of Science\
  \ and Technology\_Policy"
---
 
*Former Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and National Institute
of Standards and Technology leader would make history as the first
woman, immigrant, or person of color confirmed to head OSTP*

Today, President Biden announced his intent to nominate Dr. Arati
Prabhakar to serve as Director of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy (OSTP), and once confirmed to this position, also as Assistant to
the President for Science and Technology. In this capacity, Dr.
Prabhakar will be the President’s Chief Advisor for Science and
Technology, a co-chair of the President’s Council of Advisors on Science
and Technology, and a member of the President’s Cabinet.

“Dr. Prabhakar is a brilliant and highly-respected engineer and applied
physicist and will lead the Office of Science and Technology Policy to
leverage science, technology, and innovation to expand our
possibilities, solve our toughest challenges, and make the impossible
possible,” said President Biden. “I share Dr. Prabhakar’s belief that
America has the most powerful innovation machine the world has ever
seen. As the Senate considers her nomination, I am grateful that Dr.
Alondra Nelson will continue to lead OSTP and Dr. Francis Collins will
continue to serve as my acting Science Advisor.”  
  
Prabhakar has been unanimously confirmed by the Senate before, to lead
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and was the
first woman to hold that role. She later served as director of the
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the birthplace of
breakthrough technologies like stealth aircraft and the Internet.

If confirmed to lead OSTP, Prabhakar would become the third Asian
American, Native Hawaiian, or Pacific Islander to serve in President
Biden’s Cabinet, joining Vice President Kamala Harris and U.S. Trade
Representative Katherine Tai. Today’s nomination is historic, with
Prabhakar being the first woman, immigrant, or person of color nominated
to serve as Senate-confirmed director of OSTP.

**<u>Dr. Arati Prabhakar, nominee to serve as Director, Office of
Science and Technology Policy</u>**

Dr. Arati Prabhakar has led two different federal R&D agencies and
worked with startups, large companies, universities, government labs,
and nonprofits across a wide variety of sectors to create powerful new
solutions for critical challenges. She is an engineer and applied
physicist with extensive management and leadership credentials.

Prabhakar served as director of DARPA, the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, from 2012 to 2017. At DARPA, she oversaw teams that
prototyped a system for detecting nuclear and radiological materials
before a terrorist can build a bomb, that developed tools to find human
trafficking networks in the deep and dark web, and that enabled complex
military systems to work together even when they were not originally
designed to do so. She also established a new office to spur novel
biotechnologies. Under her leadership, DARPA kick-started the
development of a rapid-response mRNA vaccine platform, making possible
the fastest safe and effective vaccine development in world history in
response to COVID-19.

Prabhakar was unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate to lead
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), taking the
helm at age 34 as the first woman to lead the agency. At NIST, which she
led from 1993 to 1997, she helped take from early seed stage to national
scale the Manufacturing Extension Partnership to boost the
competitiveness of small- and mid-size manufacturers, and the Advanced
Technology Program to stimulate early-stage advanced technology
development. She also reinforced NIST’s long-time mission in measurement
science and technology that underpins commerce and high-quality
manufacturing.

Between her Federal leadership roles, Prabhakar spent 15 years in
Silicon Valley, helping bring R&D to deployment as a company executive
and as a venture capitalist. Her work included components for consumer
electronics and semiconductor process technology. In 2019, she founded
Actuate, a non-profit organization bringing new actors to the table to
develop solutions to the challenges of climate, health, trustworthy data
and information technology, and opening access to opportunity for every
person.

Prabhakar’s family immigrated from India to the United States when she
was three years old – first to Chicago and then settling when she was
age 10 in Lubbock, Texas, where she went on to get her electrical
engineering degree from Texas Tech University. She was the first woman
to earn a Ph.D. in applied physics from the California Institute of
Technology, where she also earned an M.S. in electrical engineering. She
started her career in the legislative branch as a Congressional Fellow
at the Office of Technology Assessment.

She is a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
and a member of the National Academy of Engineering, and was a fellow at
the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford
University.

\###
