---
date: '2022-06-02'
published_time: 2022-06-02 10:32:44-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/02/fact-sheet-united-states-takes-further-actions-to-counter-sanctions-evasion-by-russia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: United\_States Takes Further Actions to Counter Sanctions Evasion\
  \ by\_Russia"
---
 
The United States, alongside over 30 partners around the world, has
imposed unprecedented sanctions and export controls to hold President
Putin to account for his war against Ukraine, restrict Russia’s access
to critical technology it needs to fund its war machine, and turn Russia
into a global financial pariah. 

The Russian economy is staggering under the weight of financial and
trade sanctions, export controls, and the exodus of approximately 1,000
U.S. and multinational businesses. Analysts are projecting a
double-digit decline in Russian GDP in 2022, soaring inflation estimated
near 20% in 2022, and Putin’s war is projected to wipe out the last 15
years of economic gains in Russia. 

The United States and our allies and partners are committed to
supporting Ukraine and ensuring the Russian government feels the
compounding effects of our economic actions. Today the United States
took further action, several of which have also been targeted by
partners and allies, to crack down on evasion and tighten our sanctions
to enhance enforcement and increase pressure on Putin and his enablers: 

-   **The Department of the Treasury is targeting prominent Russian
    government officials and business leaders, luxury property of
    elites, and luxury asset management and service companies key to
    Russian attempts to evade sanctions. **This includes close Putin
    associate and money-manager of Putin’s offshore wealth, Sergei
    Roldugin and his family members; Putin-linked yachts and Kremlin
    aligned yacht brokerages including Imperial Yachts and its CEO which
    provide services for Vladimir Putin’s inner circle; government
    ministers overseeing key sectors integral to the Russian economy;
    and the President of United Aircraft Corporation, a state-owned
    company that plays a leading role in supporting the defense industry
    and supplying the military’s destructive activity in Ukraine. 

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of State is targeting additional Russian oligarchs
    and elites close to Putin. **This includes God Nisanov, a close
    associate of Russian officials.; Maria Zakharova, spokesperson for
    the Russian Foreign Ministry; and Alexey Mordashov, one of Russia’s
    wealthiest billionaires, in addition to his family members and
    companies, including one of Russia’s leading domestic steel
    producers.   
-   **The Department of Commerce is further restricting the Russian
    military’s ability to obtain technologies and other items it needs
    to sustain its aggression and project power. **This includes adding
    71 parties located in Russia and Belarus to the Entity List,
    effectively cutting them off from obtaining U.S.-origin items or
    foreign-made products derived from certain U.S. technology or
    software. 

Today’s actions across the U.S. government continue to add to expansive
economic measures imposed on Russia to hold it accountable for its
unprovoked war in Ukraine. So far, the United States has added 1,000
parties to Treasury’s Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons
List and over 300 parties have been added to Commerce’s Entity List. 

\###
