---
date: '2022-06-17'
published_time: 2022-06-17 17:42:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/17/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-passage-of-delaware-assault-weapons-ban-and-other-gun-safety-legislation/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on Passage of Delaware Assault Weapons Ban\
  \ and Other Gun Safety\_Legislation"
---
 
In the wake of the horrific massacres in Buffalo, New York, and Uvalde,
Texas, the families of the fallen had one message for all of us: Do
something. Do something to prevent this carnage and make our communities
safer. I again called for a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity
magazines, stronger background checks, and a host of other commonsense
measures to protect our fellow Americans.  
  
I’m proud that my home state of Delaware—“the First State”—has become
one of the very first states in recent weeks to answer that call and
take decisive action to reduce gun violence. Yesterday, the Delaware
state legislature passed a historic assault weapons ban, strict limits
on high-capacity magazines, and legislation to significantly improve
background checks. The legislature has also taken up several other
critical gun safety bills, including a bill to make it easier to hold
gun manufacturers accountable for how they market and sell weapons of
war  
  
These are reasonable measures, supported by the vast majority of
Americans. And they work. In the decade after Congress passed the 1994
ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines—with bipartisan
support in Congress and the backing of law enforcement—mass shootings
went down. But after Republicans let the law expire in 2004 and those
weapons were allowed to be sold again, mass shootings tripled. Those are
the facts, and they should inspire us to action.  
  
I have already taken more executive action to curb gun crime than any
other President during their first year in office. States like Delaware,
thanks to the leadership of Governor John Carney and the State
Legislature, continue to lead the way in protecting their people. But a
national crisis demands a national response, and it’s past time for
Congress to do the right thing. As a step in the right direction, I urge
the United States Senate to pass a meaningful bipartisan gun safety bill
without delay. This is an issue of conscience and common sense. We must
meet this moment. 

\###
