---
date: '2022-06-09'
modified_time: 2022-06-09 13:28:21-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-09 08:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/09/fact-sheet-tackling-climate-change-and-creating/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Tackling Climate Change and Creating\_Clean Energy Jobs in the\_\
  Americas"
---
 
Our hemisphere is facing the devastating impacts and costs of climate
change. We must tackle the climate crisis and harness the opportunity
for countries in the region to create good-paying jobs, grow clean
energy economies, and build resilient communities.  At the Summit of the
Americas, President Biden will affirm the U.S. commitment’s to building
an enduring hemispheric partnership to address climate change, create
jobs, and advance energy security.

**U.S.-Caribbean Partnership to Address the Climate Crisis 2030 (PACC
2030): **Vice President Harris will launch PACC 2030, a new framework to
elevate U.S. cooperation with Caribbean countries to support climate
adaptation and strengthen energy security, while building the resilience
of critical infrastructure and local economies to the climate
crisis.  To achieve these objectives, PACC 2030 will organize its
activities and programs under four pillars: 1) Improving Access to
Development Financing; 2) Facilitating Clean Energy Project Development
and Investment; 3) Enhancing Local Capacity Building; and 4) Deepening
Collaboration with our Caribbean Partners.  PACC 2030 will work towards
meeting the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement and the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

**Strengthening the Clean Energy Economy: **The United States announced
it will promote greater trade and investment in clean energy, and
increase support for regional cooperation through the Renewable Energy
in Latin America and the Caribbean (RELAC) initiative.  Five new
countries announced on June 9 their intention to join RELAC, joining 15
other countries that have already signed on to this one-of-a-kind
collective effort to reach 70% installed capacity for renewable energy
generation in the region’s electricity sector by 2030.  The
Administration is also announcing its intent to provide funding support
for technical cooperation on regulatory and policy frameworks under
RELAC and to work with regional development banks, private financial
institutions, and other partners to mobilize additional resources.

**100,000 Strong in the Americas Climate Initiative (100K CLIMA):** 100K
CLIMA will build on region-wide alliances between industry, governments,
and 2,500 higher education institutions to catalyze climate action and
collaboration by equipping students with technical and linguistics
skills to lead in a clean energy economy.  This initiative is supported
by the Department of State with leading private sector partners, as well
as the CAF Development Bank of Latin America.  A diverse array of U.S.
colleges and universities will be included in 100K CLIMA, providing
critical access to new models of inclusive education exchange programs
for students and faculty from Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs),
Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic
Serving Institutions (HSIs). 100K CLIMA will increase innovative models
of social inclusion in training, exchanges, and workforce development
programs in the pursuit of a more sustainable future for our
hemisphere. 

**Mobilizing Climate Finance: **In response to a collective commitment
from four regional development banks to make as much as $50 billion
available over the next five years to support ambitious climate action,
the United States is enhancing coordination with these institutions to
mobilize additional financing from the private sector and other
sources.  The four banks are the Inter-American Development Bank, where
the United States is the largest shareholder, the Development Bank of
Latin America (CAF), the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), and the
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI).  Several U.S.
Government agencies, including the U.S. Department of State, the U.S.
International Development Finance Corporation, the U.S. Agency for
International Development, the U.S. Trade and Development Agency, and
the Export-Import Bank of the United States will support this effort.

**Amazonia Connect: **In recognition of the potential for forests and
other ecosystems to provide as much as one-third of global climate
mitigation by 2030, the United States announced its intent to provide
$12 million to support Brazil, Colombia, and Peru through Amazonia
Connect.  This initiative will contribute to the President’s Plan to
Conserve Global Forests: Critical Carbon Sinks by reducing
commodity-driven deforestation and associated greenhouse gas emissions
from agricultural supply chains while conserving biodiversity, improving
livelihoods, and enhancing climate resilience.

\###
