---
date: '2022-06-24'
modified_time: 2022-06-24 20:40:08-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-24 20:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/24/statement-by-australia-japan-new-zealand-the-united-kingdom-and-the-united-states-on-the-establishment-of-the-partners-in-the-blue-pacific-pbp/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by Australia, Japan, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United\_\
  States on the Establishment of the Partners in the Blue Pacific\_(PBP)"
---
 
*A new initiative for more effective and efficient cooperation in
support of Pacific Island priorities*

  
The Pacific Islands region is home to nearly a fifth of the Earth’s
surface and many of its most urgent challenges, from the climate crisis
to the COVID-19 pandemic to growing pressure on the rules-based free and
open international order. It was in this context that the Pacific
Islands Forum, the premier driver of regional
action, [committed](https://www.forumsec.org/2050strategy/#:~:text=The%202050%20Strategy%20for%20the%20Blue%20Pacific%20Continent&text=It%20is%20a%20regional%20strategy,Pacific%20people%2C%20place%20and%20prospects.&text=Pacific%20Leaders%20recognize%20that%20building,cultural%2C%20environmental%20and%20economic%20integrity) to
organize its members “as one collective if we are to address our
increasingly common challenges.”  
  
As our countries—**Australia, Japan, New Zealand, the United
Kingdom, **and **the United States**—continue to support prosperity,
resilience, and security in the Pacific, we too must harness our
collective strength through closer cooperation. To that end, our
governments dispatched high-level officials to Washington, D.C. on June
23 and 24 for consultations with Pacific Heads of Mission and other
partners, including France, as well as the European Union in its
observing capacity. These meetings followed discussions with Pacific
partners, including with the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat; they
remain ongoing, including with other partners engaged in the region.
Today, our five countries launched an inclusive, informal mechanism to
support Pacific priorities more effectively and
efficiently: **thePartners in the Blue Pacific (PBP).**  
  
This new initiative builds on our longstanding commitment to the region.
Australia and New Zealand are of the region and members of the Pacific
Islands Forum; Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States are
founding Dialogue Partners. Our countries maintain close
people-to-people ties to and are longstanding development partners with
the Pacific Islands, reflected in our combined $2.1 billion in
development assistance for the region. We are united in our shared
determination to support a region that benefits the peoples of the
Pacific. We are also united in how we realize this vision—according to
principles of Pacific regionalism, sovereignty, transparency,
accountability, and most of all, led and guided by the Pacific
Islands.  
  
With these principles at its core, the Partners in the Blue Pacific aims
to: 

1.  **Deliver results for the Pacific more effectively and
    efficiently. **Together and individually, our five countries will
    enhance our existing efforts to support Pacific priorities, in line
    with the Pacific Islands Forum’s upcoming 2050 Strategy for the Blue
    Pacific Continent. To do so, we will work with Pacific partners. We
    will map existing projects and plan future ones, seeking to drive
    resources, remove duplication, and close gaps, which will avoid
    greater burdens and lost opportunities for Pacific governments and
    Pacific people. In parallel, each of our governments will continue
    to increase the ambition of our individual efforts in the region.  
     
2.  **Bolster Pacific regionalism. **The PBP will forge closer
    connections with Pacific governments and with the Pacific Islands
    Forum, by facilitating stronger and more regular engagement with our
    governments. We will further elevate Pacific regionalism, with a
    strong and united Pacific Islands Forum at its center, as a vital
    pillar of the regional architecture and of our respective approaches
    in the region.  
     
3.  **Expand opportunities for cooperation between the Pacific and the
    world.** The PBP will encourage and facilitate greater engagement
    with the Pacific by any other partner that shares the Pacific’s
    values and aims to work constructively and transparently to benefit
    the people of the region. As it develops, the PBP will remain
    inclusive, informal, and open to cooperating with additional
    partners similarly invested in and committed to partnership with the
    Pacific Islands. Globally, the PBP will identify opportunities to
    expand Pacific participation in international fora.

At every stage, we will be led and guided by the Pacific Islands. We
will seek Pacific guidance on the PBP’s selection of its lines of effort
and its flagship projects. In meetings in Washington, including at Blair
House, our governments and Pacific Heads of Mission discussed diverse
areas in which to deepen cooperation, including the climate crisis,
connectivity and transportation, maritime security and protection,
health, prosperity, and education. We commit to continuing to engage
with Pacific governments as well as with Pacific-led regional
institutions, particularly the Pacific Islands Forum; we will align our
work with outcomes from the upcoming Pacific Islands Forum Leaders
meeting in Suva, Fiji. Later this year the United States intends to
invite Partner countries’ foreign ministers to convene and review our
progress.

\###
