---
date: '2022-06-14'
modified_time: 2022-06-14 12:15:28-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-14 12:15:27-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/14/a-proclamation-on-world-elder-abuse-awareness-day-2022/
tags: statements-releases
title: "A Proclamation on World Elder Abuse Awareness Day,\_2022"
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

It is more vital than ever that we ensure our older adults can age with
the dignity, security, and appreciation that every person
deserves.  Honoring and respecting older Americans is a matter of basic
human dignity and justice — it is part of the character of our
Nation.  Yet every year, many Americans aged 60 and older experience
abuse and neglect.  On World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, we join the
international community to raise awareness and help end elder abuse here
at home and across the world. 

Elder abuse takes many forms, such as financial, emotional, physical,
and sexual harm, including intimate partner violence in later life.  It
often comes in the form of neglect, abandonment, or exploitation.  It is
estimated that approximately 1 in 10 elderly Americans are abused
annually.  However, many of those who are abused suffer in silence, and
many cases are never reported or brought to light.  In the past few
years, while the pandemic isolated all of us to different extents, it
especially exacerbated the isolation felt by too many older adults.  All
of us have a role to play in preventing elder abuse and ensuring that
our Nation’s seniors are able to age with dignity.  With a majority of
elder abuse victims being women, my Administration is focused
particularly on improving our support for all women and preventing and
addressing gender-based violence that impacts older adults both
domestically and abroad.

We must remain steadfast in our commitment to preventing elder
abuse.  My Administration allotted $178 million through the American
Rescue Plan and the COVID-19 recovery bill to improve and strengthen the
work of Adult Protective Services (APS).  Additionally, my budget
proposal for 2023 would provide ongoing support for APS and State
Long-Term Care Ombudsman programs.  Our comprehensive, collaborative
efforts to respond to elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation include
initiatives to reform guardianship, support adult decision-making, crack
down on scammers and fraudsters, and empower victims of
exploitation.  Our commitment to supporting survivors of all ages is
reflected in the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act,
which includes dedicated Federal funds to support survivor service
providers, law enforcement, and prosecutors working to respond to
domestic and sexual violence experienced by older adults.

As we continue to build a better America, we must ensure that we bring
everyone along.  That is why my Administration is committed to
safeguarding the rights of those who live in retirement and shared
residential settings.  I have called on the Congress to deliver
significant reforms to improve the safety and quality of care in our
Nation’s nursing homes.  Recognizing the critical work of caregivers, I
have also proposed measures to create a strong and well-compensated
caregiving workforce to advance the well-being of our Nation’s older
adults.  By ensuring a high quality of life and care for older
Americans, we can support every community and honor the dignity of every
person. 

On this World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, let us recommit to delivering
all older Americans the promise of a comfortable and peaceful life with
dignity.  Let us reaffirm our commitment to a world free from the
scourge of abuse and neglect.  Let us join the world in celebrating the
essential role older adults play in our lives.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 15, 2022, as
World Elder Abuse Awareness Day.  I encourage all Americans to be
diligent, work togetherto strengthen existing partnerships, and develop
new opportunities to improve our Nation’s prevention and response
to elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
