---
date: '2022-06-10'
published_time: 2022-06-10 17:11:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/10/los-angeles-declaration-on-migration-and-protection/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and\_Protection"
---
 
We, the Heads of State and Government of the Argentine Republic,
Barbados, Belize, the Federative Republic of Brazil, Canada, the
Republic of Chile, the Republic of Colombia, the Republic of Costa Rica,
the Republic of Ecuador, the Republic of El Salvador, the Republic of
Guatemala, the Republic of Haiti, the Republic of Honduras, Jamaica, the
United Mexican States, the Republic of Panama, the Republic of Paraguay,
the Republic of Peru, the United States of America, and the Oriental
Republic of Uruguay, gathered in Los Angeles on the margins of the Ninth
Summit of the Americas, reiterate our will to strengthen national,
regional, and hemispheric efforts to create the conditions for safe,
orderly, humane, and regular migration and to strengthen frameworks for
international protection and cooperation.

We embrace the need to promote the political, economic, security,
social, and environmental conditions for people to lead peaceful,
productive, and dignified lives in their countries of origin.  Migration
should be a voluntary, informed choice and not a necessity.

We are committed to protecting the safety and dignity of all migrants,
refugees, asylum seekers, and stateless persons, regardless of their
migratory status, and respecting their human rights and fundamental
freedoms.  We intend to cooperate closely to facilitate safe, orderly,
humane, and regular migration and, as appropriate, promote safe and
dignified returns, consistent with national legislation, the principle
of non-refoulement, and our respective obligations under international
law.

We acknowledge that addressing irregular international migration
requires a regional approach, and that ongoing health, social, and
economic challenges of the pandemic exacerbate the root causes driving
irregular migration, including the vulnerabilities of many migrants and
their communities.

We value the tradition of our region in welcoming refugees and migrants
and showing solidarity with our neighbors.  We recognize the positive
contributions of refugees and migrants to the socio-economic development
of their host communities.  We recognize the sustained efforts of States
in our hemisphere in hosting refugees, providing regular migration
pathways, promoting local economic and social integration, facilitating
safe, dignified, and voluntary return, and supporting the sustainable
reintegration of returnees.

We remain committed to collectively leveraging the benefits of migration
while addressing its challenges in countries and communities of origin,
transit, destination, and return.  We do so in a spirit of
collaboration, solidarity, and shared responsibility among States and in
partnership with civil society and international organizations.  We
reaffirm our shared commitment to supporting host communities;
strengthening and expanding regular pathways and access to international
protection; fostering opportunities for decent work; facilitating
regularization and access to basic services; and promoting principles of
safe, orderly, humane, and regular migration.

We also intend to strengthen the institutions that are responsible for
migration management in our countries and exchange best practices in
order to provide efficient and adequate care to migrants and access to
protection for refugees.

**Promoting Stability and Assistance for Communities of Destination,
Origin, Transit, and Return**

We affirm that countries of origin and countries and communities hosting
large numbers of migrants and refugees may need international financing
and assistance related to development, basic humanitarian needs,
protection, security, public health, education, financial inclusion, and
employment, among others.  We support efforts that allow all migrants,
refugees, asylum seekers, and persons in situations of vulnerability to
integrate into host countries and access legal identity, regular status,
dignified employment, public services, and international protection,
when appropriate and in accordance with national legislation, to rebuild
their lives and contribute to those communities.  We plan to continue
efforts to prevent and reduce statelessness.  We intend to expand
efforts to address the root causes of irregular migration throughout our
hemisphere, improving conditions and opportunities in countries of
origin and promoting respect for human rights.  We reaffirm the
importance of safe, dignified, and sustainable return, readmission, and
reintegration of migrants to help them reestablish themselves in their
communities of origin.  We further reaffirm the importance of ensuring
all foreign nationals receive prompt consular assistance when needed or
requested, and returnees are treated humanely and in a dignified manner,
regardless of their immigration status, including in the process of
their repatriation and return.

**Promoting Regular Pathways for Migration and International
Protection**

We affirm that regular pathways, including circular and seasonal labor
migration opportunities, family reunification, temporary migration
mechanisms, and regularization programs promote safer and more orderly
migration.  We intend to strengthen fair labor migration opportunities
in the region, integrating robust safeguards to ensure ethical
recruitment and employment free of exploitation, violence, and
discrimination, consistent with respect for human rights and with a
gender perspective.  We intend to promote, in accordance with national
legislation, the recognition of qualifications and the portability of
social benefits.  We intend to pursue accountability for those who
commit human rights violations and abuses.  We plan to promote access to
protection and complementary pathways for asylum seekers, refugees, and
stateless persons in accordance with national legislation and with
respect for the principle of non-refoulement.  We seek to promote border
security and management processes that respect human rights and
encourage and facilitate lawful, safe, and secure travel within the
region.  We commit to guarantee human rights to individuals in
vulnerable situations and to provide access to international protection,
as appropriate.  We further intend to provide specialized and
gender-responsive attention to individuals in situations of
vulnerability.

**Promoting Humane Migration Management**

Renewing our commitment to respect and ensure the human rights of all
migrants and persons in need of international protection, we recognize
each country’s responsibility to manage mixed movements across
international borders in a secure, humane, orderly, and regular manner. 
We intend to expand collaborative efforts to save lives, address
violence and discrimination, counter xenophobia, and combat smuggling of
migrants and trafficking in persons.  This includes expanded
collaboration to prosecute migrant smuggling and human trafficking
criminal organizations as well as their facilitators and money
laundering networks.  We commit to provide appropriate protection and
assistance to victimized individuals.  We intend, in accordance with
national legislation, to improve and facilitate regional law enforcement
information sharing, with the purpose of supporting the investigation
and prosecution of crimes. We intend to explore new mechanisms, while
preserving and leveraging existing regional, subregional, hemispheric,
and global fora, to strengthen cooperation on border management and
apply current mechanisms on visa regimes and regularization processes to
combat exploitation by criminal groups.  In the instance of foreign
nationals without a need for international protection and without a
legal basis to remain in their country of presence, we commit to conduct
any returns in a manner consistent with our respective obligations under
international human rights law and international refugee law, and that
respects the dignity of the individual, integrates safeguards to prevent
refoulement, and promotes the return of children to safe conditions.

**Promoting a Coordinated Emergency Response**

Recognizing the imperative of promoting safe, orderly, and regular
migration, and the safety of migrants, refugees, and asylum seekers in
the region, we intend to work to cooperate in emergency response and
humanitarian assistance in situations of mass migration and refugee
movements.  We plan to strengthen existing regional coordination
mechanisms and, as appropriate, the participation of civil society and
international organizations to advance those aims.  This includes
strengthening information sharing, as appropriate and in accordance with
national legislation, enhancing early warning systems, leveraging
existing relevant fora and processes, and defining a common set of
triggers that activate a coordinated response.

**A Shared Approach to Reduce and Manage Irregular Migration**

To advance the common goals laid out in this Declaration and create the
conditions for safe, orderly, humane, and regular migration through
robust responsibility sharing, we intend to work together across the
hemisphere to:

-   Convene multilateral development banks, international financial
    institutions, and traditional and non-traditional donors to review
    financial support instruments for countries hosting migrant
    populations and facing other migration challenges, without prejudice
    to existing financing priorities and programs.

<!-- -->

-    Improve regional cooperation mechanisms for law enforcement
    cooperation, information sharing, protection-sensitive border
    management, visa regimes, and regularization processes, as
    appropriate and in accordance with national legislation.

<!-- -->

-   Strengthen and expand temporary labor migration pathways, as
    feasible, that benefit countries across the region, including
    through new programs promoting connections between employers and
    migrant workers, robust safeguards for ethical recruitment, and
    legal protections for workers’ rights.

<!-- -->

-    Improve access to public and private services for all migrants,
    refugees, and stateless persons to promote their full social and
    economic inclusion in host communities.

<!-- -->

-   Expand access to regular pathways for migrants and refugees to
    include family reunification options where appropriate and feasible,
    in accordance with national legislation.

————————————————-

This Declaration builds upon existing efforts and international
commitments and advances the vision set forth in the Global Compact on
Refugees and the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration
(GCM) anchored in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.  We
acknowledge the progress noted in the International Migration Review
Forum Progress Declaration for the GCM.  We affirm the fundamental work
that continues under the Comprehensive Regional Protection and Solutions
Framework (MIRPS), the Regional Conference on Migration (RCM), and the
South American Conference on Migration (SACM), as key regional bodies to
facilitate the implementation of this Declaration, as well as the Quito
Process and the Regional Inter-agency Coordination Platform for refugees
and migrants from Venezuela.  The United Nations 1951 Refugee
Convention; its 1967 Protocol; the Convention against Torture and Other
Cruel, Inhuman, or Degrading Treatment or Punishment; the Geneva
Conventions of 1949 and International Humanitarian Law; the United
Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime; its Protocol
to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women
and Children; its Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land,
Sea and Air; the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child;
the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of all
Migrant Workers and Members of their Families; as well as other
international conventions, remain binding on Parties to those
conventions that endorse this Declaration.  This Declaration aligns with
States’ commitments in the International Labour Organization’s
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and its General
Principles and Operational Guidelines for Fair Recruitment.  We
reiterate the importance and meaning of the principle of non-refoulement
as a cornerstone of the international protection of refugees.  We
applaud efforts throughout the region to provide a coordinated and
comprehensive response to all migrants, returnees, refugees, asylum
seekers, and stateless persons.  We make this Declaration of non-legally
binding commitments to enhance cooperation and shared responsibilities
on managing migration and protection in ways grounded in human rights,
transparency, nondiscrimination, and State sovereignty.

\###
