---
date: '2022-06-23'
modified_time: 2022-06-23 12:53:19-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-23 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/23/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for\_USDA"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA):

-   Ronald Guidry, Jr., USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
    Agency, Louisiana
-   Maureen Wicks, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Montana
-   Mark Gibbons, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Utah
-   Christy Davis, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Kansas
-   Lillian Salerno, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Texas

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of America and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**

The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.

USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.

**<u>Ronald Guidry, Jr., USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
Agency, Louisiana</u>**

Ronald C. Guidry, Jr. is a native of New Orleans and a proud alumnus of
St. Augustine High School and Dillard University, from which he holds a
degree in Communications. In his career, Guidry has established vital
relationships with the community at large as well as the agricultural
community both locally and internationally.

Since 2018, Guidry has served as the Advisor for the USDA Farm Service
Agency County Committee, which serves multiple parishes across
southeastern Louisiana. As Committee Advisor, Guidry has been charged
with carrying out farm service agency programs, providing diverse
viewpoints, and making informed policy decisions to ensure grassroots
input and local administration of federal farm programs. He is also the
owner and operator of Farm Dat, a USDA Class B certified farm, where he
is responsible for overall operations including management, marketing,
personnel, finances, and customer service/customer relations. While he
is primarily focused on the purchasing, raising, and selling of farm
animals, he consistently establishes and maintains community
relationships with others from varied socioeconomic and cultural
backgrounds to ensure farm sustainability.

**<u>Maureen Wicks, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Montana</u>**

Maureen “Morb” Wicks, a dryland wheat farmer from Liberty County,
Montana, has been working for Montana farmers for more than 30 years.
From 1985-1995, Wicks was heavily involved in WIFE (Women Involved in
Farm Economics), including serving as the Hi-Line Chapter President and
helping lead several lobbying trips to Washington, D.C. to champion
family farm policy issues. In 1998, Wicks was the first female elected
to the Liberty County Farm Services Administration, where she served for
16 years.

In 2014, Wicks was elected to serve as a Liberty County Commissioner and
was re-elected in 2021. During her time as a Commissioner, Wicks served
on the Montana Association of Counties Agriculture Committee, Liberty
County Mental Health Advisory Board, and The Liberty County Council on
Aging. Wicks additionally has served on the Tiber County Water Board,
the Bear Paw Development Board, and the Liberty Medical Center Board.
Wicks is a member of Montana Grain Growers and the Montana Farmer’s
Union. She holds a B.A. in Political Science and Government from Montana
State University and also taught Government/Social Studies for more than
15 years in both rural and urban school districts in Montana.

**<u>Mark Gibbons, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Utah</u>**

Mark Gibbons is a third-generation dairy farmer from Lewiston, Utah. He
has spent his life there on the farm and now the next generation is
running the operation; they milk 700 cows and farm 1200 acres of ground.
Gibbons has served as Utah State Farm Service Agency Executive Director,
President of the Utah Farmers Union, President of the Dairy Producers of
Utah, President of the Governors Agriculture Advisory Board, Vice
President of the Western States Dairy Producers Trade Association, Utah
State FFA Foundation Board member, and on various additional
farm-related committees. He resides in Lewiston with his wife, Shanna.
They have three sons and daughters-in-law and eleven grandchildren.

**<u>Christy Davis, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Kansas</u>**

Christy Cauble Davis is a fifth-generation Kansan who has dedicated her
career to strengthening Kansas communities. The projects and programs
Davis has facilitated statewide have generated billions of dollars in
economic impact. She has served as Legislative Chair for the Kansas
Downtown Development Association and on the boards of the Chase County
Chamber of Commerce, Council Grove/Morris County Hospital Foundation,
Preservation Action, and National Conference of State Historic
Preservation Officers. After serving as a local and state government
executive and developing a private consulting business, Davis worked to
“heighten appreciation and knowledge of the Flint Hills tallgrass
prairie” as Executive Director of Symphony in the Flint Hills.

David, her husband Luke, and their 10-year-old son Jack live in Chase
County. In 2016, they adapted a historic building in Cottonwood Falls
into an award-winning laundromat. In 2019, they spurred downtown
revitalization in Council Grove by rehabilitating a historic bank
building to create much-needed housing and space for a new bookstore.
Davis likes to participate in community activities, hike, swim, and
read.

**<u>Lillian Salerno, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Texas</u>**

Lillian Salerno has over two decades of experience leading teams in
government and industry. Salerno served six years as an official for the
Obama-Biden Administration, first as the Rural Business Administrator
and later as Deputy Undersecretary for Rural Development at the United
States Department of Agriculture. She was a member of the White House
Rural Council where she provided an unwavering voice for rural
Americans. As Deputy Undersecretary for USDA, Salerno managed both
political and career federal workers and created diverse internal boards
and committees. She also served on the Executive Resource Board, which
included issues surrounding cybersecurity, executive compensation, and
resource management. In addition, Salerno led the Hispanic Women Farmers
National Claims Team.

Salerno has led and served on numerous White House working groups
including the Interagency Task Force focused on the rural opioid
epidemic as well as the White House National Economic Council “Investing
in Manufacturing Communities” initiative. She has testified before
Congress and served as the U.S. delegate to the Organization for
Economic Co-Operation and Development, serving as Vice Chair for the
Working Party on Rural Development. Salerno has always played an active
part in civic life and is a former U.S. Democratic Congressional
candidate for the 32<sup>nd</sup> District in Texas. Salerno has a long
history advocating for and protecting vulnerable populations. As a young
attorney in rural Texas, Salerno was regularly designated as the
court-appointed ad litem for vulnerable and Spanish-speaking Texans.
Salerno holds a B.A. in Latin American Studies from the University of
Texas at Austin, an M.A. in Criminal Justice from the University of
North Texas, and a J.D. from Southern Methodist University and is a
graduate of the Executive Leadership Program from Harvard University.

\###
