---
date: '2022-06-07'
published_time: 2022-06-07 13:31:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-over-25-billion-in-american-rescue-plan-funding-to-help-ensure-every-american-has-access-to-high-speed-affordable-internet/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Over $25 Billion in\
  \ American Rescue Plan Funding to Help Ensure Every American Has Access to High\
  \ Speed, Affordable\_Internet"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new investments from the
American Rescue Plan to help provide every American with access to
affordable, high-speed internet. The American Rescue Plan funding is in
addition to the $65 billion investment in high-speed Internet access in
the [Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law](https://www.whitehouse.gov/bipartisan-infrastructure-law/#internetaccess)
and [recent
announcements](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/09/fact-sheet-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-reduce-high-speed-internet-costs-for-millions-of-americans/)
to lower the cost of high-speed internet for tens of millions of
American families. These investments will bring down costs for families,
help small businesses, and boost education for America’s kids.
Affordable, high-speed internet connects Americans to critical services
and expands economic opportunities to every community. The American
Rescue Plan has already spent or committed more than $25 billion to
invest in affordable high-speed internet and connectivity.

-   **$10 billion through the** [**Capital Projects
    Fund**](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/coronavirus/assistance-for-state-local-and-tribal-governments/capital-projects-fund)**:**
    Today, the Treasury Department announced the first state awards of
    the Capital Projects Fund, which is providing resources, in addition
    to the State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds, to states,
    territories, and Tribal governments to deliver affordable, reliable,
    high-speed internet infrastructure and other connectivity
    projects**.**  
      
-   **$8 Billion Already Committed with American Rescue Plan** [**State
    and Local
    Funds**](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/coronavirus/assistance-for-state-local-and-tribal-governments/state-and-local-fiscal-recovery-funds):
    Even without full reporting in, state and local governments have
    committed more than $8 billion in investments toward expanding
    affordable digital connectivity, through construction of affordable
    and high-speed broadband infrastructure and providing assistance to
    households for Internet access and digital literacy.  
      
-   **$7 billion through the FCC’s** [**Emergency Connectivity
    Fund**](https://www.fcc.gov/emergency-connectivity-fund) **program
    to help schools and libraries close the “homework gap.”** The
    American Rescue Plan’s Emergency Connectivity Fund has already
    helped over 12.6 million students and provided schools and libraries
    with 10.5 million connected devices and over 5 million internet
    connections.  
      

**<u>First State Awards of the $10 Billion Capital Project Fund
Announced to Provide Affordable, Reliable, High-Speed Internet to over
200,000 Homes and Small Businesses</u>:** Today, the Biden-Harris
Administration is also announcing **the first state awards of the
American Rescue Plan’s $10 billion Capital Projects Fund for critical
connectivity investments**—like broadband infrastructure expansion—that
enable work, education, and health monitoring. These first awards,
totaling more than a half a billion dollars, will make **resources
immediately available to support Louisiana, New Hampshire, Virginia, and
West Virginia in deploying infrastructure to connect over 200,000 homes
and businesses** to reliable internet service at download and upload
speeds of at least 100 Mbps. Broadband infrastructure projects supported
by Capital Project Funds must: **Support delivery of reliable high-speed
internet** by requiring service that meets or exceeds speeds of 100 Mbps
download and 100 Mbps upload symmetrical upon project completion
wherever practicable; **Prioritize connecting families and businesses
with poor and inadequate service**, particularly in rural and remote
areas; and **Ensure affordability** by requiring all service providers
to participate in the Federal Communications Commission’s new
[Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP)](http://getinternet.gov) to
ensure that households can afford the broadband they need for work,
school, healthcare, and more by providing a discount of up to $30 per
month (up to $75/month on Tribal lands) and by encouraging states to
further require that services provided by a Capital Projects Fund-funded
Broadband Infrastructure Projects include at least one low-cost
high-speed option. First four awards go to following states:  
  

-   **Louisiana ($177 million) will provide funding to connect nearly
    88,500 homes and businesses** currently lacking access to internet
    at speeds of 25/3 Mbps through the state’s new Granting Unserved
    Municipalities Broadband Opportunities (GUMBO) program—a
    multi-phase, broadband infrastructure competitive grant program.
    Louisiana estimates that Capital Projects Fund-supported projects
    will close the digital divide for approximately 25 percent of all
    locations lacking high-speed internet access in the state.  
      

<!-- -->

-   **Virginia ($220 million) will expand high-speed internet access to
    more than 76,800 homes and businesses** through a competitive
    grant-making program, closing the digital divide for approximately
    28% of locations that still lack access to high-quality broadband
    service.  
      
-   **West Virginia ($136 million) will provide high-speed internet
    access to 20,000 homes and businesses** through three separate grant
    programs that focus funding for last-mile connections to homes and
    businesses currently without access to internet at speeds of at
    least 25/3 Mbps, reaching approximately 10% of remaining locations
    that lack access to high-speed internet.  
      
-   **New Hampshire ($50 million, 41% of their available allocation)
    will provide high-speed internet service to 15,000 homes and
    businesses** through the state’s new Broadband Contract Program
    targeting the most underserved rural parts of the state, reaching
    approximately 50% of locations that still lack access to high-speed
    internet.

**<u>State, local, and Tribal governments in over 40 states have already
committed over $8 billion in State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds to
provide critical support for broadband infrastructure and Internet
access</u>**: In addition to the $10 billion Capital Projects Fund, the
American Rescue Plan provided state, local, territorial, and Tribal
governments with critical resources to support a response to and
recovery from the COVID-19 public health emergency—including investments
in broadband infrastructure needed to connect their communities to work,
education, health care, and civic opportunities available online.

With Fiscal Recovery Funds resources already in hand, many communities
have already started making progress towards significantly expanding
access to reliable, high-speed internet. To date, **more than 230 state,
local, and Tribal governments have budgeted more than $8 billion in
Fiscal Recovery Funds to expand last-mile and middle-mile networks in
their communities—including in rural and other areas that have
traditionally lagged in connectivity—or to provide families assistance
in affordably accessing high-speed services**.  
  

Examples of eight states and eight localities committing Fiscal Recovery
Funds to improve access to reliable, high-speed internet:  
  

**State Examples**:

-   The **State of California** is investing over $500 million of Fiscal
    Recovery Funds as part of a larger initiative to fund grants for
    “last-mile” broadband infrastructure projects to provide affordable
    access to unserved households, anchor institutions and local
    governments.  
      
-   The **State of Georgia** has announced preliminary awards of over
    $400 million from Fiscal Recovery Funds to support 49 projects
    across 70 counties that could potentially serve more than 130,000
    currently unserved homes and businesses with faster and more
    reliable broadband.  
      
-   The **State of Montana** has received applications for $266 million
    in available funding from Fiscal Recovery Funds to expand access to
    reliable broadband and close the digital divide throughout the
    state.  
      
-   The **State of North Carolina** has committed over $660 million in
    Fiscal Recovery Funds to deploy crucial last-mile broadband
    infrastructure to serve remaining unserved and underserved areas in
    the state, and expects to begin awarding up to $350 million of those
    funds beginning in July of 2022.   
      
-   The **State of Washington** has begun awarding $145 million in
    Fiscal Recovery Funds it has committed to help advance its goal of
    connecting all its residents to reliable, high-speed internet access
    by 2028.  
      
-   The **State of Wisconsin** provided $100 million towards 83 projects
    in 40 counties and 3 tribal lands that will expand fiber broadband
    internet to more than 28,000 homes and nearly 1,500 business
    locations that were either unserved or underserved.  
      
-   The **State of Vermont** has committed $150 million of Fiscal
    Recovery Funds to support and accelerate the state’s goal of
    achieving universal access to reliable, high-quality, affordable
    broadband.  
      
-   The **State of Virginia** is awarding $479 million of Fiscal
    Recovery Funds along with state resources that will connect more
    than 200,000 households, businesses, and community anchor
    institutions to high-speed internet.

**Local Examples**:  
  

-   **Boone County, Kentucky** leveraged over $10 million in Fiscal
    Recovery Funds to enter into agreement with an Internet service
    provider to construct fiber-to-the-premises high speed broadband
    infrastructure capable of delivering 1 gigabit speed service to
    every household in the county by roughly the end of 2023. The county
    will also address affordability with a strategic partnership with
    the incumbent service provider to authorize a discount on monthly
    service to individual subscribers.  
      
-   **Yavapai County, Arizona** is using $20 million in Fiscal Recovery
    Funds for the design, construction, implementation, and maintenance
    of telecommunications equipment and services providing “last mile”
    Internet access, with a focus on ensuring unserved or underserved
    households and businesses in unincorporated areas in Yavapai County
    receive high-speed broadband.  
      
-   **Frederick County, Virginia** will use $8.6 million to participate
    in a regional project to develop fiber-to-the-home broadband
    service, which includes eight localities. Broadband service will be
    made available to roughly 42,700 currently unserved locations in the
    region, including all locations in Frederick County that remain
    unserved by cable or fiber-to-the-home broadband. The project will
    leverage a partnership between the localities, the electric
    cooperatives, and a broadband provider.  
      
-   **Florence County, South Carolina** will use $4.5 million to bring
    new broadband service to more than 3,300 residential and business
    addresses that are unserved or underserved. Funds will support
    installation of a fiber-to-the-premises wireline broadband network
    capable of delivering 1 Gig speeds.  
      
-   **Washtenaw County, Michigan** is committing over $13 million in
    Fiscal Recovery Funds to expand affordable and equitable high-speed
    broadband infrastructure to unserved and underserved communities as
    part of a larger investment intended to connect every household in
    the County to high-speed broadband infrastructure.  
      
-   **Brownsville, Texas** is using $19.5 million in Fiscal Recovery
    Funds to build out 95 miles of “middle-mile” infrastructure,
    including connecting 32 anchor institutions, and will partner with
    private providers to bring high-speed internet to its most
    underserved communities.  
      
-   **Bowling Green, Kentucky** is leveraging $16.5 million in Fiscal
    Recovery funds to seek bids on a fiber to the premises network that
    would provide Gig speed fiber connections to all homes and
    businesses in the city.  
      
-   **Detroit, Michigan** will begin construction this summer, using $10
    million in Fiscal Recovery Funds, to pilot a fiber-to-the-home
    connectivity project to approximately 2,000 homes in the Hope
    Village neighborhood with affordable 1 Gig service.

**<u>The Emergency Connectivity Fund is helping over 10,000 schools,
school districts, libraries, and consortia to close the homework gap and
support off-campus learning, such as nightly homework, to ensure
students across the country have the necessary support to keep up with
their education  
  
</u>**

The American Rescue Plan’s $7.2 billion Emergency Connectivity Fund is
helping schools and libraries provide the tools and services their
communities need for remote learning during the pandemic, helping
millions of students and closing the Homework Gap for those students who
lack necessary Internet access or the devices they need to connect to
classrooms.  
  

The Emergency Connectivity Fund provides funding to schools and
libraries for the reasonable costs of eligible equipment and services
that can be provided to students, teachers, and library patrons who lack
connected devices, such as laptop or tablet computers, and/or lack
broadband access during the pandemic.  
  

The **Emergency Connectivity Fund has already committed nearly $4.9
billion, helping over 12.6 million students and providing schools and
libraries with 10.5 million connected devices and over 5 million
broadband connections**. In May of 2022, following the closure of the
program’s final planned funding application window, the Federal
Communication Commission announced that it would prioritize remaining
funds to schools and libraries with the greatest need, with a preference
for schools and libraries located in rural areas.
