---
date: '2022-06-10'
modified_time: 2022-06-17 12:34:36-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-10 12:17:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/10/president-biden-announces-sixth-operation-fly-formula-mission/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Sixth Operation Fly Formula\_Mission"
---
 
*Delta Air Lines will carry more than 3.2 million 8-ounce bottle
equivalents of Kendamil infant formula *

Today, President Biden is announcing that his Administration has
arranged the sixth Operation Fly Formula flight. Delta Air Lines will
transport Kendamil formula free of charge from Heathrow Airport in
London to Logan Airport in Boston and Detroit Metro Airport between June
20 and June 24.

These Operation Fly Formula flights donated by Delta will contain more
than 212,000 pounds or approximately 3.2 million 8-ounce bottle
equivalents of Kendamil infant formula and will begin shipping on June
20.

The Kendamil Organic and Classic formula, made available through
Operation Fly Formula, will be distributed and available for purchase at
select U.S. retailers nationwide, as well as online. The Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) is exercising enforcement discretion so that
Kendamil can import infant formula under the Kendamil brand. Kendamil
will export up to at least 2 million cans of Kendamil infant formula –
the equivalent of at least 54 million 8-ounce bottles to the United
States. Parents can learn more about Kendamil infant formula
at <https://kendamil.com/> and visit the United States website
at <https://us.kendamil.com/> for updates and information on retail
locations.   
   
President Biden launched Operation Fly Formula to speed up the
importation of safe infant formula and start getting more formula to
stores as soon as possible. Under Operation Fly Formula, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS), the General Services Administration (GSA), and the
Department of Defense (DOD) are partnering to pick up overseas infant
formula that meets U.S. health and safety standards so it can get to
store shelves faster. Yesterday, Operation Fly Formula flights landed in
Texas with 1.6 million bottle equivalents of Nestlé NAN SupremePro Stage
1 infant formula, and the first shipment of 3.7 million bottle
equivalents of Kendamil infant formula landed in Virginia aboard a
donated United Airlines flight.

In addition, the Biden Administration has taken a number of other
important actions to ensure there is enough safe infant formula for
families, including invoking the Defense Production Act, entering into a
consent agreement between the FDA to reopen Abbott Nutrition’s Sturgis
facility, and issuing FDA guidance so that major formula manufacturers
can safely import formula that is not currently being produced for the
U.S. market.

\###
