---
date: '2022-06-28'
modified_time: 2022-06-28 11:52:58-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-28 11:52:57-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/28/joint-declaration-between-the-kingdom-of-spain-and-the-united-states-of-america/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Declaration Between the Kingdom of Spain and the United\_States of\_\
  America"
---
 
Spain and the United States are Allies, strategic partners, and friends.
Our bilateral relationship is based on deep historical ties, shared
democratic values, and a common vision for addressing global challenges.
Spain and the United States are committed to upholding peace and
security, protecting the planet’s climate for future generations,
promoting democracy and human rights, and enhancing economic prosperity
around the world. To affirm our commitment to working closely together
to advance these goals, the President of the Government of Spain, Pedro
Sánchez Pérez Castejón, and the President of the United States of
America, Joseph R. Biden, Jr., on the occasion of President Biden’s
visit to Spain on June 28-30, 2022, have reached the following
understandings:

**Reinforcing multilateral responses to transatlantic and global
challenges  
  
**1. Spain and the United States condemn Russia’s unjustified and
unprovoked war of choice against Ukraine, which has fundamentally
altered the global strategic environment. This aggression constitutes
the most direct threat to transatlantic security and global stability
since the end of the Cold War. Russia’s actions also threaten the food
security of some of the most vulnerable people around the world. Spain
and the United States intend to continue working together, along and
with other partners and allies, including the rest of the EU and the G7,
to support the government and the people of Ukraine and to hold Russia
accountable for its violations of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial
integrity, including gross violations of international law by targeting
civilians with violence, and conflict-related sexual violence. Spain and
the United States also reiterate their strong support for Ukraine’s
determination to choose its own future.

2. Spain and the United States are committed to defending the
rules-based international order, which has been the foundation for
preserving our security and advancing our prosperity over the past seven
decades. We are fully committed to the goals of the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development. We intend to strengthen international and
multilateral institutions to promote strong, sustainable, and inclusive
economic growth, defend democratic governance, and advance solutions to
global challenges.  We stand united in our determination to address
challenges to that international order.  In this regard we continue to
encourage China to uphold its commitments within the rules-based
international order, to contribute to international security, and to
cooperate in the provision of global public goods, including on climate
change, biodiversity and gender equality.

**Strengthening defense cooperation  
  
**3. The United States and Spain recognize the central importance of the
NATO Alliance in ensuring transatlantic peace and security. As NATO
Allies for 40 years, Spain and the United States are steadfastly
committed to providing NATO with ready forces and capabilities,
strengthening their transatlantic ties, and ensuring a 360-degree
approach to security, particularly by enhancing the relationship with
mutual partners, such as the European Union. The Madrid Summit hosted by
Spain will ensure that NATO is united behind a new Strategic Concept
guiding the Alliance’s approach towards strategic competitors and
transnational threats, and that NATO’s military and political activities
are resourced to address a more dangerous security environment.

4. Spain and the United States underline their commitment to the
U.S.-Spain Agreement on Defense Cooperation signed in 1988, which,
together with the shared use of Spain’s bases in Rota and Morón, is an
essential piece of the bilateral defense cooperation between the two
countries. Spain and the United States intend to expand their defense
cooperation through the permanent stationing of additional U.S. naval
vessels in Rota. The two countries intend to hold regular meetings
within the framework of the bilateral High-Level Defense Group to
strengthen defense cooperation.

**Defending democracy, human rights, and gender equality  
  
**5. Spain and the United States share the fundamental values ​​of
support for freedom, equity and equality, democracy, and the rule of
law. Both countries reaffirm their commitment to a foreign policy guided
by the defense of human rights, especially the rights of women and
vulnerable populations, such as people living in poverty, members of
racially or ethnically marginalized groups, LGBTQI+ persons, members of
religious minority groups, persons with disabilities, refugees,
migrants, internally displaced persons, older adults, children, gender
non-conforming persons, and trafficking victims.  
  
6. The United States and Spain underscore the importance of promoting
gender equity and equality globally. Both countries intend to work
together to promote policies and initiatives that advance the rights of
women and girls, including through the Women, Peace, and Security
agenda.  As underscored during this Summit for Democracy Year of Action,
they are committed to cooperation in strengthening democratic governance
and the protection and promotion of human rights throughout the world,
particularly with the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean where
the United States and Spain both have deep and enduring affiliations.

**Intensifying collaboration on justice and security issues  
**  
7. The United States and Spain intend to maintain and build upon their
strong law enforcement cooperation, including with respect to
extradition and mutual legal assistance. They plan to reinforce their
collaboration in the fight against terrorism, cybercrime, drug
trafficking, and trafficking in persons. They intend to strengthen
cybersecurity cooperation to increase national resilience to
cyber-attacks, promote responsible state behavior in cyberspace, and
counter malicious cyber activity from nation states and criminal
actors. 

8\. The United States and Spain will continue to work together to
strengthen counterterrorism cooperation at the bilateral level and
internationally. They also will work to curb the abuse of new
information and communication technologies by terrorists, violent
extremists, and authoritarian regimes. 

**Promoting safe, orderly, and regular migration  
**  
9. Both countries intend to collaborate on a comprehensive approach in
the management of irregular migration flows, ensuring the just and
humane treatment of migrants. Both countries also plan to coordinate
efforts to address the root causes of irregular migration and work to
strengthen legal pathways, with a particular focus on the countries of
Latin America and the Caribbean.  Spain and the United States likewise
recognize the importance of ongoing cooperation in response to the
challenges of irregular migration in the North Africa region.

**Fighting climate change and increasing energy security  
**  
10. Spain and the United States recognize that the climate crisis is one
of the most serious challenges of our time. Both countries stress the
urgent need to increase global climate action to ensure that deep
reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions are achieved by 2030 and
reach net zero by 2050. In this light, they commit to pursuing a
climate-smart recovery that strengthens biodiversity. 

11\. Both countries are committed to developing joint strategies to
boost climate action in low and middle-income countries and sectoral
strategies to accelerate the deployment of clean and renewable energy
and the promotion of just transition to decarbonized and circular
economies. They recognize the need to reach the Paris Agreement goals,
including to accelerate global efforts to make financial flows
consistent with low greenhouse gas emissions and climate resilient
development.  Both countries also underscore the importance of making
continued progress towards the collective goal to mobilize annually 100
billion U.S. dollars for climate action in developing countries. They
recognize the urgency of addressing methane in line with the Global
Methane Pledge, improving adaptation to the impacts of climate change,
and promoting a climate resilient development, especially in the most
vulnerable countries.

12\. The United States and Spain stress the importance of joint action
to improve Europe’s energy security and reduce dependence on Russian
fossil fuels. Both countries are committed to collaboration to increase
the geographical diversification of energy sources, especially natural
gas, to promote renewable energies and develop new vectors such as
offshore wind-power and renewable hydrogen, to deploy smart technologies
that promote energy efficiency, and to secure supply chains for the
critical minerals essential to the energy transition.

**Expanding cooperation in commercial and economic matters  
**  
13. Spain and the United States are committed to strengthening the
rules-based multilateral trade system to ensure fair competition and
legal certainty. Both countries are committed to promoting the
development of trade and investment, including entrepreneurship, small-
and medium-sized businesses, and innovation as the basis for strong,
sustainable, inclusive economic growth that creates quality employment
in both countries and incorporates diverse and excluded groups, while
ensuring adequate protection for digital economy workers. They are
committed to transatlantic cooperation to resolve trade, economic and
technological differences; promote energy security and sustainability;
and build resilient supply chains that are transparent, secure,
sustainable, and diverse. They are committed to ending the race to the
bottom on corporate taxation through the swift implementation of the
OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework’s Two-Pillar Solution.

**Boosting digital, scientific, and technological cooperation  
**  
14. The United States and Spain defend a digital transformation based on
a shared respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and
democratic values, on reducing the digital divide, on preventing and
addressing the disproportionate effects of online forms of violence and
abuse on women, children, and other marginalized groups, and on the
implementation of mechanisms to safeguard these principles. They express
the importance of coordinating actions to mitigate security risks in the
digital environment, especially the importance of working with trusted
suppliers, and cooperating in defining and utilizing international
standards, including open standards, and best practices that contribute
to reliable and secure digitalization. They express their commitment to
cooperation initiatives in the transatlantic framework, such as the
EU-U.S. Trade and Technology Council, as a tool for addressing
challenges in the trade, economic and technological sphere.

15\. Spain and the United States intend to continue promoting joint
science, space, and innovation initiatives carried out by research
organizations, universities, and private companies in all fields of
space and science, including through scientific-technological
initiatives of the European Union. Spain and the United States plan to
encourage industrial initiatives to enhance open strategic autonomy,
especially in critical raw materials.

16\. Both countries aim to intensify cultural and educational exchanges
through bilateral programs such as the Fulbright Program, the Spain-USA
Foundation, and the U.S.-Spain Council.

**Strengthening political cooperation   
**  
17. Spain and the United States intend to continue high-level
consultations between the two governments. The Spanish Minister of
Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation and the U.S. Secretary
of State intend to continue their regular political consultations, and
the Spanish Secretary of State for Foreign and Global Affairs and the
U.S. Deputy Secretary of State intend to continue their regular contact.
In addition, regular region- and issue-focused meetings should take
place on topics of mutual interest to include Latin America and the
Caribbean, the Maghreb, the Sahel, China and the Indo-Pacific, Russia,
multilateral affairs, migration, science and technology, and
cybersecurity.

**Looking to the future  
**  
18. In the spirit of this joint declaration, Spain and the United States
intend to continue strengthening their bilateral relations, expanding on
these understandings as needed. As Spain prepares for its presidency of
the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2023, the two
countries intend to prioritize cooperation on foreign policy, security,
defense, and economic issues as they relate to the EU.  Spain and the
United States look forward to working together to meet the challenges of
the twenty-first century and to seizing opportunities for deepening
their cooperation so that it provides security and prosperity to
citizens on both sides of the Atlantic. 

\###
