---
date: '2022-06-09'
modified_time: 2022-06-12 17:15:36-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-09 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/09/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-proposes-new-standards-for-national-electric-vehicle-charging-network/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Proposes New Standards for National\
  \ Electric Vehicle Charging\_Network"
---
 
*Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Investments to Enable Families to
Plug-In, Charge Up, and Drive Across America*

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new steps to meet
President Biden’s goal to build out the first-ever national network of
500,000 electric vehicle chargers along America’s highways and in
communities, a key piece of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.

The Department of Transportation, in partnership with the Department of
Energy, is [proposing new
standards](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/biden-harris-administration-takes-key-step-forward-building-national-network-user)
to make charging electric vehicles (EVs) a convenient, reliable, and
affordable for all Americans, including when driving long distances.
Without strong standards, chargers would be less reliable, may not work
for all cars, or lack common payment methods. The new standards will
ensure everyone can use the network –no matter what car you drive or
which state you charge in.

The proposed standards, along with new coordinated federal actions on
EVs, support President’s Biden’s priorities  to lower costs for
families, create good-paying jobs, and combat climate change. He is
pressing Congress on his plan to provide tax credits that make EVs more
affordable, so families’ budgets aren’t hurt by volatile gas prices. The
actions will spur good-paying jobs with strong workforce requirements
for America’s steelworkers, electrical workers, and laborers to build,
install, and maintain the network. And, making chargers and EVs more
accessible will help tackle the climate crisis – reducing emissions,
increasing cleaner air, and advancing the President’s Justice40
Initiative.

Thanks to President Biden’s bold vision, leadership, and actions EV
sales have doubled since he took office, and there are now more than two
million EVs and 100,000 chargers on the road. The Biden Administration
has positioned the United States to lead the electric future and make it
in America:

-   Secured historic investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law –
    $7.5 billion for EV charging infrastructure and more than $7 billion
    for the critical minerals supply chains necessary for batteries,
    components, materials, and recycling.
-   United automakers and autoworkers around an [ambitious
    target](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-steps-to-drive-american-leadership-forward-on-clean-cars-and-trucks/)
    for 50% of new vehicles sold in 2030 to be electric.
-   Triggered a string of investment commitments of over $100 billion
    from private companies to make more EVs and their parts in America,
    create jobs for our autoworkers, and strengthen our domestic supply
    chains.
-   Activated the purchasing power of the federal government to procure
    100% zero-emission light-duty vehicles by 2027 and all vehicles by
    2035.
-   Finalized the strongest passenger vehicle emissions and fuel economy
    standards in history.

**<u>Historic Infrastructure Investments in Charging</u>**

The $7.5 billion for EV charging infrastructure in President Biden’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will build a convenient and equitable
charging network through two programs. The National Electric Vehicle
Infrastructure (NEVI) program will provide $5 billion in formula funding
to States to build out charging infrastructure along highway corridors –
filling gaps in rural, disadvantaged, and hard-to-reach locations while
instilling public confidence in charging. Today’s minimum standards and
requirements will guide States on how to spend federal funds in a way
that makes chargers function the same from state-to-state, easy to find,
use, and pay for, no matter who operates chargers. The Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law also provides $2.5 billion in competitive grants to
support community and corridor charging, improve local air quality, and
increase EV charging access in underserved and overburdened communities.
 DOT will open applications for this program later this year.

These federal charging programs were designed to catalyze additional
private sector investments that complement the build-out of a
user-friendly, cost-saving, and financially sustainable national EV
charging network. Together, President Biden’s leadership is mobilizing
public and private charging investment to accelerate the adoption of EVs
and create good-paying jobs across manufacturing, installation, and
operation. These chargers will also make sure the new renewable
electricity sources like solar and wind can power the cars we drive and
reduce energy costs for families.

**<u>Setting the Standard</u>**

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also established a [Joint Office of
Energy and Transportation](https://driveelectric.gov/) to work
hand-in-hand with States, industry leaders, manufacturers, and other
stakeholders to meet the President’s goals. And to ensure that this
electric transformation is both timely and equitable, Vice President
Harris launched an [EV Charging Action
Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/13/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-electric-vehicle-charging-action-plan/)
that fast tracks federal investments and targets equity benefits for
disadvantaged communities – and the Department of Transportation
released a [Rural EV
toolkit](https://www.transportation.gov/rural/ev/toolkit) to help ensure
all Americans, regardless of where they live, have the opportunity to
benefit from the lower operating costs, reduced maintenance needs, and
improved performance that EVs provide. These investments, steered by the
standards proposed today, will create a public charging system that
meets our goals of being reliable, affordable, equitable and seamless
between states and networks. They will also use workforce standards such
as the Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program (EVITP) to
increase the safety and reliability of charging station’s functionality
and usability – creating and supporting good-paying, highly-skilled
union jobs in communities across the country.

**<u>Additional Steps to Drive Progress</u>**

Today, as part of an Administration-wide strategy, the Biden-Harris
Administration is announcing a fleet of actions from nine federal
agencies across the charging ecosystem to complement the NEVI program –
creating good-paying jobs in the U.S., reducing emissions, and putting
us on a path to net-zero emissions by 2050.

-   **The** **Joint Office of Energy and Transportation** [announced the
    formation](https://driveelectric.gov/work-with-us/) of a new Federal
    Advisory Committee called the EV Working Group that will be a key
    advisory body to “make recommendations regarding the development,
    adoption, and integration of light-, medium-, and heavy-duty
    electric vehicles into the transportation and energy systems of the
    United States,” including on infrastructure topics. The 25 members
    will be selected in the coming months. The joint office also
    announced a partnership to support EV charging with the American
    Public Power Association, Edison Electric Institute, and National
    Rural Electric Cooperative Association to inform electric system
    investments and support state planning.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Energy** [announced $45
    million](https://www.arpa-e.energy.gov/news-and-media/press-releases/us-department-energy-announces-45-million-develop-more-efficient)
    through its “EVs4ALL” program to develop very fast charging
    batteries to complement the rollout of the public charging network.
    They are also [preparing multiple funding
    topics](https://eere-exchange.energy.gov/Default.aspx#FoaIdd401a407-9f96-49cc-a6d8-7af4814e78e5)
    for projects that offer EV charging solutions for drivers who lack
    access to home charging or who live in underserved communities.
    DOE’s Vehicle Technologies Office anticipates up to $30M in funding
    opportunities to support clean energy mobility pilots and
    demonstration in underserved and rural areas. The opportunity will
    seek projects to deploy EV charging solutions for drivers with no
    home charging and projects that will engage underserved communities
    to develop community-driven EV charging plans and install EV
    chargers in locations that maximize benefits to underserved
    communities.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Agriculture** developed an [EV charging resource
    guide](https://www.rd.usda.gov/sites/default/files/508_RD_FS_71EVChargingStations.pdf)
    and funding eligibility infographic for rural property owners,
    states and territories, Tribes, municipalities, cooperatives, and
    non- and for-profit entities to assist those looking to make the
    transition to electric. They also developed a [climate smart schools
    guide](https://www.rd.usda.gov/sites/default/files/508_RD_FS_LeadingTheChargeSchools.pdf)
    that includes information on funding for charging for rural school
    districts. In addition, USDA signed a Memorandum of Understanding
    with the Department of Energy to address EV supply equipment and
    related charging infrastructure.

<!-- -->

-   **The General Services Administration** created [Blanket Purchase
    Agreements](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/newsroom/news-releases/gsa-awards-new-blanket-purchase-agreements-for-electric-vehicle-supply-equipment-procurement-05032022)
    for federal agencies and other eligible users to seamlessly acquire
    an array of EV chargers and services at federally owned, managed,
    and occupied facilities. They also published a ‘Guide to Building
    Owners’ that details the relationship between EV charging and
    building electricity loads – ensuring that buildings are equipped to
    handle new charging infrastructure, and optimize existing chargers.
    Through their Green Proving Ground program, GSA is working closely
    with the Department of Energy to install and pilot EV charging
    innovations, including managed and bidirectional charging, at
    selected GSA facilities and to accelerate market acceptance. In
    addition, GSA is working to establish an Interagency Agreement with
    the Department of Veterans Affairs to install EV charging stations
    at approximately 60 Veterans Affairs locations.

<!-- -->

-   **The National Park Service** established an interdisciplinary EV
    Working Group that is developing a national strategy for
    electrifying their government fleets, public-serving transit fleets,
    and public-use charging infrastructure. They are in the process of
    transitioning Zion National Park’s transit fleet to battery-electric
    buses with [$33 million in
    funding](https://www.nps.gov/zion/learn/news/zion-national-park-receives-33-million-federal-transit-grant.htm)
    from the Department of Transportation’s Nationally Significant
    Federal Lands and Tribal Projects program – with plans to pursue the
    same program to electrify transit at Grand Canyon National Park next
    year. In addition, NPS is working with State DOTs to fill charging
    gaps in corridors and routes that serve as gateways to national
    parks.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Housing and Urban Development** has continued to
    support the inclusion of EV charging infrastructure as part of its
    green building standards through several of its housing financing
    programs. In addition, they are exploring the installation of EV
    chargers in multi-family rental housing as part of their Green
    Mortgage Insurance Premium incentive – lowering annual premiums for
    participants.

<!-- -->

-   **The Environmental Protection Agency** created a Clean School Bus
    Program through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to replace the
    nation’s fleet of dirty diesel buses, with clean, American-made,
    zero-emission buses. EPA [released $500
    million](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-makes-500-million-available-clean-school-buses-through-epa)
    in the first round of funding for this $5 billion program, and
    schools can use portions of this funding to build-out needed EV
    charging infrastructure for these new, clean school buses. In
    addition, there are now 300 different Level 2 EV charger products
    available under the EPA’s ENERGY STAR program. 

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Defense** launched a pilot project to install 20
    Level 2 EV chargers for government fleet vehicles at the Pentagon
    along with a planning study for future additional installations. The
    Senior Pentagon Climate Working Group also created a sub-working
    group focused solely on removing barriers to installing EV charging
    infrastructure that supports the Department’s zero-emission vehicle
    acquisition goals.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Commerce** is supporting the build-out of the
    domestic EV charging supply chain and promoting foreign direct
    investment in American EV charging and supply equipment
    manufacturing. At the end of June, they will host the [2022
    SelectUSA Investment Summit](https://www.selectusasummit.us/) – the
    highest-profile event promoting foreign direct investment in the
    U.S. – where they will highlight investment opportunities in EV
    charging catalyzed by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. In
    addition, DOC’s Hollings [Manufacturing Extension
    Partnership](https://www.nist.gov/mep) provides hands on assistance
    to manufactures across 51 centers, in every state and Puerto Rico,
    to address unmet needs in the EV charging supply chain and help
    traditional automotive suppliers diversify their customer base and
    enter into the EV charging market.

\###
