---
date: '2022-06-02'
modified_time: 2022-06-02 14:54:27-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-02 08:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/02/biden-harris-administration-announces-the-first-session-of-the-white-house-internship-program-administration-will-pay-interns-for-the-first-time-in-history/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces the First Session of the White\_\
  House Internship Program, Administration Will Pay Interns for the First Time in\_\
  History"
---
 
President Biden and Vice President Harris are announcing the launch of
the White House Internship Program and that, for the first time in
recent history, White House interns will be paid. The first session will
commence in Fall 2022.  

Too often, unpaid federal internships have been a barrier to hardworking
and talented students and professionals, preventing them from
contributing their talents and skills to the country and holding them
back from federal career advancement opportunities. This significant
milestone of paying White House interns will help remove barriers to
equal opportunity for low-income students and first-generation
professionals at the beginnings of their careers and help to ensure that
those who receive internships at the White House—and who will be a
significant part of the leadership pipeline across the entire federal
government—reflect the diversity of America.

The funds for paying interns come from bipartisan legislation that the
President was proud to sign earlier this year.

This funding provides for paid internships across the Executive Office
of the President. Interns participating in the White House Internship
Program will support the White House Office and the Office of the Vice
President. 

The White House Internship Program is a public service leadership and
development program that provides emerging leaders with an opportunity
to gain valuable skills while supporting the work of the White House and
furthering the priorities of the Biden-Harris Administration.  

Interested candidates can find the Program’s online application
at [WH.gov/intern](http://wh.gov/intern). The website also features
additional information about the Program, including a “Frequently Asked
Questions” section. The application for the Fall 2022 session will open
on Monday, June 6 and close on Friday, June 24. 

Each year, leaders from around the country participate in the White
House Internship Program to dedicate their time, energy, and experience
to serve the country through public service.

The Fall 2022 session will be hosted in-person on the White House
campus. Program leadership will continue to monitor the public health
landscape related to COVID-19 and will adapt the Program’s approach in
order to ensure a safe and healthy work environment. All interns will be
required to attest to their vaccination status and must adhere to any
White House COVID-19 protocols.

The Fall 2022 session will be a 14-week program, beginning on Monday,
September 12 and ending on Friday, December 16. Selected applicants will
be notified the week of August 8. 

Program participants must be U.S. citizens, at least 18 years or older
before the first day of the Program, and meet at least one of the three
following criteria:

-   Currently enrolled in an accredited undergraduate or graduate degree
    program at a college, community college, or university (two- to
    four-year institution)
-   Graduated from an accredited undergraduate or graduate program at a
    college, community college, or university (two- to four-year
    institution) no more than two years prior to the first day of the
    Program
-   A veteran of the United States Armed Forces who possesses a high
    school diploma or its equivalent and has served on active duty, for
    any length of time, no more than two years prior to the first day of
    the Program

President Biden and Vice President Harris have committed to building an
Administration that looks like America, believing that qualified people
from every background and walk of life should have equal opportunity to
serve our Nation. That commitment is reflected in each White House
Internship Program class, and all who are interested and meet the
established criteria are highly encouraged to apply. 

The White House Internship Program application and additional
information about the Program can be found
at [WH.gov/intern](/Users/ASPuri/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/1SR44D5D/WH.gov/intern). 

Prospective candidates with questions about the Program, as well as
college/university administrators, faculty, campus leadership, and
others interested in more information to share with their communities
can reach out to the White House Internship Program team
at <internship@who.eop.gov>.
