---
date: '2022-06-09'
modified_time: 2022-06-09 18:46:59-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-09 18:46:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/09/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-commitments-to-advance-food-security-in-the-western-hemisphere/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Commitments to Advance\
  \ Food Security in the Western\_Hemisphere"
---
 
A year of rising energy and fuel prices, disruptions from the global
pandemic, climate change, and the impact of Putin’s unprovoked war in
Ukraine, are challenging food prices across the world and in the Western
Hemisphere. Many of our neighbors rely significantly on imports for food
and are particularly vulnerable to rising food costs. The region is
experiencing the highest spike in food prices in a generation.  
  
At the Summit of the Americas in Los Angeles, the President is bringing
together key partners to address this crisis and announcing $331 million
for humanitarian assistance, food security assistance, and disaster risk
reduction assistance– out of the $664 million total, that includes
support for refugee and migrant populations.  
  
The number of people facing severe food insecurity in Latin America and
the Caribbean (LAC) doubled from 2014 to 2020 to more than 90 million
people. Venezuela’s humanitarian, economic, and political crises have
left approximately one-third of Venezuela’s population food-insecure and
brought child malnutrition rates to emergency levels, with as many as
50% of children under five showing signs of malnutrition. In Honduras,
the World Food Program reported that in late 2021, the number of people
facing food insecurity had nearly doubled in just one year, due largely
to the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of Hurricanes Eta and Iota. And,
we must address food insecurity in the region in order to advance our
cooperative efforts on migration and climate smart economic reform.  
  
The United States is expanding investments in key social safety nets to
help reduce poverty and food shocks in the region and to contributing
more funding for humanitarian and food security needs that will improve
the quality of life for peoples across the region. The United States is
a leader in the global campaign to improve food security, from our work
last month as chair of the Global Food Security Call to Action
Ministerial meeting, to our pledges at the [UN Food Systems
Summit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-commit-to-end-hunger-and-malnutrition-and-build-sustainable-resilient-food-systems/)
and the [2021 Tokyo Nutrition for Growth
Summit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-plans-for-11-billion-to-end-malnutrition-at-global-nutrition-summit/),
and our recent assumption of the co-chairmanship of the Global
Agricultural and Food Security Program (GAFSP). We are working closely
with the International Financial Institutions to accelerate the response
to food insecurity in key areas including: (i) supporting vulnerable
people; (ii) promoting open trade; (iii) mitigating fertilizer
shortages; (iv) supporting food production now; and (v) investing in
climate-resilient agriculture for the future. We also welcome the prompt
implementation of commitments outlined in the International Financial
Institution (IFI) Action Plan to Address Food Insecurity.    
  
**Joint Declaration of Agriculture Exporters**: One-third of the world’s
food is produced in the Americas, and the current global food crisis is
an opportunity and responsibility for the region to step up to supply a
greater share of the world’s commodities. The United States will commit
during the Summit to work together to increase food production for
export, increase fertilizer production and transportation, and to
improve agriculture efficiency through technical solutions and
information exchanges.  
  
**Food Security and Humanitarian Assistance**: The Administration is
announcing approximately $331 million in assistance to support food
security needs and to provide humanitarian assistance across the
hemisphere.  This contribution will complement the United States’
existing commitment to providing life-saving humanitarian assistance,
responding to acute food insecurity, and advancing capacity-building
activities that bolster disaster preparedness and response across LAC,
including by developing early warning systems and providing technical
assistance to first responders and community-based risk management
entities. Through USAID partners, the United States continues to
prioritize food as well as water and sanitation, shelter, protection
services and basic health care for vulnerable populations in Haiti.  In
Central America, USAID is delivering emergency food, livelihood, and
protection assistance, particularly in El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala.

\###
