---
date: '2022-06-19'
modified_time: 2022-06-19 15:57:47-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-19 15:57:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/19/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-advances-equity-and-opportunity-for-black-americans-and-communities-across-the-country/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:  The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Advances Equity and Opportunity\
  \ for Black Americans and Communities Across the\_Country"
---
 
From the first day in office and every day since, the Biden-Harris
Administration has taken an historic approach to advancing racial
equity, including directing every agency across the whole of the federal
government to address the lasting impacts of systemic racism on Black
communities. For generations, entrenched disparities in our society and
economy, at times facilitated by the federal government, have made it
harder for Black Americans to have a fair shot at the American dream.
Centuries of injustice and decades of disinvestment in Black communities
not only undermine the American promise of equal opportunity, but also
keep our entire nation from reaching its potential.  
  
As the nation marks Juneteenth, the Administration has delivered real
and lasting change and continues to work each day to deliver equitable
outcomes and opportunity for Black Americans.  
  
**Economic Opportunity for Black Families and Communities.** By signing
into law the historic American Rescue Plan (ARP) and Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and implementing robust regulatory reform, President
Biden has led [the most equitable economic recovery on
record](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/24/fact-sheet-biden-harris-report-advancing-equity-through-the-american-rescue-plan/),
and helped create new economic opportunities for Black Americans and
made long overdue investments in Black communities. These transformative
policies and programs include:

-   **Providing Immediate Relief to Black People and Families through
    the American Rescue
    Plan.** The [ARP](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=5f43ffef0d&e=cf669202c8) provided
    cash relief directly to low- and middle-income Americans last year,
    and cut Black child poverty
    by [33.3](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/610831a16c95260dbd68934a/t/61ea09926280d03df62aa31d/1642727841927/Monthly-poverty-December-2021-CPSP.pdf)%,
    lifting more than 1 million Black children out of poverty in
    December 2021 alone.  A time-limited expansion of the Child Tax
    Credit provided a critical lifeline to millions of Black families
    during the nation’s recovery from the economic crisis created by the
    pandemic, and the President continues to urge Congress to extend
    this life-changing tax relief. In addition, the ARP increased
    Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits by 15%
    through September 2021. Beginning on October 1, 2021, USDA’s Thrifty
    Food Plan update increased SNAP benefits by $36.30 per person per
    month.  
     
-   **Reversing Decades of Disinvestment Through the Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law.** For years, politicians have talked about
    investing in our national infrastructure, but up until now they have
    failed to follow through. The lack of investment has fallen most
    heavily on Black communities and other underserved communities. The
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will: replace lead pipes; increase
    access to training and good-quality jobs; expand affordable
    high-speed internet, reliable public transit, and clean drinking
    water; reconnect Black neighborhoods divided by legacy highway
    infrastructure; and provide other resources to finally give Black
    communities a fair shot at the American Dream.
    -   During the 20<sup>th</sup> century, federally funded
        infrastructure projects too often segregated and harmed
        low-income communities, especially predominantly Black
        neighborhoods. Construction of the federal highway system in
        particular cut off once thriving Black communities from
        resources and opportunity. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
        launches a new Reconnecting Communities program, which will
        invest $1 billion in these communities to build new and more
        inclusive infrastructure.
    -   The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law permanently authorizes the
        Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) for the first time
        since its inception and elevates the agency head to the position
        of Under Secretary, granting the agency expanded power to
        support Black- and other minority-owned businesses.
    -   EPA announced that it will allocate [$2.9
        billion](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=f840c7c7b9&e=cf669202c8) in
        Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding for lead service line
        replacement in 2022— the first allocation of $15 billion over
        five years. EPA will encourage states to use these funds to
        advance proactive lead line replacement programs with a
        particular focus on disadvantaged communities, including Black
        communities. Moving forward, EPA will prioritize communities
        with the highest lead levels and those with environmental
        justice concerns.
    -   The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will deliver the largest
        investment in tackling legacy pollution in American history by:
        cleaning up Superfund and brownfield sites; reclaiming abandoned
        mine land; and capping orphaned oil and gas wells. More than one
        in four Black Americans live within 3 miles of a [Superfund
        site](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=406ac95a00&e=cf669202c8)–
        a higher percentage than for Americans overall.  
         
-   **Leveraging Federal Procurement to Help Black Entrepreneurs and
    Black Families Build Wealth.** President Biden has directed agencies
    to leverage the federal government’s purchasing power to build
    wealth in underserved communities, including Black communities. He
    has set a goal of increasing the share of federal contracting
    dollars to small disadvantaged businesses by 50% by 2025— projected
    to translate to an additional $100 billion to minority-owned
    businesses, and helping more Americans realize their entrepreneurial
    dreams. In December 2021, the
    Administration [announced](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=3914654cd1&e=cf669202c8) further
    reforms to the federal procurement process to help meet the
    President’s ambitious target and deliver new opportunities for Black
    owned and other small disadvantaged businesses.  
     
-   **Extending a Lifeline to Struggling Small Businesses.** Through the
    American Rescue Plan and the equitable implementation of emergency
    relief programs, President Biden and Vice President Harris have
    fostered the strongest recovery for Main Street on record. In 2021,
    Americans applied to start 5.4 million new businesses—more than 20
    percent higher than any previous year on record, and with new
    business creation especially strong among entrepreneurs of color.
    The American Rescue Plan provided emergency grants, lending, and
    investment to hard-hit small businesses – including Black businesses
    – so they can rehire and retain workers and purchase the health and
    sanitation equipment they need to keep workers safe. This includes
    the new $10 billion State Small Business Credit Initiative, which
    will provide growth capital to early-stage companies and main street
    small businesses in economically disadvantaged areas, including
    minority-owned businesses.  
     
-   **Ensuring Black Homeowners Get Full Value for their Homes.** In
    March 2022, the Biden-Harris Administration’s Interagency Task Force
    on Property Appraisal and Valuation Equity (PAVE) released the [PAVE
    Action Plan](https://pave.hud.gov/), which represents the most
    wide-ranging set of reforms ever put forward to advance equity in
    the home appraisal process. The Action Plan details a set of more
    than 20 commitments and actions across all stages of the valuation
    process, including: making the appraisal industry more accountable;
    empowering consumers with critical information and assistance if
    they receive a valuation that is lower than expected; preventing
    algorithmic bias in home valuation; cultivating an appraiser
    profession that is well-trained and looks like the communities it
    serves; and leveraging federal data and expertise to inform policy,
    practice, and research on appraisal bias.  
     
-   **Protecting Black Americans’ Access to Housing by Combating Housing
    Discrimination.** Following President Biden’s Presidential
    Memorandum directing his Administration to address racial
    discrimination in the housing market, HUD published an interim final
    rule in the Federal Register entitled “Restoring Affirmatively
    Furthering Fair Housing Definitions and Certifications” that
    requires HUD funding recipients to complete an assessment of fair
    housing issues, identify fair housing priorities and goals, and then
    commit to meaningful actions to meet those goals and remedy
    identified issues.  Last fall, HUD solicited input from stakeholders
    to inform a Notice of Public Rulemaking, which will be published
    later this year for public comment.  
     
-   **Helping Black Americans Stay in their Homes.** President Biden’s
    American Rescue Plan has helped Black Americans stay in their homes
    by providing emergency rental assistance. Of the $25 billion in
    rental assistance that was spent in 2021, Black Americans were the
    largest group that received this help, representing more than 40% of
    aid recipients.  The Administration implemented a series of measures
    that protected homeowners from foreclosure, including a foreclosure
    moratorium, increased options for mortgage payment forbearance,
    enhanced loan modifications to resolve delinquencies.  In addition,
    the ARP is helping struggling homeowners catch up with their
    mortgage payments and utility costs through the Homeowner Assistance
    Fund. As a result of these protections, foreclosure filings in 2021
    were at a historic low with 29 percent fewer filings than in 2020
    and 95 percent below the 2010 peak experienced in the previous
    economic downturn during the Great Recession. In addition, the ARP
    provided $10 billion in funding for families and individuals who are
    recovering from or at risk of homelessness.  
     
-   **Assisting Black Land Owners in Resolving Title Issues. **An
    estimated 60% of Black-owned land in the South is heirs’
    property—property that passes through inheritance without a will and
    that, as a result, has historically rendered owners ineligible for
    U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) programs, including lending.
    In July 2021, the USDA rolled out the Heirs’ Property Relending
    Program, which primarily aids underserved communities, including
    Black Americans. The new program provides funds to assist heirs in
    resolving ownership and succession issues on farmland with multiple
    owners.  
     
-   **Dismantling Barriers to Accessing USDA Programs and Services**. In
    February 2022, USDA launched an Equity Commission Advisory Committee
    using ARP funds. The Equity Commission Advisory Committee will
    advise the Secretary of Agriculture by identifying USDA programs,
    policies, systems, structures, and practices that contribute to
    barriers to inclusion or access, systemic discrimination, or
    exacerbate or perpetuate racial, economic, health and social
    disparities.  
     
-   **Reducing Barriers for Black Communities Facing Natural
    Disasters. **In [September](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=acd8fa07ee&e=cf669202c8) 2021,
    FEMA implemented policy changes to reduce barriers that contributed
    to disparities experienced by Black Americans through programs that
    provide individual assistance to disaster survivors. These included
    changes to FEMA policies to make it easier for people living on
    heirs’ property – which is estimated to be the majority of
    Black-owned land in the South – to apply for disaster aid.  
     
-   **Supporting Child Care Providers and Reducing Child Care Costs for
    Black Families. **Black families are nearly two times more likely
    than white parents to have to quit, turn down, or make a major
    change in their job due to child care disruptions. The American
    Rescue Plan provided a $39 billion lifeline to help child care
    providers stay open and compensate early childhood educators, as
    they provide safe and healthy environments for children and help
    parents work. States have already delivered American Rescue
    Plan stabilization grants to more than 190,000 child care providers,
    1 in 5 of whom are Black, serving more than 8 million children and
    their
    families. One [survey](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.naeyc.org%2Fsites%2Fdefault%2Ffiles%2Fwysiwyg%2Fuser-98%2Fnaeyc_ece_field_survey_february2022.pdf&data=05%7C01%7CRuth.Friedman%40acf.hhs.gov%7C68b0d1c6968b4915c22b08da4fe1dc13%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C637910128735916374%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=oRvZWvVB6wMpkM5RtLGePBraGyuhc6Hi0fFU0YqqIKI%3D&reserved=0) finds
    that 92% of providers receiving funds relied on them to help stay
    open and nearly half used them to repay debt incurred during the
    pandemic. Many states also used funds to help boost compensation of
    the child care workforce, which is disproportionately led by Black
    women. The ARP also helped lower child care costs for Black
    families, including by expanding the Child and Dependent Care Tax
    Credit—allowing a median income family with two kids under age 13 to
    receive up to $8,000 towards their child care expenses, compared
    with a maximum of $1,200 previously.  
     
-   **Advancing Equitable Employment Outcomes and Boosting Wages for
    Black Federal Workers. **On June 25, 2021, President Biden signed an
    Executive Order on Advancing Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and
    Accessibility (DEIA) in the Federal Workforce. This Executive Order
    launched a whole-of-government initiative to cultivate a federal
    workforce that draws from the full diversity of the Nation and that
    advances equitable employment opportunities for workers from
    underserved communities. Further, in 2021 the President signed a
    series of executive actions leading to a $15 minimum wage for
    employees of federal contractors and federal employees. These
    actions will impact more than 370,000 workers in 2022 alone, a
    population that is disproportionately Black and takes a step towards
    addressing longstanding wage disparities.

**Ensuring Equitable Educational Opportunity in K-12 Schools and an
Education Beyond High School. **As we continue to recover from the
COVID-19 pandemic, President Biden has delivered the support necessary
to enable every school to [safely
reopen](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=85fcff5ad8&e=cf669202c8) for
full-time, in-person instruction; accelerate academic achievement;
address the mental health needs of students; and build school
communities where all students feel they belong. At the same time,
President Biden has worked to ensure equitable access to high-quality
education for Black students. These policies and programs include:

-   **Historic Investments to Safely Reopen Schools and Address the
    Needs of Students. **The ARP provided $130 billion to help
    elementary and secondary schools safely reopen and address the
    academic, social and emotional and mental health needs of all
    students, with funding set-aside to address the needs of students
    disproportionately impacted by the pandemic, including Black
    students. The Administration’s efforts to encourage and support all
    schools in adopting the CDC’s recommendations on COVID-19 prevention
    and mitigation – including COVID-19 vaccination for staff, students,
    and school communities – have been critical in getting schools
    safely reopened and remaining open, including in Black communities
    hit hard by COVID-19. In addition to funding the implementation of
    COVID-19 protocols, these funds are being used to provide tutors,
    establish and expand summer and after-school programming, and
    provide a wide range of supports that address the needs of Black
    students. They are also being used to hire counselors and social
    workers. With the help of American Rescue Plan funds, today all
    schools in America have reopened, and virtually all remain open
    every school day with the supports they received from the
    Biden-Harris Administration providing crucial protections for
    students, staff, and families. Additionally, the number of social
    workers in public schools have increased by 67% and the number of
    counselors by 18%, relative to the years before the pandemic. The
    availability of funds for this purpose particularly benefits Black
    students; [schools where more than half of students are students of
    color have higher student to counselor and student to school
    psychologist ratios than those serving majority-White
    schools](https://nces.ed.gov/pubs2019/2019020.pdf). It also provided
    funds to every Head Start grantee, which disproportionately serve
    Black children and families, so that grantees could safely open
    safely for in-person services and support children and families
    through the pandemic.  
     
-   **Ensuring school districts have the COVID-19 testing resources they
    need to test students and staff and keep transmission low**. The
    Administration provided unprecedented funding to make sure schools
    can launch and maintain COVID-19 testing programs that meet the
    needs of their communities. CDC’s Epidemiology and Laboratory
    Capacity grant has provided funding for states to establish
    screening testing programs for students and school staff; and the
    American Rescue Plan included additional funding for Operation
    Expanded Testing that provides free lab-based (PCR) testing to
    schools, child care and other congregate settings. In addition, the
    Administration sent schools across the country 5 million free
    point-of-care rapid tests per month starting in January, and made
    available 5 million additional free PCR lab tests for schools per
    month. The CDC and Department of Education have been closely
    coordinating to assist schools in launching school testing programs,
    with tailored assistance to school leaders in designing and
    implementing programs like test-to-stay that best align with
    individual schools’ needs and that can be supported through American
    Rescue Plan investments.  
     
-   **Protecting Students from Funding Cuts.** The ARP’s Elementary and
    Secondary School Emergency Relief program includes a first of its
    kind maintenance of equity requirement to ensure that high-poverty
    school districts and schools are protected in the event of state or
    local education funding cuts. The Department of Education has
    provided resources and technical assistance to states and school
    districts as they implement this new requirement, which will ensure
    that school districts and schools serving a large share of students
    from low-income backgrounds will not experience disproportionate
    cuts, and that school districts with the highest poverty levels do
    not experience any decrease in state per-pupil funding below their
    pre-pandemic level.  
     
-   **Increasing Funding for Schools in Low-Income Communities. **The
    FY22 Omnibus included an additional $1 billion in funding for Title
    I – the largest increase in over a decade, which provides funding
    for schools serving students in low-income communities. The
    President’s FY23 Budget includes an additional $19 billion for Title
    I, addressing long-standing funding disparities between
    under-resourced schools—which disproportionately serve Black
    students —and their wealthier counterparts. The President’s proposal
    includes funding for states to voluntarily establish commissions to
    identify and create plans to address inequities in their education
    funding systems and gaps in access to educational opportunity.  
     
-   **Reducing College Costs. **To help low- and middle-income students
    overcome financial barriers to an education beyond high school, the
    Biden-Harris Administration secured a $400 increase to the maximum
    Pell Grant award, making the upcoming maximum grant amount a total
    of $6,895. This means that students, particularly students at
    Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Tribal
    Colleges and Universities, and Minority-Serving Institutions, will
    be seeing more money in their pockets to pay for college starting
    this July 1.  
     
-   **Providing Historic Support for Historically Black Colleges and
    Universities (HBCUs).** The Biden-Harris Administration has
    delivered an historic $5.8 billion cumulative investment in and
    support for HBCUs, including:
    -   The ARP and other pandemic relief programs have provided
        approximately $3.7 billion to HBCUs since President Biden took
        office.
    -   In April 2021, the Department of Education provided
        approximately $1.6 billion in debt relief to 45 HBCUs, including
        13 public institutions and 32 private institutions.
    -   In July and August of 2021, the Department of Education awarded
        more than $500 million in grant funding to HBCUs for academic
        capacity-building and fiscal stability.  
         
-   **Investing in Equitable Workforce Training. **The President has
    made a commitment to creating pathways to the middle class,
    especially for people from underserved communities, by expanding
    skills-based hiring and increasing access to Registered
    Apprenticeship and workforce training. To enable this, the
    Department of Labor has provided $45 million in funding to help
    people in marginalized and underrepresented populations overcome
    barriers to access career and technical education programs that can
    help connect them with good-paying jobs; and made available $113
    million in grant funding, including up to $50 million to support
    equity partnerships and pre-apprenticeship activities to increase
    enrollment in Registered Apprenticeship Programs;

**Improving Health Outcomes for Black Communities.** Facing a once-in a
century pandemic that highlighted and exacerbated pre-existing racial
disparities in our health care system, President Biden took swift action
to promote better health access and outcomes for Black families. The ARP
lowered health care costs for millions of lower- and middle-income Black
families and invested billions to promote equitable vaccine distribution
and provide critical supplies to stop the spread of COVID-19. These
policies and programs include:

-   **Lowering Health Care Costs.** Millions of lower- and middle-income
    Black families enrolled in health insurance marketplaces saw their
    premiums lowered or eliminated as a result of the ARP and will
    continue to benefit through the end of 2022. [Thanks to the
    ARP](https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/08307d793263d5069fdd6504385e22f8/black-americans-coverages-access-ib.pdf),
    76% of uninsured Black Americans could find a plan for less than $50
    a month, and 66% could find a plan for free in 2021 with those
    subsidies. In addition, over 5 million uninsured Americans gained
    coverage in 2021. Of those newly signing up for HealthCare.gov
    coverage during the 2022 Open Enrollment (OE) period and who
    attested to race or
    ethnicity, [11%](https://www.cms.gov/files/document/health-insurance-exchanges-2022-open-enrollment-report-final.pdf) were
    Black Americans, up over 20% from the 2020 Open Enrollment period.  
     
-   **Protecting Black Maternal Health.** The Administration is also
    committed to protecting Black moms and improving maternal health
    outcomes, including addressing the unacceptably high rates of
    maternal mortality and morbidity that disproportionately impact
    Black mothers and families.
    -   The Administration has approved over a dozen state requests to
        extend Medicaid postpartum coverage for 12 months, including
        requests to take up the new state option under the ARP. The ARP
        gives states an easier pathway to extend coverage for pregnant
        women from 60 days to 12 months postpartum. To date, over
        250,000 people have gained coverage through these Medicaid
        postpartum extensions. The Administration continues to encourage
        all states to take up this option so women can get the care they
        need to stay healthy.
    -   In April 2021, President Biden issued the first
        ever [Presidential Proclamation on Black Maternal Health
        Week](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=3c9546a4cd&e=cf669202c8),
        calling on all Americans to recognize the importance of
        addressing the crisis of Black maternal mortality and morbidity.
        The President issued a proclamation in April 2022 as well.
    -   Further, in December 2021, Vice President
        Harris [issued](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=42a57fd1ee&e=cf669202c8) a
        nationwide call to action to both public and private sectors to
        improve health outcomes for Black mothers and their children. As
        part of this call to action, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
        Services issued new guidance to help states provide 12 months
        (up from 60 days currently) of continuous postpartum coverage
        through their Medicaid programs. If every state adopted an
        extension — as required in the President’s plans — then the
        number of Americans getting coverage for a full year postpartum
        would roughly double, extending coverage for an estimated
        720,000 people in a given year. HHS also announced plans to
        create a new “Birthing Friendly” hospital designation, which
        would be the first-ever hospital quality designation by HHS
        specifically focused on maternity care.  
         
-   **Promoting Mental Health for Black Youth**. Studies have documented
    that over the past decade rates of mental illness and substance use
    disorder have increased among Black youth 12-17 hears of age.
    Studies have also shown that Black children under 13 years are twice
    as likely to die by suicide than White peers. In March 2022, and in
    support of the President’s strategy for tackling the mental health
    crisis, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of
    Minority Health announced $3 million in funding for up to 8 awards
    to evaluate the effectiveness of general health and wellness
    policies for improving Black youth mental health. These awards
    complement the ongoing work within the SAMHSA funded [African
    American Behavioral Health Center of
    Excellence](https://africanamericanbehavioralhealth.org/about/about-us.aspx),
    which provides resources and tools to promote greater equity and
    effectiveness in behavioral health services for African Americans.  
     
-   **Proposing Rules to Significantly Reduce Tobacco-Related Disease
    and Death: **Smoking product use is the leading cause of preventable
    death in the US. In April 2022, the Food and Drug Administration
    (FDA) announced [two proposed
    rules](https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-proposes-rules-prohibiting-menthol-cigarettes-and-flavored-cigars-prevent-youth-initiation) to
    ban menthol cigarettes and flavored cigars. Studies estimate that
    banning menthol cigarettes could prevent as many as 654,000 deaths
    in the US – up to 238,000 among African Americans — over the next 40
    years. Banning flavored cigars – which are used by over half a
    million youth in the US – will help reduce nicotine dependence and
    improve health outcomes long-term.  
     
-   **Increasing Cultural Competence for Black Americans with
    Disabilities**. The Administration provided funding to create and
    maintain a national resource center on disability and equity to
    build capacity across the nation to be more inclusive and culturally
    competent towards individuals with disabilities.  The center will
    focus on resources to increase equitable access by: supporting
    forums for cross-cultural and cross-disability exchanges that will
    advance a culturally competent disability framework; translating
    research into action and disseminating information using multiple
    methods; developing tools, such as an organizational self-assessment
    tool, and supporting communities of practices for transforming
    systems and organizations; and building the next generation and
    future leaders of this work through engagement with youth with
    disabilities.  
     
-   **Building the Pipeline of Black Health Care Providers.** The
    Administration has made a historic $1.5 billion investment to help
    grow and diversify the nation’s health care workforce, and bolster
    equitable health care in the communities that need it most during
    the COVID-19 pandemic and in the years to come. This funding is
    supporting the National Health Service Corps, Nurse Corps, and
    Substance Use Disorder Treatment and Recovery programs. These
    programs address workforce shortages and health disparities by
    providing scholarship and loan repayment funding for health care
    students and professionals, in exchange for a service commitment in
    hard-hit and high-risk communities.  With funding from the American
    Rescue Plan, the investment supports over 22,700 providers—the
    largest field strength in history for these programs and a record
    number of skilled doctors, dentists, nurses, and behavioral health
    providers committed to working in underserved communities during a
    moment when we need them the most. Only about 5 percent of
    physicians in the United States identify as Black despite the fact
    that Black Americans account for 12 percent of the nation’s total
    population; over 13 percent of physicians serving through the
    National Health Service Corps identify as Black.  
     
-   **Implementing the National HIV/AIDS Strategy. **President Biden
    released a new National HIV/AIDS Strategy to provide the framework
    and direction for the Administration’s policies, research, programs,
    and planning through 2025 and lead us toward ending the HIV epidemic
    in the United States by 2030. The new National HIV/AIDS Strategy
    incorporates the latest data on HIV incidence, prevalence and
    trends; expands the focus on addressing the social determinants of
    health that influence an individual’s HIV risk or outcomes;
    encourages reform of state HIV criminalization laws; adds a new
    focus on opportunities to engage the private sector in novel and
    important ways in the nation’s work to end the HIV epidemic.  
     
-   **Ensuring an Equitable Pandemic Response.** The ARP provided $160
    billion for the vaccines, tests, personal protective equipment, and
    public health workforce needed to address the spread of COVID-19, an
    investment that is helping to drive down racial disparities in
    prevention and care. Due to the ARP and the President’s commitment
    to center equity in our vaccination effort, multiple studies show
    that the gap in COVID-19 vaccination rates in Black adults compared
    to White and Latino adults has closed. Data as of June 2022 show
    that 86% of Black adults, 85% of Latinos and 86% of White adults
    have received at least one shot, compared to 56%, 57%, and 65%,
    respectively, in May 2021. The Administration built channels to
    increase access in our hardest-hit, highest-risk communities with
    funding from the ARP:
    -   FEMA surged resources to vaccinate all eligible Americans,
        including by standing up 500 vaccine sites in underserved
        communities. These emergency measures have helped deliver
        community-based and culturally competent care. In fact, over 50%
        of vaccines administered at the federally-run community
        vaccination centers went to Black Americans and other people of
        color, and more than 75% of people vaccinated at Community
        Health Centers are Black and brown people.
    -   Last week, the Administration took two critical actions to
        strengthen and sustain the impact of the public health workforce
        in Black communities and other hard-hit and high-risk
        communities, thanks to investments from the ARP.
        -   Over $220 million in American Rescue Plan funds have been
            made available for a new Health Resources and Services
            Administration program focused on education and on-the-job
            training to build the pipeline of public health workers in
            our most underserved communities. This effort will support
            apprenticeship programs for 13,000 community health workers
            and paraprofessionals at over 500 health care and public
            health sites nationally where hard-hit and high-risk
            populations access care and receive services. Applications
            from these sites closed this week.
        -   On June 16, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
            published a new flexible funding opportunity that will
            provide nearly $4 billion over 5 years to improve critical
            public health infrastructure in state, local, and
            territorial health departments across the country, including
            $3 billion in ARP funding to recruit, hire, and train public
            health workers to face head on the challenges of the
            pandemic and build a public health workforce that comes from
            the hard-hit and high-risk communities they will serve.
    -   In January 2021, President Biden signed an [Executive
        Order](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=03fb5b89f7&e=cf669202c8) on
        Ensuring an Equitable Pandemic Response and Recovery, creating a
        COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force to provide specific
        recommendations to the President for mitigating the health
        inequities caused or exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and
        for preventing such inequities in the future. The Task force
        transmitted its final report to the White House Office of the
        COVID-19 Response in November 2021, including recommendations
        related to interpersonal stress linked to racism, addressing the
        behavioral health consequences of the pandemic in communities of
        color, and vaccine, testing, and therapeutics access and
        confidence. By the end of 2021, the Administration had begun
        action on over 80 percent of the Task Force recommendations, and
        remains committed to engaging these recommendations within the
        historic initiatives and programs built to promote and sustain
        equity across the federal government. In 2022, the
        Administration is working to ensure our progress on COVID-19
        equity is reflected and embedded in U.S. health policy more
        broadly.  
         
-   **Expanding crisis response and access to treatment.**  This summer,
    HHS will launch the new 988 mental health crisis service hotline,
    which will create a national network of local crisis centers
    fortified by national back up centers to answer calls and texts.
    Through the American Rescue Plan, the Administration has provided
    $180 million to support local capacity to answer crisis calls, and
    establish more community-based mobile crisis response and crisis
    stabilizing facilities to minimize unnecessary arrests or emergency
    department visits. The President’s FY23 budget will build on this
    investment with an additional nearly $700 million to staff up and
    shore up local crisis centers while also building out the broader
    crisis care continuum: someone to call, someone to respond, and
    somewhere for every American in crisis to go. 

**Appointing and Confirming a Historic Number of Black Women to the
Bench.** President Biden is committed to ensuring that the judiciary is
filled with highly qualified individuals who bring both personal and
professional diversity to the bench. Since January 2021, President Biden
has nominated a total of 84 individuals for federal judgeships, 25 of
whom are African American, and 13 individuals for local judgeships in
Washington, D.C., 5 of whom are African American. In April 2022, Ketanji
Brown Jackson was confirmed by the United States Senate as Associate
Justice of the Supreme Court, the first Black woman to ever serve on the
Court. Of the 48 individuals who have been confirmed to positions on
federal courts, 14 are African American.

**Taking Strong Action to Strengthen Public Trust and Promote Public
Safety in Our Criminal Justice System.** From investing in community
violence interventions, to reforming law enforcement, to reducing mass
incarceration practices, to supporting reentry, the Biden-Harris
Administration has taken concrete actions to strengthen public trust and
promote public safety in the criminal justice system and to address
racial disparities. These policies and programs include:

-   **Implementing Historic Executive Order on Policing and Criminal
    Justice Reform. **On May 25, 2022 – the second anniversary of the
    murder of George Floyd – the President signed an [executive
    order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/25/executive-order-on-advancing-effective-accountable-policing-and-criminal-justice-practices-to-enhance-public-trust-and-public-safety/) (EO)
    to advance effective, accountable policing and criminal justice
    practices to enhance public trust and public safety. The EO makes
    good on the President’s promise to do more to ensure that our Nation
    lives up to its founding promise of fair and impartial justice for
    all under the law, which he made after Senate Republicans rejected
    even modest reforms supported by many in law enforcement in the
    course of negotiating the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act.  The
    EO, a summary of which can be
    found [here](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-sign-historic-executive-order-to-advance-effective-accountable-policing-and-strengthen-public-safety/),
    promotes accountability, raises standards, increases transparency,
    and helps reform the criminal justice system.  It requires all
    federal law enforcement agencies to raise use of force standards and
    ban chokeholds and carotid restraints; restrict the use of no-knock
    entries; adopt body worn camera policies; contribute records to a
    new national law enforcement accountability database; and adopting
    new standards to screen and vet officers for promotion of unlawful
    violence, white supremacy, and bias on the basis of protected
    characteristics.  In addition, the EO directs the Attorney General
    and the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to issue
    guidance and identify federal resources for innovative models to
    respond to persons in crisis, including co-responder and alternative
    responder models, community-based crisis centers, and post-crisis
    care. It also orders guidance on the use of pharmacological agents
    such as ketamine outside the hospital setting.  
     
-   **Initiating a whole-of-government effort to promote reform of the
    criminal justice system. ** The EO also creates a new interagency
    Alternatives and Reentry Committee to produce and execute on a
    strategic plan that advances front-end diversion, alternatives to
    incarceration, rehabilitation, and reentry.  
     
-   **Supporting Reentry of Returning Citizens.** In April 2022, in
    honor of Second Chance Month, the
    President [announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/26/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-expands-second-chance-opportunities-for-formerly-incarcerated-persons/) grants
    of clemency to 78 individuals, along with a series of [over 20
    actions from a dozen federal
    agencies](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/26/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-expands-second-chance-opportunities-for-formerly-incarcerated-persons/) to
    support returning citizens. 
    -   To expand employment opportunities, the Administration is also
        leveraging historic investments in infrastructure to promote the
        hiring of formerly incarcerated persons, using over $5 billion
        in grant programs in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to
        prioritize grantees who hire formerly incarcerated persons and
        other historically marginalized groups.
    -   The Department of Justice and Department of Labor announced a
        first-of-its-kind collaboration to invest $145 million over
        FY22-23 to provide job skills training and intensive
        individualized employment and reentry plans for people
        incarcerated in select Bureau of Prisons (BOP) facilities to
        enhance their successful return to their communities. 
    -   To protect equal housing opportunity, the Department of Housing
        and Urban Development is undertaking a comprehensive review to
        identify changes to its programs to ensure that they
        appropriately include individuals with arrest and conviction
        records.
    -   To expand educational opportunities, the Department of Education
        expanded its Second Chance Pell Program, which provides Pell
        Grants to incarcerated students, to 73 schools that will educate
        thousands of additional students. This raises the total number
        of participating schools to 200 and will help the Department
        prepare for the full expansion of Pell Grant eligibility to
        incarcerated students in July 2023.
    -   The Department of Labor also opened solicitations for $140
        million in new grant funding for justice-involved youth and
        adults.
    -   The Department of Health and Human Services is starting the
        process to establish a Special Enrollment Period for Medicare
        for people who miss their enrollment periods while incarcerated,
        which will reduce coverage gaps and penalties for people
        returning home from prison.
    -   To support veterans, a new collaboration among the Social
        Security Administration, Bureau of Prisons, and the Department
        of Veterans Affairs will automate information-sharing among
        these agencies, accelerating the restoration of benefits and
        reducing red tape for returning veterans.  
         
-   **Ensuring Constitutional Policing.** The Department of Justice
    (DOJ) rescinded guidance issued in the previous Administration that
    curtailed the use of consent decrees, including within
    investigations into patterns or practices of discrimination and
    misconduct by police departments. Pattern and practice
    investigations and consent decrees are critical tools to promote
    constitutional policing in jurisdictions where reform is warranted.
    DOJ has opened five such investigations in Minneapolis, Louisville,
    Phoenix, Mount Vernon, New York, and the Louisiana State Police.  
     
-   **Improving Prosecutorial Guidance to Prevent Unduly Harsh
    Sentencing.** The DOJ withdrew guidance issued in the previous
    Administration that required prosecutors to always charge the
    harshest sentences, replacing it with guidance that restored
    discretion to make decisions about charging, plea agreements, and
    advocacy at sentencing based on an individualized assessment of
    relevant facts.  
     
-   **Supporting Legislation to End Racial Disparities in Cocaine
    Sentencing.** The President endorsed the EQUAL Act, which would
    eliminate the racially discriminatory crack-powder cocaine
    sentencing disparity and make the change fully retroactive.  
     
-   **Implementing an Executive Order Limiting Use of Private
    Prisons.** The President ordered DOJ not to renew contracts for
    privately-operated criminal detention facilities, covering the
    Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and U.S. Marshals Service (USMS). To date,
    the administration has closed a total of 10 contracts, resulting in
    more than 8,000 people moved out of privately owned or operated
    facilities.  
     
-   **Tackling and Preventing Violence Crime through Community Violence
    Intervention (CVI) Programs.** Black boys and young men ages 15-34
    make up 2% of the population but are 37% of homicide victims, and
    homicide is the leading cause of death for Black men under the age
    of 45. Until this Administration, however, CVI programs like
    violence interrupters and hospital-based programs, which are
    demonstrated to reduce violence by up to 60%, have been badly
    underfunded. Under President Biden, the Treasury Department and
    Education Department issued guidance stating that CVI programs are
    eligible uses of American Rescue Plan funds—both the $350 billion in
    aid to state, Tribal, and local governments and the $122 billion to
    school districts. The Administration pivoted 26 existing grant
    programs across five agencies to support CVI.  President Biden
    continues to seek $5 billion in dedicated funding for CVI programs.
    These historic funds, along with new funding to support accountable,
    community-oriented policing, would help curtail the epidemic of gun
    violence that hits Black communities hardest.  
     
-   **Addressing Domestic Violent Extremism.** President Biden directed
    the U.S. government to assess the threat of domestic violent
    extremism in the United States. In January, Secretary of the
    Department of Defense (DOD) Lloyd J. Austin III ordered a DOD-wide
    stand down to discuss the problem of extremism in the ranks, and in
    April he established a countering extremism working group, directing
    DOD officials to review and update the definition of extremism
    contained in [DOD Instruction
    1325.06](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=ed5a029c91&e=cf669202c8),
    and calling on the services to update transition instructions to
    prevent those leaving the military from being recruited by extremist
    groups. In March 2021, the Office of the Director of National
    Intelligence released the unclassified executive summary of the
    comprehensive assessment acknowledging that enduring domestic
    violent extremism motivations stem from biases against minority
    populations. In April 2021, Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
    Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas ordered an internal review to root out
    white supremacy and extremism within DHS.

**Using Executive Authority to Protect Voting Rights, Democracy, and
Access to Justice. **These policies and programs include:

-   **Implementing Executive Order Promoting Access to Voter
    Registration and Voting.** On the 2021 anniversary of Bloody Sunday,
    President Biden signed an [Executive
    Order](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=1d4d1ebc06&e=cf669202c8) to
    leverage the resources of the federal government to provide
    information about the election process and increased access to voter
    registration opportunities. Agencies across the federal government
    have [announced
    steps](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/24/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-report-on-native-american-voting-rights/) they
    are taking to respond to the President’s call for an
    all-of-government action to enhance the ability of all eligible
    Americans to participate in our democracy, including the Centers for
    Medicare & Medicaid Services’ [recent
    commitment](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=280f4a922c&e=cf669202c8) to
    make it easier for consumers using HealthCare.gov to connect to
    voter registration services, and the Department of Veterans Affairs’
    commitment to a pilot project seeking to have VA Medical Centers
    formally designated as voter registration agencies in six states.  
     
-   **Ensuring Compliance with Voting Rights Laws.** The Department of
    Justice has taken a variety of steps to help protect the right to
    vote, including doubling the number of voting rights attorneys,
    taking steps to ensure compliance with voting rights statutes,
    launching a task force to combat the increase of threats against
    election officials and election workers, and issuing guidance on (1)
    the civil and criminal statutes that apply to post-election
    audits, (2) methods of voting, including early voting and voting by
    mail, (3) the vote-dilution protections that apply to all
    jurisdictions under Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act as they
    engage in redistricting, and (4) the state voting rules that apply
    after criminal convictions.  
     
-   **Expanding Access to Justice.** To expand the promise of equal
    justice under law, the President issued a Presidential Memorandum in
    May 2021
    that [asked](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=32f2f54d32&e=cf669202c8) the
    Attorney General to consider expanding the Department of Justice’s
    access to justice work. In October 2021, the Attorney General
    announced the reestablishment of the Office for Access to Justice as
    a standalone component within the Justice Department dedicated to
    improving the federal government’s understanding of and capacity to
    address the most urgent legal needs of communities across America.
    The President’s May 2021 Memorandum also reinvigorated the White
    House Legal Aid Interagency Roundtable to prioritize and expand
    access to legal services and federal programs, including in the
    areas of criminal indigent defense, civil legal aid, and pro bono
    services. In September 2021, the Roundtable released its Access to
    Justice in the Age of
    COVID-19 [report](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/White-House-Legal-Aid-Interagency-Roundtable-Report.pdf) highlighting
    the urgent need to prioritize and expand access to legal services
    and federal programs as a result of the Covid-19 crisis.

**Restoring Fairness and Humanity to Our Immigration System.** 
President Biden is committed to reforming our immigration system,
promoting racial equity in our immigration policies, and providing legal
protections for Black noncitizens who call this country home.

-   **Extending, Re-designating, or Designating, Cameroon, Haiti,
    Somalia, South Sudan, and Sudan for Temporary Protected Status
    (TPS).**  The Administration extended legal protections to nationals
    of these countries who have lived in the United States for years. 
    TPS is a form of immigration relief available to noncitizens in the
    United States who cannot return home due to dangerous conditions in
    their home countries; it enables those individuals to live with
    their families and work in our communities without fear of
    removal.  
     
-   **Restarting the Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program
    (HFRP).** The Obama-Biden Administration created the HRFP in 2014,
    allowing U.S. citizens and green card holders to apply for parole on
    behalf of family members in Haiti who have approved immigrant visa
    petitions.  The prior Administration announced the termination of
    this program in 2019.  The Biden-Harris Administration restored HFRP
    and remains committed to helping Haitian-American families reunify
    in our country.  
     
-   **Repealing the Discriminatory Muslim Ban. **On his first day in
    office, President Biden signed an Executive Action that repealed the
    previous administration’s discriminatory Muslim Ban, a policy that
    was rooted in religious animus and xenophobia.  
     
-   **Supporting Immigration Reform Legislation.**  President Biden
    remains committed to passing broad-based legislation to finally
    reform our broken immigration system.  These reforms would provide a
    pathway to citizenship to millions of undocumented individuals,
    including Black noncitizens. 

\###
