---
date: '2022-06-03'
modified_time: 2022-06-03 14:30:43-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-03 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/03/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-18/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following leaders to serve as key leaders in his administration: 

-   Nate Fick, Nominee for Ambassador at Large for Cyberspace and
    Digital Policy
-   Daniel N. Rosenblum, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Kazakhstan
-   Kathleen Ann Kavalec, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to Romania
-   Richard K. Delmar, Nominee for the Inspector General of the
    Department of the Treasury
-   Karla Gilbride, Nominee for General Counsel of the Equal Employment
    Opportunity Commission
-   Terrence Edwards, Nominee for Inspector General for the National
    Reconnaissance Office
-   Richard E. DiZinno, Nominee for Member of the Privacy and Civil
    Liberties Oversight Board
-   Adam Wade White, Nominee for Member of the Tennessee Valley
    Authority Board of Directors
-   William Renick Sr., Nominee for Member of the Tennessee Valley
    Authority Board of Directors

**<u>Nate Fick, Nominee for Ambassador at Large for Cyberspace and
Digital Policy</u>**

Nate Fick leads Elastic’s information security business globally as Vice
President, Security Strategy. Previously, he was CEO of Endgame, a
cybersecurity software company, from 2012 through its acquisition by
Elastic in 2019. He also led Endgame’s professional services business
through its acquisition by Accenture in 2017. Fick spent nearly a decade
as an operating partner at Bessemer Venture Partners, where he worked
with management teams to build technology businesses. He writes and
speaks regularly on leadership, corporate governance, security and
technology issues. Fick was named by Fast Company magazine as one of the
“100 Most Creative People in Business” and Endgame was selected by
Forbes as one of the “100 Best Cloud Companies in the World.” From
2009-2012, Fick was CEO of the Center for a New American Security
(CNAS). While at CNAS, he launched the Center’s program on technology
and national security, and oversaw work related to NATO readiness,
diplomacy in the Indo-Pacific, and support for veterans and military
families. Fick served as a Marine Corps infantry and reconnaissance
officer, including combat tours in Afghanistan and Iraq. Fick graduated
with high honors in Classics from Dartmouth College and holds an MPA
from the Harvard Kennedy School and an MBA from the Harvard Business
School.  He serves as a board member of the Council on Foreign
Relations, and on the Military and Veterans Advisory Council at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. 

**<u>Daniel N. Rosenblum, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Kazakhstan</u>**

Daniel N. Rosenblum, a career member of the Senior Executive Service,
has served as U.S. Ambassador to Uzbekistan since 2019. Prior to that,
he was a Deputy Assistant Secretary in the State Department’s Bureau of
South and Central Asian Affairs where he managed U.S. policy and
diplomatic relations with the five Central Asian states. Previously,
Rosenblum served as Coordinator of U.S. Assistance to Europe, Eurasia
and Central Asia, where he was responsible for ensuring the strategic
and efficient expenditure of foreign aid budgets averaging over $1
billion annually. He also served as the primary U.S. government liaison
with other international donors, including the European Union and
multilateral development banks. Earlier, Rosenblum held the positions of
Deputy Coordinator, Director of the Eurasia Division, and Special
Advisor for Economic Programs in the Assistance Coordinator’s
office. Before joining the State Department, Rosenblum spent six years
at the Free Trade Union Institute (FTUI), where he managed U.S.
government grants related to the post-Communist transition in Eastern
Europe and the former Soviet Union. He managed the operation of field
offices in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and Poland. Rosenblum also
worked as a legislative assistant to U.S. Senator Carl Levin, where he
advised on foreign affairs and trade policy. Rosenblum received his B.A.
in History from Yale University and an M.A. in Soviet Studies and
International Economics from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced
International Studies. He speaks Russian.

**<u>Kathleen Ann Kavalec, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to Romania</u>**

Kathleen Ann Kavalec, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the Head of Mission
at the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)
Mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina, on detail from the Department of
State since 2019. Previously, she served as Deputy Assistant Secretary
in the State Department’s Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs. Prior
to that, Kavalec was the Director of the Office of Russian Affairs and
the Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S. Mission UNESCO in Paris,
France. Kavalec oversaw major U.S. foreign assistance programs as Deputy
Coordinator for Assistance in the European Bureau, and as Director for
Conflict Prevention in the Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction
and Stabilization. Kavalec’s other overseas assignments include service
as Cultural Affairs Officer, U.S. Embassy Bucharest, Romania; Political
Counselor, U.S. Embassy Kyiv, Ukraine; and Political Officer, U.S.
Embassy Moscow, Russia (twice). In Washington, she served as a
Legislative Management Officer in the Bureau of Legislative Affairs, and
as Director of the Economic Unit in the Office of the Coordinator for
Assistance for the New Independent States. A native of California,
Kavalec earned her A.B. in Political Science from the University of
California at Berkeley and a Master of Science in Foreign Service from
Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. Kavalec is the recipient of
numerous State Department awards, as well as the Presidential Rank
Award. She speaks Romanian, Spanish, Portuguese, French, and Russian. 

**<u>Richard K. Delmar, Nominee for the Inspector General of the
Department of the Treasury</u>**

Richard K. Delmar is the Deputy Inspector General of the Department of
the Treasury. He has served as Acting Inspector General and as
Counsel. Earlier in his career, Delmar served on active duty in the U.S.
Navy Judge Advocate General’s Corps, as a trial attorney in the
Department of Justice Tax Division, and as a tax litigator and criminal
tax program manager with the Office of Chief Counsel at the Internal
Revenue Service. Delmar is a graduate of Georgetown University, the New
York University School of Law, and the Naval War College Off-Campus
Graduate Program. He is a member of the District of Columbia Bar.

**<u>Karla Gilbride, Nominee for General Counsel of the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission</u>**

Karla Gilbride has litigated on behalf of workers and others denied an
equal opportunity because of discriminatory barriers since graduating
from Georgetown Law School in 2007. After clerking for Judge Ronald
Gould on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, she spent
three years at Disability Rights Advocates in Berkeley, CA, where she
sought to ensure that people with disabilities received the
accommodations they needed on professional licensing exams, and that
disabled residents of Los Angeles had access to shelter, transportation
and other governmental services in the event of a natural disaster.
Gilbride formerly served as an Associate at Mehri & Skalet PLLC in
Washington, DC representing workers in discrimination and wage and hour
cases, and also worked on a case under the Fair Housing Act to ensure
that multi-family housing in Florida was accessible to residents with
mobility disabilities.

Gilbride currently works at Public Justice, litigating cases and appeals
on behalf of low-wage workers and others who are disproportionately
harmed by procedural barriers. Her cases at Public Justice have focused
on mandatory, pre-dispute arbitration provisions that prevent workers
and consumers from using the public courts when they experience unfair
pay, on-the-job harassment or other violations of law. She has
successfully argued appeals in U.S. Courts of Appeals on the topic of
arbitration, and recently won a unanimous Supreme Court decision
involving arbitration. During the COVID-19 pandemic, she represented
meatpacking workers at a Smithfield processing plant in Missouri and
Amazon workers at a warehouse in New York.

**<u>Terrence Edwards, Nominee for Inspector General for the National
Reconnaissance Office</u>**

Terrence Edwards is currently the Chief of Staff to the Principal Deputy
Director of National Intelligence. Prior to serving in this position,
Edwards was the Deputy General Counsel for Management in the Office of
the Director of National Intelligence, where he oversaw the provisioning
of legal advice on a wide array of national security issues. Since 2005,
Edwards has held a number of other legal positions within the federal
government, including Senior Attorney at the National Security Agency,
Senior Acquisition Attorney at the Communications Electronics Command
and Attorney-Advisor at the Army Sustainment Command. Edwards has
received several awards during his career, including the Presidential
Rank Award. Edwards holds a J.D. from The Ohio State University, an
M.S.B.A from Texas A&M University Texarkana, and a B.S. from McNeese
State University.

**<u>Richard E. DiZinno, Nominee for Member of the Privacy and Civil
Liberties Oversight Board</u>**

Richard E. DiZinno currently serves as the Vice President for Strategy,
Policy, and Government Affairs at the National Insurance Crime Bureau
(NICB). DiZinno oversees the formulation and implementation of NICB
policy positions, coordinates strategic planning, and manages the
government affairs team. Prior to NICB, DiZinno served as Associate
Deputy Attorney General at the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), where
he advised the Deputy Attorney General on significant national security
matters. Before DOJ, he was Chief Counsel for National Security and
Crime for the U.S. Senate’s Judiciary Committee. In that role, DiZinno
helped shepherd the reauthorization of Section 702 of the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act in 2018; passage of the CLOUD Act, which
established a process for law enforcement to request data in other
countries; and Senate passage of the USA FREEDOM Act reauthorization in
2020.

DiZinno formerly served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in the District of Columbia. While in the National
Security section, he led investigations involving terrorist financing
through large financial institutions, illegal exports of U.S.-origin
goods, counterintelligence investigations of classified material, and
international human smuggling operations. He tried over fifty cases to
verdict over eight years. DiZinno spent four years as an Associate at
Howrey LLP, a specialty litigation firm in D.C. DiZinno received a B.A.
from the College of the Holy Cross, and attended the George Washington
University School of Law. After law school, he served as a Judicial
Assistant for Chief Judge Thomas Hogan of the U.S. District Court in
D.C.

**<u>Adam Wade White, Nominee for Member of the Tennessee Valley
Authority Board of Directors</u>**

Adam “Wade” White, a Lyon County native, is currently serving his 12th
year as Lyon County Judge Executive. During his tenure as Judge
Executive, Wade has been a recipient of multiple awards, such as the
Kentucky Elected Official Ripple Effect issued by Keep the Tennessee
River Beautiful Group. He was inducted into the Freshwater Fishing Hall
of Fame in 2016 and in 2018, Wade initiated the “War on Carp” as Asian
Carp were having a negative impact on Kentucky Lake and Lake Barkley.
Wade graduated from the University of Kentucky in 1995. He currently
lives in Lyon County, Kentucky, with his wife.

**<u>William Renick Sr., Nominee for Member of the Tennessee Valley
Authority Board of Directors</u>**

William J. “Bill” Renick is currently the Chairman of the Commission on
the Future of Northeast Mississippi. For the past 13 years, until June
30, 2021, he served as the Workforce Division Director at Three Rivers
Planning and Development District in Pontotoc, leading the Mississippi
Partnership Local Workforce Area which covers 27 counties in North
Mississippi. Renick entered public service at the age of 18, when he was
elected to the Board of Aldermen in Ashland, Mississippi and later was
elected Mayor. He also previously served on the Benton County Board of
Supervisors, and eventually the State Senate. Renick served as
Chief-of-Staff to Lt. Governor Eddie Briggs (R-Mississippi) and later as
Chief-of-Staff to Governor Ronnie Musgrove (D-Mississippi). In between
those years of public service, Renick was Administrator of Holly Springs
Memorial Hospital, President of the Retail Association of Mississippi,
and Executive Director of the Marshall County Industrial Development
Authority. Renick is a native of Ashland, Mississippi.

\###
