---
date: '2022-06-29'
modified_time: 2022-06-29 08:00:22-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-29 08:00:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/29/fact-sheet-the-2022-nato-summit-in-madrid/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The 2022 NATO Summit in\_Madrid"
---
 
The June 29-30, 2022 NATO Summit in Madrid, Spain will be an historic
moment for the Transatlantic Alliance. Building on the President’s first
NATO Summit on June 14, 2021, and extraordinary Summits held on February
25, 2022 and March 24, 2022 in response to Russia’s war of aggression
against Ukraine, this Summit in Madrid will convene all 30 Allied
leaders and key NATO partners from Europe and Asia. For the first time,
it will include NATO’s Asia-Pacific partners at the leaders level. The
Summit will provide an opportunity to advance collective efforts with
these Allies and partners to strengthen the rules-based international
order. President Biden will reaffirm the United States’ unwavering
commitment to the Transatlantic bond and NATO’s Article 5 – that an
attack on one is an attack on all. Alongside major new contributions
from Allies, the President will also announce at the Summit new
stationing of U.S. forces and capabilities in Europe to support NATO and
to deter any aggression against our Allies.  
  
Key Summit Outcomes:  
  
**A New Strategic Concept:** Allied leaders will endorse NATO’s next
Strategic Concept, the first update since 2010 for this key public
document which describes how NATO will address threats and challenges in
its security environment in coming years. The new Strategic Concept
outlines NATO’s transformation in line with the NATO 2030 agenda adopted
at the 2021 Summit. It will also guide efforts to safeguard
Euro-Atlantic security in response to Russia’s aggression, as well as
the systemic challenges posed by the People’s Republic of China, and the
deepening strategic partnership between Russia and China. The Strategic
Concept outlines NATO’s core tasks as deterrence and defense, crisis
prevention and management, and cooperative security. It will ensure NATO
continues to develop appropriate tools and collective responses to
transnational threats such as cyber attacks and the security
implications of climate change, and recognizes the value of a human
security approach to NATO’s work, such as the protection of civilians
during conflict, and preventing and responding to conflict-related
sexual violence.  
  
**Stronger Deterrence and Defense:** In response to the more dangerous
European security environment caused by Russia’s aggression against
Ukraine, NATO activated its defensive plans and over 40,000 troops are
now under direct NATO command. Allies have also doubled NATO’s
battlegroups on the eastern flank, ensuring strong defense from the
Baltic Sea to the Black Sea. At the Summit, Allied leaders will endorse
a new strengthened defensive force posture, with a 360-degree view
across land, air, sea, cyber, and space, and an emphasis on more
combat-credible forward capabilities on the eastern flank. Leaders will
also take decisions to strengthen NATO’s posture, readiness, and
interoperability through more identified reinforcements and an enhanced
exercise program.   
  
In response to Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, and in order to
ensure the defense of our Allies, the United States deployed or extended
over 20,000 additional forces to Europe, and there are currently
approximately 100,000 U.S. forces providing defense and deterrence
throughout Europe. The United States will continue to adjust its posture
as needed in response to the dynamic security environment. In close
cooperation with our Allies and hosting nations, President Biden
announced today that the United States will take the following
additional actions to strengthen NATO’s deterrence and defense and
European security:

-   Establishment of a permanent V Corps Headquarters Forward Command
    Post in Poland, which will improve U.S.-NATO interoperability across
    the eastern flank.
-   Commitment to maintaining an additional rotational Brigade Combat
    Team in Europe, which the United States will position in Romania,
    with the ability to deploy subordinate elements for training and
    exercises across the eastern flank.
-   Enhanced rotational deployments in the Baltic region including
    armored, aviation, air defense, and special operations forces,
    building further interoperability and intensified training with
    these Allies, and enhancing our ability to quickly reinforce and
    provide combat-credible defenses. We will maintain a persistent,
    heel-to-toe presence in the region and will intensify training with
    our Baltic Allies.
-   An agreement to work with Spain to increase the number of U.S.
    destroyers stationed in Rota from four to six.
-   Two squadrons of F-35 aircraft to the United Kingdom.
-   Stationing of additional air defense and other enablers in Germany
    and Italy.

Our Allies are stepping up as well, and have significantly enhanced
their contributions to NATO through identified reinforcements and
establishment of new combat-credible structures able to scale up to
brigade size across the eastern flank.  Our Allies will make additional
announcements during the Summit on their contributions to NATO,
demonstrating their support for shared responsibility for defense and
security within the Transatlantic Alliance. We salute all our men and
women in uniform from across North America and Europe who continue to
serve daily to keep us safe.  
  
**Membership Invitations for Finland and Sweden: **On May 18, Finland
and Sweden made the sovereign decision to apply for NATO membership,
demonstrating the continued importance of NATO’s Open Door policy, which
provides a path to membership for any European state in a position to
further the principles of the Washington Treaty and to contribute to the
security of the North Atlantic area. The United States welcomes the
trilateral agreement signed on June 28 by Turkey, Sweden, and Finland
that will pave the way for NATO leaders to issue an invitation during
the Summit to Sweden and Finland. The United States strongly supports
the applications by Sweden and Finland and has prepared all necessary
materials for the U.S. Congress to carry out their advice and consent
responsibilities, once accession talks have concluded and Allies sign
the accession protocols, which is expected to occur in the coming
days.  
  
**Greater Resourcing for NATO:** Allies submitted updated plans ahead of
the Summit on their efforts to meet their commitment under the Wales
Pledge to increase national defense expenditures and major equipment
procurement. 2022 is projected to be the eighth consecutive year of
increased defense spending by non-U.S. Allies, and many Allies now spend
well above NATO’s benchmark of 2 percent of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP), which is increasingly seen as a floor and not a ceiling. Nine
Allies will meet or exceed this commitment this year, 19 Allies have
clear plans to meet it by 2024, and an additional five Allies have made
concrete commitments to meet it thereafter. By the end of 2022, European
Allies and Canada will have spent an additional $350 billion on defense
in real terms since 2014. At the Summit, leaders will also decide on
significant increases over coming years to NATO’s commonly-funded
military and civilian budgets and security investment program, which
will enhance the Alliance’s ability to do more together in support of
our common security and defense.  
  
**Support for Ukraine**: At the Summit, Allied leaders will hear
directly from Ukrainian President Zelenskyy and discuss their ongoing
efforts to provide Ukraine with security, humanitarian, and economic
assistance. The United States has led the world, providing since the
start of the Biden Administration more than $6.3 billion in security
assistance to support Ukraine’s right to defend itself.  In order to
better support Ukraine’s short and long-term needs, Allies will launch
with Ukraine at the Summit an updated NATO Comprehensive Assistance
Package for Ukraine, the mechanism by which NATO provides non-lethal
assistance and support for defense reforms in Ukraine.  
  
**Expanded Global Partnerships**: For the first time ever, the leaders
of Australia, Japan, New Zealand, and the Republic of Korea will
participate in a NATO Summit. Allies and these Asia-Pacific partners
will initiate a roadmap for expanded cooperation, ensuring closer
political consultation and joint work on issues of mutual interest,
including cyber and hybrid threats, maritime security, counterterrorism,
and the impact of climate change on security. In recognition of the
mutually-reinforcing roles of NATO and the EU in bolstering
Euro-Atlantic and international security, the presidents of the European
Council and European Commission will join the Summit’s discussions and
the Transatlantic dinner hosted by Spain. Allies will also consult with
Georgia to express support for its sovereignty, territorial integrity,
and Euro-Atlantic aspirations. Allies will also approve expanded
programs to support the defensive needs of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Georgia, and the Republic of Moldova.

**Safeguarding Democratic Values and Institutions**: NATO’s founding
treaty and its day-to-day work to secure our citizens make clear that
NATO Allies are strongest when they stand united in their respect for
the principles of democracy, individual liberty, and the rule of law.
NATO’s Parliamentary Assembly has highlighted the importance of
democratic resilience to NATO’s strength and unity, and the United
States is working with Allies to support and bolster these efforts. At
the Summit, leaders will receive a Progress Report on the Implementation
of NATO’s successful Building Integrity program, which promotes
transparency and reform in the defense and security sectors. The report
also tasks NATO to continue working with Allies and partners to address
good governance and the impact of corruption as key elements of the
Alliance’s broader political and security agenda.

**Strengthened Cyber Resilience and Defense:** Building on last year’s
adoption of a new Cyber Defense Policy for NATO, Allied leaders will
endorse a new action plan to strengthen cyber cooperation across the
political, military, and technical levels. As an operational domain for
NATO, cyber will also be a key component of NATO’s strengthened
deterrence and defense posture. Building on lessons learned from the
conflict in Ukraine, Allies will decide at the Summit to use NATO as a
coordination platform for offering national assets to build and exercise
a virtual rapid response cyber capability to respond to a serious
cyber-attack. The United States will offer robust national capabilities
as part of this support network.

**Preserving our Technological Edge:** Leaders will offer pledges to
help stand up a new Defense Innovation Accelerator for the North
Atlantic**,** which will support NATO’s efforts to boost
interoperability and ensure that every Ally has access to cutting-edge
technological solutions for military needs. The U.S. will contribute by
facilitating access to U.S. entities, such as test centers and
accelerator sites, drawn from across the extensive and diverse U.S.
innovation sector.  
  
**Combating Climate Change and Promoting Energy Resilience:** Ahead of
the Summit, NATO hosted its first-ever high-level dialogue on climate
change and related security implications. The U.S. has been a leader in
the alliance on spurring NATO’s adaptation to these issues, including by
mainstreaming climate considerations in intelligence analysis and
assisting with development of a methodology for mapping the NATO
enterprise’s greenhouse gas emissions. As part of implementing NATO’s
new climate change and security action plan and reducing energy
dependence, the United States will also continue to work with Allies to
promote best practices for reducing energy demand in military
procurement.

\###
