---
date: '2022-06-06'
modified_time: 2022-06-06 11:47:44-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-06 11:47:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/06/declaration-of-emergency-and-authorization-for-temporary-extensions-of-time-and-duty-free-importation-of-solar-cells-and-modules-from-southeast-asia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Declaration of Emergency and Authorization for Temporary Extensions of Time\
  \ and Duty-Free Importation of Solar Cells and Modules from Southeast\_Asia"
---
 
Electricity is an essential part of modern life that powers homes,
business, and industry.  It is critical to the function of major sectors
of the economy, including hospitals, schools, public transportation
systems, and the defense industrial base.  Even isolated interruptions
in electric service can have catastrophic health and economic
consequences.  A robust and reliable electric power system is therefore
not only a basic human necessity, but is also critical to national
security and national defense.

     Multiple factors are threatening the ability of the United States
to provide sufficient electricity generation to serve expected customer
demand.  These factors include disruptions to energy markets caused by
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and extreme weather events exacerbated by
climate change.  For example, in parts of the country, drought
conditions coupled with heatwaves are simultaneously causing projected
electricity supply shortfalls and record electricity demand.  As a
result, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the North American
Electric Reliability Corporation have both warned of near-term
electricity reliability concerns in their recent summer reliability
assessments.

     In order to ensure electric resource adequacy, utilities and grid
operators must engage in advance planning to build new capacity now to
serve expected customer demand.  Solar energy is among the fastest
growing sources of new electric generation in the United States.
 Utilities and grid operators are increasingly relying on new solar
installations to ensure that there are sufficient resources on the grid
to maintain reliable service.  Additions of solar capacity and batteries
were expected to account for over half of new electric sector capacity
in 2022 and 2023.  The unavailability of solar cells and modules
jeopardizes those planned additions, which in turn threatens the
availability of sufficient electricity generation capacity to serve
expected customer demand.  Electricity produced through solar energy is
also critical to reducing our dependence on electricity produced by the
burning of fossil fuels, which drives climate change.  The Department of
Defense has recognized climate change as a threat to our national
security. 

     In recent years, the vast majority of solar modules installed in
the United States were imported, with those from Southeast Asia making
up approximately three-quarters of imported modules in 2020.  Recently,
however, the United States has been unable to import solar modules in
sufficient quantities to ensure solar capacity additions necessary to
achieve our climate and clean energy goals, ensure electricity grid
resource adequacy, and help combat rising energy prices.  This acute
shortage of solar modules and module components has abruptly put at risk
near-term solar capacity additions that could otherwise have the
potential to help ensure the sufficiency of electricity generation to
meet customer demand.  Roughly half of the domestic deployment of solar
modules that had been anticipated over the next year is currently in
jeopardy as a result of insufficient supply.  Across the country, solar
projects are being postponed or canceled.

     The Federal Government is working with the private sector to
promote the expansion of domestic solar manufacturing capacity,
including our capacity to manufacture modules and other inputs in the
solar supply chain, but building that capacity will take time. 
Immediate action is needed to ensure in the interim that the United
States has access to a sufficient supply of solar modules to assist in
meeting our electricity generation needs.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including by section 318(a) of the
Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, 19 U.S.C. 1318(a), do hereby declare an
emergency to exist with respect to the threats to the availability of
sufficient electricity generation capacity to meet expected customer
demand.  Pursuant to this declaration, I hereby direct as follows:

     Section 1.  Emergency Authority.  (a)  To provide additional
authority to the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) to respond to the
emergency herein declared, the authority under section 1318(a) of title
19, United States Code, is invoked and made available, according to its
terms, to the Secretary.

     (b)  To provide relief from the emergency, the Secretary shall
consider taking appropriate action under section 1318(a) of title 19,
United States Code, to permit, until 24 months after the date of this
proclamation or until the emergency declared herein has terminated,
whichever occurs first, under such regulations and under such conditions
as the Secretary may prescribe, the importation, free of the collection
of duties and estimated duties, if applicable, under sections 1671,
1673, 1675, and 1677j of title 19, United States Code, of certain solar
cells and modules, exported from the Kingdom of Cambodia, Malaysia, the
Kingdom of Thailand, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and that are
not already subject to an antidumping or countervailing duty order as of
the date of this proclamation, and to temporarily extend during the
course of the emergency the time therein prescribed for the performance
of any act related to such imports.   

     (c)  The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of the Treasury
and the Secretary of Homeland Security, or their designees, before
exercising, as invoked and made available under this proclamation, any
of the authorities set forth in section 1318(a) of title 19, United
States Code.

     Sec. 2.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this proclamation
shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This proclamation shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
