---
date: '2022-06-14'
published_time: 2022-06-14 17:42:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/14/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-29th-afl-cio-quadrennial-constitutional-convention/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the 29th AFL-CIO Quadrennial Constitutional\_\
  Convention"
---
 
Philadelphia Convention Center  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

11:03 A.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, AFL-CIO!  (Applause.)  You ain’t labor, you’re
union.  It makes a difference!  (Laughs.)  It’s good to be home. 
(Applause.)  As they say in Claymont, you all brung me to the dance. 
Thank you.  
  
Please.  Please, have a seat if there is one.  (Laughs.)   
  
You’re a gigantic reason why I’m standing here — standing here today as
your President.  I really mean it.  I owe you.  From the very beginning
of my running for office, back when I was a kid, it was labor, the
unions.  Made a difference.  At the time, we were a right-to-work state,
and we changed that too.  
  
You’ve — I’ve never forgotten not only what you’ve done for me but how
importantly it meant to me and — and to the country, to our country —
what you’ve done for our country.

And I want to thank Liz for being such a good friend for so long, the
first woman to lead the AFL-CIO.  (Applause.)  Born into a union
household.  Started out as an organizer, and she never stopped. 
Congratulations, Liz.  Congratulations.

And congratulations to Fred Redmond, your Secretary-Treasurer as well. 
(Applause.)  I hope your daughter-in-law knows she’s marrying into a
union family.  (Laughs.)  
  
Anyway, look, I know this is bittersweet for all of us.  This is the
first convention without Rich Trumka.  Rich was not only a legendary
labor leader, he literally was a close friend to me and to so many of
you.  A true friend, particularly there when things weren’t going well. 
He was always there.

Above all, he was an American worker.  No matter how high he rose
through the ranks, he never forgot where he came from.  We use that
phrase all the time — “never forget where you came from.”  He never
forgot where he came from or what this work is all about.

You know, before Rich passed, he gave me — (applause) — he gave me the
highest compliment that I’ve ever gotten in my life, and I mean it
sincerely.  He called me — which your president just did — the “most
pro-union President in history.”  I promised you I would be, and I
commit to you: As long I have this job, I will remain that. 
(Applause.)  
  
And, folks — (applause) — thank you.  
  
I’ve got to tell you, nothing made me prouder than that.  That’s why I
made sure we put a former union president in as Secretary of Labor. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  *Marty Walsh.  Marty.*  (Pronounced in Boston
accent.)  He’s going to learn how to speak English, but he’s real. 
(Laughter.)  I kid him all the time.  I’m joking.  He *parks his car in
a car barn* — (pronounced in Boston accent) — but he knows what he’s
doing.  (Laughter.)  
  
Marty was here yesterday, and he’s doing a hell of a job, but he fights
like hell for us all.

And just yesterday — (applause) — just yesterday, I had a conversation —
a Zoom conversation — with our next senator from this state, John
Fetterman.  (Applause.)  You know, if you’re in a foxhole, you want John
with you, man.  
  
I know he can’t wait to get back on the trail.  He’s looking good.  And
there’s no bigger, stronger voice for working people in this state than
John — certainly no bigger one, for that matter.  (Laughter.)

Look, we’re also joined here today by three great members of Congress
who flew up with me on Air Force One: Brendan Boyle, who is labor,
labor, labor.  (Applause.)  Donald Norcross, who is labor, labor. 
(Applause.)  And Mary <s>Kay</s> \[Gay\] Scanlon as well.  (Applause.) 
All — by the way, they’ve all be there when the tough — when the votes
were tough.  When the votes were tough to stay with you, they were
there.  And they’re great champions of unions.  
  
And Stacey Abrams is here as well.  By the way, I’m going to ask you all
a favor.  Help her in Georgia.  (Applause.)  Help Stacey Abrams in
Georgia.

There’s three things I learned about her early on.  One, she’s loyal. 
Two, she’s capable.  And three, she’s smarter than you — me. 
(Laughter.)  She knows what she’s doing.  So, folks, please, help her
out.  
  
And, folks, thanks to all of you, we’re coming along and — we’ve come a
long way in a short time.

Do you remember when our economy was like — what it looked like before
we took office?  Three thousand Americans were dying every day from
COVID.  Twenty million Americans had lost their jobs under the last guy.

In fact, so many Americans lost their jobs that my predecessor became
just the second President in history to leave office with fewer jobs in
America than when he took office.  But you stepped up.  The other one,
by the way, was Herbert Hoover.

And just remember — remember those long lines of cars stretching miles
back, waiting for just a box of food to be put back in their trunk?  It
wasn’t just poor folk, it was working-class folk, it was middle-class
folks.  A lot of pretty nice cars in those lines.  
  
And while it was going on, America created more than — more billionaires
during that crisis in 2020 than any year in history.  Talk about a
contrast.  
  
Ordinary people getting — waiting in line for an hour for a box of
food.  And the policies in the past created more billionaires than ever
in American history.  
  
Folks, it’s hard to believe, but it’s true.  That’s what we inherited.

And then, with your help, we went to work with an economic vision that
looks out from Scranton, Pennsylvania — hardworking towns like it all
across America — not down from Wall Street.

Wall Street didn’t build this country, the middle class built this
country.  And unions built the middle class.  (Applause.)  
  
I’m not joking.  Without unions, there would be no middle class. 
(Applause.)  That’s a fact.

And, by the way, there’s a reason.  You’re the best-trained workers in
the world, not a — that’s not hyperbole.  When you do well, everybody
does well.

You know, if investment bankers in America — they’re not all bad guys.
 They’re not bad.  But guess what?  If they went on strike, not a whole
hell of a lot would happen.  (Laughter.)  But guess what?  Guess what? 
I tell this to my buddy — if the IB- — IBEW went on strike, everything
shuts down.  (Applause.) All of you.  Go down the row.  
  
No, I’m serio- — no, you guys don’t understand; you don’t ta- — you
don’t — I don’t think you appreciate how critically important you are. 
I’m not trying to be nice to you; it’s just a fact.  
  
Folks, we need an economy built from the middle out and the bottom up,
not the top down.  Because I know when the middle class does well,
everybody does.  The wealthy do very well.  They’re never hurt.

But I also know too often we’ve had an economy where the wealthy do
better and better while the middle class gets left behind.

So we went to work to change that.  It started with the American Rescue
Plan.  The law helped 41 mi- — people — 41 million people put food on
their table.  Remember, they were having trouble putting food on their
table.  It put money in the pockets of hardworking Americans who were in
trouble, being thrown out on the street because they couldn’t pay their
rent through no fault of their own.  It gave them what my dad used to
call “just a little bit of breathing room.”  (Applause.)

The next step was the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  And now not only
is it Infrastructure Week, we’ve arrived at Infrastructure Decade! 
(Applause.)

And people are going to see a lot of it.  We got to remind them where
it’s coming from.  We announced nearly $3 billion this year to improve
more than 3,000 airports across 50 states this year — this year.  We
announced $5 billion so union workers could get to work building a
national network of electric vehicle charging stations.  We announced
the largest investment of public transit in American history — more than
the entire Amtrak system when it started: $20.5 billion.  (Applause.)

And the people we come from — like when the President — President Obama
used to always give me the good assignments.  Well, I remember one day,
I walked in — not a joke — he said, “Joe, fix Detroit.”  I said, “Okay,
no problem.”  (Laughter.)  No, you think I’m kidding.  You think I’m
kidding.

What I didn’t realize is I already knew a lot about the cities.  When I
was in Detroit, the vast majority of the people living in these cities,
their jobs are out of town because they’re not doing manufacturing in
towns anymore.  Out of town. 

So we got a rail system for them.  We got a freight sys- — we got a bus
system.  It changed it.  It’s growing.  It’s going to create more good
jobs using products that are made in America.  And, folks, it’s also
going to reduce pollution while it’s making it safer and safer for folks
to go to work and get to work every day.

What all this means for all of you is a simple proposition.  And I
remember us having this discussion, old buddy.  When I think global
warming, I think jobs.  Jobs, jobs, jobs.  Good-paying union jobs.  Jobs
you can raise a family on.  Jobs you can’t out- — be outsourced. 
(Applause.)

Look, the infrastructure law is about more than rebuilding our
infrastructure.  It’s about rebuilding the middle class.  And that’s why
we made sure that the infrastructure law included significant labor
protections.  For example, I insisted that the overwhelming majority of
the funds included in the law are subject to Davis-Bacon requirements. 
Union has to do it.  (Applause.)

And it’s not just because they want to help unions.  It’s simple: You’re
the best in the world.  If we’re going to build infrastructure, we
should have — you know, what I always find we don’t talk enough about,
and I’m not going to take the time today — but you know what?  You don’t
just decide you want to be a pipe fitter or an electrician or whatever
else you want to pick.  It takes you four or five years’ hard work. 
It’s like going to college.  Fortunately, you get these union paid — you
get paid to do some of it. 

But my point is: People don’t realize — and I see every place I go — and
you’ve heard me do it at Chambers of Commerce — the best-trained workers
in the world. 

So, folks rebuilding our country will earn a prevailing wage.  They
should.

Another thing the law does: It’s helped expand registered
apprenticeships.  Remember when the la- — when the business was saying,
“We’ll take care of the apprenticeships?”  Bless me Father, for I have
sinned.  Come on, man!  (Laughter and applause.)  Come on.

Union partnerships that allow workers to earn while they learn.  It
matters.  Because laying a strong foundation for the future of this
country is about more than having strong roads and bridges.  It’s about
making sure that, here in America, folks who work hard can live their
lives with dignity and respect. 

That’s why I continue to call on Congress to finally pass the PRO Act —
(applause) — which will make it easier for workers to organize. 

You know, when Franklin Roosevelt passed the NLRB, it didn’t say you
can’t have unions.  It said we should encourage unions.  That’s what the
NLRB says.  It’s a big difference.

And, look, I’m not just saying that to be pro-union.  I’m saying it
because I’m pro-American.  (Applause.) 

Folks, that’s the approach I’ve taken to build this economy.  And what
has to be done?  Well, we brought down COVID deaths by 90 percent.  We
opened schools and businesses that were shuttered.  All — it all created
the greatest job recovery in American history. 

People don’t want to talk about it these days, but it’s true: Since I’ve
become President, we’ve created 8.7 million new jobs in 16 months.  An
all-time record.  (Applause.)  And even last month, 390,000 jobs and
600,000 new manufacturing jobs.  And they said manufacturing is dead in
America.  (Applause.)

Look, folks, our unemployment rate is near historic lows — and 3.7
percent.  And millions of Americans are leaving — I love these guys
talking about why these — “This guy left my employment and went to
another job.”  Because he got paid more.  (Laughter and applause.) 
Isn’t that awful?  Isn’t that a shame that they got to compete for
labor? 

Better-paying jobs, for better jobs for them and their families.  It’s
been a long time since that’s happened in this country, but it’s
happening now.  And it’s working.

Since I took office, with your help, families are carrying less debt
nationwide.  They have more savings nationwide.  (Applause.)  More
Americans applied for new small businesses last year than ever before in
American history.  (Applause.)  5.4 million new small-business
applications.  Jobs and companies are coming home again.  And we’re
making “Buy American” a reality, not just a slogan.  (Applause.)  I
award no contracts from the federal government unless they can prove
they bought it in America. 

And, by the way, Republicans like to portray me as some kind of big
spender.  We have spent a lot of money, but let’s compare the facts. 
Under my predecessor, the deficit exploded, raising — rising every
single year.  And all of the benefit going to the top 1 percent,
basically.

Under my plan, last year we cut the deficit by $350 billion, doing all
this.  (Applause.)

You know, they talk about, “Biden wants to spend more on schools and all
this.  Guess what?  He’s going to create a deficit.”

Ladies and gentlemen, this year, by the end of the fiscal year, we will
have cut the federal deficit by another $1.6 trillion — in one year. 
One year.  (Applause.)

So, when they come to you and talk about big spenders, let them know. 
Almost $2 trillion in deficit reduction.

I don’t want to hear any more of these lies about reckless spending. 
We’re changing people’s lives.  (Applause.)  And because of the fact,
this year, we’re delivering the biggest drop in the deficit in the
history of the United States of America.  (Applause.)

Look, the point is this: Under my plan for the economy, we’ve made
extraordinary progress.  And we put America in a position to tackle the
wor- — worldwide problem that’s worse everywhere but here: inflation. 
It’s sapping the strength of a lot of families.

I grew up in household not far from here, in Claymont and Wilmington,
where if the price of a gallon of gasoline went up, it was a
conversation at the dinner table.  It mattered.  It mattered in my
working family.  It mattered if the price of food went up.

The problem is Republicans in Congress are doing everything they can to
stop my plans to bring down costs on ordinary families.

That’s why my plan is not finished and why the results aren’t finished
either.  Jobs are back, but prices are still too high.  COVID is down,
but gas prices are up.  Our work isn’t done. 

But here’s the deal.  America still has a choice to make: a choice
between a government by the few, for the few, or a government for all of
us, democracy for all of us, an economy where all of us have a fair shot
and a chance to earn our place in the economy.

My plan is simple.

First, I’m doing everything in my power to blunt Putin’s gas price
hike.  Just since he invaded Ukraine, it’s gone up $1.74 a gallon —
because of nothing else but that.

So I have a plan to bring down the cost of gas and food.  It’s going to
take time, but let the world coordinate the largest release of what I
have been able to do — the largest release of oil in — from the global
fund in history.  A million barrels a day.  And 240 million barrels to
boost global supply while I convinced other nations to join us to keep
prices from ri- — keep prices from rising even more.

And I’m working closely with our European partners to get 20 million
tons of grains locked in Ukraine out onto the market to help bring down
food prices.  (Applause.)

Folks, look, what Putin’s war has done is not only tried to wipe out the
culture of the Ukrainians, decimate people, and commit innumerable war
crimes, but is also — he’s also prevented the grain — thousands of tons
of grain that are locked up in those silos, ready to be exported, but
they can’t get out through the Black Sea because they’ll get blown out
of the water.  So we’re working on a plan to get it out through other
countries by rail. 

But guess what?  Ukraine has a system like Russia has — a rail gauge
that is different than the gauge of the rest of the tracks in Europe. 
So we’re going to build silos — temporary silos — in the borders of
Ukraine, including in Poland, so we can transfer it from those cars into
those silos, into cars in Europe, and get it out to the ocean, and get
it across the world.  (Applause.)  But it’s taking time.

Second, we’re going to work to bring down gas and food prices.  We can
save families money and other items.  We can change the dynamic of the
middle-class families.  Look, give them a little breathing room, as my
dad said.  You heard me say that before.

But imagine you’re — what most middle-class and working-class families
do is they look at that monthly bill they have on everything.  Maybe the
rent or the mortgage.  The cost of maintaining the car.  The food.  The
— everything.

So if portions of that go up, one of the ways to deal with inflation for
families is to bring the other costs down.

For example, 200,000 people with Type 1 diabetes are paying up to $1,000
a month for insulin.  We can make sure they pay no more than $35 a
month.  (Applause.)

By that, I — and, by the way, drug companies will still do very well. 
It’ll cost them 10 bucks to develop that insulin.  So they’re making
three and half times their cost.

My plan gives Medicare the power to negotiate pharmaceu- — with the
pharmaceutical companies, just like the Veterans Administration does. 
To bring down the average cost of prescription drugs is a gigantic way —
(applause) — it really does — it affects the total amount of money you
got to write out of that checkbook. 

So, gas is up and food is up, which we’re going to get down come hell or
high water.  But there’s other things we can do beyond getting the price
of insulin down to $35 a month. 

Imagine the difference it could make.  Imagine the difference it could
make if, in fact, you had other things that I’ve been proposing. 
Imagine.  Just imagine if you’re in a situation where you’re going to —
able to be in a position where you pay for preschool for kids that are
three and four years old, increasing exponentially their possibility of
going, no matter what kind of family they come from, in terms of
educational standing — to raise the standard for people.

Imagine what we could do if we — for childcare in a city like
Philadelphia and New York — the big cities — Chicago.  It costs you
twelve to fourteen thousand dollars a <s>month</s> \[year\] for
childcare.  Well, they shouldn’t have to pay more than 7 percent of your
income for that.  We could easily afford to do it.

Look, we could do the same thing — (applause) — but I — but I really
mean it.  Think how that would change the families that you represent. 
Think how it would fam- — change the circumstances for working-class
people. 

And, by the way, it could do the same thing with utility bills. 
Congress could ease the cost of families today by passing the clean
energy investments I proposed — things like a tax credit for business to
produce cleaner energy, tax cuts for families that make their homes more
energy efficient, which is the way — it would mean a lot more jobs, by
the way, for some folks in this room. 

I met with nearly a dozen large CEO — CEOs of the largest 12 utility
companies in America.  They said, “If you pass that tax cut — that tax
credit for modernizing the homes, winterizing, et cetera, we will
guarantee we’ll immediately lower the average cost of — energy cost $500
a year for the average family.”  That’d help a lot.  And in the long
run, it would help finally make America truly energy independent.

So, in the future, American families no longer are subject to the whims
of di- — whims of dictators halfway around the world. 

We’ve laid out concrete plans for families to save money — (applause) —
not only prescription drugs and utility bills, but on rent and mortgage
costs, high-speed Internet.  You guys out there are going to be putting
in high speed, and we’ve already got the money for it — billions of
dollars.  Well, guess what?  When you get it done, it’s going to lower
the cost of high-speed Internet for every family in America by 30 bucks
a month.  That’s a lot of money.  (Applause.)  And it’s a lot of jobs. 

Look, we can do all this.  I’m asking — all I’m asking is for the
largest corporations and the wealthiest Americans to begin to pay their
fair share in taxes.  (Applause.)  I’m deadly earnest. 

Anybody out there think the tax system is fair?  Raise your hand. 
(Laughter.) 

Look, under my plan — I made this commitment in the beginning, and
nothing has changed — no one making less than $400,000 a year will pay a
single, solitary penny more in federal taxes.  Nobody.  (Applause.) 

But we’ll no longer have the situation where 55 of the largest Fortune
500 companies made $40 billion the last — each year of the last two
years, and paid zero — zero — zero in federal income tax on that
profit.  $40 billion. 

In fact —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, that’s a fact.  I know it sounds like I’m making — I
give you my word it’s a fact. 

The fact is we’ve got about roughly 790 or so billionaires in America. 
You know what their average tax rate is for a billionaire?  I’m serious
now.  This is dead earnest.  You can check it out.  Eight percent.  The
tax rate for all of you is significantly higher — two to three to four
times higher.  Tax rate.  I say it again: 8 percent in federal taxes. 
Anybody in this room who thinks that — I know you don’t think it’s fair,
but we got to do something about it.

And, by the way, it’s not just labor — organized labor, unions, and
Democrats who think that.  The average Republican knows it’s not fair. 
That suburbanite mom and dad out there, they look around and know it’s
not fair.

I happen to believe that no billionaires should be paying a lower tax
rate than a teacher, a firefighter, an electrician, or a cop. 
(Applause.)

Republicans have it all backwards.  Their plan literally calls for
increasing taxes on middle-class and working people and cutting taxes on
corporations and wealthy Americans. 

And I’m not talking about punishing anyone; just pay your fair share. 
It’s a matter of decency.  It’s a matter of dignity.  It’s a matter of
fiscal responsibility.

Look, I believe in bipartisanship, but I have no illusions about this
Republican Party — the MAGA party.  I’ve been able to bring some
Republicans along on parts of my plan.  But the fact is Republicans in
Congress are still in the grip of the ultra-MAGA agenda.  They still
refuse to consider changing any part of the Trump tax cuts, which
delivered massive windfalls to billionaires and others, and they weren’t
paid for. 

They still refuse to consider a minimum corporate tax of 15 per- — 15
percent minimum tax.  They seem to think that the problem in America
today is that working families aren’t paying enough. 

Congressional Republican Senator Rick Scott of Florida —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  — as my mother would say, “God love him” — he laid out a
plan.  I think you have it on your desks.  I just took one page of that
plan.  Okay?  This is published.  
  
It says, “All…” — this is one — just one of their ideas.  “All federal
legislation sunsets in five years.  If the law is worth keeping,
Congress <s>could</s> \[can\] pass it again.” 

Now, guess what that is?  Social Security.  Not a joke.  Social
Security.  Medicare.  Medicaid.  Every — that’s not a joke. 

Every five years, it would be put on the chopping block.  Every five
years.  And if it’s not reinstated by a vote in the Senate of 60 or
more, guess what?  It automatically goes out of existence.  That’s what
they’re proposing.  Unless a common — the Congress affirmatively votes
back that — bring them back into existence.  
  
Think about that.  Social Security you paid for your whole life. 
Medicare.  Medicaid.  Not a joke.  Really, ask yourself: How well are
you going to sleep at night knowing that every five years Ted Cruz and
the other ultra-MAGA Republicans are going to vote on whether you’ll
have Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid?  
  
It’s unlikely they’ll be able to wipe it out, but any one of you doubt
for a second they’ll find ways to cut benefits and programs in order to
keep anything going?  
  
That’s what this is about.  They’ve always wanted to cut Social
Security.  They’ve always wanted to cut Medicare.  They’ve always wanted
to cut Medicaid.  But if you have to start from scratch?

The gentleman from Wisconsin, Senator Ron Johnson, is back at it again,
trying to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, including its protections
for pre-existing conditions.   Hundred million people have pre-existing
conditions.  The only reason the insurance company has to cover it is
because of that law — (applause) — and they’re never going to stop going
after it.   
  
So, now, with the plan of Senator Scott trying to walk back.  But it’s
clear: The last thing they want to see is workers with power in this
country.  
  
The bottom line is this: I truly believe we’ve made extraordinary
progress by laying a new foundation for our economy, which becomes clear
once global inflation beco- — begins to recede.

There’s so much at stake today.  But the truth is: I’ve never been more
optimistic about America than I am today.  I really mean it. 

I travel the world trying to put things back together.  You know, Trump
did not leave a very good situation.  (Laughter.)  You think I’m
kidding.  
  
No matter where I go in the world, whether it was the inter-American
conference we just had for the — this si- — this hemisphere; or NATO; or
dealing with the ASEAN countries; or the Far East, guess what?  They
look at me and I say — I say, “America is back.”  And they look and me
and they say, “For how long?”  
  
This is America.  We can do any damn thing we put our minds to.  And
guess what?  We’re not going back to the false promises of the
trickle-down economics.  We’re going forward.  (Applause.)  We’re going
forward.  
  
I really mean this.  I know I’m called a cockeyed optimist, but this is
based on history.  We’re the most unique country in the world.  We’re
organized on one notion.  Every other country is organized based on
ethnicity, religion, geography.  But the United States is based on an
idea.  The only country in the world based on an idea.  Think about
it.  
  
Look to your right.  Look at your left.  See if you’re — everybody all
shares the same — the same backgrounds.  We’re so diverse.  
  
Why are we doing it?  Because we said, “We hold these truths to be
self-evident that all men and women are created equal” — (applause) —
“endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights…life,
liberty.”  
  
We’ve never met the goal, but we’ve never — other than the Trump
administration — tried to walk away from that goal.  And it gets better
every time we push.  
  
And unions — unions are going to play a critical role in that future. 
America has always counted on union workers.  Given just half a chance,
you have never, ever, ever, ever let the country down.  We’re counting
on you again to build this country for all of us — (applause) — help
build an economy that works for working people. 

And I promise you, I’m going to keep fighting for you!  Are you prepared
to fight with me?  (Applause.)  
  
Well, let’s build it together!  Let’s continue to give working families
a fighting chance, face our challenges head on, and let’s keep building
a better America.  Because we can do it! 

God bless you all, and may God protect our troops.  (Applause.)  
  
We can do anything!  Thank you.

11:37 A.M. EDT
