---
date: '2022-06-17'
published_time: 2022-06-17 18:02:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/17/readout-of-talent-pipeline-challenge-launch-event-with-senior-administration-officials-employers-union-leaders-training-providers-and-local-officials/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Talent Pipeline Challenge Launch Event with Senior Administration\
  \ Officials, Employers, Union Leaders, Training Providers, and Local\_Officials"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration held an event to launch the
Talent Pipeline Challenge, a program to help employers build education
and training partnerships to connect American workers to good jobs
rebuilding our infrastructure, supply chains, and manufacturing. The
Vice President, First Lady, Cabinet Members, and senior administration
officials are working to bring major employers, trade associations,
training providers, union leaders, and state and local governments
together to create good-paying jobs for a diverse group of workers. The
Talent Pipeline Challenge’s goal is to create and support programs that
provide skills training and match workers with in-demand jobs that will
be critical to completing infrastructure projects, including those
funded by the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.

National Economic Council Director Brian Deese, Domestic Policy Advisor
Susan Rice, Senior Advisor and Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator
Mayor Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor and American Rescue Plan
Coordinator Gene Sperling, and Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh hosted the
Talent Pipeline Challenge event at the White House. They were joined by
leading employers, unions, training providers, and industry
associations. Today’s event showcased how the summer-long challenge will
bring together government, labor, and workforce leaders and highlight
effective strategies and partnerships that deliver good jobs for all and
equitable workforce development.

The administration officials thanked the participants for being among
the first to sign up for the Talent Pipeline Challenge and serving as
ambassadors who will work to bring other employers to the table. There
was broad agreement that ensuring a reliable and continuing supply of
skilled workers for infrastructure projects is critical and that because
of the additional demand created by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
employers will need to expand their search to communities that
historically have been excluded from hiring and training opportunities,
including rural, Tribal, and historically under-served communities.
Administration officials closed the meeting by emphasizing that
partnerships between employers and training providers will ensure that
America has a well-trained, highly skilled and diverse workforce ready
to strengthen the economic security of communities across the country.

Employers participating in the event voiced their commitment to training
investments and partnerships. AT&T CEO John Stankey discussed how the
company’s relationship with the Communication Workers of America (CWA)
supports their highly-skilled workforce and how the launch of their
innovative training program with Corning, a fiber manufacturer, has
prepared workers for the broadband sector. Brian Stewart, CEO of The
Superior Group, an electrical contractor in Ohio, emphasized their
efforts working closely with the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers (IBEW) to train and secure credentials for their employees to
install electric vehicle chargers through the Electric Vehicle
Infrastructure Training Program (EVITP). Deryl McKissack, one of the
owners of the Black-woman owned construction firm McKissack and
McKissack, discussed the importance of creating a pipeline for equitable
training and hiring and how she works to recruit more people from
underrepresented communities, with a strong focus on Black women, into
the construction field.

The organizations in attendance that help facilitate training, in
particular community colleges and unions, emphasized the importance of
their partnerships with employers. Union leaders from the AFL-CIO, IBEW,
CWA, and LiUNA highlighted the importance of ensuring jobs are
good-quality union jobs, the value of skills training programs that
include wrap-around supports to help underserved workers secure jobs in
these sectors, and to the importance of expanding pre-apprenticeships
that are connected to registered apprenticeships as a pathway to
middle-class jobs for workers from disadvantaged communities. Robert
Holsten of Wilson Community College talked about the college’s new and
unique partnership with Greenlight utility to train broadband workers.
Mayor Purzycki of Wilmington, Delaware praised the flexibility and
timing of the Rescue Plan funds to make key investments in training
in-demand workers for key sectors, including infrastructure.

Participants in today’s launch event included:

***White House***

Brian Deese, Director of National Economic Council

Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor and Infrastructure Coordinator

Carmel Martin, Deputy Assistant to the President for Economic Mobility

Susan Rice, Domestic Policy Advisor

Gene Sperling, Senior Advisor to the President and American Rescue Plan
Coordinator

***Department of Labor***

Marty Walsh, Secretary of Labor

***Employers***

Brendan Bechtel, CEO, Bechtel

Barbara Humpton, CEO, Siemens USA

Deryl McKissack, President and CEO, McKissack & McKissack

Qiana Spain, Executive VP and Chief HR Officer, Amtrak

John Stankey, CEO, AT&T

Bryan Stewart, CEO, The Superior Group

Wendell Weeks, CEO, Corning

***Employer Associations:***

Shirley Bloomfield, CEO, NTCA – The Rural Broadband Association

Gary Bolton, CEO, Fiber Broadband Association

Martin Durbin, Senior Vice President, Policy, U.S. Chamber of Commerce

Jonathan Spalter, President & CEO, USTelecom

***Unions***

Kenny Cooper, Secretary Treasurer, International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers (IBEW)

Terry O’Sullivan, President, Laborers’ International Union of North
America (LiUNA)

Fred Redmond, Secretary Treasurer, American Federation of Labor and
Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)

Chris Shelton, President, Communications Workers of America (CWA)

***Training Providers & Intermediaries***

Chaton Green, Building Pathways

Rusty Greiff, Chief Strategy Officer, Jobs for the Future

Robert Holsten, VP of Academic Affairs at Wilson Community College (NC)

Jennifer Mefford, National Co-Chair, Electric Vehicle Infrastructure
Training Program (EVITP)

Steve Preston, CEO, Goodwill Industries

Jon Schnur, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, America Achieves

Andy Van Kleunen, Chief Executive Officer, National Skills Coalition

Jennifer Worth, Senior VP, Academic & Workforce Development, American
Association of Community Colleges (AACC)

***Local Officials***

Dr. Unique Morris Hughes, Washington, D.C. Dept. of Employment Services
****

Mayor Mike Purzycki, Wilmington, DE
