---
date: '2022-06-13'
modified_time: 2022-06-13 19:56:18-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-13 19:50:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/13/summit-of-americas-agriculture-producers-declaration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Summit of the Americas Agriculture Producers\_Declaration"
---
 
Today, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and the United States affirm
the important role that we as major agricultural and agricultural input
exporters can play to strengthen global food security.  At a time when
nearly one in three people around the world does not have access to
adequate, affordable, and nutritious food, supply disruptions further
interrupt trade in grain, corn, cooking oil, and key agricultural inputs
such as seeds, fertilizer, and refined fuels.  At the same time, climate
change has intensified severe weather events and made them more
frequent.  The resulting change in precipitation patterns around the
world threatens crop yields, making farming more challenging, especially
as the world emerges from the COVID-19 pandemic.  High energy and
fertilizer prices are an additional constraint, making agriculture more
difficult to practice profitably and increasing world food prices for
consumers, further exacerbating global food insecurity.

We, as major producers and exporters of food and other agricultural
inputs affirm the need to take near-term actions with the goal of
stabilizing food prices and sustainably maximizing agricultural yields.
as well as building more resilient, safe, and sustainable global food
systems for the future. We stand with the other over 80 countries that
have endorsed the Roadmap for Global Food Security Call to Action
released at the U.S.-chaired Global Food Security Ministerial Meeting
held at the United Nations on May 18 and urge those countries that have
not yet endorsed the Roadmap to do so.  

In order to meet these goals, the aforementioned countries affirm that
they plan to:

•           Promote best practices to boost crop yields, agricultural
production, and trade:  We intend to work with farmers around the world
to take steps to improve sustainable crop yields and enhance sustainable
agricultural production.  All exporting countries benefit from the use
of effective practices and approaches, including:  the use of high-yield
crops and resilient seeds; double-cropping; seasonal soil rotation;
integrated management of pests and diseases; pesticide productivity;
vertical farming; fertilizer innovations and efficiencies; better
irrigation use and techniques to improve the water footprint; new and
innovative practices and technologies to support sustainable
agriculture; greater access to precision agriculture technology and
innovative financial tools, such as agricultural credit and crop
insurance to guaranteed affordable credit access; and innovative storage
techniques to reduce post-harvest loss before crops are sold on the
world markets. Over the long-term, we intend to increase efforts to
support the transformation of unsustainable agriculture inputs and food
systems to make them more sustainable, resilient to shocks, financially
and socially inclusive, and accessible to large, medium and smallholder
farmers without distinction, according to national capacities and
priorities.  Countries intend to strengthen both physical infrastructure
and logistical supply chain supports, as well as build on existing
innovations for food cultivation, storage, and distribution to increase
access to affordable, nutritious, and healthy food.

•           Maximize food supplies and improve trade and transportation
of food within world markets:  A steady and predictable flow of diverse
agricultural exports from major producing countries onto the global
market can help maintain price stability, reduce shocks, and project
calm over commodity markets.  Conversely, panic about shortages and
price spikes, hoarding and excessive stockpiling, and export bans can
create a vicious cycle that contribute to global food insecurity.  We
intend to maintain or expand the fair and open trade of agricultural
commodities, in line with existing domestic policies and international
obligations and standards.  We will work towards the objective of
substantial progressive reductions in support, resulting in fundamental
reform.

•           Calibrate sanctions, where applicable, and work to avoid
other restrictions, like export bans, to limit the impact on trade in
agricultural commodities and avoid disrupting markets.  We intend to
ensure that our countries’ domestic sanctions regimes do not
inappropriately target food and to take all appropriate actions to avoid
export bans and other economic restrictions that could unduly interfere
with the free flow of agricultural commodities around the world. 

•           Provide humanitarian assistance to the most vulnerable: 
Countries within available resources intend to make new, additive
financial or in-kind donations to key humanitarian organizations
providing immediate life-saving humanitarian assistance, including cash,
food and nutrition supplies, health and nutrition programming, water and
sanitation, and humanitarian protection to the most vulnerable
populations – whether inside or outside of their borders – to prevent
malnutrition or famine.

•           Support increased access to fertilizers and their inputs
(synthetic and organic based), including through production inside
countries, as a part of their efforts toward food security.  Subject to
available resources, we intend to increase fertilizer production
including with a focus on the development of climate-smart and versatile
alternatives, coupled with integrated soil management and fertilizer
efficiency techniques, such as 4R fertilizer management, to prevent
shortages.  Use of these soil management techniques combined with
alternative fertilizer choices is critical to optimize global supplies
of fertilizer and reduce single-source fertilizer producer dependency,
increasing competition among fertilizer producers will also help
stabilize production costs in supply chains and increase crop yields to
vulnerable food markets.

•           Optimize use of fertilizers, enhancing sustainability of
water resources and biodiversity:  We intend to promote innovative
techniques, such as precision agriculture, that enable farmers to
optimize the balance between fertilizer and water use per ton of food
produced through crop, season, and alternative techniques.  We also
intend to promote the use of high-value and -yield crops and seeds to
maximize renewable energy sources from non-food crops, feedstocks,
formulations, uses, and crop data to better manage agricultural risks
and shortages in advance of critical planting seasons, reduce soil
erosion, and enhance sustainable biodiversity.

•           Food insecurity is a rising global problem that does not
respect international borders.  It is also historically associated with
poverty and social, economic, and political instability.  As countries
that serve as major food exporters and homes to farmers that feed the
world, it is both in our interest and a core part of our values to take
these steps to prevent hunger, malnutrition, and poverty around the
world, as well as to make investments in more resilient and inclusive
global agriculture and food systems, that support rural development and
contribute to peace in the world. 

\###
