---
date: '2022-06-15'
modified_time: 2022-06-15 12:30:42-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-15 12:30:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/15/background-press-call-previewing-an-executive-order-advancing-lgbtqi-equality-during-pride-month/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Background Press Call Previewing an Executive Order Advancing LGBTQI+ Equality\
  \ During Pride\_Month"
---
 
Via Teleconference

9:38 A.M. EDT

MR MUNOZ:  Hey, everybody.  Thank you for joining today’s call to
preview the President’s Pride event today and the new executive order
that he will be signing.  Ahead of this call, you should have received
an embargoed factsheet — until 12:00 p.m.

This call will be attributable to “senior administration officials.”  On
today’s call, we have \[senior administration official\] and \[senior
administration official\].

With that, I will kick it to \[senior administration official\]. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Good morning, everyone.  It’s good to
be talking with you.  Again, my name is \[senior administration
official\].  As Kevin said, I’m \[redacted\] — that includes our work to
advance LGBTQI+ equality. 

Today, in celebration of Pride Month, the President will host a White
House reception in the East Room.  He’ll be joined by the Vice
President, the First Lady, the Second Gentleman, Secretary Buttigieg,
Secretary Haaland, and hundreds of LGBTQI+ leaders. 

The President has invited members of Congress, including the leaders of
the Equality Caucus; out and proud appointees in his administration;
LGBTQI+ state and local elected leaders; and grassroots advocates who
have been leading the work in the states to fight back against the
onslaught of hateful anti-LGBTQI+ legislation that we’re seeing in the
states. 

This year we’ve seen over 300 anti-LGBTQI+ laws introduced in state
legislatures, and many of them specifically target transgender children
and their parents. 

Most importantly, the President is bringing LGBTQI+ kids and families
from across the country who have been personally impacted by these
discriminatory bills to the White House — kids from Texas and Florida
who have seen their rights under attack, who have had to stand up to
their governors and their state lawmakers as they advance discriminatory
legislation.

Today, the President will be introduced, in fact, by Javier Gomez, an
inspiring 18-year-old Floridian who just graduated from high school and
helped to organize the statewide student walkouts over the “Don’t Say
Gay” bill that bans teachers from discussing LGBTQI+ people and
families. 

These attendees represent the best of America.  They are diverse,
passionate advocates who are fighting to ensure that the promise of
freedom and equality is made real for all. 

You can expect the President today to celebrate the historic progress of
his administration.  For example, issuing a day one executive order to
strengthen protections for LGBTQI+ Americans and advancing full
equality, ensuring that in healthcare, housing, education, employment,
and more areas, that LGBTQI+ people have their rights respected; also
reversing the ban on transgender service members; imposing services —
I’m sorry, improving services for transgender Americans, including with
new “X” gender markers on passports; and appointing a historic member of
LGBTQI+ public servants. 

The President is also going to, again, forcefully condemn the
discriminatory attacks on the LGBTQI+ children and families that we’re
seeing all across the country.  He will talk about how these bills are
worsening the mental health crisis that LGBTQI+ youth are facing,
putting them at greater risk of suicide. 

President Biden always stands up to bullies.  And that’s what these
extreme MAGA laws and policies do — they bully kids.  Hateful,
discriminatory laws that target children are out of line with where the
American people are.  And President Biden is going to use his executive
authority to protect kids and families. 

At today’s event, the President will sign an executive order on
advancing equality for LGBTQI+ individuals.  That executive order will
take historic steps to support LGBTQI+ people, especially children and
families.

LGBTQI+ children face stark disparities.  Nearly half of them said that
they — nearly half of LGBTQI+ youth said that they seriously considered
committing suicide last year.  Nearly 40 percent of all youth
experiencing homelessness are LGBTQI+.  One in five LGBTQ- —

(Call drops.)

MR. MUNOZ:  Just checking.  Sorry, we had some sound challenges. 
\[Senior administration official\], can you — can you hear us? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, I can hear you now.

MR. MUNOZ:  All right, we’re back. Thanks, guys.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Did folks hear what I was saying
before?  I’m unclear.

MR. MUNOZ:  Yes. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah?  We’re good? 

MR. MUNOZ:  So let’s just start where you were.  All right. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  All right.  The President’s executive
order will protect LGBTQI+ youth from so-called “conversion therapy,” a
dangerous and discredited practice that increases the risk of youth
suicide and has been condemned by every major medical association.

President Biden specifically is charging HHS with leading an initiative
to reduce the risk of youth exposure to this dangerous practice,
directing the Secretary of State to promote an end to conversion therapy
around the world, and encouraging the Federal Trade Commission to
consider whether conversion therapy constitutes an unfair or deceptive
act or practice and whether to issue consumer warnings on notices about
it.

The President’s executive order will also address the LGBTQI+ youth
mental health crisis and help prevent LGBTQI+ suicide by expanding
access to suicide prevention resources that meet the needs of LGBTQI+
youth. 

The President’s EO will also launch a new initiative to address the
discrimination that children and parents face in the foster care
system.  LGBTQI+ children are over represented in the foster care — in
foster care.  And LGBTQI+ parents, who play a vital and outsized role in
ensuring that children in foster care are adopted by loving families,
continue to face barriers and biases as they form a family.

And the President’s executive order will strengthen protections for
LGBTQI+ older Americans who face high rates of poverty, discrimination,
and isolation.  He is charging HHS with developing a new bill of rights
for LGBTQI+ seniors.

The order will also strengthen federal data collection on sexual
orientation and gender identity, address LGBTQI+ homelessness and
housing insecurity, and protect healthcare access for LGBTQI+ youth and
families.

You know, taken together these are important new actions that will
improve the health, wellbeing, and safety of countless families across
the country.  And they will send a powerful signal from the President of
the United States to LGBTQI kids across the country who may be feeling
scared and hopeless that their President has their back.

With that, I’ll hand it (inaudible) my colleague Kevin to moderate a few
questions.

MR. MUNOZ:  Thank you, everybody, for joining.  We have time for a few
questions.

First, let’s go to Chris Johnson at the Washington Blade.

Q    Hey, thanks for hosting this call.  Two questions, really.  The —
this executive order seems to be challenging a number of these state
laws that are already in place, you know, against LGBTQ youth.  What
kind of response are you anticipating from them on this executive order
once Biden signs that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We don’t — we don’t know.  I mean, but
the focus is not really on what their response will be.  We’re — what
we’re focused on is responding to the, frankly, un-American policies
that they’re pushing through state legislatures.  They’re going after
kids; they’re going after families just because of who they are.

And the President has said repeatedly that he will stand with LGBTQI
youth and families and people across the country.  That’s what this
executive order is going to do.  It’s going to send that message.  It’s
going to direct the full force of the federal government to provide
resources and support for families so that while they’re under attack by
the state, they know that we’re on their side and we’re providing
resources to help them.

MR. MUNOZ:  Thanks, Chris. 

Next, let’s go to Catherine Lucey at the Wall Street Journal.

Q    Hey there.  Thanks for doing the call.  Can you guys go over at all
what the cost is of these proposals, these various initiatives and what
the funding stream is?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  These are actions that the
President can take within his existing authority and within the existing
budgets of agencies.  So, we are using existing resources to prioritize
responding to these anti-LGBT, anti-family state laws.  We’re using
existing resources to support families across the country. 

That said, I also want to note that the President’s budget proposal for
FY23 includes a number of additional asks for funding to support
improved access to healthcare, education, mental healthcare in
particular, and a whole host of other resources. 

So the President is really working on multiple fronts here to support
LGBT youth and families.  This executive order can go into effect right
away.  It does not depend on any additional congressional
appropriations.

MR. MUNOZ:  Thanks.  Let’s go to Eugene Daniels at Politico.

Q    Hey there.  Can you guys hear me? 

MR. MUNOZ:  Yup.  Thank you, Eugene.   

Q    Thank you.  Thanks for doing this.  One of the things that I
constantly hear from advocates in this space is the — about the Equality
Act.  And, you know, they’ve seen how the President pushed and continued
to push for Build Back Better at one point, the Infrastructure Law, even
voting rights legislation, and they haven’t seen — felt like they’ve
seen the exact same push for the Equality Act.  So I guess I’m just
curious: Is this going to renew the calls from the President to — for
Congress to work on and pass the Equality Act and send it to his desk?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  The President is a strong supporter of
the Equality Act, and he has not wavered in that.  He continues to call
on Congress to pass the Equality Act.  You heard him renew that call
during the State of the Union Address — the biggest stage that we have.

You know, any assertion that he hasn’t been full-throated on that is
just completely at odds with the fact. 

And the President today will reiterate the need to sign this legislation
into law.  He is ready for it.  He wants Congress to send it to his desk
so he can sign it into law.

MR. MUNOZ:  All right.  Next, let’s go to Orion Rummler at 19th News.

Q    Thanks so much, Kevin.  Two questions for you all: How would HHS,
the Biden administration enforce guidance if federally funded programs
cannot offer conversion therapy on this?  And when would HHS be expected
to put out or clarify guidance on this?  

And also, I have a question on gender-affirming care.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  The executive order directs HHS to use
all of its resources, as this is part of a, you know,
whole-of-government, full-court press against this discredited and
harmful practice of conversion therapy. 

The President and the White House cannot direct the exercise of the
enforcement power.  That is up to, you know, teams of lawyers who
carefully consider the facts and apply the law to the facts of any
particular situation.  And they have to continue to do that work.

We are appropriately resourcing them — again, seeking more funding from
Congress to support that (inaudible). 

This executive order does direct them to explore how to beat back this
discredited practice of conversion therapy.  
  
So, it’s — there’s an important distinction there about the role of the
President and the White House and the enforcement power.  In this
administration, it’s very important for the enforcement power to be
exercised independently by the agencies.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  And, Orion, your second question?  
  
Q    Thanks.  Can you all hear me?  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Yep.  
  
Q    Thank you.  So, for charging HHS to work with states to promote
expanded access to gender-affirming care, how can this care be promoted
in states that are actively trying to ban it?  Is — like, what would
promoting it do?

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I mean, in states that are — that
are trying to ban it or that are, you know, trying to criminalize or
promote investigations against families for seeking the support that
their children need, the administration is taking — has taken a number
of steps.  
  
Already put out guid- — we’ve already put out guidance through HHS about
civil rights protections and making clear that the denial of medical
care based on someone’s gender identity is discriminatory, and have
invited the members of the public to file complaints with the Office of
Civil Rights.  So, that has already happened.  That is already
underway.  
  
I think also — so, providing that guidance, providing resources, making
clear the state of the law is certainly something that can happen in
these states. 

It’s also important to emphasize that some states, you know, like
Colorado, for example, are doing the right thing and are expanding
access to gender-affirming care.  
  
The President’s executive order charges HHS with working with states
that want to advance health equity by supporting them in asse- —
accessing that care.  So, that’s just an important part of this to not
lose sight of.  
  
We are seeing a lot of state-level attacks.  And, you know, that’s
something we are standing with LGBT families in responding to.  It’s
also important to continue to push for expanding care where there are
state legislators who are willing and ready partners.

  
MR. MUNOZ:  All right, a couple more questions.  Let’s go to Sandhya
Raman at Roll Call.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for doing this.  So, my question was: Would the
executive order include any of the changes to 1557 under HHS that we’ve
been expecting?  Or would the final rule for that be completely
separate, related to the non-discrimination protections?  And if it’s
not connected, would we expect that soon, since they deal with similar
topics?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  This executive order does not direct- —
does not include the release of the rule that you’re describing — the
1557 rule.  The administration is working hard on the 1557 Notice of
Proposed Rulemaking that would protect patients from discrimination. 
That continues to be a priority.  
  
It is a big rule.  You know, and these rules are complicated, and it’s
important to get it right.  So I don’t have a timing update for you at
this time beyond what we’ve already shared.  But it continues to be a
priority for us.

  
MR. MUNOZ:  All right, last question.  Let’s go to Trudy Ring at The
Advocate.  
  
Q    Yes, I know this is outside the scope of the executive order, but
in states that have enacted anti-LGBTQ policies — like the bans on
gender-affirming care or the, you know, investigations — with the
lawsuits that have been brought against them, does the administration
plan to possibly file statements of interest in those suits?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  The administration is already doing
this all over the country.  The Justice Department has issued statements
of interest, briefs in multiple cases that are brought by plaintiffs
challenging these unjust laws.  That work we expect to continue.  
  
Again, those decisions about filing briefs and taking legal positions
are up to the Justice Department.  Those are, you know — these are
enforcement-related issues, so we are not directing that from the White
House. 

But I think you can see in the work that has happened to date that it’s
a priority, and we’d certainly refer you to the Justice Department for
any further questions about their engagement.

MR. MUNOZ:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\].  And thank
you, everybody, for joining.  As a reminder, this call is attributable
to “senior administration officials,” and the call and the pre- — and
the factsheet are embargoed until 12:00 p.m. — noon.  
  
Any questions, let me know.  Thank you, all.  
  
9:56 A.M. EDT   
