---
date: '2022-06-30'
published_time: 2022-06-30 14:02:31-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/30/statement-from-nsc-spokesperson-adrienne-watson-on-hong-kong-25-years-after-handover/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from NSC Spokesperson Adrienne Watson on Hong Kong 25 Years After\_\
  Handover"
---
 
July 1<sup>st</sup> marks the 25<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the of the
handover of Hong Kong to the People’s Republic of China (PRC). This date
was originally envisioned as the halfway point of 50 years of promised
autonomy under the Sino-British Joint Declaration. Instead of looking
forward to another 25 years of autonomy for Hong Kong, we have witnessed
the dismantling of Hong Kong’s democratic institutions and the
unprecedented pressures on the judiciary, the stifling of academic,
cultural, and press freedoms, and the coerced disbandment of dozens of
civil society groups and news outlets. These actions undermine
fundamental freedoms and the rules-based order which serves to preserve
global stability.   

Today is the second anniversary of National Security Law, the aggressive
implementation of which has eliminated any meaningful political
opposition in Hong Kong and stifled dissent. As a result, today almost
all of Hong Kong’s pro-democracy politicians are either in prison
pending trial or in exile overseas. NGOs, trade unions and human rights
organizations opposing the Government’s agenda have been forced to
disband or leave, for fear of government reprisals. The PRC’s policies
toward Hong Kong also have shaken the institutions, rules, and systems
that had been the basis of international confidence in Hong Kong – which
was the bedrock of its role as an economic hub.

We call on the PRC to act in accordance with the international
obligations it willingly undertook. Ahead of the Chief Executive’s
inauguration, we reiterate the importance that Hong Kong’s leadership
respects the protected rights and freedoms of people in Hong Kong, as
provided for in the Basic Law. 

\###
