---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-09'
modified_time: 2021-02-09 14:22:40-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/09/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-2/
published_time: 2021-02-09 14:45:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White House COVID- \u2060 19 Response Team and Public Health\
  \ Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:16 P.M. EST

     MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you for joining us.  I’m Jeff Zients, White
House COVID Coordinator.  I’m pleased to be joined today by Dr. Marcella
Nunez-Smith, Chair of the Biden-Harris COVID-19 Health Equity Task
Force.  We’ve just completed our weekly call with governors from around
the country who — where we provided updated on our efforts to defeat
COVID-19. 

     President Biden has laid out a comprehensive national strategy to
tackle this pandemic.  The national strategy utilizes all of the powers
and resources of the federal government, working closely with state and
local leaders, tribal leaders, and those on the frontlines in
communities across the country.  Central to the strategy is getting all
Americans vaccinated as quickly and as equitably as possible.

Increasing vaccine supply, increasing the number of vaccinators, and
providing more places for people to get vaccinated, including supporting
local and state partners in their efforts to get needles in arms: all
three are critical.  Today, we’re taking new actions on vaccine supply
and on the number of places for people to get vaccinated.

I’ll start with our efforts on vaccine supply.  When we came into office
three weeks ago, the weekly delivery was 8.6 million doses.  And today
we’re announcing that we will increase weekly vaccine doses going to
states, tribes, and territories to 11 million.  So that is a total of a
28 percent increase in vaccine supply across the first three weeks.

I know Americans are eager to get vaccinated, and we’re working with
manufacturers to increase the supply of vaccines as quickly as
possible.  As supply ramps up, we’re also creating new convenient
locations for vaccinations.  These include standing up community
vaccination centers, deploying mobile vaccine units, and launching new
programs with pharmacies.

Today, we are announcing another step in this effort, focused on some of
our hardest-hit populations.  Starting next week, we will begin a new
program with federally qualified health centers, or as many people know
them, “community health centers.”  Community health centers provide
primary care services in underserved areas, reaching almost 30 million
people.  Under this new program we will begin directly sending vaccine
supply to community health centers, enabling them to vaccinate the
people they serve.  Community health centers are an important part of
our broader strategy to ensure we are reaching everyone with our
response.

I will turn it over to Dr. Nunez-Smith to provide more information on
the community health center program, but before I do, I want to mention
another important point that we discussed in our governors meeting
today. 

Equity is core to our strategy to put this pandemic behind us, and
equity means that we are reaching everyone, particularly those in
underserved and rural communities and those who have been hit hardest by
this pandemic.  But we cannot do this effectively at the federal level
without our partners on the state and local level sharing the same
commitment to equity.  They need to lead this work, as they know their
communities better than anyone.

Through efforts like community vaccination centers located in the
hardest-hit areas, mobile units, the community health center program
we’re launching today, and efforts to build vaccine confidence, we are
providing tools to communities around the country to do this work.  And
we look forward to partnering with them to ensure equity.

Over to Dr. Nunez-Smith, who will provide more information on the
community health center program. 

Dr. Nunez-Smith.

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Thanks so much, Jeff.  You know, as Jeff said, we are
providing a suite of tools to state and local leaders as they work to
reach their underserved and hardest-hit populations.  We are very
excited about the announcement of this additional program today towards
that effort.

So, as you just heard, we are very excited to be partnering with
federally-qualified health centers, also known as community health
centers.  They do provide really substantial primary care services
across many underserved areas.  You know, in our country there are more
than 1,300 community health centers spanning every U.S. state and
territory, and serving over 30 million people.  Two thirds of their
patients live at or below the federal poverty line, and 60 percent of
patients at community health centers identify as racial or ethnic
minorities.

So, in addition to the doses that have already been allocated to states
and then additionally through the pharmacy program, we will begin
shipping doses directly to these community health centers.  We will be
starting with a phased approach and will ramp up over time.  But we
anticipate a subset of FQHCs or community health centers to be able to
start ordering vaccines as soon as next week.

Ultimately, in this initial program phase, we plan to reach 250
community health centers.  And again, across this initial phase, our
goal is to allocate 1 million doses during this phase.  That’s 500,000
first doses and 500,000 second doses.

You know, to Jeff’s point, equity is our North Star here.  This effort
that focuses on direct allocation to the community health centers really
is about connecting with those hard-to-reach populations across the
country.  So this includes people who are experiencing homelessness, you
know, agricultural and migrant workers, residents of public housing, and
those with limited English proficiency.  And as always, we plan to be
very inclusive across jurisdictions.  So in this initial phase, we will
include at least one community health center in each state and
territory. 

You know, as the program further scales, vaccines will become available
to all 1,400 community health centers across states and territories
should they want to participate.

So as we said, this new community health center program is just one tool
to reach underserved communities, and it really does build on other
efforts like the community vaccination centers, mobile clinics, and the
pharmacy program.  And a really critical part of this work is also
addressing vaccine confidence, which we know is lower in underserved
communities than it is for the national average.

So the tools that we are deploying at the federal level are meant to aid
state and local leaders, but are in no way a substitute for the
important work that they must lead on the ground to address equity.  So
we look forward to continue to work hand in hand with our partners and
provide the federal resources necessary to ensure that everyone gets
vaccinated.

So thank you for your time.  With that, I’ll turn it back over to you,
Jeff.

MR. ZIENTS:  Good.  Well, why don’t we go ahead and open it up for
questions.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thanks, Jeff.  First we’re going to go to Meg
Tirrell at CNBC.

Q    Hi.  Well, thanks for having this.  I’m just wondering about equity
in terms of the Federal Pharmacy Program and the signups that you’re
seeing at pharmacies.  How do you think it can be assured that the
pharmacies that are receiving these vaccines are supplying and serving
the communities where they are, rather than having, you know, folks from
other places coming in and making appointments?

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Nunez-Smith?

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Yes, thank you for that question.  You know, I think
one of the first things we have to recognize and understand are the
structural barriers that present challenges for many people connecting
with vaccination.  And so the location of the vaccination sites is
critical.  You know, CDC is working very closely with those
participating in the Federal Retail Pharmacy Program to make sure that
we see, you know, a substantial number of pharmacies located in socially
vulnerable areas moving forward.

MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Dan Vergano at BuzzFeed.

Q    Dan Vergano, BuzzFeed.  I’m wondering if you could just say more
broadly: Is there just going to be an inevitable trade-off in terms of
efficiency versus equity here?  I mean, if we didn’t prioritize at all,
we would, you know, be giving this to anybody, it would go faster.  Is
the country just going to have to accept that if we’re going to reach
people who haven’t been treated well in the past, we’re going to have to
lose a little efficiency for the sake of equity?

MR. ZIENTS:  I don’t — I don’t accept that premise at all.  I think we
can do this in a fair, equitable, and efficient way.  And I think
today’s announcement about utilizing the community health centers is
part of a multi-pronged strategy to reach all Americans.  So, efficiency
and equity are both central to what we’re doing, and I don’t see any
trade-off between the two.  I think they go hand in glove.

Q    Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Josh Wingrove at Bloomberg.

Q    Hi there.  Thank you so much for doing this.  Can you just maybe
run through the topline numbers?  You said 11 million a week to states. 
Jeff, Dr. Nunez-Smith, did you put a number?  I didn’t quite catch it on
how many would go to community health centers.  And, of course, there
was pledge of up to a million to pharmacies.  Should we be adding these
all together for total shipments? 

And secondly, I wanted to ask that there’s a report that you’ve told —
the governors, excuse me, that Pfizer is boosting its shipments this
quarter by 50 million doses.  Is that accurate?  Can you give us any
more detail on that?  Thank you.

MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah, on the Pfizer piece — I’ll take the second one first:
Not to my knowledge whatsoever.  What I think Pfizer did announce a
couple of weeks ago was that they were going to deliver 120 million
doses in the first quarter, up from 100 million, and that they would
fulfill their commitment for their first 200 million doses by the end of
May.  But I’m not aware of any additional Pfizer announcements.  So
Pfizer did announce those accelerated deliveries a couple of weeks ago,
which is obviously good news. 

I’ll remind people also that the President ordered the next 200 million
doses, which will provide us with 600 million doses — 100 each from
Moderna and Pfizer to bring us to a total of 600 million this summer,
which is enough vaccine to vaccinate all Americans. 

Let me just run through the topline numbers.  Three weeks ago, states
were — when we walked into office, states were receiving 8.6 million
vacs.  States, territories, and tribes who were receiving 8.6 million
weekly doses.  That is now 11 million, which is up 28 percent.

You’re correct that we also announced the pharmacy program, which we’re
starting with a million allocation.  That begins this week.  And then
the program we were talking about today with community health centers is
a million allocation as that program phases in across the next couple of
weeks.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Next we’ll go to Yamiche Alcindor of PBS.

Q    Hi, thanks so much for taking my questions.  The first question I
have is: Can you talk a little bit about who in these community health
centers will begin?  Is there a criteria for age or for income level? 
I’m just wondering how you’ll — will be able to track, as a country, who
gets the vaccines that go through these community health centers. 

And are there other tools being given to these health centers in order
to get — to help them both convince people to get the vaccine and its
safety, but also to just distribute it and make sure people are aware of
it?

MR. ZIENTS:  Good questions.  Over to you, Dr. Nunez-Smith.

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Great.  Thank you for those questions.  So to the
first one: You know, as we select the participating FQHCs, CDC and HRSA
is working very hard on those selection criteria, in particular
identifying those FQHCs or community health centers who have a
significant number of patients who experience homelessness, for example,
for example; who are agricultural migrant workers; residents of public
housing; and limited English proficiency.  So some of those special
populations.

The Federally Qualified Health Centers also in our initial ramp-up
really are ones that serve more than 2,000 individuals 65 and older and
have large population size — so, really, ones that are able to handle,
kind of, the increased capacity, particularly around the vaccine storage
and staffing, and with a mix of urban and rural. 

So the prioritization is still going to be per local jurisdiction
guidelines, but making sure, for example, that when over-65 is eligible,
that because someone has limited English proficiency or experiences
homelessness, that these Federally Qualified Centers will be able to do
the outreach necessary to help them schedule appointments and get
vaccinated.

And to the second one: Yes, you know, FEMA has already been providing
requested support to community health centers with personnel and
vaccinators and others.  And so we stand ready as necessary to work with
the Federally Qualified Health Centers, of course as well as state and
local, to make sure that their patient populations are getting
vaccinated. 

Q    And if I could ask one other question; it’s about the East Oakland
and East L.A. vaccination centers.  I wonder if you could talk a bit
more about how that’s going there.  Also, what, kind of, made them a
good — good places to launch those vaccination centers?  And are there
other cities that might be next, based on that same criteria? 

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Nunez-Smith, do you want to handle that, or would you
prefer me to?

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Absolutely, I can start.

MR. ZIENTS:  Please.

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  You know, the process — and I think it’s going very
well in terms of working closely with states and locals to identify
where CVCs are placed, and certainly taking social vulnerability into
account and being very coordinated in that response. 

So, you know, days are early yet, but we are very optimistic and
encouraged by the partnership and, really, the interest from states and
locals to work together and so closely with FEMA to launch additional
ones.  So expect more announcements to be forthcoming.

MR. ZIENTS:  I think one thing I’d add there is: It’s an interesting
hub-and-spoke model, where these centers are located near underserved,
hardest-hit communities, but we also are using mobile units in each of
those centers to go directly to the communities. 

So I think this hub-and-spoke model might also be a best practice for
other centers across the country to ensure that we’re reaching the
hardest-hit communities. 

Q    Thank you so much. 

MODERATOR:  Great.  And last question will go to Sheryl Stolberg at the
New York Times. 

Q    Hi, thank you for that.  Two questions.  First, on the 5 percent
increase, is that expected?  Was that just as a result of expected
supply increasing? 

And separately, there’s a lot of confusion among the public about
signing up for vaccines.  And I’m wondering, is this pharmacy program
going to have its own individual sign-up?  Will people have to, you
know, try to get on some website to sign up through their pharmacy, or
will they still be going through their county health departments?  How
is that going to work to try to alleviate some of the confusion among
the public?

MR. ZIENTS:  Ok, well, thank you for both questions.  The increase is 5
percent this week over last week, but it’s 28 percent across the last
three weeks.  And I think it’s the manufacturers doing a good job, and
the President and the team doing all we can to support that
manufacturing process, including — I think last week we talked about a
DPA action that will help Pfizer get additional equipment fast so that
they can continue to ramp up their production along the lines of what we
talked about. 

So we’re doing everything we can to support the manufacturers to produce
as much as they can.   And then we’ve talked about the efficiency and
effectiveness of the distribution network now — no stockpile; a rolling
inventory system — that enables us to deliver to the states first and
second doses in a very efficient way.

On the pharmacy websites: Websites across states, as you know, vary
quite a bit.  Some have very strong websites, some are not where they
need to be.  I think that the integration of the pharmacy websites into
the state websites is an important step to take.  And we as a federal
government are going to do what we can to support the efforts for states
to get better websites and also think through how we can contribute to a
more coherent experience for users so that it can navigate and get
appointments in an efficient way.  More to come on that topic.

Before we close, I also want to announce that as part of our national
strategy this month, the CDC will convene a national forum on COVID
vaccines.  The forum will bring together practitioners from national,
state, tribal, local, and territorial levels who are engaged in
vaccinating communities across the nation.  The forum will support our
goals of implementing safe, effective, and comprehensive vaccine
implementation strategies to protect those most at risk, and advance
health equity, as part of our efforts to ensure all those in the
frontlines involved in vaccinating their communities have the
information and the resources they need.

Each day, we’re making progress in our effort to put this pandemic
behind us, we’re giving Americans the facts they need, and we’re working
to ensure our response is fair and equitable.  And we won’t stop until
the job is done. 

And I want to reiterate that Congress needs to do its part as well.  We
need Congress to quickly pass the American Rescue Plan to provide the
funding we need to continue to scale up our vaccination program and to
deliver the resources that state and local leaders need to protect their
communities and fight the pandemic.

Thank you for joining us today.  Really appreciate it.  Thank you.

                                   END                      12:34 P.M.
EST
