---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-09'
modified_time: 2021-02-09 19:43:57-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/09/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-february-9-2021/
published_time: 2021-02-09 19:43:55-05:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, February 9, 2021
---
 
12:47 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Happy Tuesday.  A couple of things to just
update you on, on the top.  As we’ve discussed previously in this room,
the President and the administration are making the case directly to the
country about the need to pass the Rescue Plan so we can finish the job
and get $2,000 into the pockets of working families, so we can reopen
schools safely, and so we can get economic relief to struggling
Americans and communities.  
  
As part of that work, the President, the Vice President, and Treasury
Secretary Yellen will meet this afternoon with business leaders to
discuss the vital role that the American Rescue Plan will play in saving
our economy and getting Americans back to work.  Private sector leaders
understand how important it is, and we’ve seen calls from across the
political spectrum — from leading business groups, to labor, and
progressive lawmakers — for Congress to act quickly in getting
additional economic relief out the door.  
  
These calls have been echoed by leading experts and economists who have
praised the plan, including top economic advisors to the last four
Presidents, both Democrat and Republican.  And analysis after analysis
has shown that the economic cost of inaction would be incredibly painful
for the American people — something we saw last Friday with the latest
month of weak job numbers.  
  
But they also know that we have a way to help workers and get our
economy back by passing the Rescue Plan.  So a couple of pieces of
economic data you all may have seen: A CBO projection last week found
that it would take the economy four years to bounce back and return to
full employment without the Rescue Plan.  Studies by the Brookings
Institution and Moody’s Analytics found that the economy could recover
from the pandemic and return to full employment by the beginning of next
year if the Rescue Plan is enacted.  Moody’s also found that passing the
Rescue Plan would double economic growth, returning the economy to full
employment a full year faster.  
  
A couple of other updates from our COVID team.  You may have also seen
this.  Jeff Zients, the COVID coordinator, made a few announcements
earlier this afternoon.  
  
Today, we announced the launch of our Federal <s>Quality</s>
\[Qualified\] Health Centers — “FQHC” — vaccination program.  Community
health centers provide primary care services in underserved areas,
reaching almost 30 million people.  Under this new program, we will
begin directly sending vaccine supply to community health centers,
enabling them to vaccinate more of the people they serve.  Alongside
other efforts like mobile health units and community vaccination
centers, this announcement is another tool we are providing to state and
local leaders in their work to reach underserved and hardest-hit
populations.  
  
Importantly, this program grew, in part, out of a suggestion from House
committee chairs that the President had — of course, had a meeting with
them on Friday, but even discussions prior to that.  And he informed
them during a call this morning that this program would be rolled out.  
  
Let’s see.  Last few pieces: We also announced another increase in
weekly vaccine allocations to states, tribes, and territories, bringing
us up to 11 million doses.  So, overall, this — after weekly increases
the past two weeks, and it’s a net 28 percent increase to states since
we entered government.  These announcements convey our steady drumbeat
of progress and action by the federal government in our
whole-of-government pandemic response.  
  
The President also will meet with members of the COVID response team in
the Oval Office today to discuss their work and the next steps in
shutting down the virus and getting American life back to normal.  
  
Last thing: I’ve noted a number of times, and some of you have asked,
about our progress and efforts on confirmations.  We were pleased to see
Denis McDonough confirmed last night with 87 “yes” votes as the new
Secretary of Veterans Affairs.  And he, of course, is being sworn in
today.  
  
We also would just like to reiterate the importance of getting our
nominee — the President’s nominee to lead the Department of Education,
Miguel Cardona, confirmed.  Obviously, at a time when the American
people are focused on the reopening of schools, focused on doing that
safely, this is a step that Congress could take.  He’s obviously a
pivotal and key partner in ensuring we can get that done swiftly and
safely.  
  
With that, Alex, let’s kick it off.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask you at the top about the attempted
hacking and poisoning of the Oldsmar, Florida, water supply.  Does the
White House have any details on who committed the hacking?  And is there
any plan for a review of water supply stations across the nation or an
effort to shore up the cybersecurity measures at those stations?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, as was announced earlier today, the FBI and Secret
Service, of course, are undergoing an investigation.  That’s something
we’d certainly defer to them on any specific details of their findings
of that investigation.  
  
I will say, broadly speaking, that the President, the Vice President,
and members of our national security team are focused on elevating
cybersecurity as a threat.  That has only increased over the past
several years.  That’s why they’ve made it an across-government focus
and why he has elevated positions in the White House and other parts of
our government.  
  
Q    And then, can you share any details on the President’s visit to the
Department of Defense?  What will he be discussing with Secretary
Austin?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Sure.  The President will visit the Pentagon
tomorrow, where he will thank the men and women serving our country and
keeping the American people safe.  As the first President in 40 years
with a child who served in the military, he has a personal connection to
the important role of mil- — work of the military, the men and women who
serve.  
  
He will also discuss the vital role of the Department of Defense and our
national security, talk about the significance of having the first
African American Secretary of Defense in history leading the
department.   
  
The visit has special resonance coming during Black History Month.  Over
40 percent of active-duty forces are men and women of color, and you
will hear President Biden pay special tribute to the rich history of
black service members tomorrow.  
  
Q    Any new policy rollouts tomorrow?  Or is it just —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He will certainly, as I noted, talk about the important role
of the Defense Department and our national security.  But we will have
more to share about that as we get closer to his visit.  
  
Go ahead.  Oh, let’s go — Jeff, Reuters, I promised you.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Oh, thanks, Jen.  Can you tell us how the CEOs were chosen for
today’s meeting with President Biden?  I see some diversity in that
group, which isn’t always common at the top echelons of corporate
America.  Was that one of the factors —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Far too uncommon, yes.  
  
Q    Is that one of the factors?  And how did you go about choosing
them?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first I would expect that this is the first of many
engagements the President will have directly with leaders from the
business community.  And this was an opportunity to speak directly with
some who are major employers in the country, some who are leading the
Business Roundtable or other organizational, kind of, business groups,
where they speak to many business leaders across the country.  
  
So, this is an opportunity to have a smaller meeting — it’s only about
half a dozen, as you know — and discussion about the American Rescue
Plan — how it will impact workers and American families, and how they
can work together to get people back on their feet.  
  
Q    Specifically Walmart and J.P. Morgan — what is the President’s ask
of those types of companies for this?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t look at it through that prism, Jeff; I would look
at it as a conversation with leaders who have — you know, Walmart is, of
course, one of the biggest employers in the country and states across
the country.  Obviously, Jamie Dimon is somebody who has been in the
business sector for many, many years.  So it’s more of a discussion
about the country and the economic downturn that we’ve gone through. 
The President wants to lay out all of the specifics of his plan, hear
feedback from them, as he has with many different groups over the past
couple of weeks.  
  
Q    Just one other econ-related question.  Did the White House ask OMB
Director nominee, Neera Tanden, to apologize to Republicans in her
testimony this morning?  And how confident are you about that nomination
now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President wouldn’t nominate anyone he wasn’t
confident could get confirmed and didn’t deserve the consideration and
confirmation of his — of Senate Democrats and Republicans.  We certainly
did not ask her to make any specific comments in her testimony today.   
  
Go ahead, Kristen.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  A couple of questions on the impeachment and the
COVID package that President Biden is proposing.   
  
First, on impeachment: Today there’s going to be a debate over the
constitutionality of the process — whether it’s constitutional to try
and — try to remove from office a former President.  Does President
Biden have any concerns that this trial could set a dangerous precedent
for the institution of the presidency?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, President Biden — we put out a statement following the
conclusion of the House vote just a couple of weeks ago, and he made
clear in that statement that he felt the process should proceed as
history — you know, and many laws predetermine.  And he is going to wait
for the Senate to determine the outcome of this.   
  
But, you know, his view is that his role is — should be currently
focused on addressing the needs of the American people, putting people
back to work, addressing the pandemic.  
  
Q    But does he see it as constitutional?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think that’s for me or us to opine on.  Obviously,
he said that the process should proceed, and it’s doing exactly that.  
  
Q    And let me ask you: As millions of people tune in to watch this
trial presumably throughout the week, they’re going to see the former
President’s lawyers argue, based on the briefs that they have filed,
that some Democrats have used incendiary rhetoric.  They are going to
point to Representative Maxine Waters, for example, who in 2018 called
on supporters at a rally to confront, and at one point harass, Trump
officials over their support of the child separation policy — the zero
tolerance policy.  That’s something that Cedric Richmond said she had a
constitutional right to express those views.  So how does the White
House view that as any different?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, the President is — Joe Biden is the President; he’s
not a pundit.  He’s not going to opine on the back-and-forth arguments,
nor is he watching them, that are taking place in the Senate.   
  
Q    Okay.  Let me ask you about the COVID relief package.  Yesterday,
the Ways and Means Committee Democrats proposed limiting the $1,400
direct payments to those making $75,000 or less.  Is that something that
President Biden supports?  And does he have any concerns that
progressives might not be on board with that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has conveyed from the beginning of this
discussion that he’s open to having a discussion about the thresholds. 
He has been firm in his resolve that Americans should be made whole on
the $2,000 checks, which of course would mean — be maintaining his
firmness on the $1,400 checks.  Right?   
  
But there’s been a discussion about the thresholds and what those should
look like, and he doesn’t feel that families making over $250,000 a year
should be the target of this relief.  But there is a scale up.  Right? 
And even in the recent negotiations from the 75 and from the 150, it’s
just — it will reach certain top thresholds where people would not
receive relief.   
  
Q    So — but has he determined whether he would support that?  Does he
support $75,000 as being the threshold?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s not the threshold.  That’s, kind of, who would receive
the maximum amount.   
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There has been a scale up beyond that.  These negotiations
are ongoing.  We supportingly — certainly support the discussions as
they’re happening.  And certainly his view is that these should be —
he’s open to the discussion about making them more targeted and ensuring
that people who need relief the most, receive the relief.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I had a couple, but I wanted to follow up on something Jeff asked,
which is —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    — Jamie Dimon is among those participants, and there’s been
complaints both that big banks, like J.P. Morgan, have made it difficult
for small businesses and minority businesses to access PPP loans, and
lots of data that shows recently big banks have been scaling back
consumer lending and instead buying government securities.   
  
And so, I know that this is, kind of, a cheerleading event for the
President’s legislative package, but is he going to raise either of
those issues with Jamie Dimon when he has the opportunity?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President does not have a litmus test that he sug-
— that he gives people before he meets with them in the Oval Office;
otherwise he would not have met with 10 Republicans last week.   
  
So they don’t agree with him on everything — I’m sure the business
leaders would convey that to you — and he doesn’t agree with them on
everything.  But this is really a discussion about the American Rescue
Plan, a plan that will help spark economic growth, help put people back
to work, help get our economy on a path to recovery, and hopefully
that’s something they can all agree on.  
  
Q    And I know that you guys have put together a task force to look at
domestic extremism —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    — following what happened in January.  But there’s been a lot of
reporting about the breakdowns that have happened in the government
ahead of that — coordination between DHS and the FBI and Capitol
Police.  So I’m wondering, especially as there’s chatter indicating that
there might be further, sort of, demonstrations surrounding the
election.  What, if anything, the administration is doing to —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Surrounding which election?  Sorry, I’m just trying to
follow you.  
  
Q    The past one.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The past one?  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    There’s — there have been — there’s been online chatter that
there’s going to be another demonstration in March here in Washington. 
My point is, is the administration doing anything to look at the kind of
breakdown that happened within law enforcement and the federal
government ahead of January 6th to make sure that it’s not replicated in
the future?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think one of the steps we took was the President
named a head of homeland security in the White House, a role that did
not exist in the prior administration, who can serve in a coordinating
role to ensure that we are in touch with state and local authorities and
officials — something that wasn’t happening at pace and with a level of
coordination that should have happened in the last administration.   
  
We obviously came into office — or the President came into office, and
our entire national security team did, at a time of heightened alert,
even on the day of the inauguration and following.  So I would say we
certainly are not looking to the past administration as a model, and we
are charting our own path to make sure we do things differently.  
  
Q    And lastly, the World Health Organization said today that it was
“extremely unlikely” that the coronavirus escaped the lab in Wuhan.  And
I’m just wondering, especially now that we’ve sort of resumed our
participation in WHO, if the administration agrees with that
assessment.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, we have obviously seen those reports — as, I mean, the
public reporting on it.  We’re looking forward to receiving the report
and the data from the WHO investigation.  We haven’t looked at the data
specifically ourselves, so we’d like to do that.  We’ve expressed our
concerns regarding the need for full transparency and access from China
and the WHO to all information regarding the earliest days of the
pandemic.  But we weren’t involved directly in the implementation of
this investigation.  And again, we’ll just look forward to reviewing the
findings in detail.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Hi.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, I’ll come back to you Kaitlan.  Sorry.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Two questions on schools.  You opened up talking about reopening
schools as being a priority for the administration.  Are there any
discussions within the administration of providing these kind of rapid
tests that are being produced by Ellume and other companies to help that
move quicker to get those tests to local — to the local school systems
within the states?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, our focus really, at this point in time, is waiting
for the CDC guidelines to come out and give schools across the country,
school districts across the country the first medical and scientific
recommendations and guidelines that have been given from the federal
level.   
  
And obviously, once those are put out publicly and concluded, we will
look for ways to work with states to ensure that schools are getting the
resources they need.  That’s part of why we proposed funding in the
American Rescue Plan.  But we want to wait to see what the health and
medical experts have in those guidelines to ensure we’re directing those
resources in the right way or working with states to do exactly that.   
  
Q    Okay.  Secondly, on President Biden’s transgender rights executive
action, specifically when it applies to high school sports, what message
would the White House have for trans girls and cis girls, who may end up
competing against each other, in sparking some lawsuits and some concern
among parents?  So does the administration have guidance for schools on
dealing with disputes arising over trans girls competing against and
with cis girls?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not sure what your question is.  
  
Q    The President’s executive order has —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m familiar with the order, but what was your question
about it?  
  
Q    My question is, do the President have a message for local school
officials on dealing with these kind of disputes that are already
starting to arise between, you know, trans girls who are competing and
cis girls, and a level playing field?  Because particularly in high
school sports, when it leads to college scholarships, is there any kind
of messaging or clarification that the White House wants to give on the
executive order?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would just say that the President’s belief is that trans
rights are human rights, and that’s why he signed that executive
order.   
  
And in terms of the determinations by universities and colleges, I’d
certainly defer to them.   
  
Go ahead in the back — oh, sorry, Kaitlan.  Go ahead.  Go ahead, and
then we go to the back.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    It’s okay, I don’t mind when you call me.   
  
I have three quick questions.  One, on what Democrats have put forward
with the stimulus checks, it’s not changing the income cap.  So instead
of limiting it from the $75,000 to get the full $1,400, that’s staying
where it is.  Biden had said he — President Biden said he was open to
targeting that.  So is —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    Did he sign off on what the Democrats have now put forward?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You mean where the cap stops or where the threshold stops at
the top?  
  
Q    Where the cap — where the cap stops for the full $1,400.  Right
now, it’s $75,000, as opposed to $50,000 or what others, like Joe
Manchin, had proposed.  So did he sign off on the latest proposal from
them yesterday?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, his proposal was originally 75 — right? — and 150.  
  
Q    Right.  And then he said he was open to targeting.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And he’s open to targeting, which it — which it still will
be targeted because it’s about the question of what the threshold goes
up to.  Right?  Because prior — in earlier proposals, it had a higher
threshold, where it went up to a higher income level for families, where
they would get some version of a check.  Not the $1,400 — right? — but a
smaller version.  So —  
  
Q    So he’s fine with not bringing down that cap at the $75,000 to a
$50,000, like others had proposed?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He sup- — he supports that, where the status of the
negotiations is at this point — yes — of the $75,000.   
  
Q    Okay.  My second question is: We had the acting Attorney General
ask all of the Trump-appointed U.S. Attorneys to resign from their post,
with the exception of two: the one overseeing the beginnings of the
Russia probe and the one overseeing Hunter Biden’s tax probe.  Can you
comment on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  As you know, this has been commonplace among previous
administrations, and we look forward to working with the Senate to
swiftly fill these openings in the coming weeks.   
  
The President has also made clear that he wants to restore the
independence of the Department of Justice and to ensure it remains free
of any undue political influence.  That will be helped when our Attorney
General is, of course, confirmed.  But the decision to leave two U.S.
Attorneys in their roles is a reflection of that commitment.  
  
Q    Okay, so he had no conversations with the acting Attorney General
about the two who remained in their post?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  In what way?  I mean, who — like who would leave?  
  
Q    President Biden didn’t have any convers- — did he have any
conversations with the acting Attorney General about leaving the U.S.
Attorney in Delaware and Connecticut in their posts?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  These were decisions that were made in order to fulfill his
promise of maintaining independence and ensuring that he could — he sent
that message in every action that was taken.  
  
Q    Okay.  And my last question: I know you said the President is “not
a pundit.”  I think we all under- — agree with that, understand that. 
But he is the first President to be in office and have a former
President, his predecessor, go and face an impeachment trial just down
the street.  So how can he not weigh in on whether or not it’s
constitutional, given he is the current office holder and, you know, the
questions of what precedent this sets, and whether or not he agrees that
it’s constitutional?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, this is obviously a big story in the country;
no one is denying that here.  And there’s certainly going to be a lot of
attention and focus on it, but our focus and the President’s focus is on
putting people back to work, getting the pandemic under control.  And
that means we’re not going to weigh in on every question about the
impeachment trial, and we don’t feel it’s necessary or our role to do
that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    A couple topics.  I’ll get through them quick.  The CBO projected
that raising the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour would lift 900,000
people out of poverty, but it would cost 1.4 million jobs; that is a
difference of a half a million people.  What happens to them?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Of the — well, I would also say that in the CBO — “CBO
findings,” I should say — that they’ve also concluded that 27 million
American workers would — millions of low-wage workers — I should say 27
million American workers would — would be able to get — it would help
get them <s>out of poverty</s> \[a raise\].  
  
So, there’s a huge impact of raising the minimum wage.  It’s — that’s
why the President supports it.  There are also many other economic
studies that show that raising the minimum wage has minimal impact on
employment.  A study of U.S. state-level minimum wage changes over four
decades found that the number of jobs remained essentially unchanged
over the five years following the increase.  
  
So, the President supports it because he believes that the — raising the
minimum wage is something that American workers, American families
deserve, and that lifting 27 million American workers out of poverty,
reducing inequality would be a very positive step for our country.  
  
Q    And once there is an agreement, does President Biden support
sending stimulus benefits to undocumented immigrants?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I don’t — if somebody has a Social Security number,
like a child or a spouse, then they would be eligible, but he supports
sending benefits to people who are eligible as a part of his proposal.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then on transparency, I have a very specific question
about —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    — executive order 13891.  One of the President’s executive orders
on the first day revoked a policy that required federal agencies to post
their guidance on a searchable database.  There are questions now on
Capitol Hill from some Republican senators about why that was revoked. 
And so, now the question to you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, agencies have definitely not been told to take down
databases or other public information.  That would be inconsistent —
which is, I think — is why you’re asking the question — with what the
President has talked about, what the Vice President talked about.  We
want agencies to use all the tools available to them to make public
policies transparent and accessible.  
  
However, this executive order was revoked because it created unnecessary
hurdles and cumbersome processes for agencies that wanted to get
guidance out to the public.  In some cases, it was resulting in the
delay of information going out more publicly by a couple of weeks or
even a couple of months.  That’s obviously not acceptable, and we want
it to be more efficient than that.  
  
Q    And one quick one on conflicts of interest and some reporting
that’s been done by our colleagues at other networks.  The President’s
son-in-law, Dr. Howard Krein, was advising candidate Biden on COVID-19
response while he was investing in companies involved with the COVID-19
response through his company, StartUp Health.  Dr. Krein has been at the
White House since the inauguration.  Is he still advising the President
on COVID-19 response?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Dr. Krein is his son-in-law.  The President —  
  
Q    Do you deny there are questions about a potential conflict of
interest?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well — and I think he was here because the President was
inaugurated recently, which is understandable.  The President has made
clear that there will be an absolute wall between him and any businesses
connected with his family members.  And as he reiterated just last week,
no family member is going to have an office in the White House or be
involved in any government policymaking.  That applies to his son-in-law
and applies to every single member of his family.  
  
Q    And just from a broad perspective though that — like the
30,000-foot view of this —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    — candidate Biden was very concerned about the last President’s
potential conflicts of interest.  At one point, in 2019, he tweeted,
“Hosting the G7 at Trump’s hotel?  A president should never be able to
use the office for personal gain.”  So how is the White House going to
guarantee to members of the public that nobody in the family is using
the office for personal gain?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ve put in place stringent policies in order to ensure
that it is not being used for personal gain.  There is not a single
member of the family who is employed at the White House, will have an
office in the White House, or will benefit financially.  And those are
strict ethics requirements that have been put in place and the President
has approved.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Two questions, if I might.  One, on the President’s
stimulus package: You’ve been arguing consistently that his goal of
unity doesn’t mean creating a one-party — one party, correct?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    And you also point out that there are polls supporting what he’s
trying to get out there.  But what is his bottom line for showing that
he has really tried unity?  Would there be one Republican senator would
be enough?  Would zero be enough?  Like, would he be happy if no
Republican senators support his bill?  I guess that’s what it boils down
to.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, he — the President is certainly hopeful that the
process that’s underway now, the markups that are happening in the
House, the markups where that will then proceed in the Senate will
provide an opportunity for Republicans, Democrats of all different
political stripes to put their ideas forward and have those ideas
considered.  
  
At the end of the day, his view is that urgency is his first priority
here, and that the American people — people who are concerned about
getting food on the table, one in seven American families; people who
are worried about reopening schools and getting their kids back in the
classroom; people worried about whether their grandmother and their
cousin are going to get vaccines — that’s where his priority is.   
  
So the question really is: If 70, 74 percent, depending on the poll, of
Americans, including the majority of Republicans in some polls, support
this proposal — support the components of this proposal, then why aren’t
more Republicans supporting it?  We certainly hope they will and welcome
them to the table.   
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    So I did have one other small one —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — if you don’t mind.  This is literally a housekeeping question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    People keep saying —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Literally housekeeping.   
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    This is actually housekeeping.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    You’re probably going to say it’s the airplane —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m very interested to hear what this is, but go ahead.  
  
Q    You’re probably going to say it’s the airplane question of today,
but —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I certainly am not.  I’ve learned my lesson on that one.   
  
Q    It’s not the airplane, I promise you, but it’s closer to the
ground.  President Trump — former President Trump, he broke tradition by
not having his predecessor have a portrait hanged up here.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    That — as far as I understand, that was something that was
considered totally the normal thing to do.  Will President Biden be
inviting his predecessor to hang up a portrait somewhere?  And will he
get the Obamas back in to finally get their — you know, their
ceremony?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I have no portrait revealings or portrait plans or portrait
events to preview for you.  But I have not been given any indication
that we would break with tradition in that regard.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, ma’am.   
  
Q    This is distinctly not an impeachment question, but —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  It can be an impeachment question.  You can ask
whatever you want.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  Does the President believe that former President Trump
engaged in insurrection as described in Section 3 of the 14th
Amendment?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President has put out multiple statements conveying that
what the President did and his words and his actions were — and of
course, the events of January 6th — were a threat to our democracy.  But
he ran against him because he was concerned that former President Trump
was unfit for office, in part because of his past history of invoking
violence around the country.  So he’s — President Trump is not here
because — former President Trump is not here because President Biden
defeated him.  The — more of the American people voted for him, and now
his focus is on delivering on his promises to the American people.  
  
Q    On a related note, where does the President stand on an effort in
California to recall Gavin Newsom?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I have not — I have not spoken with the President about the
reported – “the recall,” I should say, or the efforts to recall former
Governor Newsom.  Obviously, he is somebody who he has been engaged with
in the past.  They have a range of issues they have common agreement on
— from the need to address climate change, to put people back to work,
to address the COVID crisis.  And, you know, we remain closely engaged
with him and his office.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, ma’am.  I’ve got a quick personnel question and then two
follow-ups.  About a year ago in March, President Biden said that Beto
O’Rourke would be helping him when it came to his push for gun control. 
Does Mr. O’Rourke have any official role here at the White House, or has
the President discussed anyone with him?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  He doesn’t have any official role.  Obviously, the President
spoke back then during the campaign and, I know, still has admiration
for the role that Beto O’Rourke played in elevating the issue of gun
violence and the need for gun safety measures, but I don’t have any
personnel announcements to make.   
  
Q    And then you talked about hopes for transparency from China, and
you talked about the need to get that data from the World Health
Organization.  Earlier in the pandemic — you know, April and May — there
was a lot of criticism that the World Health Organization was praising
China for its transparency at a moment when China certainly wasn’t.  Are
there any type of reforms, now that the United States has rejoined, that
President Biden would like to see from the World Health Organization?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, you know, one of the reasons, of course, that we want
to take a look at the data ourselves is because we were not involved in
the planning and implementation of the investigation.  
  
We also feel — of course, we support — we rejoined the World Health
Organization — but that it’s imperative that we have our own team of
experts on the ground in our embassy in Beijing and otherwise to make
sure we have eyes and ears on the ground.  
  
But I don’t have any more reforms or anything to announce for you at
this point in time.  
  
Q    And then back to the CBO report that Peter was asking a second ago:
Is there a specific plan for anyone who would lose their job if the
minimum wage is increased?  Or is it just a hope that CBO is wrong about
those numbers?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, remember that the plan — the American Rescue Plan —
why there was a score of any component of it would put millions of
people to work, and that is also something that outside economists and
many studies have shown.  And so our whole objective here is to make
sure — I should say, make sure we are getting people the assistance they
need, make sure we are putting vaccines in the arms of Americans, and
make sure we are, you know, reopening schools.  
  
And let me just remedy something I just said: The President is going to
roll out a “Build Back Better” agenda, a jobs package in the coming
weeks.  Part of his objective is combined with this package to make sure
we are not only addressing the pandemic, but we are also reinvigorating
the economy.  
  
So his goal with all of these plans is to work with Congress to put
people back to work.  And the minimum wage — increasing the minimum wage
is a way to ensure that workers are pulled out of poverty, that millions
of workers who are, you know, doing honest work and making a — you know,
making an honest living are not living on the poverty line.  He thinks
that’s right and that’s something that should happen.  
  
But he has had no shortage of proposals to put people back to work, and
part of the reason this was scored is because he’s starting to put
proposals for it.  
  
Go ahead, Hans.  
  
Q    Just two questions.  One — the first one, the pool question from a
colleague in Canada, and that is that Canada has announced that it will
require COVID-negative tests for anyone crossing the land border into
the United States.  Does the U.S. plan to reciprocate?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any additional travel restrictions to read out
for you.  Obviously, our COVID team and our health and medical experts
make recommendations based on what is necessary to keep people safe, and
they’ve put in place some travel restrictions.  But I don’t have
anything to preview for you or predict on the Canada land-crossing
front.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, you mentioned the, sort of, goal is opening up
schools swiftly and safely.  Could you help us understand what the White
House’s or what the President’s definition of “open schools” is?  Does
it mean teachers in classroom teaching students in classroom?  Or does
it just mean kids in classroom with a remote screen?  Help us
understand.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  His goal that he set is to have the majority of
schools — so, more than 50 percent — open by day 100 of his presidency. 
And that means some teaching in classrooms.  So, at least one day a
week.  Hopefully, it’s more.  And obviously, it is as much as is safe in
each school and local district.  
  
Q    So when you say “some teaching,” that’s — you didn’t use the same
majority qualifier there.  You just have to have some teaching in
school, some teachers in school — not the majority of teachers in school
in the majority of classrooms.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, teaching at least one day a week in the majority of
schools, by day 100.  
  
Q    Okay.  And that’s in-person teaching.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  In-person teaching, yes.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Go ahead.  Oh, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Another CBO question.  The report that came out
yesterday said that in the first four months of fiscal year 2021, the
federal deficit rose 90 percent to $738 billion.  Obviously, we’ve seen
economists saying that it’s better to do too much than nothing at all,
but Republicans are expected — expressing sticker shock.  So I was
curious what the President’s plan was to decrease the deficit once the
pandemic has abated and the economy is stabilized.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, one thing that could happen is that the tax cuts for
the highest income could be rolled back.  And there’s, kind of, a
newfound concern about deficit reduction among some who supported those
tax cuts.  So, you know, that’s one suggestion.  
  
But the reason that the President and members of his economic team feel
that a package of this size is so essential at this moment is because we
are dealing with a pandemic, we are dealing with an economic downturn,
people are suffering, the American people need assistance.  And this
emergency relief is something that — the cost of doing nothing or the
cost of doing too little is the greater risk, in his view and the view
of many economists, including his Secretary of Treasury.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, thank you, everyone.  I know you have to go.  We’ll do
this again tomorrow.  
  
                                        END                 1:22 P.M.
EST
