---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-22'
modified_time: 2021-02-22 16:41:14-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/22/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-february-22-2021/
published_time: 2021-02-22 16:41:13-05:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, February 22, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:50 P.M.  EST

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay, a couple things at the top.  Mondays,
there’s always a lot to report.  I’m sure you feel that way. 

Later today, the President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and the
Second Gentleman will mark the solemn milestone of 500,000 American
lives lost to COVID-19.  They will ask all Americans to join in a moment
of silence during a candle-lighting ceremony at sundown.  President
Biden will also deliver remarks and order all flags on federal property
to be lowered at half-staff for the next five days. 

Tonight’s events, including the President’s remarks, will highlight the
magnitude of loss that this milestone marks for the American people and
so many families across the country.  He will also speak to the power of
the American people to turn the tide on this pandemic by working
together, following public health guidelines, and getting in line to be
vaccinated as soon as they are eligible.

As you all know, there are a number of confirmation hearings coming up
this week.  Almost half a million Americans — and as we look at these,
we’re looking at it through the prism of the fact that almost half a
million Americans, as I just noted, have lost their lives to this cruel
pandemic.  Tens of millions have lost their jobs, families can’t put
enough food on the table, and millions of children need their schools
reopened.

And central to the all-hands-on-deck response we’re executing from the
Biden-Harris administration is having qualified, experienced, and
groundbreaking nominees installed as quickly as possible. 

And we want to thank, of course, the Senate for the steps they are
taking — they have taken, I should say, over the last few weeks to
support and confirm, often with large bipartisan votes, many of our
nominees.  But underlining our pressing needs to have our team in place,
we have, of course, Merrick Garland, who is currently doing his hearing
right now.  He’s been endorsed by multiple former Republican attorneys
general as someone faithful to the law and not politics, and who
multiple Republican senators agree is apolitical — come — would come to
the job with decades of experience.

Xavier Becerra — Attorney General Xavier Becerra, who helped play a role
in getting the Affordable Care Act through and has — brings decades of
healthcare policy experience to the table.  As Attorney General of
California, he fought alongside his Republican counterparts to expand
access to COVID treatments.

Neera Tanden, a brilliant policy expert with experience at the highest
levels of government — also running a big think tank in Washington, D.C.
— who understands firsthand the power of policy and helping families
gain a foothold in the middle class.  There was a wide spectrum of
support, ranging from the Chamber of Commerce to labor unions.

Miguel Cardona, a public school teacher — former public school teacher,
who will champion and help expedite the reopening of our schools.  That
will be his first priority.  We’re eager to see him in place.

And Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, who served as mayor and will be — has
formerly served as a mayor and will be invaluable as both parties work
to protect families from losing their homes during the COVID outbreak. 

As you know, many of you saw the President just made an announcement
this morning about important changes to the PPP program to ensure small
businesses, especially minority-owned and mom-and-pop businesses, get
the help they need to keep their doors open and keep workers on
payroll.  Ninety-eight percent of companies have fewer than 20
employees, and a big part of this announcement will apply to those
companies.

Small businesses employ nearly half of America’s workers and account for
44 percent of our nation’s GDP.  More than 400,000 small businesses have
permanently shuttered due to the pandemic.  Millions more have lost
substantial value, so — revenue.  So, clearly, an area where there is a
need for great focus.

His announcement includes instituting a two-week window, starting
Wednesday, during which only businesses with fewer than 20 employees —
so ninety- — ninety-eight percent of them — can apply for relief through
the program.  So they — but that we prioritize support to businesses who
were previously left behind.  The changes also include expanding
eligibility so that sole proprietors, independent contractors, and
self-employed Americans, as well as immigrants who are lawful permanent
residents can receive more support.

And finally, the changes announced today will roll back restrictions
that disproportionately impacted entrepreneurs of color from receiving
relief, including Americans who are behind on student loan payments and
business owners who were formerly incarcerated for non-fraud
convictions.

I also just had an update on the winter storm.  On Friday, the President
approved a major disaster declaration, as many of you know, for the
state of Texas, including public and hazard mitigation assistance for
all 254 Texas counties.  In that declaration, 77 Texas counties were
approved for individual assistance, which allows for uninsured property
owners to seek federal assistance if they’re home is damaged by burst
pipes caused from freezing weather.

More counties will likely — we expect more counties to be added as more
work is done to evaluate need, and that’s a reflection of FEMA’s initial
evaluation. 

In the meantime, the President has asked FEMA to do everything it can to
rapidly distribute aid to the state of Texas.  So far, more than 1
million meals have been shipped to Texas; more than 4 million liters of
water have been shipped to Texas.  The Department of Defense’s
fixed-wing aircraft continue to deliver water in bulk to multiple
locations in Texas.  They have completed nine missions so far, with an
additional 10 missions planned for today.  Sixty-nine emergency
generators and more than 120,000 blankets have been delivered to Texas.

And over the weekend, Homeland Security Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall and
National Economic Council Director Brian Deese called Governor Abbott to
update him on the broad federal effort.  The President has requested to
support citizens of the state in coping with the impacts of the storm
and, of course, the recovery from here. 

Last but not least — where’s Debra Saunders?  She’s in the back.  Oh,
there she is.  Okay. 

So I’m going to — I want to take a moment to recognize a milestone in
the briefing room.  Today is her last day in the print pool and
potentially her last day in the briefing room, although you’re, of
course, welcome back.  And even though she’s leaving the White House
Press Corps and fulltime reporting, I know she’s going to be writing
some columns, and I have a feeling we will be hearing from her quite
frequently.

So, congratulations on covering the White House for four years.  As many
of you know, that — that is not for the faint of heart. 

So let’s start with your questions.

Q    Thank you.  I’m your first burnout, but I won’t be your last.

MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)  Yeah, that’s right.  That’s fair.

Q    So I want to start with a housekeeping question.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay.  Well, we’ll just go to you.  We’ll go to you,
Debra.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you so much.  This morning, I saw there was no Marine out
front, in the front door, during the 9:45 briefing.  And I asked Lower
Press.  Lower Press says, “We don’t have to have a Marine out front when
the President is in the Oval Office.”  And I’ve been getting emails and
questions ever since I filed that pool report: Is — if there is no
Marine out front, does that mean that the President is not in the Oval
Office?

MS. PSAKI:  The President was in the Oval Office this morning, working,
receiving the PDB and all the things that you’re aware of from the
schedule.  There hasn’t been a change of policy.

Q    So, if there’s no Marine there, that doesn’t mean anything?

MS. PSAKI:  Again — I mean, I can certainly talk to them about the
specific circumstances of this morning, but I can report to you that the
President was in the Oval Office and the policy that’s long been in
place continues to be in place.

Q    People were fascinated by this.

I have two quick Nevada questions. 

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    One, does the President have a position: There’s a bill in Nevada
to get rid of the caucus and make it a primary, and there’s the hope
that Nevada is going to be first — Nevada is going to be first.  So
could you please tell me, does the President have a position on that?

MS. PSAKI:  There’s plenty of time for politics.  The President has been
in office for a month.  I’d refer you to the DNC and others who will
make — lead that process moving forward.

Q    Do you have a position on renaming McCarran after Harry Reid?

MS. PSAKI:  The President is a big fan, close friend of Harry Reid. 
Worked with him closely on a number of important issues, including
getting the Affordable Care Act through.  As I understand it, it’s
passed the local legislature, I believe, and it’s now through — or the
local — where it needs to pass locally, I should say, and it’s now being
considered by the FAA, so I would refer you to them. 

Q    And one last question about the way Washington looks right now. 
There are fences everywhere.  We have National Guard.  What’s the
President’s view, what’s the administration’s view about how long it’s
going to keep going on like this?  And why is it going to continue, it
looks like, into March?

MS. PSAKI:  Which piece are you referring to?

  
     Q    I’m talking about the National Guard.  I’m talking about all
the fences that are around here.  There are fences around Capitol Hill. 
I understand things happened on January 6th.  How much longer do you
think you’re going to have all the security here?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would look at those a little bit separately because,
of course, members of Congress, leadership on the Hill — Democrats and
Republicans — will make decisions about the security needed, and we
support — at the Capitol.  And we certainly support them in that
decision-making process.

As it relates to the fencing around the White House, you know, we work,
of course, closely with the Secret Service, the National Park Service. 
And the President and the Vice President are certainly eager to have
that brought down at an appropriate time, and hopefully that’s soon.

All right, Josh, we’ll go to you.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two questions.  You touched on the issue of
nominations and confirmations.  Given the statements of Senator Manchin,
Senator Collins, Senator Romney, what do you see as Neera Tanden’s path
to become Director of OMB?  And also, what does it mean for the Biden
agenda if this process keeps on being delayed and drawn out?

MS. PSAKI:  The process of confirmations?

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me start with that.  I would say that we
experienced some intransigence during the — during the transition, some
delays and processes that had previously worked at a more rapid pace. 

Our view is that we’ve hopefully moved past that.  We’ve seen a number
of our nominees move forward over the past couple of weeks, pretty
quickly, with large bipartisan votes, and we certainly welcome that. 

But we are eager to have our team in place.  This week has a number of
important hearings.  There are a number of important votes this week. 
We would love to end the week with a Secretary of Education in place, as
an example, and certainly others as we — as we look to have the full
team and, hopefully, a full Cabinet meeting at some point in the near
future.

As it relates to Neera Tanden, let me just say that the President
nominated her because he believes she’d be a stellar OMB Director. 
She’s tested.  She is a leading policy expert.  She has led a think tank
in this — in Washington that has done a great deal of work on policy
issues but has done a great deal of bipartisan work as well.  She has
won widespread support and endorsements ranging from labor unions to the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  And she’s rolled up her sleeves and done the
work.  She’s met with more than 35 senators — Democrats and Republicans
— herself. 

This is a process: confirmations — getting individuals confirmed is. 
She has two committee votes this week, and we’re working toward that. 
And we’ll continue to work in supporting her nomination.

Q    So you still see a path to 50 votes or more?

MS. PSAKI:  We do. 

Q    And then, secondly, on Iran: We’ve seen some issues with regard to
Iran restricting access to nuclear inspectors.  And I was curious for
how this works with Secretary of State Blinken saying he expects “strict
compliance” by Iran in order to reenter the deal with the United
States. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I think you’re referring to the reports from
the IAEA over the weekend and, kind of, discussions they had about
Iran’s compliance and access that they would have or were looking to
have to Iran’s facilities on the ground.  And certainly I would send you
to them on that.

But I would say that what Secretary Blinken’s announcement and what our
announcement that came out last week is a reflection of is an openness
to have a conversation, an openness to diplomacy.  And that invitation
was issued by the Europeans to invite us to invite the Iranians to the
table to have a conversation. 

We have indicated — sent no indication that we are willing to take
additional steps in advance of that.  What we’re willing to do is sit at
a table and have a diplomatic conversation, because we are looking to
prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, and we believe diplomacy
is the best way to do that.

Let’s go to Jeff.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just a — one follow-up on Iran.  Iran’s Ayatollah
said today that Iran may enrich uranium up to 60 percent purity if
needed.  What is the White House’s reaction to that?  And how does that
impact the statement that you made last week about openness to talks? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, Jeff, you know, Iran is a long way from
compliance, and that hasn’t changed.  I said that last week, and many —
and I believe my colleague, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan,
conveyed that just yesterday.  That has not changed. 

I’ll — what we are open to is a diplomatic conversation.  And our view
is that diplomacy is the beth \[sic\] path — the best path forward to
preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.  That does not meet —
they have clearly not taken the steps needed to comply, and we have not
taken any steps or — and made any indication that we are going to meet
the demands that they are putting forward either.

Q    Does this kind of rhetoric concern you, though, in terms of the
possibility for diplomacy?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we’re at the stage where we’re waiting.  The
Europeans are waiting to hear Iran’s reply to their invitation to have a
conversation.  So that’s the stage we’re sitting at at this point in
time. 

Q    Also, in the realm of diplomacy: China’s Foreign Minister made some
remarks today about wanting to re- — sort of rejig the relationship with
the United States, and he called for tariffs to be removed.  I know that
this policy is under review, along with lots of policies, but can you
give any reaction to what he has said and any update on President
Biden’s feelings about tariffs and broader China policy?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you know, I think as we said around the time when the
President had a conversation with President Xi, we believe the
relationship with China is one of strong competition.  We want to come
to that relationship from a position of strength.  That means working in
close coordination with our partners and allies around the world:
Europeans, other partners in the region, also with Democrats and
Republicans in Congress.  And it also means we want to do work at home,
and focus on doing work at home, to make sure we are coming to that from
a position of strength. 

As you noted, there is, of course, a review of our tariffs and the
tariffs that were put in place.  I don’t have any update on that at this
point in time.

Q    Just one last tiny one — a follow-up on what Josh asked you about
Neera Tanden.  You said that the White House still sees a pathway. 
Without Senator Manchin, what is it?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think you know she needs the majority of
votes in order to get through and be confirmed as the OMB Director, and
that’s what we’re working toward.

Go ahead, Ed.

Q    In that vein, beyond Neera Tanden, is the White House certain that
all other Cabinet nominees have the support of all members of the
Democratic caucus?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t have a whip count for you here, but we are
certainly — we take nothing for granted.  And part of our effort is not
just reaching out to Republicans — which we certainly are doing, and all
of our nominees do as well — but also ensuring that Democrats who have
questions, who have any concerns, have their questions answered too. 
And we take nothing for granted in pushing forward with our nominees.

Q    Okay.  In opposing Neera Tanden, Republicans and at least one
Democrat have said they expected more from the President’s nominees in
the vein of uniting a divided country.  What’s your response to that
specific criticism that they have leveled that she spent years stoking
that divide on the air and online?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, here’s what I can convey about her work.  As somebody
who ran CAP, the Center for American Progress, she worked with partners
across the ideological spectrum to develop consensus solutions to
addressing the federal tax code, to improving access to high-quality
educational opportunities.  They partnered with AEI in that effort.  She
worked with — led the effort to work with FreedomWorks and others on the
R Street Institute on making progress on criminal justice reform.  And
again, she met with 35 members of the Senate, including Republicans. 

So she is willing and eager to meet with people who agree with her, of
course, but also people who disagree with her.  And what she brings to
the table is not only decades of policy experience but — and expertise
and leadership — again, of a major think tank in this city — but also
somebody who has lived experience.  You know, she grew up as the
daughter of a single mother, somebody who benefited from many of the
programs that she would be tasked with determining the recommendations
on funding for. 

So she has a record of working with members of both parties — or views
from both parties.  And I — we have no doubt she would do that as budget
director.

Q    On the COVID bill, the President talked a little while ago about it
and noted that there are some concerned about the size of the price tag
and asked, you know, “What would you cut?”  Would the White House be
okay if it went north of $1.9 trillion for whatever reason? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the President proposed the $1.9 trillion size
because he felt that was the — those were the components that were
needed to meet the moment we’re facing.  And certainly, you know, he
looks to Congress to negotiate through what can be added or subtracted
from that package.  But he has the — had the key priority components in
it because that’s what he felt would meet the moment.  That’s what
health and economic experts were telling him.  But I don’t have anything
more for you beyond the — beyond what he proposed.

Q    And real quick on Iran, specifically the hostages that they’re
holding.  Jake Sullivan said yesterday, “We’ve begun to communicate with
the Iranians on this issue.”  They later clarified it’s not with
Washington directly.  So can you just clarify, is this being done
through the Swiss or through other European officials instead?    

MS. PSAKI:  We have a range of means of communicating with the
Iranians.  And we’ve certainly raised American citizens, who are being
held in Iran, through those channels.  But I don’t have anything more
specific for you.

Q    And so there’s nothing direct going on, as far as you know, between
the United States and Iran?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, we have a range of channels that we navigate or
communicate through, direct and indirect, but I don’t have anything more
specific to lay out for you.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I just want to go pick on what Ed was saying here — 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — because the President just said that — he, sort of, seemed to put
the ball in Republicans’ court.  He said critics are saying that this
plan is too big.  “What would you have me cut?  What would you have me
leave out?”  What — is he willing to cut?  Is he willing to leave out? 
And what specifically if the ball — if they’re going to come to the
table and make some offers, what’s the negotiating topic there?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ll see what they offer.  You know, what has been offered
to date was a proposal of about $600 billion, which falls far, far short
of what is needed at this point in time with dual crises that the
country is facing. 

He was making the point — and he did something similar in his remarks on
Friday — that, you know, this is a difficult time the country is
facing.  That’s why 400 mayors have come out and said they support this
package.  That’s why Democratic and Republican governors have come out
and said that — business leaders, others.  That’s why the majority of
the American people support it.

So, the point he’s making — he wasn’t offering a negotiation; he was
making the point that the key components of this bill are addressing the
crisis we’re facing.  So would you cut funding for schools?  Would only
half of the schools that need funding get funding?  Would only half of
the people who are uninsur- — or, sorry, need — you know, deserve to —
direct — direct checks — should only half of them get them?

You know, the point he’s making is that the size of the package is a
reflection of the size of the crisis. 

Q    And you mentioned at the top of your remarks the grim milestone
that the country is facing today with these 500,000 deaths.  As the
country is in this moment of reflection, 100,000 of those Americans have
died within the last month.  What reflections is this White House having
on the last month, as we ask as a country, “Could more have been done?” 
As Dr. Fauci said today, it didn’t have to be this bad.  Could more have
been done in the last month also?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we, one, inherited a circumstance where there
was not a — there were not enough vaccines ordered, there were not
enough vaccinators available to vaccinate Americans, and there were not
enough places to — for people to go to get those vaccines shot into
their arms. 

And, you know, you can always look back and say, “We wish we would’ve
done this better.  We wish the storm wouldn’t have come.”  But our focus
is on building out of the hole that we inherited and ensuring that we
are taking every step necessary, every step possible to reach people in
their communities, to tap into the manufacturing sector through the DPA,
to communicate effectively about eligibility.  And that’s what our focus
is in on — at this point in time: the path forward.

Go ahead, Kaitlan.

Q    A few questions for you.  One on the COVID relief bill.  Senator
Bernie Sanders said he does believe that the parliamentarian is going to
rule that $15 minimum wage can be in there.  But given two Democrats
have said they do not want it in there and they don’t want it to move
forward if it’s in there, if they rule that it can be in there, does
President Biden still want to include it? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President would not have included an increase in
the minimum wage if he did not want to see it in the final package. 

And certainly we are in close touch with Senator Sanders and his team,
and we hope that he’s right and that it is included in the package.  But
we’ll see what the parliamentarian says.

That process, as you noted, Kaitlan, is underway now — the “Byrd bath,”
as they call it — my favorite term of the week.  And we’ll see what
comes out on the other end.  And then what it looks like for members of
Congress and — who have expressed support or opposition to it — they’ll
have to make a decision at that point in time.  But the stage we’re at
right now is it needs to go through the parliamentary process.

Q    Okay.  And on Neera Tanden, you talked about how you believe — the
White House believes she is qualified for this job.  You talk about her
past experience. 

But the specific criticisms that we’re getting from these people who are
saying they are not going to vote for her is that — Mitt Romney said he
is critical of extreme rhetoric.  Susan Collins says she’s “demonstrated
exactly the kind of animosity President Biden pledged to transcend.” 
Manchin said he’s worried that her statements will have a “toxic and
detrimental impact” on the working relationship that they’re expected to
have with a budget director.  So, does the White House believe that her
past statements are inflammatory?

Q    Well, Kaitlan, we would — the President would not have nominated
her if he did not think she would be an excellent OMB director.  And he
nominated her because she is qualified; because she is somebody who has
a proven experience and record, as I outlined earlier, of working with
different groups and organizations with different political beliefs; and
because he believes that her own experience will contribute to taking a
fresh perspective and a fresh approach to this position. 

So we simply just disagree with whether she’s the right person for the
job with these senators.

Q    So President Biden did not have any concerns about her past
statements?

MS. PSAKI:  I think I’ll leave it at what I’ve said so far. 

Go ahead.

Q    I have one more.  Just more housekeeping.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, go ahead.

Q    By this time in their presidencies, both President Trump and
President Obama had held solo press conferences.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm. 

Q    So are there plans for President Biden to hold a solo press
conference anytime soon?

MS. PSAKI:  He will hold a solo press conference, but I don’t have a
date for you at this point in time.

Q    This week?

MS. PSAKI:  Not this week.  No.  (Laughs.)

Go ahead.

Q    Will he get to pick the inquisitors himself?

MS. PSAKI:  What did you say?

Q    Will he get to pick the inquisitors himself?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, typically, any President has a list of people that
they’re going to call upon.  But usually it’s a large number of people
who are in the press room, and we certainly hope we’re able to do that
in a COVID-safe way.

Good ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  A couple if I could, one just following up on Neera
Tanden.  Has the White House reached out to any Republicans who have not
yet said how they’re going to vote?

MS. PSAKI:  We have been working the phones, in touch with Democrats and
Republicans and their offices through the course of the weekend.

Q    And then also, on the COVID bill: A CBO analysis suggested that
only a small portion of the 130 billion for schools would actually be
spent in the current fiscal year. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    What exactly is the White House doing to ensure that money would
actually mean that schools could potentially open in March and April,
before the academic year ends?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, a big part of the challenge here for a number of
schools is that they need — in order to operate responsibly and given
the threat of budget cuts, they need to obligate funds according to
spending plans, rather than exhausting all balances as soon as they’re
received.

So the challenge here is: How do they plan ahead?  Right?  They can hire
— if they need to hire additional teachers now for smaller class sizes,
or if they need to hire bus drivers, or if they need to hire — they need
to do improvements to their facilities, they want to be able to know,
understandably, just like any business or company, that they will be
able to employ teachers next year and the year ahead.

So that’s why this funding is so essential, is because they need to be
able to plan ahead so that they can make the improvements now, do the
hiring now.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just quickly, on Iran, has there been any progress in
learning whether Iran is going to come to the table and sit down?  I
mean, any word — privately, backchannels?  Any progress on that note?

MS. PSAKI:   Where it really stands right now is the Europeans issued
the invitation and they’re waiting for a response from the Iranians.  So
I don’t have anything more to read out beyond that. 

Q    Just to build on what Kaitlan was saying, I mean, the President —
he said that there was going to be a new tone in Washington.  Obviously,
Manchin, Collins do not feel that this is a new tone.  So how does the
President, kind of, square that: saying that he does want a new tone —
“We’re going to have a new language — new, you know, respect for
everyone” — and this, you know, fire-on-the-spot kind of policy he has
said? 

MS. PSAKI:  Have you asked Senator Manchin and Senator Collins about
whether they think President Biden has a new tone?

Q    Well, I mean, I think Senator Manchin and Senator Collins have said
that they have concerns about her tweets and her language.

MS. PSAKI:  And we disagree on whether she is the right choice for OMB —
to lead the OMB.  But that is a bit of an overstatement to suggest that
anyone — and you should ask them — unless you’ve had interviews with
them, then please speak up and convey that to us.  But they both have
had regular conversations with President Biden. 

Q    Well, I guess —

MS. PSAKI:  We look forward — let me finish.  We look forward to working
with them on a range of priorities and issues, whether it’s the American
Rescue Plan; whether it is immigration — addressing the outdated
immigration system; whether it is a foreign policy issues.  And he’ll
continue to engage and have discussions with a range of senators,
including people where he has disagreements.

Q    And I think that’s fair, but I think the question is: Does the
Pres- — is the President okay with the language and rhetoric that Neera
Tanden has used in direction of other members of Congress, including
some Democrats, and especially Republicans? 

MS. PSAKI:  I think the fact that the President nominated her to lead
the budget — to be running OMB reflects his view that she’s the right
person to be in his Cabinet; to lead the — be overseeing the budget; and
that her qualifications, her history of working across the aisle with
people from different groups who have different points of view is a
reflection of how she would do that role.

Q    Can I ask you about — some members of Malcolm X’s family have made
public that — a letter that they said was written by a deceased police
officer that stated that a New York Police Department and FBI may have
been behind the 1965 killing of the activist.  I just wanted to know:
Does the administration think that this is something that should be
looked into? 

MS. PSAKI:  I have not seen that letter.  If you’re — if you want to
provide it to us, I’m happy to have the right person look into it after
the briefing. 

Q    And can I ask one more question about Saudi Arabia?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure, go ahead.  Sure. 

Q    Thank you so much.  You know, President Biden — and you noted that
he is — does not plan to speak with the Crown Prince.  But I wanted to
ask: What does that actually mean?  I mean, the President has obviously
called for accountability for the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. 
But how is the relationship actually going to change?  I mean, is this
just symbolism?  Do — are we going to have some concrete changes that
demonstrate this accountability? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, what I conveyed last week, when we talked about this a
little bit, is that we are certainly recalibrating our relationship with
Saudi Arabia.  And part of what I mentioned was that we will have
officials communicate from counterpart to counterpart, and that means —
as you may know, last week, the Secretary of Defense had a conversation
with MBS and that is the right counterpart-to-counterpart.  We expect
the President will have a conversation with the King at an appropriate
time. 

But there are other components, as you know, of our relationship,
including the fact that the President, unlike the last administration,
is not going to hold back in speaking out when he has objections,
concerns about issues related to human rights, freedom of speech, any
other concerns he may have about the way things are being run.

At the same time, there’s an important role we can play in relationship
— as it relates to the threats that come into the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia from actors in the region.  And that is a relationship that we
will continue to work with them on.

Go ahead.

Q    Tonight, the President is participating in the memorial for COVID
victims.  Is there any discussion about a more permanent memorial,
something that would, kind of, honor their memory, you know, long term? 

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a great question.  I don’t have anything to report out
for you, but I’m happy to check with our team and see if that’s under
consideration.  As you noted, I mean, tonight, obviously, he is — he and
his — and the Vice President, they will be commemorating the lives lost,
the many hundreds of thousands of families who have been impacted by the
lives that have been lost from the pandemic — something he also did just
a month ago around the inauguration.

And so, clearly — and these remarks, I would convey, are not — it’s not
— he will not be providing an update on progress.  This is to really
have a human moment and a moment to remember the people who we’ve lost
over the last year.  But I’m happy to talk to our team if there’s
anything like that under consideration. 

Q    One other question too.  Previously, you mentioned that there are
concerns about how difficult it is to get a vaccine shot.  You know,
it’s hard to sign up for these things and that the government was
looking into making this easier.  You know, the White House — the
federal government is looking into this.  What progress has been made on
that?  What is under consideration for how the federal government could
step in, in this situation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve taken a number of steps, including working to
open several community health centers that are in people’s local
communities.  And people — the health and medical experts who are
working at these health centers often know the people in their
communities, and they’re trusted by the people in their communities. 

We also have been working with pharmacies and have several dozen
pharmacy partners across the country.  More than 90 percent of the
people in the count- — people living in this country, I should say, live
within five miles of a pharmacy.  That is — helps — it helps many.  It
doesn’t help everybody, but that’s another place we’ve also worked to
help launch some mass vaccination sites to ensure that people can go
with their families and get vaccinated in these locations.

So, you know, we are on track.  We have — we have vaccinated.  We have —
we have significantly expedited the rate of vaccination over the past
couple of weeks.  We’re at about — in the last week or so, we’re at
about 1.7 million a day — or last two weeks or so, 1.7 million a day. 
Prior to the President taking office, it was more around 800- to
900,000. 

But there’s work that needs to continue, and that includes ensuring we
have the vaccinations, ensuring we have the vaccinators needed to do
those vaccinations, and the sites, as I touched on, across the country
who can facilitate that.

Q    I think the specific concern is the interface — the websites, the
phone calls — how hard it is to actually book the appointment, not the
actual place to go to.  You know, (inaudible).

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the place to go to is a huge factor in that because a
community —

Q    (Inaudible) appointments at that place.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, but this is something we’ve done a lot of work and
research on.  A community health center that’s located in the middle of
a community where people know to go to for basic healthcare, for, you
know, child — for questions about their kids, for pediatric
appointments, that’s a place that’s trusted in their community.  So it’s
important that those are places that are open now in a range of
communities across the country.

Pharmacies, which are actually the places where you can do exactly what
you just said and log on online and make an appointment to get a vaccine
— we’ve just doubled the number of vaccines that are going to those
pharmacies.  We made an announcement last week.

So there are a number of steps that we’re taking to ensure that more
vaccines are getting out the door and they’re getting into communities.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I have two brief foreign policy questions.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    The President has an excellent relationship with Pope Francis, who
also has had considerable outreach with Iran.  He greeted President
Rouhani.  He’s been in touch with the ayatollahs.  Could he be a
possible back channel, or is he already a possible back channel on Iran?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you’re correct, he does.  And there’s certainly a
picture on his desk — or in his — in the Oval Office that is a
reflection of that. 

But the proper channels, at this point, are: We’re going to work in
partnership and through the P5+1 partners and allies we worked through
for the first round of the — putting the JCPOA together.  We’re waiting,
at this point, to hear back.  The Europeans are waiting to hear back
from the Iranians on whether they are open to that diplomatic
conversation.  So, really, the discussions are at that stage at this
point.

Q    So the Pope is not going to be involved in any way on that?

MS. PSAKI:  I certainly would never claim to speak for Pope Pran- — for
Pope Francis or any Pope.  And you can certainly reach out to the
Vatican if they have intention of getting engaged in some capacity.

Q    Right.  The other question I have is that, as Vice President, the
President met and talked to the President of Rwanda, Paul Kagame.  Does
he have any views on the current trial that’s going on in Rwanda of Paul
Rusesabagina, the central figure in the “Hotel Rwanda” movie, who many
say was kidnapped illegally but who the government defends and says
should be on trial?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a great question.  I have not spoken with our national
security team about that particular trial.  I’m happy to talk to them,
and we can follow up with you after the briefing.

Q    Would you do that, please? 

MS. PSAKI:  Happy to. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.

Go ahead.

Q    One more on Neera Tanden, and then I promise —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — I’ll move on to a different topic.  You said she’s only met with
35 senators.  Is that correct?  Is there —

MS. PSAKI:  Over — at least 35.  Had over 35 meetings.  Mm-hmm.

Q    Is there a reason she’s not met with more?  Has any GOP senator
refused to meet with her?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think we’re going to speak to, as we wouldn’t in any
case, who’s she met to, or give you — met with or give you a list to
protect the privacy of senators.  But 35 meetings with Republican and
Democratic senators is actually quite a significant number of meetings
in the process.  But —

Q    But if you — okay.  Point taken.  But if you look at how
controversial her nomination is in the context of your broader
legislative agenda and the other legislative items that will face an
uphill battle in Congress, do you risk — do you risk political capital
by forging ahead with this, or do you see it completely unrelated?

MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think the President nominated Neera Tanden because
she — he felt she was the right person to lead the budget office because
she has decades of experience, because she would bring fresh perspective
to the job, because she has a record of working with people from a range
of organizations, of different viewpoints.

But, you know, and we’re going — we remain committed to moving that
process forward to a confirmation.  But there are a range — even areas
where we disagree.  We may have disagreement, of course, with Senator
Manchin or Senator Collins about whether she’s the right person to lead,
but we are still going to work with them on a range of other issues that
are of mutual interest and of interest to the American people, and that
includes the Rescue Plan; that includes, you know, many components of
the President’s agenda, moving forward.

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  Oh —

Q    Sorry, one more. 

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    One other one on the semiconductor shortage, which I asked about, I
think, two weeks ago, or a week ago now.  Brian Deese and Jake Sullivan,
I think, are working on this, and you confirmed that there was outreach
to the Taiwanese and other countries. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Do you have any update on responses that you got from these
countries on how to fix it?  And I know you guys have also acknowledged
that there is no short-term fix but something in the medium term, since
it is really impacting a lot of businesses.

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  And there’s been outreach to the manufacturing
sector, and companies as well, to discuss the impact of the shortage. 
You mentioned the letter that was reported that Brian Deese, our NEC
Director, sent to Taiwan.  There has been a lot of outreach to
international partners as well, as we work through this issue.  But I
expect we’ll have more in the coming days to share with you on the next
steps here.

Go ahead.

Q    Hey, Jen.  Thanks.  Two questions.  The first is on Texas.  Some
folks have come on to astronomical electric bills, and there are, you
know, stories about those being the result of deregulation, and other
issues being the result of light regulation.  I wonder if the President
plans to weigh in on talk to that or talk to that.  Does he still plan
to go to Texas, or does he plan to go to Texas this week?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, the President is eager to go to Texas.  I
traveled with him on Mich- — on Michigan — to Michigan, I should say, on
Friday, and he was closely tracking, of course, the work that FEMA was
underway.  He spoke with his Acting Administrator on the way back from
that trip.  He has been getting updates from his national security team
over the course of the weekend, and he wants to go and show his
support. 

He also is fully aware of the footprint of a President of the United
States and everything that comes with that — traveling to a disaster
area.  But we are hopeful that that trip can happen as early as this
week.

Q    Sure.  One more question on the — hopefully, getting a preview of
the timbre of tonight’s speech.  I wonder if there is a worry from the
White House that, given positive views on the coronavirus front, that
people will let their guards, as has happened in the past, and numbers
will go up or spike again.  Does the President plan to address any of
that tonight, or is it just reflecting on the grim milestone?

MS. PSAKI:  You know, the President felt it was important, on a personal
level and human level, to mark the lives lost over the past year —
nearly a year of this pandemic.  And that’s the purpose of tonight —
both the remarks he’ll be delivering, but also the moment of silence
that we will all be participating in from wherever you are located.

But, you know, he is also quite mindful — so tonight is not the night to
give advice to the public or give an update on progress being made.  But
he has — at every opportunity he has been given, from last Friday to
most times he’s speaking publicly, convey that his focus and his
commitment is on getting the American Rescue Plan passed, ensuring we
have enough vaccines to vaccinate 300 million Americans.  But the
American people have a role to play here as well, which is: wearing
masks, social distancing.  Everybody wants to get back to normal.  But
the President, the federal government can’t do that alone.  It is going
to take everybody participating in that process to get closer to
normalcy in the country.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I have one question and one from Canadian
journalist.  This is follow-up on Nord Stream 2.  Several Republican
members of Congress criticized the administration for a failure to name
new targets for sanctions related to Nord Stream 2 in a report required
by Congress.  And Democratic Senator Jeanne Shaheen is also asking for
explanation.  And just today, foreign ministers of Poland and Ukraine
urged President Trump — President Biden to stop the project.  Your
response?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, President Biden’s view remains that Nord Stream 2 is a
bad deal.  It’s a bad deal because it divides Europe, it exposes Ukraine
and Central Europe to Russian manipulation, and because it goes against
Europe’s own stated energy and security goals, which I think is a shared
concern that many of the individuals you mentioned have expressed. 

We’re continuing to monitor activity to complete or to certify the
pipeline, and if such activity takes place, we’ll make a determination
on the applicability of sanctions.  And sanctions are only one of many
important tools to ensure energy security.  So we’re also going to work
with our allies and partners to reinforce European energy security and
to safeguard against the sort of predatory behavior we have warned
against.

Q    This is a question from James McCarten from the Canadian press,
ahead of President Biden’s meeting with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. 
So he’s asking: What commitments is the President prepared to make to
Prime Minister regarding the continued detention of two Canadians in
China?  And is the President Biden willing to make exceptions from his
Buy American provisions for Canadian contractors and suppliers?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, on the second one, you know, he signed an executive
order; we’re of course evaluating procurement components of that, but no
changes anticipated.

Of course, the Prime Minister will bring up whatever he would like to
bring up, as is true of any bilateral meeting.  We expect the President,
during the meeting, to highlight the strong and deep partnership between
the United States and Canada as neighbors, friends, and NATO allies;
that they will discuss issues of mutual interest, from COVID-19 to
climate change and the economic ties that bind our countries, as well as
the deep people-to-people bonds we share.

After the conclusion of the meeting, I’m sure we’ll have a readout of
what was discussed and communicated during his first bilateral meeting.

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Even while acknowledging the grim milestone that
we’re hitting today of 500,000 deaths in the country, it’s worth
mentioning that, around the country, cases, hospitalizations, and deaths
currently are plummeting.  And as the pace of vaccination increases, I’m
wondering: Does the administration think that we’re either at or close
to a sort of turning point as it comes to the pandemic?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I certainly understand the question.  And it’s one
that I’m sure all of your friends and neighbors are asking you as well. 
But I know there’ll be a briefing later this afternoon with our health
experts, as we do Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.

You know, I would say though that 500,000 — a milestone of 500,000
deaths is certainly not something we’re celebrating.  And it’s hardly
something — it’s something to commemorate and to take a moment to
remember all of the families that have been impacted across the country.

We feel there has been some progress made.  We’re leading the world in
the number of vaccine — vaccinations administered, and second only to
Israel in the share of population fully vaccinated.  We’re of course
implementing new masking requirements to make sure people stay safe. 

But as someone alluded to in an earlier question, we need to remain
vigilant, both from the federal government, the American people need
to.  You know, and it’s still going to be months and months of
sacrifice, of work, of suffering, unfortunately, in order to get through
the pandemic.

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thanks everyone.

1:34 P.M. EST
