---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-10'
modified_time: 2021-02-10 17:59:38-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/10/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-february-10-2021/
published_time: 2021-02-10 15:44:35-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, February 10,\_2021"
---
 
11:52 A.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Good morning.  Is it morning?  Is it lunchtime?

Thank you all for your flexibility.  I know we moved the briefing up a
little bit today.

At 1:00 p.m., the President will deliver remarks on the administration’s
response to the coup in Burma, which I think that guidance just went
out, but just so you all have — are aware.

A couple of other updates for all of you: The President, the Vice
President, and the Secretary of Treasury had a productive and
substantive conversation yesterday with the business leaders about the
need to urgently pass the American Rescue Plan.  The group discussed the
importance of getting direct assistance to families who are suffering,
and there was consensus that getting immediate help to the American
people is paramount. 

The President also raised his priority to increase wages and ensure no
one who makes minimum wage is living below the poverty line.  The
business leaders shared the experiences of their own workforces and
discovered — discussed, sorry — discussed the challenges their employees
and customer base face to overcome the economic crisis caused by the
pandemic. 

The group agreed to work together moving forward to help grow the
economy, particularly around infrastructure investment, and help make
life better for working families across the country. 

Another scheduling update for all of you: This Friday, President Biden
will continue his engagement around the American Rescue Plan by meeting
with a bipartisan group of mayors and governors here at the White House
to discuss the vital need to get more support to their communities and
to those on the frontlines of this fight. 

He has proposed $350 billion in support for state and local government.
 That means keeping cops, firefighters, public health workers, teachers,
and other public servants on the job in the fight against the virus. 
And that means getting help to cities, counties, and states to get
vaccines in arms faster, something many governors and mayors have spoken
about. 

Mayors in particular are on the frontlines of this, and we’ve seen
widespread bipartisan support from them.  We’re hoping to even bring
some of them to the briefing here to talk — briefing room here to talk
with all of you on Friday. 

Just a couple of other updates:

Today our COVID response team gave an update on its progress and
sweeping action in addressing the health crisis facing our nation.  They
announced the launch of five new community vaccination centers across
Texas and New York State. 

In Texas, sites in Arlington, Dallas, and Houston will collectively be
able to administer more than 10,000 shots a day in some of the
hardest-hit areas in the state.  Teams from the federal government are
being deployed immediately to help get those sites running and are
expected to start the week of February 22nd, so before the end of the
month.

In New York, sites in Brooklyn and Queens will open the same week and
will together have a capacity for 6,000 shots a day.  This follows two
sites announced last week and other ongoing efforts to accelerate
equitable vaccination efforts, including by increasing weekly state
vaccine supply by 25 percent since entering office; deploying federal
personnel to support vaccination efforts nationwide; and over $3.15
billion in funding to states, tribes, and territories.

Second, our team also announced members of its Health Equity Task
Force.  This is something all — many of you have been asking about since
the President took office.  The President’s 12 members — the 12 members
will bring noteworthy backgrounds and expertise to represent a range of
racial and ethnic groups and other key constituencies, including
children and youth; educators and students; healthcare providers;
immigrants; individuals with disabilities; LGBTQ individuals; public
health experts; rural communities; state, local, territorial, tribal
governments; and labor unions.

This board is charged with issuing a range of recommendations to help
inform the COVID-19 response and recovery, including equitable
allocation of resources.  And, of course, it will be chaired by Dr.
Marcella Nunez-Smith.

Finally, someone in here — I think it was your colleague from AP — asked
last — a couple of days ago, I should say, about the President getting
COVID tested.  And I just wanted to provide an update that the
President’s last COVID test was last Thursday; it was negative.  We will
venture to ensure we are providing that information to you as it comes
out moving forward, or as he has tested for.

But just so everybody has a full assessment of why or the timeline:
Ninety-five percent — there’s 95 percent protection from the vaccine,
but it’s not 100 percent protection.  So the President’s doctor believes
it is reasonable and prudent to randomly test the President every two
weeks as surveillance, and we’ll keep you all updated.  But that’s kind
of the — while there isn’t CDC guidelines, that’s his recommendation.

That is it.  Let’s go to you.  Go ahead.

Q    Well, thank you, Jen, for the follow-up there.  On two topics,
first being impeachment: The President has said consistently that he
will not be watching the trial.  He said so again yesterday.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    But yesterday, the House impeachment managers unveiled videos of
the Capitol riot that clearly was very moving to a lot of people.  It
resonated to a lot of people, including those in that chamber.  Is the
President really not going to participate at all in this historic
experience, this national moment?  Does he have nothing he wants to add
to those who may have been impacted by what they saw yesterday as part
of this trial?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it may seem like some time ago, but the President has
spoken repeatedly to the events of January 6th.  On January 6th, he
called the insurrection at the Capitol “an unprecedented assault” on our
democracy, bordering on sedition.  He called — said it was “unlike
anything we’ve seen in modern times.” 

Again, when the House voted on January 13th, following that vote, he
called the events of January 6th an “armed insurrection against the
United States of America” that was carried out by “political extremists
and domestic terrorists, who were incited to this violence by President
Trump.” 

He has certainly not been silent.  He won’t be silent on, of course, the
— you know, his concerns about hate rhetoric and speech, and the impact
that has on society.  And he hasn’t been silent on the actions of the
former President.

Q    On another matter, the CDC today announced that they find it — they
have a study that show that two masks are significantly better than one
in slowing the spread of coronavirus.  Will the White House champion the
position that Americans should be wearing two masks?  And is that a
behavior will be modeled perhaps by White House staff?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’ve learned a lot about this myself — the issue of
studies versus recommendations, or specific guidelines, I should say. 

So this was a study, which was a reflection of the importance of
well-fitting masks, something that many of our health and medical
experts have talked about.  It doesn’t actually issue definitive
guidance on one mask versus two masks.  Obviously, if that’s something
they were to issue as official guidance, we listen to our health and
medical experts. 

But the study does show that if a person has a loose-fitting mask, that
they should consider options to improve that fit, and this includes:
nose wire, knotting the ear loops on your mask, wearing a cloth mask
over a medical procedure disposable mask — something we do here quite a
bit. 

So the bottom line of that study is actually to improve the fit of the
mask, and a second mask is one of several options to be able to do
that. 

Q    And then, just to follow up, and then I’ll hand off: In terms —
where is the — is there a plan underway for the White House
administration to send out masks to Americans — to mail them to
addresses so Americans will have their own high-quality mask, when
there’s often confusion as to what kind should be worn, what offers more
protection?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, one, the President uses every opportunity he
has, as he did at the Super Bowl — not that he was there, but in the PSA
— to make clear to the American people the safety of wearing masks, the
impact of wearing masks.  He said that it would save 50,000 lives — more
than 50,000 lives if Americans wore them for 100 days. 

There are a range of options under consideration on to –how to ensure
that people who need masks the most, people who need this type of
protection the most receive it, but no decision has been — no final
decision has been made. 

Go ahead.

Q    The President’s remarks at one o’clock on Burma — could you give us
a little flavor of what he’s going to say?  Is he going to announce
sanctions?

MS. PSAKI:  I’ve been here long — we’re having such fun together.  I
don’t think you want me to get fired on week three of my time here as
the Press Secretary.  He will have more to say about actions being taken
by the United States in rea- — in response to the coup in Burma.

Q    Just to follow up, he’s called for the military coup leaders to
stand down.  Is there any indication that they are doing that yet?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a specific update on the actions of the
military leaders.  Obviously, this is an issue that we are following
closely from here, from the State Department, from our entire national
security team.

As we’ve noted in here previously, but it’s worth repeating, we’re also
in consultation and close coordination with our partners and allies in
steps that can be taken, pressure that can be made. 

There’s been a statement from the U.N. Security Council, which is a
significant act, as you all know.  So I don’t have an update on the
actions on the ground, but clearly, this is on the President’s mind,
this issue, and it’s essential that we lead here from the United States.

Q    Just a second topic: Has the President abandoned the plan to force
the sale of TikTok’s American operations to a group that would include
Oracle and Walmart?

MS. PSAKI:  I know there was some reporting on it this morning, I think
that you’re referencing — I believe.

Q    Wall Street Journal.

MS. PSAKI:  Wall Street Journal.  So it’s not accurate to suggest that
there is a new proactive step by the Biden White House.  It looks like
there was a conflation of two ongoing processes: one that’s through the
courts and one that is through the CFIUS process that goes through the
Department of Treasury.  There is a rigorous CFIUS process that is
ongoing.  I’m not going to, of course — not that you’re expecting me to
— set a precedent of commenting on those reviews in process, but would
just stress that they are distinct processes. 

I will note, broadly speaking, that we are comprehensively evaluating,
as we’ve talked about in here, the risks U.S. data, including from
TikTok, will — and the risks to U.S data, I should say, including from
TikTok, and we’ll address them in a decisive and effective fashion. 

But if we have news to announce, we will announce it.  So I wouldn’t
take it as a new step.

Q    Lastly, is there a timetable for this review?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a timetable for you.  Again, it’s a broad
review that’s expanded beyond TikTok, of course, from here.  And I think
what I was referencing in the beginning is the fact that there are
ongoing processes through the courts, which we’d certainly send you to
DOJ and others, but there’s also an ongoing CFIUS review that’s
happening at the Department of Treasury. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Go ahead, Kristen.

Q    Jen, thank you.  So President Biden will be speaking at the
Pentagon later today.  Among the top issues he inherits, of course:
Afghanistan.  So will he be addressing the situation in Afghanistan? 
And Republican Senator Lindsey Graham said over the weekend it’s his
understanding that the troops will not be leaving Afghanistan in May, as
was determined under the previous administration.  Is that an official
decision that President Biden has made?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t — I’m not aware of Senator Graham being a
spokesperson for the administration.  I will say that I wouldn’t expect
there to be an update in his remarks today at the Department of Defense
on Afghanistan.  Of course, this is a topic that is of utmost importance
to the President and his national security team, but I don’t have an
update on force posture, and I wouldn’t expect one today.

Q    So just to be clear: no official decision on the troop withdrawal
that was previously determined from the previous administration.

MS. PSAKI:  There’s no update on a change or an update on a status — a
force — the status of the force posture.  Obviously, that would be
something determined in consultation with the Secretary of Defense.  So
I understand why you’re asking, he’s going there today, but that’s not
the focus of his trip.

Q    Okay, and if I could just follow up with you on comments he made
yesterday about school reopenings.  You said the goal was for more than
50 percent of schools to have some teaching in person at least one day a
week.  You said you hoped it would be higher.  But why is the
administration setting the bar at one day a week?  Why not go higher?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly we are not planning to celebrate at 100 days
if we reach that goal.  That is our own effort to make our own — set our
own markings, bold and — set a bold and ambitious agenda for how we’re
going to measure ourselves and progress. 

But we certainly hope to build from that, even at 100 days.  And from
there, our objective — the President’s objectives is for all schools to
reopen, to stay open, to be open five days a week, for kids to be
learning.  That’s what our focus is on.  This is simply a goal for 100
days.

Q    But, Jen, a lot of schools are already doing that.  And for working
parents, one day a week doesn’t help a lot. 

MS. PSAKI:  That’s, again, the bar of where we’d like the majority of
schools across the country to be, which they’re not at this point in
time, and we want to build from there.  And it really depends; it
differs from school district to school district.  Part of the reason
that there is funding in the American Rescue Plan is to ensure that
school districts that don’t have the funding they need to ensure they
are equipped to reopen, to meet that bar and exceed it are able to do
exactly that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I want to pick up on Jonathan’s comment on the
President — or question on the President not engaging on impeachment. 
Indulge me. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure, always happy to.

Q    How should the American public interpret the President’s silence on
this?  Is he not invested in the outcome of this trial or is he?

MS. PSAKI:  The American public should — should read it as his
commitment to delivering on exactly what they elected him to do, which
is not to be a commentator on the daily developments of an impeachment
trial, but to push forward an American Rescue Plan that will put people
back to — that will ensure people are back to work, get the assistance
they need, get shots in arms, reopen schools.  That’s what they asked
him to do, and that’s what he’s focused on doing every day.

Q    Might he address it when it’s wrapped? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he did put out a statement at the conclusion of the
House trial, so I’d certainly keep that option open.  And he was
obviously asked a question, as you referenced, yesterday about it and
reiterated that — where his focus is.  And I expect that will be his
focus for the coming days.

Q    And then one other housekeeping thing.  House Minority Leader Kevin
McCarthy is indicating that he hasn’t heard directly from President
Biden, and that he reached out on January 8th and has yet to hear back
from the President directly.  Why is President Trump — pardon me, why is
President Biden, not engaging with Republicans —

MS. PSAKI:  I won’t tell him you called him “President Trump.”

Q    Why is he — why is he not engaging with Kevin McCarthy directly?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I can assure you that senior members of our team are
in close consultation and in touch with senior members of Congressman —
Leader McCarthy’s team. 

I don’t have any additional calls to read out for you, other than to
repeat or reiterate that the President is open to and committed to
speaking with a range of Democrats and Republicans, as is evidenced by
the people he’s brought here to the White House.  And he picks up the
phone on a daily basis and calls people, but I don’t have any calls to
Leader McCarthy to read out for you today.

Go ahead.

Q    Two topics.  First of all, what does President Biden think about
the Dallas Mavericks’ owner, Mark Cuban, deciding to indefinitely stop
playing the National Anthem before his National Basketball Association
games?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I haven’t spoken with the President about the decision
by Mark Cuban on the Dallas Mavericks — or the, I should say, the
National Anthem — but I know he’s incredibly proud to be an American and
has great respect for the Anthem and all that it represents, especially
for our men and women serving in uniform around the world. 

He’d also say that, of course, that part of the — that pride in our
country means recognizing moments where we as a country haven’t lived up
to our highest ideals, which is often and at times what people are
speaking to when they take action at sporting events.  And it means
respecting the right of people, granted to them in the Constitution, to
peacefully protest.  That’s why he ran for President in the first place,
and that’s what he’s focused on doing every day.

Q    And then, on schools, when President Biden talked for the last
couple of months, particularly during the transition, about reopening
schools within the first 100 days, why didn’t he ever mentioned the
small print that that was just going to be for one day a week as the
goal?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, the President made a — set a goal of reopening
the majority of schools within 100 days, and when you asked what that
meant, I answered the question. 

So we are — that is the — that is not the ceiling, that is the — that is
the bar we’re trying to leap over and exceed.  And as I said in response
to Christian’s \[sic\] — Kristen’s question, the President wants to not
just open schools, he wants them to stay reopened.  He wants kids to be
back in school learning five days a week.  He wants everybody — parents
to feel safe, teachers to feel safe. 

That’s why he asked his Department of Education and the CDC to work
together on guidelines.  That’s why he’s put funding — proposed funding
in the American Rescue Plan, because he knows that’s not going to happen
on its own.  It’s going to need some assistance to make it — make it
reality.

Q    Is there a thought that this goal though that you guys are setting
for the first 100 days is more of a dry run for next year?  Because 100
days from January 20th — April 30th — that’s when a lot of schools are
getting ready to close for the year anyway. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it just happens that January 20th is when every
President is inaugurated, so we can’t change that.  And 100 days, we
felt, was a period of time — a measurable period of time where we could
set a goal; measure ourself against; hopefully leap way past that goal —
you know, that’s always our objective; and then build from there. 

And you’re right: Schools won’t be in session for the summer, but this
is a pandemic we’re working to get under control, making progress every
month.  And we’re certainly hopeful that things will be — more kids will
be back in school five days a week as quickly as it can safely happen.

Q    And then just one more for one of our colleagues who could not be
here because of social distancing guidelines.  What do you say to
teachers who are nervous about going back into the classroom without
being fully vaccinated?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we say to teachers: We want you to be able to go back
to school and go back to school safely.  And, you know, the President is
married to a teacher, Dr. Biden.  He has known many thousands of
teachers throughout his career.  He listens to them.  We all — we all
engage with a range of groups about their concerns, about what their
objectives are.  Most teachers will tell you they want to be in the
classroom and they want to be there with their students, especially of
younger kids, and do that in-person learning.  They want that too.  They
want to do it safely.

We’re waiting for the CDC guidelines.  We are — those will be the first
guidelines that will be coming from the federal level that will outline
recommendations based on health and medical experts.  We’re waiting for
those.  We’re hopeful that those will give a sense to school districts
across the country on the steps that they can take to increase the
safety in their schools.  It will be up to school districts, but that’s
really the next step here.

We want schools to open, but we want them to open safely, and we want
teachers and parents to all feel that.

Go ahead, Mike.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  If I could talk to you a little bit about the sales
campaign that you’ve talked about to pass the COVID relief package, and
the — and the COVID vaccination effort.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    If you compare to the Obama administration, when he was trying to
sell the healthcare — Obamacare — Affordable Care Act, the President
went around the country; held very long, very involved town hall
meetings.  There’s obviously COVID restrictions, but the President —
President Biden seems willing to travel now.  He will be going on his
second trip on Air Force One next week.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    And so, you know, why aren’t you guys using that opportunity to at
least, you know, get out to the — to the American people and sell the
plan a little bit more aggressively?  And he seems to be just staying
here. 

And then second, on the — on the vaccination in a sort of related way,
you know, once the website was fully up for Obamacare, there was a
massive multimedia campaign — TV ads, you know, you worked with partners
to sort of get out there into like underserved communities to, you know,
to get people to sign up.  Where is the similar effort to get people
vaccinated?

MS. PSAKI:  There will be a similar effort.  We’ve just —

Q    And when will that start? 

MS. PSAKI:  We’ve only been here three weeks.  It takes some time to get
a paid media campaign off the ground.  We want to do that in an
effective manner. 

We’re not — we’re not waiting or delaying.  We obviously just announced
the Equity Task Force today.  All of these individuals are experts,
represent different parts of the country and different communities in
the country who are deeply impacted.  We expect to have many of them out
there communicating broadly.  We have done dozens and dozens and dozens
of interviews with the senior administration officials, with Cabinet
officials to communicate about the American Rescue Plan.  The President
has been out talking about it nearly every day.

So we have not held back from using the bully pulpit of the presidency
to communicate with the American public.  He will be out next week, as
you mentioned, and I expect he will be out more in the weeks ahead to
communicate effectively and directly with the American public, but a
little different from the Affordable Care Act.

What we’re doing, in part — it may be what’s — the components of what
are in the plan: reopening schools; getting vaccines in arms; ensuring
that Americans who don’t have food have — or have, you know, concerns
about putting food on the table have money to get through this period of
time — is working.  More than 70 percent of the public, in almost every
poll, supports this package. 

So, we are certainly out there, everybody is focused on this every day,
selling it, and the public seems to like what they’re hearing.  But we —
our job is not done; we need to get it across the finish line.  It’s why
the President will be traveling and others will be out there even more
in the weeks ahead.

Q    And on one other topic, the President put forth on the first day a
comprehensive immigration proposal legislation that would — that would
wrap a lot of things into one bill.  There seems to be support in the
advocacy community — immigration advocacy community now for moving ahead
with components of that separately, both for DREAMers, perhaps for ag
workers. 

Does the President support splitting that effort up?  You know, while —
you know, while they’re, you know — essentially, while the bigger
package is being worked on, does he support going ahead, and would he
sign into law if they got passed — the smaller pieces?  Or does he want
to put that off and wait for the bigger effort?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as you know, Mike, from following this closely, the
formal bill has not been proposed yet on Capitol Hill.  The President
proposed it with three key pieces of it because he felt they were all
important, including investing in smart security, providing a pathway to
citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants, and also addressing
the root causes that are causing people to flee their home country,
something he worked on even as Vice President. 

So, it hasn’t even been formally proposed.  I think we’re going to wait
for that to happen before there’s, you know, readouts or our engagement
on what is looking like it’s going to happen on Capitol Hill.  But we’ll
see what happens. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Two questions, please.  In India, Twitter has shut down hundreds of
accounts from people who criticize the government.  Is this — is the
White House concerned about this crackdown on free speech by the Modi
government?  And to what extent does this impact the U.S.-India
relationship and your administration’s Indo-Pacific strategy? 

MS. PSAKI:  I know that my colleagues at the State Department have
spoken to this more extensively, and I would certainly point you to
them.  Of course, we always have concerns about crackdowns on freedom of
speech, freedom of expression happening around the world, and — when it
doesn’t allow people to communicate and peacefully protest.  But I would
point you to the State Department for more specifics. 

Q    And then the second question is on the — on this chip shortage that
has now moved beyond just automakers.  A lot of automakers have shut
down production.  Obviously, they need the chips to come in from Asia. 

You’re planning to do a broad supply-chain review, presumably including
these chips.  What does that mean?  Does the White House consider these
parts essential?  And are you interested at all in creating incentives
for chipmakers to make them in the U.S.?  Because there’s a lot of —
everything basically relies on them. 

MS. PSAKI:  Right.  Absolutely.  That supply chain is essential.  This
kind of flows into both the national economic — the economic team and
the national security team.  Let me talk to them and see if there’s any
more specifics on our plans for incentivizing production here in the
United States. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask if you could share more about the
trip to Wisconsin.  Why Wisconsin?  Is he going to be doing more — you
alluded that he’d be doing some outreach.  Can you talk about what kind
of outreach he’ll be doing?  Is — I assume it’s on the Rescue Plan, but
if you could — will he be meeting with first responders, people in the
communities?  Can you talk about that a little bit?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  And the specifics are still coming together, but I’ll
tell you what’s knowable at this point in time.  You know, the President
is going to Wisconsin.  Obviously, it’s a state where, you know, many
people have been impacted by COVID and many people have been impacted by
the economic downturn.  And he always enjoys traveling and engaging
directly with people, so while he’s there, he’ll do a town hall, and
that’s an opportunity to hear directly from people about how the dual
crises are impacting them.

In terms of other events and stops he’ll do while he’s there, the
schedule is still kind of coming together and being finalized.

Q    On Myanmar-Burma: In Burma, you know, the economy is really weak. 
It’s shrinking.  There’s COVID.  I mean, the question I have is, is:
Would sanctions, beyond sanctioning the generals, really help in any
way?

MS. PSAKI:  Help in terms of change the behavior?

Q    Correct.

MS. PSAKI:  Well —

Q    Or just hurt regular people and the country.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you know, we’ll wait for the President to actually
announce the specific details, which I know will happen more — later
this afternoon.  But part of our effort is not just unilateral action
from the United States, but also working with our partners and allies,
including in the region, to determine the right ways to put pressure on
and have engagement. 

As I noted earlier, there was obviously the statement from the U.N.
Security Council permanent members.  There is ongoing discussions and
talks with our partners and allies in Asia and Europe.  And, you know,
there’s certainly a recognition that this will need to be a coordinated
effort.

Q    And on immigration: I know, on Monday, you talked about, kind of,
working out the priorities — national security threat, recent entries. 
There’s more reports of, you know, a growing number of people arriving
on the border.  How closely is President Biden watching this? 
Obviously, attacking the root causes of this migration is something that
he knows well, that he’s worked on for a long time. 

But what about in the short term?  What steps are going to be taken to
confront this issue?  Because more — so we don’t have a repeat of things
that we’ve had had in the past, which obviously President Biden is very
familiar with. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  He’s certainly following it closely, but obviously
defers to the leadership and the guidance of his Secretary of Homeland
Security, Ali Mayorkas, who is now confirmed — been in office in his
role for just over a week now.  Obviously, is — comes to that job with a
great deal of experience working on these issues, including during
challenging times.

But since you gave me the opportunity, I mean, one of the things we are
certainly doing is communicating that, due to the pandemic and the fact
that we have not had the time, as an administration, to put in place a
humane, comprehensive process for processing individuals who are coming
to the border, now is not the time to come, and the vast majority of
people will be turned away.  Asylum processes at the border will not
occur immediately; it will take time to implement. 

And as DHS and CBP have said, you know, when long-term — you know, this
is — you know, there have been incredibly narrow and limited
circumstances where individuals have been — have come into the country
awaiting for their hearing, but the vast majority have been — have been
turned away. 

And so this is not the time to come.  And, you know, this is obviously
an emotional issue for many of us who’ve worked on this in the past, for
the President himself, but we need time to put in place, and partners to
put in place a comprehensive process and system that will allow for
processing at the border of asylum seekers, but also, you know,
providing a pathway to citizenship for immigrants who are in the United
States. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Jim Murren, who is the head of the Nevada COVID
Task Force, has proposed making Nevada have an elite level of health and
safety measures.  And he said that, by fall, he thinks there’ll be
enough shots in arms that there’ll be fans in seats of a variety of
venues — sporting venues, concerts, stuff like that.  Do you think that
that is possible?  And is that a priority for the administration?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the President said during his Super Bowl
interview that he certainly hoped that next year, at this time, we would
all be watching the Super Bowl at parties, and the stands would be
full. 

Our — but we defer to our health and medical team who look at the entire
country — and I’m not sure if this individual is just looking at Nevada
or looking at the entire country — and what their guidelines and their
guidance offers us. 

We know that we will have enough vaccines to provide them to the
American people by the end of the summer, but a vaccine is not a
vaccination.  And in order to get to a place where we are returning back
to normal, we need to ensure that those vaccines are made and — are
turned into vaccinations and that, you know, the vast — that a large
swath of the American public is vaccinated.

But obviously, we defer to our health and medical team working for the
federal government here.  No disrespect to the individual you mentioned.

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, does the White House have a position on the prosecutors
opening up cases in Georgia on efforts to subvert the 2020 Election?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not — I have not followed this closely.  I would likely
send you to the Department of Justice for any comment on it.

Q    And on the HHS Secretary-designate: There are plans on the part of
Republicans to paint him as taking actions and supporting actions in
California that have been punitive to people there, that the state has
been overly aggressive.  What is the — what is your position on that,
with — as far as it goes with Becerra?

MS. PSAKI:  Tell me a little bit more about your question.

Q    Well, what is your response to the idea that he — that he has
stepped in and taken actions in California that have been overly
aggressive, and that he should take — bear some blame for the problems
that the state is having with COVID?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that the President nominated
Attorney General Becerra because he felt he was exactly the right person
to lead the Department of Health and Human Services at this time, and
that his work on a range of issues, including in working to pass the
Affordable Care Act, including his defense of the Affordable Care Act on
a number of cases in California, were certainly part of that decision. 

And, frankly, it is disappointing that Congress — the Senate — is
delaying any further in confirming his nomination at a time when
thousands of people are dying every day of a pandemic, and people need
leadership at the top of an agency that has an important role to play.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I want to ask you questions on two fronts here. 
First off, you know, it’s been over a month since the January 6th
Capitol attack, and we have not received any kind of public briefing
from the Capitol Police.  A lot of people have raised concerns about
that.  Does President Biden want to see that kind of briefing?  And
also, on a similar note, what does he think about efforts from — such as
Congressman Jamaal Bowman’s to establish a congressional investigation
or commission into the Capitol attack?

MS. PSAKI:  We certainly leave the determination about whether there’s a
congressional investigation up to members of Congress.  I’ve seen that
proposal.  Obviously, there are others who would need to support that to
move it forward, and I note a number do.

In terms of the timeline of a briefing from the Capitol Police: You
know, I would again for refer to them on the timeline.  We, of course —
here in the federal government, there’s an ongoing investigation, as you
know, out of the Department of Justice, and I defer to them for any
reports or updates from their end.

Q    And a second question: You know, obviously the President is going
to be addressing the coup in Myanmar today.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    You know, he’s, I’m assuming, speaking out against it and taking
action there.  You and Secretary of State Blinken have talked about how
the January 6th attack, you know, makes it — I think the Secretary of
State said a “greater challenge.”  You said it will take some time for
America to gain its status as a beacon of leadership again.

As we address this, how important is it to have accountability for the
Capitol attack, including potentially impeachment, as we want to, you
know, spread democracy abroad?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what Secretary Blinken and I were both
referring to is the fact that, in order to project to other countries
around the world that there should be a protection of democracy, that
there should be freedom of speech, that there should be freedom of
expression, we have to conduct ourselves in that manner from here.  And
the pieces we have control over are what the President of the United
States does, what the Secretary of State does, and how we all conduct
ourselves from this administration. 

He has spoken, as I started the briefing talking about, to his views on
the horrific events of January 6th and the fact that it was an attack on
our democracy here.  He has — he made those statements because that’s
how he felt, and also it’s important to make that clear to the public
and to the world.  But in terms of what steps will be taken from here,
we leave that to the Senate.

Q    Obviously, we’re calling what happened in Myanmar a “coup.”  Do you
think that’s an accurate description for what happened on January 6th?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to give any new definitions.  There’s
obviously a process that’s ongoing.  I’m sure you’ll all be watching
today as the Senate proceeds with the hearings. 

I appreciate your creativity, though.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    The Iranian-backed Houthi rebels attacked Saudi Arabia today in
Abha.  The coalition called it a war crime.  Does this undermine the
President’s effort to end the war in Yemen?  And are you putting too
much faith in the Houthi rebels’ intention to get into the negotiation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, thank you, Nadia.  Let me first say that we condemn
the Houthi attack today at the Abha International Airport in Saudi
Arabia, a civilian airport.  The attack coincides with Special Envoy
Lenderking’s first trip to the region in his efforts to bring a lasting
peace to Yemen that will ease the suffering of the Yemeni people. 

The Houthis, meanwhile, continually demonstrate a desire to prolong the
war by attacking Saudi Arabia, including attacks on citizens.  And we
will continue our diplomatic outreach and engage with various
stakeholders, including members of Congress, humanitarian aid
organizations, the U.N. Special Envoy, and others to bring a negotiated
settlement to end the war.

As President Biden has said, we are stepping up our diplomacy to end the
war, as I say — I should say, as he said last week at the State
Department.  And the main focus of our efforts will continue to be on
diplomacy to end the war via the U.N.-led process: to impose a
ceasefire, open humanitarian channels, and restore long-dormant peace
talks.  We believe that remains the best path forward.  

Q    Oh, thank you.  I have a quick question on Iran.  Some reports
indicate that you’re considering baby steps to get back into the
negotiation.  Is this on the table?  Is this something that the
administration is considering (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Did you say “baby steps”?  I’m sorry, the masks make it hard
to hear.

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  You know, the President’s focus is on reiterating what he
did last weekend, which is that in order to move forward, Iran needs to
comply with the outlines of the JCPOA and the agreement that was formed
just a few years ago. 

In terms of any additional steps under consideration, I don’t have any
update on that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask you about the budget, which I know
it’s a little early to be thinking about, but —

MS. PSAKI:  It’s never too early to talk about the budget — skinny
budget, all sorts of budgets.

Q    Can you lay out a timeline for us of when to expect to see the
President’s first budget?  And my second question is, does the President
plan to cut his proposal — or cut defense spending, or propose to cut
defense spending?

MS. PSAKI:  As you know, our nominee to lead the OMB just had her
hearing yesterday, and hopefully she’ll be in place soon.  But there was
— there were some challenges that came about during the transition in
terms of a bit of intransigence from the outgoing administration and
lack of cooperation, as it related to OMB on the budget process.  So we
expect there to be a delay in the first — in the release of his first
budget.  I don’t have an exact timeline of when that will be though.

Q    Would we see an outline or something?  I mean, I know the budget is
a thick document, but would you see an outline before that?  Or what are
you thinking?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview yet for you.  I can talk to
our friends or connect you directly with our colleagues at OMB and see
if there’s anything more specific they can preview for you at this point
in time. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Go ahead in the back.

Q    Yes, thank you, Jen.  On Iran as well, does the administration
welcome any role that its allies in the region can play in order to help
facilitate talks with Iran or bring it back to the table?  I mean,
General McKenzie said on Monday, namely about Qatar, “When you consider
the problem with Iran, they have a large role to play in that.”  Does
the administration consider Qatar as a potential, maybe, role-player in
bringing Iran back to the table?  And knowing that both National
Security Advisor Sullivan and the Iran’s envoy Rob Malley, they both
spoke with the Qatar Prime Minister.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the way to move things forward is for Iran to come
into full compliance with its obligations under the JCPOA.  And if they
do that, the United States would do the same and then use that as a
platform to build a longer and stronger agreement that also addresses
other areas of concern. 

So that’s really — the ball is really in their court to take those
steps.  And whether there are roles of other countries in the region —
obviously, in any of these — you know, if we were to reach that stage of
consultations with countries in the region, we’d be a key part of that
process, but we’re certainly not there yet.

Q    And also, on the Houthi (inaudible) — delisting the Houthis from
the terror list — other than the humanitarian assistance, does it have
any strategic significance?  Is the administration willing to enter a
dialogue with the Houthis in order to end the war in Yemen in a peaceful
way?

MS. PSAKI:  I know there have been some reports, but I don’t believe my
colleagues at the State Department have confirmed anything about
delisting, so I would point you to them for any confirmation or
specifics and any of the reasoning. 

Q    But is the administration going to do that at any time soon?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, I’d point you to the State Department.  They have not
even — they have not even spoken to these reports. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, Mike.

Q    One quick question.  I know the Speaker hasn’t yet set a date, but
I assume we all expect a joint address to the — to Congress in the next
few weeks.  Has the President started the process of both thinking about
what he wants to say personally and also the, sort of, interagency
collection of information that a President normally does for these
things?

MS. PSAKI:  “Interagency collection” — it doesn’t make it sound that
interesting.  Discussing with experts all of the ideas they have to put
Americans back to work —

Q    You’re the spokesperson.

MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)  We have — I don’t have any update on a date. 
Obviously, there are — you know, there — the impact of COVID includes
the fact that it is challenging to envision how you’d have 500 people in
attendance at a joint session, but obviously —

Q    Do you think you can remote?  Is a remote speech possible?  Is that
on the table?

MS. PSAKI:  There are — there are a range of options under discussion. 
We’re engaged on that.  I don’t have any updates for what it will look
like or when it will — when it would be. 

But I can say that, you know, the President is eager to lay out more
specifics of his Build Back Better agenda, and he is in ongoing
discussions with a range of stakeholders in Congress and the
administration, outside, about what that’s going to look like. 

And he mentioned that when he gave his joint — not joint session speech,
sorry; he wasn’t in office yet — but when he gave his primetime address
a couple of weeks ago, that that would kind of be the next step.  So
he’s, you know, always discussing with experts and policy experts what
that would look like, but I don’t have anything on the timeline or what
the format would look like at this point.

Q    Does he want the American Recovery Plan to be passed before he
delivers that speech? 

MS. PSAKI:  You know, he wants the American Rescue Plan to be —

Q    Rescue.

MS. PSAKI:  — to be — it’s okay — to be — the “ARP,” you can call it;
sometimes it’s easier — to be passed as quickly as possible.  He
certainly, as — having served in the Senate for 36 years, he knows that
there’s a process that needs to take place.  As you know, it’s working
its way through the committees in the House; then it will go to the
Senate.  That takes a little bit of time just by the nature of the
important work that happens.  He is pleased with the progress and the
urgency he sees from the House and Senate.  But in terms of a specific
date for his next speech or next proposal, I just don’t have anything to
preview for you. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, everyone.

12:35 P.M. EST
