---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-24'
modified_time: 2021-02-24 13:43:58-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/24/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-7/
published_time: 2021-02-24 13:43:57-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White House COVID- \u2060 19 Response Team and Public Health\
  \ Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:03 A.M. EST  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you for joining us.  I want to begin by acknowledging
that we have passed a grim milestone in this pandemic: Half a million
people dead from COVID-19.  This pandemic has touched each of us.  So
many have lost loved ones.  We’ve been separated from our friends and
families.  Too many of our businesses and schools have been closed for
way too long.  
  
President Biden is clear: We are at war with this virus, and we’re using
every resource at our disposal to defeat it.   
  
We’re keeping equity at the front and center of our response, partnering
with states, tribes, and territories to increase vaccinations in the
hardest-hit and hardest-to-reach communities — increasing supply to
convenient and trusted locations, like community health centers;
deploying mobile units to meet people where they are; and improving data
collection so that we have a better understanding of the inequities
currently experienced.  
  
Today we’re announcing another action we’re taking to ensure an
equitable response.  In the month of March, we will begin to deliver
millions of masks to food banks and community health centers around the
country.  These are nationwide networks that serve populations hit hard
by the pandemic.  While masks are widely available in many different
shapes and sizes,  
many low-income Americans still lack affordable access to this basic
protection.  That’s why we’re taking this important action to keep
Americans safe.  
  
We will deliver more than 25 million masks across the country.  These
masks will be available at more than 1,300 community health centers and
at 60,000 food pantries nationwide.  Any American who needs a mask will
be able to walk into these health centers or food pantries and pick up
high-quality, American-made masks.  These masks will be available at no
cost.  They’ll be well-fitting cloth masks available in children’s and
adult sizes, and they can be washed for reuse — all consistent with CDC
guidance, and all made in the USA.  
  
Once again, our decisions here have been made with equity at the
center.  Not all Americans are wearing masks regularly.  Not all
Americans have access.  And not all masks are equal.  With this action,
we are helping to level the playing field, giving vulnerable populations
quality, well-fitting masks.  
  
When President Biden delivered his inaugural address, he made a very
clear request to the country: Mask up.  And he’s taken action to require
masks in federal buildings, on federal lands, and on public
transportation, like planes, trains, and buses.  
  
The action we’re announcing today is a targeted step to help Americans
respond to the President’s challenge to mask up to protect themselves
and their fellow Americans.  
  
As we encourage people to continue to mask up, we’re focused on
vaccinating people quickly and equitably.   
  
Today, I will give you the latest update on our execution on
vaccinations in the three key areas that we’re focused on: more vaccine
supply, more vaccinators, and more places to get vaccinated.  
  
First, on vaccine supply: Yesterday, we announced the fifth consecutive
week of supply increases to states, tribes, and territories, from 8.6
million doses when we took office to 14.5 million doses this week. 
That’s an increase in vaccine allocations to states of nearly 70 percent
during the Biden-Harris administration.  
  
The Retail Pharmacy Program we launched a few weeks ago has performed
well so far.  And this week, we will increase the allocation to
pharmacies to 2.1 million doses.   
  
So, with 14.5 million doses allocated to states, tribes, and territories
and 2.1 million through the federal Retail Pharmacy Program, we’ve
nearly doubled weekly supply of doses in just five weeks.  
  
Second, we’re mobilizing teams to get shots in arms.  We’ve deployed
over 800 federal personnel as vaccinators.  And the federal government
is now funding 1,200 National Guard members to serve as vaccinators. 
We’ve also deployed 1,000 federal personnel to support community
vaccination sites in operational and support roles.  
  
Third, we continue creating more places where Americans can get
vaccinated.  We’ve now expanded financial support to bolster community
vaccination centers nationwide, with over $3.6 billion in FEMA funding
to 44 states, tribes, and territories for vaccination efforts.  We’re
bringing vaccinations to places communities know and trust: community
centers, high school gyms, churches, and stadiums nationwide.  
  
And we continue to work with states to set up innovative, high-volume,
federally run sites that can each give over 30,000 shots a week.  These
sites are up and running in California and are ramping up in Texas,
Florida, and Pennsylvania.  
  
We’ve also launched federal programs to get vaccines to pharmacies and
local community health centers.  As we’ve always said, we’re committed
to providing clarity on our progress, and that includes when we hit
bumps in the road.  
  
Last week, we got hit with the very severe weather, which impacted the
vaccination supply chain — from manufacturing, to shipping, to the
ability to get shots in arms.  The manufacturers, the shipping firms,
the states, the tribes, the territories, and pharmacies worked to
overcome these challenges.  
  
And despite all the temporary weather-related delays, our seven-day
average daily doses administered is at 1.4 million.  And we’ve already
caught up on the weather-related shipping backlog.  
  
Teams worked throughout last weekend to pack and ship doses.  On Monday,
yesterday, 7 million doses — two days ago — 7 million doses were
delivered.  That, coupled with the 14.5 million doses allocated this
week, results in record supply going to the states.  We’ve encouraged
states to get needles into arms by extending vaccine clinic hours,
offering services 24 hours a day where possible, adding weekend
appointments, and having more staff on hand.  
  
On this point, I want to stress that if states do not have the staff to
work around the clock and on the weekends, the federal government stands
ready to help.   
  
I also want to spend a couple minutes on our plans for the Johnson &
Johnson vaccine, which is currently pending approval for emergency use
authorization by the FDA.  Yesterday, I again updated and reviewed with
our nation’s governors our plans to distribute the Johnson &
Johnson vaccine if the EUA is granted.   
The governors are carefully planning their efforts and getting ready for
the possible new vaccine.  If authorized, we are ready to roll out this
vaccine without delay.  Our distribution approach will mirror the
current allocations process across jurisdictions, pharmacies, and
community health centers.  
  
If an EUA is issued, we anticipate allocating 3 to 4 million doses of
Johnson & Johnson vaccine next week.  Johnson & Johnson has announced it
aims to deliver a total of 20 million doses by the end of March.  We’re
working with the company to accelerate the pace and timeframe by which
they deliver the full 100 million doses, which is required by contract
by the end of June.  
  
While we await the FDA’s decision, we want the American people to know
that we’re doing the work so that if the EUA is granted, we will waste
no time getting this lifesaving vaccine into the arms of Americans.  
  
With that, let me turn it over to Dr. Walensky to talk about the state
of the pandemic.  
  
Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Jeff.  I’m again delighted to be with you
today.   
  
We continue to see trends heading in the right direction.  In the past
week, average daily cases declined 25 percent to approximately 64,000
cases per day.  This is slightly less than the summer peak of 67,000
daily cases reported last July.  While this is good news, cases still
remain high, and we continue to watch these data closely.   
  
We also see continued declines in new hospital admissions for the most
recent week.  An average of 6,500 patients with COVID-19 were admitted
per day, a decrease of 16 percent from the week prior.  The number of
reported deaths is also dropping with a seven-day average of slightly
less than 2,000 per day.  This represents a 35 percent decline compared
to the prior week.  
  
On Monday, I announced that we were kicking off our three-day National
COVID-19 Vaccine Forum, and since that time, we’ve had an extraordinary
few days.  
  
Our final tally — we’ve virtually assembled over 12,000 participants
from across the United States, representing state, tribe, local, and
territorial governments, private sector partners, medical and public
health institutions, community-based organizations, faith-based groups,
and educators, among others.  
  
The discussions and presentations from over 100 speakers showcased
promising practices and critical scientific information for those
involved in vaccination efforts in communities across the nation.   
  
I’d like to share a few examples of what we’ve learned over the last
three days.   
  
First, trust and community confidence are cornerstones of our national
vaccine efforts.  Trusted voices are critical to building confidence in
vaccines and addressing misinformation.  Our community leaders are often
those trusted voices.   
  
We heard from national, state, and local health leaders about
communication and public education campaigns they are deploying to
combat myths and disinformation, and instill confidence and interest in
COVID-19 vaccines, as well as tools and strategies healthcare providers
can use when talking with their patients about COVID-19 vaccination.   
  
For example, we learned about a new communications campaign in New
Orleans that is grounded in the local flavor and culture as a way to
resonate with the city’s residents.  
  
Second, one of the most powerful benefits of the forum was learning
about on-the-ground experiences and new innovations to expand
vaccination efforts.  We heard about creative ways providers and
volunteers have been getting vaccinations into communities using boats,
ferries, and snowmobiles in Alaska; leveraging emergency medical
services to provide vaccinations to homebound individuals in Indiana;
and using awareness campaigns, featuring trusted elders and healthcare
workers, in the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma.  
  
Finally, forum sessions taught us that every person, community,
faith-based organization, governmental and non-governmental partner, and
business has a role to stop — to play in supporting our nation’s
COVID-19 vaccination strategy.  
  
We learned about faith-based efforts, like the outreach to people of
color being led by the Metropolitan <s>International</s>
\[Interdenominational\] Church in Nashville, Tennessee, where faith
ambassadors engage with local clergy to help spread accurate information
on COVID-19 vaccines to these high-risk communities.  
  
We also heard about successful public-private partnerships, like in San
Diego, where vaccination “super sites,” like the one in Petco Park
Stadium, are vaccinating thousands of people a day; and in Colorado,
where there is a government-private partnership — the Champions for
Vaccine Equity task force — where the health department and 10 medical
Champions of color are working with and through community-based
organizations to create opportunities for listening and sharing
information about COVID-19 vaccines.  
  
These are just a few of many practical innovations and solutions shared
during the forum.  And I want to let you know that all of these
sessions, as well as resources and materials, will be posted on the CDC
website following the forum.  I encourage you to check it out when
you’re able.  
  
Next, I would like to take a moment to highlight the progress made so
far in our efforts to rapidly expand and open sequencing nationally,
including through our $200 million investment announced last week.  This
work is more important than ever, given the continued spread of COVID-19
variants in the United States.   
  
As of February 23rd, we now have identified nearly 1,900 cases of B117
variant in 45 states, 46 cases of B1351 variant in 14 states, and 5
cases of the P1 variant in four states.  
  
The pace of our genomic sequencing has scaled up from about 400 samples
a week, when I started as CDC Director, to now more than 9,000 samples
as of the week of February 20th.   
  
We are continuing to increase this pace with our state public health and
private lab partners with a goal of 25,000 samples per week in the
coming weeks.   
  
The increased volume of sequence information is helping us to better
understand the diversity of variants circulating in the United States,
where they are located, and how they are spread.  With the samples in
hand, we can then scientifically examine how variants impact vaccines
and therapeutics moving forward.  
  
Finally, I want to say that we are proud to be partners in the
announcement made today about sending masks to underserved and
vulnerable populations.  One of the most impactful things we can do is
wear a mask, and this is so important during this critical period where
cases are declining but variants that spread more easily are increasing
throughout our country.  
  
CDC continues to recommend that everyone two years of age or older wear
a mask when in public and around others in the home not living with
you.   
  
The mask you should wear should have two or more layers, completely
cover your nose and mouth, and fit snugly against your nose and the
sides of your face.  It’s essential that you wear your mask correctly
and that it fits well in order to get the most protection.   
  
By wearing masks in combination with social distancing, washing your
hands, avoiding crowds and travel, and getting vaccinated when it’s
available, we can bring an end to this pandemic.  
  
Thank you.  I, of course, look forward to your questions, but I’ll first
turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  What I’d like to do over
the next couple of minutes is just update you on an important component
of the spectrum of COVID-19 disease.   
  
If I can have the first slide.  
  
Many of you are now aware of what had long been called “long COVID.” 
But actually, what that really is is post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2
infection, which we’re now referring to as “PASC,” or P-A-S-C.   
  
The reason I’m bringing it up with you today will become apparent in
just a minute or two.  Just to refresh your memory, the symptoms of this
include fatigue, shortness of breath, sleep disorders, fevers, GI
symptoms, anxiety and depression, and what some have been referring to
as brain fog, or an inability or a difficulty in concentrating or
focusing.   
  
Remember, these are post-acute sequelae — after the virus essentially
has been cleared from the body.  And actually, new symptoms sometimes
arise well after the time of infection, or they evolve over time and
they may persist, as I’ll get to in a moment, for months and can range
from mild annoying to actually quite incapacitating.  The magnitude of
the problem is not yet fully known.  
  
Next.  
  
There have been a number of papers that have described in some detail
large cohorts.  Here is one from China, which was published online on
January 8th, in more than 1,700 patients who actually had been
hospitalized.  I point out that you can get this post-acute syndrome
even in individuals who did not require hospitalization.  The six-month
follow-up showed a variety of signs and symptoms, shown here, with many
having fatigue and weakness — as I mentioned on the prior slide — sleep
difficulties, anxiety or depression.  And the greater proportion of
patients with more severe illness had impaired lung diffusion
capacity.   
  
Next.  
  
Most recently, in a study from the University of Washington that
appeared just a few days ago, it was found really now something
alarming: that approximately 30 percent of the patients who are enrolled
at the University of Washington reported persistent symptoms for as long
as nine months after illness.  Fatigue was the most common reported
symptom, and persistent symptoms were reported by one third of
outpatients with mild disease.   
  
Next slide.   
  
What we did — “we” being an interagency group: the NIH, the CDC, and
others — put together a workshop in Rockville, just a little bit north
of Washington, D.C., on December the 3rd and the 4th of last year, in
which we looked at various organ systems and brought in experts in all
of these areas — cardiovascular, pulmonary, renal, neurologic,
immunologic, and pediatrics — to scope out the kinds of things that we
would need to be looking at with this puzzling syndrome.   
  
Now, the reason I’m bringing it up at this press conference — next slide
— is that just yesterday, on February the 23rd, the NIH launched a new
initiative to study this PASC, or post-acute sequelae.  Now, looking
back a bit in December of last year, the Congress provided $1.15 billion
in funding over four years for the NIH to support research looking into
this.  And I’m happy to say that yesterday there was the first in what
will be a series of research opportunity announcements released for NIH
initiative on this puzzling syndrome.   
  
The research studies will be looking at SARS-CoV-2 recovery cohorts,
some that are already established and some that will be established. 
They’ll be looking at large data banks from resources, such as
electronic health records and health symptoms.  And they’ll be studying
a number of biological specimens.  
  
And finally, on the last slide, there are selected questions that this
initiative hopes to answer, and they are important:

-   What does the spectrum of recovery from this infection look like
    across all the entire population — young individuals, middle-aged,
    elderly? 
-   How many people continue to have symptoms of COVID-19 or even, as
    we’ve seen, develop new symptoms that they did not have even as part
    of their acute infection? 
-   Importantly, what is the underlying biological cause of these
    prolonged symptoms?  We refer to that as pathogenesis. 
-   What makes certain people vulnerable, while others recover fully and
    quickly and have no sequelae? 
-   And finally, does SARS-CoV-2 infection trigger changes in the body
    that actually increase the risk, later on, of such abnormalities,
    such as chronic heart or brain disorders? 

A lot of important questions that are now unanswered that we hope, with
this series of initiatives, we will ultimately answer.   
  
So I’ll stop there and hand it back to Jeff.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, Doctors Fauci and Walensky.  Why don’t —
why don’t we open it up for questions.  
  
     MODERATOR:  First we’ll go to Meg Tirrel at CNBC.  
  
     Q    Hi.  Thanks so much.  Just a follow-up, Dr. Fauci.  And then
I’ve got another couple questions, one for Dr. Walensky and then one for
all of you.    
  
On long COVID, I wonder if you could tell us just a little bit more
about — and it’s early, but what the epidemic of PASC or long COVID
might look like even beyond the pandemic, and how worried you are about
that.  And if you’re, you know, seeing any early work going on in trying
to develop sort of therapeutics or other ways of addressing it.   
  
And I wondered for Dr. Walensky, on the masks: A lot of people are so
excited about this announcement.  I wondered how you decided on cloth
masks — if you considered or are considering N95s at all, even though we
know that there is, you know, constrained supply of those.  
  
And then, finally, just a question on the vaccines in general and the
plan going forward.  You know, with J&J potentially coming out next
week, we also know AstraZeneca will have U.S. phase three data in a few
weeks, and Novavax has said Q2 it’ll plan to file and could have 110
million doses in the third quarter.  It seems like we’re going to have a
glut of vaccines, potentially, later this year, which is a great
situation, but what is the plan for all of these different vaccines if
they do succeed?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Okay, thank you, Meg.  I’ll take the first question related
to this syndrome.  A very important question about what we can do about
it, and that’s the reason why we are creating these cohorts and we’re
looking at what might possibly be hints at pathogenesis.   
  
It’s very difficult to treat something when you don’t know what the
target of the treatment is.  And that’s the reason why it’s extremely
important to take a look at these individuals, not only the scope of
this and not only, you know, the depth and breadth of the symptoms, but
also to try and have some correlate that actually is the
pathophysiological correlate.   
  
Once we get that, an important part of this, as I mentioned, would be to
design therapeutic approaches, hopefully by medications that we already
have.  We just need to know how to use them.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  And maybe I’ll chime in and just discuss the — the CDC
guidance now is to wear cloth masks.  The distribution of these masks,
which we are also super enthusiastic about, is intended to ensure that
both the source and the receiver are wearing a mask that’s compliant
with the CDC guidance, that is comfortable, easy to wear, and when worn
will prevent infection.  And we believe these masks will do so.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Why don’t I handle, Meg, your question on vaccines?  And we
do not want to get ahead of FDA decision-making here on any of the
vaccines that have not been yet approved.   
  
But on J&J, obviously the prospect of a potential third approved vaccine
is very encouraging and will help to increase the overall vaccine
supply, which will allow more Americans to get access to a vac- — to
getting vaccinated sooner.   
  
Keep in mind that the J&J contract is to deliver 100 million doses by
the end of June, but we’re working to accelerate that delivery
schedule.  And I think the thing you will hear from our doctors and from
President Biden is: As soon as it is your turn to get a vaccine, get
vaccinated.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Ricardo at the Associated Press.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you for taking my question.  And Jeff Zients mentioned
that you’re caught up for weather-related delays on shipping.  However,
if we look at the CDC information on vaccinations, vaccinations are
still down markedly from before the weather.  And so my question to you
is, what is your timetable for getting caught up on actual shots in
arms?  And where do you think the level has to be?  And then, finally,
even before the weather hit, we were seeing a leveling off in first
doses.  What explains that?  And does it concern you?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, you know, I showed the data that we averaged 1.4
million per day last week, which was down from 1.7.  Prior to that, each
week it was going up.  I think in the most recent day-to-day
information, there’s a little bit of a lag effect, so you’re seeing the
lag of the weekend weather and the weekend overall.   
  
We anticipate that the rate of vaccinations will increase markedly this
week, given that all that supply did arrive over the weekend and on
Monday, and that we’ve increased the weekly allocation to states,
tribes, and territories up to 14.5 million — which is up 70 percent from
the 8.6 where we started five weeks ago — and that the pharmacy program
is now being allocated to 2.1 million.   
  
So I think and hope that you will see a market increase in the
vaccination rate given that the weather issues are largely behind us and
absent any other type of weather or unexpected event.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Jeremy Diamond at CNN.  
  
Q    Hey, thanks for doing this.  A couple of questions. First, on the
issue of vaccines: Jeff, you said today that about 3 to 4 million doses
will be available to be shipped out, if and when an EUA is granted. 
Yesterday, I believe you told governors it would be 2 million doses.  So
could you explain that discrepancy?   
  
And then also, how do you believe that the arrival of this vaccine, if
in fact it is approved, will affect the President’s goal of 100 million
shots in 100 days?  Do you expect to increase that goal?   
  
And then, just lastly on the question of the mask shipments, I’m
wondering how much it is costing the administration to ship these
masks.  And, you know, at this point, given that Americans who want to
wear a mask largely aren’t having trouble actually finding masks, what’s
the rationale behind this?  And are there — you know, how does this help
solve the problem of mask hesitancy, which seems to be one of the bigger
issues here?   
  
Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  That was — that was a lot at once.   You’ll have to
help me here as we go along.  But I think my exact language yesterday
was “around 2 million” to the governors.  It might end up being a little
more than that, but remember we also allocate to pharmacies and to
community health centers.  So that’s the primary delta — or difference,
if you will, between around 2 million and 3 to 4 million.  
  
Your next question was that — around the 100 million goal. That goal,
when we set it, was an ambitious goal.  Many people talked about one
that we would have real trouble reaching.  So far, we are pacing ahead
of that goal.  The President pushes us every day to figure out
everything we can do as a whole-of-government effort partnering with
governors, local health officials, and others to do all we can to
vaccinate as many Americans as fast, efficiently, and as, importantly,
equitably as possible.  So we view the 100 million shots in 100 days as
a floor, and we, you know, intend to exceed that goal.  
  
On masks, the cost will be $86 million.  And we really believe that this
policy makes a lot of sense in that it allows, you know, people who are
not able to, in some situations, find or afford a mask, to get a mask. 
And it’s part of our equity strategy and central to that.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Sharon LaFraniere at New York Times.  
  
Q    Thanks for taking my question.  So, J&J was supposed to have 12
million doses by the end of the month and 37 \[million\] by the end of
March.  Instead, it’s going to be under 4 million and 20 million.  Can
you tell us what exactly happened to cause these delays?  
  
Secondly, how confident are you that Pfizer and Moderna are going to be
able to deliver the full 220 million doses that they’ve promised by the
end of next month?  
  
And then, finally, if you could address: To what degree is the
vaccination program really hobbled by lack of sites and vaccinators? 
Isn’t lack of supply the principal obstacle?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Just to start with the beginning: I think, to date, we have
been — as we’ve ramped up the number of places, the number of
vaccinators, that supply has been, as you suggest, the primary
constraint.  
  
On J&J — you know, when we got here five weeks ago we learned that J&J
was behind on manufacturing, and our team has been working with them
since.  And, yeah, I think they’re in a better place now.  We’ve helped
them with equipment and raw materials, which I think is helping to
increase greater capacity and accelerate.   
  
The contract, as you stated, is to deliver 100 million by the end of
June.  The initial production ramp — you gave the data — was slower than
we’d like, so we will continue to work with the company to accelerate
that ramp.   
  
And I would refer, you know, you to J&J for any more specifics.  But I
think it was disappointing when we arrived.  I think the progress is
real.  And we look forward to continuing to work with the company to
accelerate their delivery and their capacity.  
  
On Moderna and Pfizer, as you know, we’ve done a lot to help both
companies with their manufacturing processes.  We’re in touch with them
all the time — daily, hourly — to make sure that we’re doing anything we
can to help them and to monitor their production.  And I think, just
yesterday, they articulated that they are on schedule — Moderna — to
deliver the 100 million doses by the end of March.  
  
And, as you know, the President visited Pfizer last Friday, and the
Pfizer CEO reassured the President that they’re doing everything they
can to accelerate production and that they will deliver 120 million
doses by the end of March and 200 million doses by the end of May.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Last question, and we’re going to make it really quick. 
Josh Wingrove with Bloomberg.  
  
Q    Hi there, and thank you for taking the time.  Can you speak a
little bit about, first, the mask decision?  It was deliberated whether
to send them to all Americans.  Can you talk a little bit about that
sort of decision?  Was it — was that just, sort of, too big an
undertaking?  You get more, sort of, impact to send it more targeted?  
  
And can I ask: Specifically, do you think the allocations are going to
change if you do get a third approval?  In other words, will governors
still get a similar share of the stream, or will expanded vaccinations
sort of help you change the math a little bit and open up some other
streams?   
  
Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Yes.  So let me do the second question about allocation. 
We talked to the governors yesterday as part of their preparation, and
we’re talking to the pharmacies and the community health centers, our
federal partners about the allocation being — mirroring the current
allocation.  So the same percentage is going through each channel.  
  
You know, across time, we’ll monitor channels, make sure channels are
performing in two ways: efficiency and also fairness and equity, so
future allocations across channels could be changed based on
performance.  But we’re starting — if the FDA does approve Johnson &
Johnson as our third effective vaccine, it’ll be distributed along the
same lines as our current percentages.   
  
You know, months ago, sending a mask to every American would have been a
good idea.  Today, masks are widely available in many different shapes
and sizes.  Yet, still, not all Americans are wearing masks regularly,
and not all masks are equal.  Many Americans need access to a mask that
provides effective protection in line with the CDC guidance that
Rochelle articulated.   
  
So this plan of sending masks to community health centers and to food
pantries is an effort that focuses on people who may be particularly in
need of the extra support to stay safe and to meet the President’s mask
challenge of masking up for the first 100 days.   
  
So with that, I just want to thank everybody for joining.  And we look
forward to Friday’s session.  Thank you.  
  
11:38 A.M. EST
