---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-11'
modified_time: 2021-02-11 16:34:54-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/11/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-february-11-2021/
published_time: 2021-02-11 16:34:53-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, February 11,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:43 P.M. EST

     MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Good afternoon.  I have quite a few
things at the top, but then we will take plenty of questions. 

I wanted to take a moment, at the top of our briefing today, to note
that on this day, 21 years ago, President Clinton announced the naming
of the White House Briefing Room for former Press Secretary, James
Brady.  Brady, as many of you are probably aware, was severely wounded
in a 1981 assassination attempt on President Reagan and later became a
prominent gun violence prevention advocate. 

During the campaign, President Biden laid out an ambitious plan to make
our community safer.  And that’s why in part, yesterday, senior members
of his team — Domestic Policy Advisor Susan Rice, White House Public
Engagement Director Cedric Richmond — hosted a virtual discussion with
leaders of gun violence prevention groups to discuss our shared goals. 

The very gun violence prevention organization named for James Brady was
part of that discussion, along with Giffords, Everytown for Gun Safety,
and Moms Demand Action.  These organizations all have a critical role to
play. 

Gun violence may not be in the headlines today or right now, but gun
violence continues to fracture American communities and American
families every single day.  Last year, we saw a historic spike in
homicides across America.  And we know gun violence in our cities
disproportionately affects black and brown individuals.  Last month, we
also saw a near record increase in the number of gun sales. 

We look forward to working with gun violence survivors and advocates and
sharing more in the weeks and months ahead about our efforts to make our
communities safer. 

Also, as many of you are tracking, the President and Vice President met
in the Oval Office earlier today with a bipartisan group of senators
from the Environment and Public Works Committee, and Transportation
Secretary Pete Buttigieg joined virtually to discuss the critical need
for investing in modern and sustainable American infrastructure.

The President, Vice President, Secretary, and senators established the
mutual understanding that America needs to build new infrastructure
across urban and rural areas, and create millions of good-paying jobs in
the process of supporting the country’s economic recovery in the months
and years ahead.

The President, the Vice President, and the Secretary also shared the
administration’s view for building sustainable infrastructure that will
withstand the impacts of climate change and fuel an American clean
energy revolution.

As the President has said — and let me just give you a little note on
the trip to the NIH today.  I told you there were a few things going
on.  As the President has said many times, this is an administration
that will lead with science and the guidance of our health and medical
team.  He is visiting, later this afternoon, the NIH.  It’s an
opportunity to visit with and thank the men and women who are on the
frontlines of the important research happening there. 

He will also receive an update from Dr. Fauci and Dr. Collins, and he
will deliver remarks and provide an update on the ongoing efforts to
expand vaccine supply as quickly as possible. 

Another scheduling note for all of you: We’re also pleased to announce
that the President will speak on the importance of our transatlantic
ties and the needs for — the need for the United States and Europe to
take on global challenges together at a virtual event hosted by the
Munich Security Conference on February 19th. 

For more than 50 years, the Munich Security Conference has been a
leading forum for discussing international security policy. 
Distinguished guests have included world leaders and personalities,
international and non-governmental organizations, business, the media,
academia, and civil society. 

President Biden led the U.S. delegation to the conference three times as
Vice President, and most recently participated in the 2019 forum.  We’ll
have more details in the days ahead. 

Also, on Burma — (object falls to floor) — and you may have seen the ne-
— everybody is okay here; don’t worry.  You may have seen the news that
went out right before the briefing and the President also talked about
yesterday.  But as we said immediately on reports of the coup: The
United States opposes any attempts to alter the outcome of recent
elections or impede Myanmar’s democratic transition. 

Today, President Biden is taking significant steps in response to the
military coup in Burma.  The U.S. Department of Treasury designated 10
individuals and three entities for their association to the military
apparatus responsible for the coup.  Three entities, wholly owned
subsidiaries of a conglomerate owned or controlled by the Burmese
military, have also been designated. 

Additionally, as the President announced, the U.S. government has also
taken steps to prevent the generals from improperly accessing more than
$1 billion in Burmese government funds held in the United States. 

The Department of Commerce is also taking immediate action to limit
exports of sensitive goods to the Burmese military and other entities
associated with the recent coup. 

In addition, we’re freezing U.S. assistance that benefits the Burmese
government, while maintaining our support for healthcare, civil society
groups, and other areas that benefit the Burmese people directly. 

We will also continue our support for the Rohingya and other vulnerable
populations. 

As you know, we released a factsheet on this, so it just came out before
the briefing, and I just wanted to highlight it briefly.

Last item, and then we’ll get to your questions.  Someone in here — it
may be that you were not — it was a person who was not here again today
— asked a very good question yesterday about the shortage of
semiconductor chips.  So as we often like to do, we wanted to provide
all of you an update on that.

The administration is currently identifying potential choke points in
the supply chain and actively working alongside key stakeholders in
industry and with our trading partners to do more now. 

At the same time, we are looking down the road.  The longstanding issue
with short supply of semiconductors was — which was the question
yesterday — is one of the central motivations for the executive order
the President will sign in the coming weeks to undertake a comprehensive
review of supply chains for critical goods.  The review will be focused
on identifying the immediate actions we can take, from improving the
physical production of those items in the U.S., to working with allies
to develop a coordinated response to the weaknesses and bottlenecks that
are hurting American workers. 

With that, go ahead, Jonathan.

Q    Thank you very much. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure. 

Q    A couple other topics for you.  First, the President earlier today
said he spoke to President Xi of China for two hours last night.  Even
giving — setting aside time for translation, that’s an obviously robust
phone call.  But the readout that was issued by the White House does not
mention any discussion of the situation in Burma or trade between the
two countries.  Were those topics, as well as the origin of COVID-19,
discussed?  And if so, what was said?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it was a lengthy call, as you noted and as the
President noted this morning.  And as — modern-day historians can
certainly confirm that there are a few presidents who came into this job
with more of a history on engaging with Chinese leadership. 

The President’s — the readout we released last night was also quite
robust and comprehensive about the range of issues that were covered
during that call.  I’m not going to have additional readouts to provide
from here, but I can outline for you, kind of, where we are in our — the
status of our relationship and our efforts as it relates to China.

The President wants to lead with a clear and compelling affirmative U.S.
policy agenda, take steps to strengthen our own economy.  That’s
something that is a primary focus of his — that means getting the
pandemic under control; that means taking steps here to get people back
to work. 

He wants to work with our partners and allies, as you’ve seen from the
readouts we’ve done from the President’s engagement.  He wants to take
steps across government, as you saw from his visit to the Pentagon
yesterday and the review he announced. 

And he also is committed to being clear and candid in his engagements,
as he was last night in his conversation with President — his lengthy
conversation, as you alluded to — with President Xi, where he talked
about the fundamental concerns he has — we have about Beijing’s coercive
and unfair economic practices.  That obviously covers a range of concern
— a range of issues: the crackdown in Hong Kong, human rights abuses
across the country, increasingly assertive actions in the region,
including toward Taiwan. 

So that was the scope of the conversation.  If there’s more to provide,
I’m happy to check with our national security team.  But I just wanted
to outline for you, given you gave me the opportunity.

What was your second question?

Q    On the domestic front — on schools: There’s been some confusion as
to just what the administration’s goals are when it comes to reopening
schools.  Can you clear that up for us?  And in particular, can you
explain to American parents that just one day a week of in-person school
— does that count as schools being open?  Why should they be satisfied
with that?

MS. PSAKI:  They shouldn’t be.  I wouldn’t be, as a parent.  And I am a
parent, I should say; I have two young kids.  And I know many of you
have kids as well.  

The President wants schools to open safely and in accord with science,
and we are going to listen to science and medical experts.  The CDC
guidelines, we expect them to come out tomorrow.  And we are eager to
hear more about the clear, science-based guidelines for opening schools
and how we can do that safely and how we can keep them open.

The President will not rest until every school is open five days a
week.  That is our goal.  That is what we want to achieve.  But we are
going to — we look forward to seeing and hearing the CDC guidelines to
gain a better understanding of what steps that will entail or should
entail. 

The President’s role is, of course, to ensure that, across government,
we are listening to those guidelines, we are leaning into science, we
are letting the science and medical experts lead.  And then his
objective is to ensure there’s the funding to deliver on that.  That’s
in the American Rescue Plan.

So I can assure any parent listening that his objective, his commitment
is to ensuring schools are open five days a week.  That’s what he wants
to achieve.  And we are going to lead with science and the advice that
they are giving us, and the first step is tomorrow — next step is
tomorrow, I should say.

Lucy, go ahead. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  I’ll come back to you, Kristen.

Q    I wanted to go back to the chip issue.  I know you mentioned that
there’s going to be an executive order about reviewing supply chains. 
Are there going to be specific measures to incentivize companies to set
up chip-making plants in the U.S. or any effort to roll back some of the
Trump-era regulations seen as responsible for the supply shortage? 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, this has been a long-going issue, as you know,
I think, from covering it long before President Biden took office and
even before that.  There’ll be more details when the executive order is
actually signed, and obviously it’s a commitment that he has and the
economic team have to addressing.  But we’ll wait for them for more
specific details.

Q    And I just wanted to quickly ask about the WHO team that recently
left China.  I know there were some reports that the outbreak may have
erupted — of coronavirus — in October 2019, prior to what we previously
thought.  Does the Biden administration believe China notified the WHO
in a timely fashion about the COVID outbreak a year ago?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President, during his call, he certainly expressed
a concern about the lack of transparency.  That’s something he’s also
talked about publicly.  And as we’ve noted a couple of times, we are
looking forward to receiving the data from the investigation and taking
a look at that ourselves.  But certainly there has been a concern about
the lack of transparency, and there’s more information that we need to
ensure it doesn’t happen again. 

Go ahead, Kristen. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.  President Biden just said in the Oval Office that
he thinks some minds may have been changed in the wake of that newly
revealed footage.  Does the President now think that conviction is a
possibility of former President Trump?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say first, Kristen, that I think what he was
referencing — and I think the question — I’m not — did you ask the
question?

Q    I did.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, there you go.  So the question — that’s what I
thought.  The question that he was asked was about the video — that you
asked him was about the video.  And, you know, anyone who watched that
video — many of us watched it when our days concluded, and we saw news
clips, probably on NBC and other outlets — found it harrowing and deeply
disturbing.  And, you know, that’s certainly how the President felt when
he watched it — when he watched some of the clips, as he — as he
referenced.  You know, and he was affected by that.

And I think what his — he was reflecting on was that, you know, it was
just a reminder of — of what an unprecedented assault, as he said on
January 6th, this was on our democracy.  And the footage was just a
reminder of how shocked and saddened he was on the day this occurred. 
It was kind of a reliving of that for many people who spend — has spent
as much time as he has in Congress. 

You know, I think he said “or they may not.”  You know, he was — he was
not intending to give a projection or a prediction, but was just giving
a very human and emotional response to what many people did — what many
people felt, I should say, when they watched the video.

Q    Does the President now think that former President Trump should be
convicted, having seen some of the video?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Kristen, you know, the President made clear, as he did
again this morning when you asked him the question, about the fact that
he felt that what happened was an assault on our democracy, that he was
shocked and saddened.  And again, watching that footage was a reminder
of that. 

But he also knows there’s a role for Congress to play and a role for him
to play.  And his role in this process is to be President of the United
States and to govern for all of the American people.

Q    Jen, I know he wants to keep the focus on his agenda, but does the
President have an obligation to weigh in, given that the whole country
is watching what’s happening on Capitol Hill?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he did weigh in, having — when you asked him the
question this morning.  And he weighed in yesterday when — when he was
asked about — about the proceedings, as well. 

Q    But on the matter of conviction, he hasn’t weighed in yet.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the Senate was — the President was in the Senate for
36 years, as you all well know, and he certainly is an institutionalist
who values the role that the Senate plays.  So the Senate is serving as
a jury to consider the charges.  The House — members of the House are
certainly presenting that case, many of them very powerfully.  He’s not
on the jury.  He’s not in the Senate.  He’s — his role is to be
President of the United States.  And that’s not the role he currently
plays.

Q    If I could just ask one on masks.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    We know that there had been some discussion about sending out masks
to the American people.  Can you tell us where those discussions stand? 
Will there be a decision this week?  And will it be targeted to
vulnerable communities, to schools, to other communities?

Q    Well, Kristen, we certainly continue to look for ways to keep the
American people safe.  And masking — encouraging people to mask up, as
the President did during his time at — not at the Super Bowl, but in his
PSA around the Super Bowl, is a priority.  It’s one of the most
effective mitigation steps.  It could save 50,000 lives if people were
all to mask up across the country.  But I don’t have any update on the
next steps on those reports — on that reported discussion. 

Go ahead.  We’ll come back to you.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Jen, thank you.  Just a quick follow-up on Kristen’s question.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure. 

Q    When the President said that he thought some minds could be
changed, has he had any conversations with senators, particularly
wavering Republicans, about where they stand on their vote?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s not the role he’s playing.  He certainly has had a
number of discussions with Democrats and Republicans about the issues he
feels it is his responsibility to focus on, which is the American Rescue
Plan, putting people back to work, getting the pandemic under control,
making sure American families don’t have to worry about putting food on
the table.  That’s what he feels his role is. 

But I think, as I — as I was saying in response to Kristen, you know,
it’s hard — it was hard not to watch that video — I think it was for all
of us — and not have an emotional reaction.  And the President has great
value and respect for the institution of Congress, for the men and women
serving there — not just the elected officials, but the staff.  And I
think that was what he was reflecting in his comments.

Q    And on China: What did the President mean when he said, “They’re
going to eat our lunch”?  What exactly should Americans be worrying
about right now with regard to China?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it was a reflection on the fact that the
President is clear-eyed about the challenge that we’re facing, and
that’s the strategic competition with China.  And that in order to get
on our best footing in that competition, we need to take steps here at
home, including making our own workforce more competitive, ensuring we
are taking steps to protect our own technology, ensuring that, you know,
we are working with our partners and allies to do that.

And so it’s a reflection of our strategy, which is that we are going to
get our house in order, in order to come into that competition from a
stronger footing — the strongest footing possible, I should say.

Q    And when will he outline his strategy to compete with China,
including the trade policy that John was asking about?  Will he retain
at least some of the Trump administration’s trade policy?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he has — of course, there’s a review of our tariffs
and, I think, trade policies in place that is ongoing from the national
security team. 

But our strategy has played out over the last several weeks, which
includes ensuring that we are strengthening our own approach at home, as
we’ve been talking about — strengthening our economy, strengthening our
workforce.  That is how we can compete from a position of strength,
working with our partners and allies.  And in all of the conversations
with Europeans, with allies in the region, China and the relationship
with China has been a pivotal part of those conversations.  So that’s
also part of our strategy.

And then also, you saw some of it play out yesterday in the review he
announced at the Pentagon. 

So it is currently playing out, but we are not in a rush.  And we are
three weeks in.  And, you know, our team is taking a very strategic
approach to our relationship. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, I’m sorry.  I said I would go to you first.  I’ll go to
you next.  Go ahead.

Q    Okay, thanks.  I wanted to ask you about three topics, first being
the Federal Reserve.  Has President Biden spoken yet to Jay Powell?  And
how does he think the Federal Reserve Chair is doing his job?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any calls to read out.  I’m happy to take the
question and see if there’s any updates on it. 

Q    Okay, thanks.  And then second is: I want to follow up on the
semiconductor issue.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Given the urgency of this situation, why did the White House decide
to conduct this review, which could take months, rather than more —
taking more immediate action?  Can you explain the thinking there and
why you decided to go with this longer path?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I said he’s going to sign an executive order soon, so
he certainly is taking — we’re only three weeks in.  He’s taking pretty
quick action. 

But as is true with many policies, we want to take a comprehensive look
at the most effective steps that we can take as an administration,
across agencies that will have a role to play, to address what has been
a longstanding challenge, which is the shortage.  So that’s what it’s a
reflection of.

Q    Some of the CEOs of semiconductor companies have asked for tax
credits and other kind of stimulus-like items to be included in the
Build Back Better plan.  Can you tell us if those items are going to be
included in that plan?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m sure — I mean, the President met with CEOs earlier
this week; I’m not sure — none of them, I guess, were from that
industry.  But he will continue to consult with business leaders, as
will members — senior members of our administration, about certainly
their ideas of what they’d like to see in that agenda.

Part of the meeting today with — on infrastructure was a discussion
about ideas and pieces that could be put forward in a Build Back Better
agenda.  So those discussions and engagements are ongoing. 

Q    And then, lastly, on — I want to ask you about foreign leader
calls.  One of the — one remaining one is the Israeli Prime Minister,
Benjamin Netanyahu.  His U.N. Ambassador posted a tweet yesterday that
expressed some frustration that the call hasn’t happened already.  So
can you tell us, from the White House perspective, you know, why hasn’t
that call happened?  And when do you expect it will happen?

MS. PSAKI:  The President looks forward to speaking with Prime Minister
Netanyahu.  He’s obviously somebody that he has a longstanding
relationship with.  And obviously there’s a important relationship that
the United States has with Israel on the security front and as a key
partner in the region.  But he’ll be talking with him soon.  I don’t
have a specific date or time for you on that call yet.

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, I do want to go back to the allegations on Capitol Hill
against former President Trump.  I hear you — the President doesn’t want
to — that it’s not his role to vote in this trial.  So setting aside the
vote, you know, the House managers laid out this big case.  They said
that those rioters were there on January 6th in the name of Trump.  So
is there any doubt in your mind, or in the mind of the White House, that
Donald Trump is singularly responsible for the events that occurred on
January 6th, as the managers allege?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would go back to what the President of the United
States said the day of the assault on the Capitol, on January 6th; what
he said on January 13th when the House voted, when he called it “an
unprecedented assault” on our democracy; when he has expressed concerns
many times repeatedly, even long before January 6th, about President
Trump’s role in sparking hate, sparking anger, sparking violence in our
country.  He has certainly not been silent on that issue.  And he’s —
will continue to be outspoken about the need to take steps to address
across the country the spreading of hate and hate speech as he sees fit.

But what I’m referencing is what his role isn’t in an ongoing Senate
trial.  He’s not a member of the jury.  He is watching.  He was impacted
by the video, as we all were, of course.  And, you know, he will speak
out as he sees fit in the future. 

Q    Yeah, but when we talk about the future and those next steps, will
the impact and the final result in the trial vote — you know, the vote
of the trial — change how he approaches combatting extremists going
forward — you know, working to build trust and build bridges?  And will
the — clearly, that vote will change some of his next steps when he
tries to bring Americans together.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t think he’s waiting for that vote to take
action.  And the President has asked his team to do a review of domestic
violent extremism in the country.  That’s a review that was announced
the first week he took office.  And he certainly has been outspoken
about the role of hate speech on social media platforms.  He’s been
outspoken about that for certainly some time.

And again, he was impacted by the video as a human being, and he is
confident in the role that the impeachment managers and others will
play.  And he will focus on his job, and he expects they will focus on
doing theirs.

Q    Can I ask a follow-up to the schools question?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    You know, we’re expecting these new guidelines tomorrow, but we
know that a majority of schools are open in some form already, even if
it’s just for a day or two.  So is the President or the White House
concerned that some of those schools right now are open but not safe?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, one of the challenges we have is that the data is not
great, as it relates to schools that are open or not open, how hybrid
learning is impacting kids. 

One of the things the President asked the Department of Education to do
is to do a survey and get a better assessment of what that data looks
like and how the learning of the last year has impacted kids. 

But, again, these guidelines, Dr. Walensky and her team at the CDC will
present that to the public tomorrow.  We look forward to hearing their
clear, science-based guidelines for opening schools safely and keeping
them open.  These guidelines are going to be the basis for how our
health and medical experts, the incredible leadership at the CDC, our
future Secretary of Education, Cardona, will work with school districts
around the country to safely reopen.  And that’s where our focus will
be.

But the data and the lack of data, or effective data, is actually a part
of the problem.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Hi.  Jen, thanks.  One follow-up on China and then also a question
on behalf of a radio colleague of mine.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    First, on the President’s comments on China: In the past, he has
said that a rising China is a “positive” thing.  And then, talking about
today, his concern that China could “eat our lunch.”  Is there any
middle ground there?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think — are you referencing comments from — what —
was there a specific date you were referencing a comment from?

Q    Well, during the campaign, I think he mentioned a couple of times a
positive — it would be positive to see a rising China.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, I think that the President’s view is that we’re
in a competition with China, and he’s clear-eyed about the depth of that
challenge. 

And so the conversation he had with President Xi was certainly a
reflection of that.  And there were issues raised that reflected our
approach, including a passionate statement of the values of the United
States and a defense of those values in that conversation as well. 
That’s his view, and it’s reflected in our administration’s policy.

Q    And then, from a colleague, wondering if there’s any update on the
President’s order to review the threat of domestic violent extremism. 
And also, on that topic, there have been bills proposed in Congress.  Is
there any particular measure or approach the White House supports
already?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the review is 100-day review, so there’s not an update
on that quite yet, but once we have a conclusion, I’m sure we will
reveal the specifics to all of you. 

And in terms of what the policy steps will be taken, we’ll wait for the
review to conclude, and then we’ll have more to say or we’ll go through
a policy process. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Does the White House believe it can take executive
action to address gun control, or is it going to take a legislative
approach?  And if it can — if you do believe it can take — you can take
executive action, why haven’t you done so?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I will say that, you know, the President
addressing gun violence in the country and putting in place additional
safety measures is something that the President has a personal
commitment to, and his history on this issue is evidence of that.  You
know, he’s obviously taken on the NRA twice and won, and he is happy and
eager to do that in the future. 

Part of our engagement is working with groups to determine what the
steps are that can be taken.  But I don’t have anything to preview for
you at this point in terms of what the policy will look like or what
form it will take.

Q    And just one other one.  How much does the President want to spend
on an infrastructure package?

MS. PSAKI:  How much?

Q    How much?

MS. PSAKI:  Wait — wait until — it’s a process of ongoing discussion. 
Obviously, part of our Build Back Better agenda that he talked about on
the campaign trail is an investment in infrastructure.  The meeting this
morning was a reflection of how important it is to him to meet with
bipartisan leaders and have a discussion about what’s required in states
and communities.  But I don’t have a number for you.  We’re not at that
stage in the process quite yet.

Q    And just one other one.  New York City is reopening indoor dining
at 25 percent capacity starting tomorrow.  Does the President think
that’s a good idea? 

MS. PSAKI:  Again, we’ll leave it to our health and medical experts to
comment on specific steps taken by states as it relates to COVID.

Go ahead.

Q    Hi, Jen.  Thanks.  Does Iran need to come into compliance before
the U.S. will open up a channel of communication with them?

MS. PSAKI:  I think we’ve spoken to that.  I’m happy to repeat what our
position is.  What is our position with Iran and compliance?

Q    Well, I mean, do they need to come into compliance before the U.S.
will speak to them?  And has — and also, has President Biden authorized
the special envoy to begin talking to them?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, if Iran comes back into full compliance with its
obligations under the JCPOA, the United States would do the same.  So
that is certainly the first step that would be required.

Q    Okay.  So they need to return to compliance before any conversation
will —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are — of course, there are conversations that can
happen with partners and allies through the P5+1.  There’s plenty to do,
and — but that would be the first — next step in the process.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I have questions on two topics for you.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    And one for a colleague who —

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    — couldn’t be here today.  You know, the President just started a
task force, and part of its goal is to reunite the, I believe, 545
families that were separated under the prior zero-tolerance policy.  I’m
wondering if you have any update on a timeline there.  How many families
have been reunited?  And if not, if you can commit to, you know,
providing us continuous updates on that front.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, you’re talking about the reunification
taskforce, I believe — just for everybody else’s clarity — that we
announced last week or the week before.  It will be overseen by the
Secretary of Homeland Security. 

As a part of that commitment, we committed to a report coming from the
Department of Homeland Security at the 120-day mark, when they’ve had
some time to get the work underway.  And certainly we hope to have
Secretary Mayorkas, now that he’s confirmed, come here to the briefing
room and certainly talk about the work that they’re doing — the
important work that they’re doing.  But it’s a 100-day update, and then
it’ll be 60 days after that.  So we’re absolutely committed to providing
you updates.

Q    Thanks very much.  And then, on the schools front, you talked about
how a lack of data is a problem.  And it’s my understanding that we
don’t even have definitive data nationally on the numbers of teachers
who’ve gotten sick or passed away as a result of the coronavirus.  Has
the Department of Education managed to get definitive data on this
front?  And if we don’t know that, how do we proceed with the reopening
plan?

MS. PSAKI:  I would have to ask — or I would defer you to the Department
of Education.  I’m also happy to check and see if that’s data that we
have access to.  But as I noted, in response to the good question up
here, it is a challenge because it is hard to determine how students are
being impacted, what steps need to be taken, how it’s impacted this next
generation of kids learning without that data.

So there is an ongoing survey that the Department of Education is
conducting now, but I can check for you or connect you directly with the
right people over there to give you more of an overview of that.

Q    Thank you.  And then this one is from Brian O’Donovan, our
colleague with RTÉ News in Ireland.  And he asks —

MS. PSAKI:  I have a special place in my heart for the Irish. 
(Laughter.)

Q    Well, I think you’re going to like this question then.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    He says — the Taoiseach said today that he will visit the White
House next month for the traditional St. Patrick’s Day celebrations if
he’s invited by President Biden.  Does the White House plan to issue
such an invitation or will this event be cancelled because of the
pandemic?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we certainly have limited, as you can all see — and no
public events — there has not been public events here.  I’m happy to
check with our team on that if there’s any change as it relates to a
traditional event that happens in March. 

Q    *Sláinte*.

MS. PSAKI:  Great.  Go ahead in the back. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Yesterday, you said from the podium that the “vast
majority of people” are being turned away at the border.  But that
doesn’t seem to square away with the reality of what we’re seeing —
especially at the Texas border, where we at Univision have reported on
hundreds of people being not only detained, but released into the
interior of the country then.  And they have been reporting on this for
about two weeks now, on the hundreds of people being released right
away.  So where is the disconnect of your messaging versus what’s
happening and what is actually happening across the border?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, you know, I would certainly refer you to DHS
and CBP for specific numbers, which they would be more equipped to
provide. 

But what I was referring to was the data of how many people versus how
many people are coming into the country.  And as I mentioned yesterday
or the day before, it is — the vast majority are turned away at the
border.  They can give you more specific numbers on that.  And that is
not, I guess, what you’re perhaps seeing if you’re looking at a portion
of the border, but what they are tracking, in terms of numbers and
data. 

This is why we continue to convey that this is not the time to come. 
The President is committed to putting in place, in partnership with our
Department of Homeland Security, a moral and a humane process for
processing people at the border, but that capacity is limited right
now.  And it means we’re just not equipped to process people at the pa-
— race \[sic\] — the pace that we would like to do. 

Q    Yeah, the President of Mexico, today, stated in his press
conference that most of the migrants that cross the border that — you
know, anecdotally, that they do believe that the border is open and they
can just come to the U.S.  So there seems to be a messaging problem at
the border with people thinking that the border is open, as stated by
the President of Mexico today.  So how are you getting that message to
those migrants at the border?  And how will you make them understand
that the border is not open, as you’re stating?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re looking for every opportunity we can, of course
— from the President, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, to the
Secretary of State — to communicate where we stand, which is that the
President, our entire administration are committed to digging out of the
immoral approach to immigration of the prior administration. 

But it is going to take some time, and we need to put in place not only
a comprehensive immigra- — approach to immigration, by passing a law
that will help address the root causes that — in the countries that are
leading people to come to the United — or try to come to the United
States; that puts smart security — funds smart security at the border;
that provides a pathway to citizenship.  But we also need some time to
review all of the detrimental steps that were put in place by the prior
administration so that we can put a more humane system in place.

Q    But are you concerned in any way that as people are seeing the
images of migrants being released into the interior, they just get
encouraged to come to the U.S., try and cross illegally so that they
have this same luck of just being released?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, of course, we’re concerned because we don’t want
people to put themselves in danger at a time where it is not the right
time to come, because we have not had time to put in place a humane and
moral system and process.  We want to treat people with care, of
course.  When they’re unaccompanied children, that is a different
circumstance and certainly one that we handle carefully, and those
individuals are transferred into HHS care. 

But, you know, we use every opportunity to convey that while we have
goals of what we want to put in place, we have not had the time or
ability to do that quite yet. 

I think I’m going to — I — I’m going to have to just move on just so I
get to everybody.  Okay?

Go ahead.

Q    The Miami Herald reported yesterday that the Biden administration
is considering travel restrictions on states like Florida to help stop
the spread of the coronavirus.  Can you rule that out?  Or is that on —
as they say, on the table?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’ve seen those reports.  We are always considering
what steps are necessary to keep the American people safe.  But we are
not currently in the process of — no decisions have been made around
additional public health measures that would delay — or would change, I
should say, domestic travel considerations.

Q    And regarding the domestic travel, also going back to the border:
The President — does the President support leaving the southern border
open to migrants even before he would even consider this idea of
domestic travel restrictions?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the border is not open.  We are —

Q    Well, there are several reports of migrants crossing the border,
and several local Texas Health officials have expressed concerns that
there are migrants coming over the border who are not — who have not
been tested by the — by the authorities.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me reiterate what I — what I’ve done in here.  I
know every — different people are in here different days, so I’m
certainly happy to do it again.  You know, first, the majority of people
who come to the border are turned away.  And we are enforcing our laws
at the border, but we are also doing it — are attempting to do it in a
humane way. 

And so this is not, again, the time to come.  We have — of course, I
would refer you to DHS and CBP, who can outline more specifics. 

But when long-term holding solutions are impossible due to COVID-19
capacity limitations or other reasons, some migrants are processed for
removal, provided a notice to appear, and wait within the U.S. to await
an immigration hearing.  These have been incredibly narrow and limited
circumstances in which they’ve happened recently. 

And I’d certainly defer you — send you to the Department of Homeland
Security for more specifics and numbers and data, which they’re just
more equipped to provide.

Q    Would you agree that it’s humane to sort of institute mandatory
testing for these migrants that are being released?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, I would send you to them to give more outlines of the
numbers and the specifics of what actions are taken at the border.  And
I’m sure they’re happy to answer your questions.

Q    And just a follow-up.  The President spoke with the President of
China’s Xi Jinping and said that he addressed the human rights abuses. 
Does the President support American companies doing business in China to
express the same reservations about those abuses? 

MS. PSAKI:  Are you — I’m sorry, can you tell me a little bit more about
your question?  Are you —

Q    So the President was happy to bring up the problems with China and
human rights.  And does the President support companies — American
companies doing business in China?  Does he support them doing the same
thing, as they do business in China?

MS. PSAKI:  Does he support them speaking out about human rights abuses?
 Or —

Q    Yes.  Human rights abuses in China. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well —

Q    There’s been some reluctance by American companies to address this
issue because they’re doing business in China.

MS. PSAKI:  Well —

Q    Does the President support them?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has been outspoken, as he was on his —
in his conversation with the President of China, about American values. 
He also made a point of conveying to President Xi that overturning the
Muslim ban was one of the first steps that he took as President.  So he
is leading by example.  And I will leave it at that. 

Q    So, but would he —

MS. PSAKI:  Okay —

Q    Would he want to lead by example for American companies?  Does he
want to — should he start that same message for American companies?

MS. PSAKI:  He’s — he’s the President of the United States; he’s
conveying what he feels our values are.  And he conveys that to anyone
he has conversations with, whether it’s publicly or privately, to
companies or to leaders of other countries. 

Go ahead. 

Q    I know you said that a vast majority of immigrants right now are
being turned away.  But do you have examples of who isn’t being turned
away?  I know you mentioned children.  Are there any other, sort of,
cases that you’re looking into?

MS. PSAKI:  Of —

Q    (Inaudible) not turning away. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I gave — I gave the example of children because
there had been some questions certainly about that in the past, and I
wanted to be clear about our policy and what our approach is.  You know,
I don’t think I have other specific examples for you, other than to
suggest you talk to the Department of Homeland Security.  I’m sure they
could provide more for you if those are available. 

But again, I think it’s important for us to convey that the majority —
this is not the time to come and that the vast majority of people are
turned away at the border.  And we are committed to putting in place a
moral and a humane system and process, but we are also digging out of
four years of detrimental policies, as it relates to immigration, and
that’s going to take some time.

Go ahead, in the back. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I have two questions, maybe three, if you allow. 

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    So the first one is: Just a few days after you criticized from this
podium Nord Stream 2, Russia resumed construction of the pipeline, and
German government continues to defend the project.  German president
even called it “the last bridge” between Europe and Russia.  Do you have
an update on the President Biden’s position on Nord Stream 2?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t know — no, I don’t have an update.  It’s — remains
what we discussed last week or the week before.

Q    Two weeks ago. 

MS. PSAKI:  Two weeks.  Okay, two weeks ago.  He has the same
position.   Yes.

Q    Okay, so another one is on — the European Union report — reportedly
is preparing sanctions in response jailing Alexei Navalny by Russia.  Is
the United States involved in those talks on sanctions?  And what’s
President Biden’s position punishing Russia for Navalny’s arrest?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there is an ongoing review that has been tasked to the
national security team of the problematic actions of Russians, including
the poisoning of Alexei Navalny.  And the President of the United States
reiterated that focus and his concerns about that, as well as the
SolarWinds breach; you know, reports of engagement in the 2020 election;
and, of course, of bounties on the heads of U.S. troops when he spoke
with President Putin. 

And in our engagements — his engagements and engagements at all levels —
with our European partners, certainly the issue of coordination and
working together, as it relates to the problematic actions of Russia, is
a topic of conversation.  But that review is ongoing as it relates to
our U.S. policy, so we’ll wait for it to conclude before making any
policy announcements.

Q    But I’m talking about Navalny’s jailing, not poisoning.  What do
you want to know about this — what kind of review you need to know that
he’s in jail?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have been outspoken about that; it’s been raised
directly with the Russians.  Of course, as we’ve read out from here,
from the State Department, from many components of our government, what
I was referring to or trying to answer was your question about
sanctions, which is that we have an ongoing review and process about our
policies, what steps will be taken.  Of course, the President reserves
the right to respond in any manner and any timeline of his choosing. 
But that review is ongoing and has not concluded yet.

Q    And one more, if I can.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead. 

Q    President Biden called many world leaders, including leaders of
Germany and France.  How the President sees U.S. relations with Central
and Eastern Europe, including Poland? 

MS. PSAKI:  How does he see the relationship?

Q    Yeah.  The future of this relations.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has only made, of course, not an
unlimited number of calls, as was noted earlier in the briefing, and
there will be more calls ahead. 

In terms of the specific priorities as it relates to our relationship
with Poland, I’m happy to connect you with someone more directly to
discuss that. 

Go ahead, in the back. 

Q    Yes, there’s been a lot of concerns about recent postal delays. 
And I know the President campaigned on improving the Postal Service. 
Does he want to see the removal of Postmaster General Louis DeJoy?  And
is he doing anything to make that happen?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as I understand the process, it can only be done by
the board members.  And there are four openings — or four vacancies at
this point in time, so those would need to be filled and addressed.  But
they’re the individuals who would have a role in determining the future
of Mr. DeJoy.

Q    Is that something that he would be interested in, you know, making
a priority as the board is selecting —

MS. PSAKI:  Naming the member of the boards?

Q    Naming members who want to see a new Postmaster General.

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any personnel announcements or specifics of the
determinations of the — or, I should say, the factors that are playing
into those decisions.  But, you know, the President stands by his
concerns about what happened last fall and improvements he’d like to see
at the Post Office. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, everyone.

                                   END                 1:27 P.M. EST
