---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-02'
modified_time: 2021-02-03 16:38:54-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/02/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-february-2-2021/
published_time: 2021-02-02 19:14:10-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, February 2,\_2021"
---
 
1:48 PM

MS. PSAKI:  We have a few updates for you all at the top this morning. 

First, today, the President is signing three executive orders to rebuild
and strengthen our immigration system.  These actions are centered on
the basic premise that our country is safer, stronger, and more
prosperous, with a fair, safe, and orderly immigration system. 

Today’s actions do a number of things:

The first executive order creates a task force, chaired by the Secretary
of Homeland Security, to reunify families, which will work across
government to find parents and children separated by the prior
administration. 

The second executive order develops a strategy to address the root
causes of migration across our borders, and creates a humane asylum
system, including directing DHS to take steps to end the Migrant
Protection Protocols program, which had led to a humanitarian crisis in
northern Mexico. 

And the third executive order promotes immigrant integration and
inclusion, and ensures that our legal immigration system operates fairly
and efficiently by instructing agencies to review the public charge rule
and related policies. 

As many of you also may have been on the briefing call that we had a
little bit earlier today, but for those of you who were not: We have
announced — or Jeff Zients announced — our COVID coordinator, I should
say — that starting on February 11th, the federal government will
deliver to select pharmacies across the country additional vaccine
that’s coming online next week.  This will provide more sites for people
to get vaccinated in their communities and is an important component to
delivering vaccines equitably. 

More than 90 percent of Americans live within five miles of a pharmacy. 
And I don’t know about you — my mother-in-law, my family calls me all
the time, figuring out how they can call the CVS and find out when they
can get their vaccine.  This is a limited launch of the program, but
supply will ultimately go up to 40,000 pharmacies nationwide. 

Second, we continue to work to ensure states, tribes, and territories
have the resources they need to turn vaccines into vaccinations. 
President Biden has already directed FEMA to fully reimburse states for
the cost of National Guard personnel and other emergency costs. 

And today we go further: by fully reimbursing states for the eligible
services they provided back to the beginning of the pandemic in January
of 2020.  That means that states will be fully repaid for things like
masks, gloves, mobilization of the National Guard, and they can use the
additional resources for vaccination efforts and emergency supplies
moving forward.

This reimbursement effort is estimated to total three to five billion
dollars and is only a small share of the resources that states need to
fight this pandemic, which, as we’ve talked about a bit in here before,
includes testing, genomic sequencing, and mass vaccination centers.  

Last, we announced that we would increase weekly vaccine allocation to
the states for the next three weeks by an additional 5 percent following
last week’s 16 percent increase.  So we have increased supply by more
than 20 percent since the President took office just about two weeks
ago.  

These actions speak to the daily work we are doing to mount the
coordinated, federal pandemic response Americans need and reserve — and
deserve, I should say.

As you also know, last night, the President had a meeting with 10
Republican senators.  He’s meeting right now with the Senate Democratic
Caucus, over video, to further discuss the American Rescue Plan.  And
we’ll have a readout on that later this afternoon that we will send
out. 

He — last night, during the meeting, he welcomed the opportunity to have
a constructive exchange of ideas over how we can improve the American
Rescue Plan.  He pledged that he would bring people together when he ran
for President.  And last night was an example of doing exactly that.

A new poll yesterday by Yahoo and YouGov showed that this plan has
already garnered bipartisan support among the American people.

He also reiterated — or we would like to reiterate, I should say, the
urgency of acting quickly on the package.  You all asked yesterday about
the CBO report’s new analysis that came out by the CBO that, without
action — that report showed also that, without action, our economy won’t
reach pre-pandemic levels until 2025.  That’s too long.  So our goal
with moving this package forward is making it faster.

I have a couple of additional readouts — or follow-ups, I should say,
from some questions that have been asked in here over the last several
days. 

Somebody asked earlier — I think it was last week — about Puerto Rico. 
Today — there’s an update I have — the administration is releasing $1.3
billion in aid allocated by Congress that — to Puerto Rico that can be
deployed to protect against future climate disasters.  In partnership
with the Puerto Rico Department of Housing, the administration is also
working to remove onerous restrictions put in place by the last
administration on nearly $5 billion in additional funds.

Someone also asked yesterday about how President Biden keeps in touch. 
There’s a number of ways, but he receives correspondence letters in his
briefing book every night, as past presidents have done.  He also
regularly connects with Americans on the phone.  We’ve put out some
videos of that, and we’ll continue to do that moving forward.

And as you also know, he attends — he has a routine of attending —
typical routine, I should say — of attending public mass every weekend,
which is something he did as President-elect and something he will do —
clearly respecting COVID protocols — moving forward.

There was also a question — sorry, a couple of follow-ups here — about
the President’s engagement with the Capitol Police officer who lost — I
think, Ed, you asked this question, perhaps — about the Capitol Police
officer, Officer Sicknick, who had lost his life in the events of
January 6th.

As you know — or many of you may know, the President spoke with members
of his family shortly after his passing to express his condolences and
sympathies to their tragic loss.  I don’t have anything to update in
terms of his schedule tomorrow, but I expect we will have more of an
update on that in the next 24 hours, certainly.

Finally — I think finally — I know this is a lot at the top — we can
confirm that the President will visit the State Department now on
Thursday — that was originally planned earlier this week; we had to move
things around because of snow — where he will thank the men and women of
the national security workforce for their service to our country and
deliver remarks about reclaiming America’s role in the world.

Sorry, I did actually have one more item. 

And as you all have seen reports this morning of the FBI confirmation
that two FBI agents are deceased and three are wounded in a shooting in
Florida.  The two wounded agents were transported to a hospital and are
in stable condition, as some, I think, have reported.

President Biden was briefed this morning by Homeland Security
Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall. 

This is obviously a terrible tragedy.  I expect you’ll hear from the
President later this afternoon when he speaks to all of you.

I know that was a lot.  With that, let’s kick us off.

Q    Wonderful.  Thank you, Jen.  Two questions.  Congressional
Democrats are moving forward with COVID relief, with legislation set to
hit the House Budget Committee by February 16th.  What kind of timeline
does that create for you with regard to talks with Republicans?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as many of you who have covered Capitol Hill know,
there is a process.  The budget reconciliation process is a lengthy
one.  And because I suspected that people would want to talk about the
meeting last night, today, I just wanted to take the opportunity to talk
a little bit about that process and where we see there being
opportunity.

So, first, as you know, once a budget — well, maybe you know, but a lot
of people watching do not know — that once a budget resolution is
passed, the House and Senate negotiators will work to develop a
reconciliation bill that can pass through the House and Senate.  At
several points in this process, as we look to the weeks ahead,
Republicans can engage and see their ideas adopted.  At any point in the
process, a bipartisan bill can pass on the floor.  So just creating the
option for reconciliation with a budget resolution does not foreclose
other legislative options. 

This is my “when a bill becomes a law” moment of the briefing today.

Second, Republican ideas can be adopted during the reconciliation
negotiations, and it is likely that several bipartisan ideas may be — or
we are certainly hopeful of that. 

And, third, Republicans have the ability to offer amendments, both
during the budget resolution and instruction phase of the process, and
then later during the reconciliation phase, and in that way can ensure
their ideas are heard.

And I did all of that because I think it’s important — there’s been some
misunderstanding about how this process works.  And I think there was
some view that the vote — the final vote was this week.  You all know
that’s not the case.  There is some time.  That’s why the President is
engaging — why he did with Republicans last night and Democrats today —
and why he’s conveyed that he would like to continue doing that in the
days ahead.

Q    Secondly, a Moscow court sends Alexei Navalny to prison for two and
a half years for violating his probation for going to Germany to
recuperate from being poisoned.  Does the White House plan any
additional steps in response?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Josh, you may not have seen this because I think it
just came out, but Secretary of State Tony Blinken put out a statement
in response to the sentencing.  I will — just let me reiterate some of
the pieces from here:

We are “deeply concerned by Russian authorities’” efforts — “decision,”
I should say — “to sentence opposition figure Aleksey Navalny…Like every
Russian citizen, Mr. Navalny is entitled to the rights provided in the
Russian constitution, and Russia has international obligations to
respect the equality before the law and the rights to freedom of
expression and peaceful assembly. 

We reiterate our call for the Russian government to immediately and
unconditionally release Mr. Navalny, as well as the hundreds of other
Russian citizens wrongfully detained in recent weeks for exercising
their rights…”

I will say so — to your specific question, there is an ongoing review we
announced — I think it was early last week — of a number of the, you
know, reported — or concerning actions, I should say, by the Russian
government, which includes the treatment of Alexei Navalny.  It includes
a full assessment of the SolarWinds hacks — hack.  It includes a review
of the reports around bounties on troops.  It also includes reports of —
an assessment of engagement in the 2020 Election. 

That’s an ongoing review by the national security team.  When they
conclude that, that will launch, you know, whatever pol- — a policy
process to determine what steps we will take from here.

Go ahead.

Q    On the relief bill, Democrats are obviously moving ahead with this
process.  You all are still hopeful that you can get bipartisan
support.  But you’ve also made it clear that you’re not going to slim
down this bill significantly.  So, where right now is the greatest
potential for compromise to try and achieve that bipartisanship?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you’re right, Mary, that I think — and this was
evident in the discussion last night.  It was — as we said in our
readout, and I think as Senator Collins also said, it was civil, it was
constructive.  This is how democracy should work.  We should be
engaging.  Democrats and Republicans should be engaging with each
other.  But there certainly is a gap between where we are and where the
proposal — the Republican proposal that was discussed last night was.

There are some, you know, bottom lines I think the President has — which
he has conveyed in the meeting last night and reiterated to us this
morning — which is, you know, to put it simply or accessibly for people:
You know, he believes a married couple — let’s say they’re in Scranton,
just for the sake of argument; one is working as a nurse, the other as a
teacher — making $120,000 a year should get a check.  That’s in his
plan.  In the plan presented by Republicans, they would not get a
check. 

And his view is that at this point in our country, when one in seven
American families don’t have enough food to eat, we need to make sure
people get the relief they need and are not left behind. 

As was also part of our readout last night, there was a discussion. 
There’s some technical follow-up where there’s opportunity to discuss
issues like small business, issues like COVID relief.  Not — I’m not
suggesting a reduction; I’m suggesting how to do it effectively.  And
those technical discussions at a staff level will be part of what’s
ongoing over the next couple of days. 

But his bottom — the President’s bottom line is that this is a package. 
The risk here, as he has said many times, is not going too big; it is
going to small.  That continues to be his belief, and that’s why he
supports the efforts by Senator Schumer — Leader Schumer and Speaker
Pelosi to move this package forward.

Q    Can I ask a question on impeachment?  The impeachment managers have
now laid out their case.  Trump’s team is leaving open the door, it
seems, to arguing election fraud in the trial, to repeating the false
claims that somehow Trump won the election — those same false claims
that fueled the riot.  Is this administration concerned that the former
President’s defense could incite further violence?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly watching reactions in the country, watching
the potential for violence is something that we will do closely from the
White House across the country, no matter what prompts it.  And that’s
something we will certainly keep an eye on. 

But, you know, I think, in this case, as you know, there have been
dozens and dozens of court cases that have been debunked.  The President
of the United States is sitting in the Oval Office engaging and
governing the country, and obviously we have moved forward even more
than we were prior to the inauguration in proceeding — in delivering on
what the American people decided on in November.

Q    And just one quick one on immigration.  You know, some reform
advocates have criticized these actions for being “reviews” of certain
programs, like the Remain in Mexico program, rather than cancellations. 
Why “review” and not “reverse” some of these programs?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, part of our effort, Mary, is to assess the
damage that has been done by the policies that were put in place by the
prior administration.  We want to act swiftly.  We want to act
promptly.  But we also need to make sure we are doing that through a
strategic policy process. 

And the President’s commitment to immigration is indicative in the fact
that he announced an immigration bill his first day in office and that
he has signed and — after this afternoon — a number of bills to overturn
the immoral actions of the prior administration. 

But we want to ensure that our team, led by the new — hopefully newly
confirmed soon — maybe right now — Secretary of Homeland Security — has
the ability to review the process and policies and make sure he’s
putting the right ones in place.

Q    And do you have a sense of timing for these reviews — when the task
force reunification, for instance, may actually put out their first
finding?

MS. PSAKI:  We do.  And it’s important to us that there are markers to
give updates to the American people on this and many other issues.  So
there will be a report issued within 120 days and then every 60 days
thereafter on the progress being made. 

As I think you all know from covering this issue, this is very
difficult.  It’s emotional for a lot of people, for understandable
reasons.  And we need to find out first where all these kids are and
figure out where their parents are.  And so we are starting at, you
know, square one here, but our team wants to ensure that we’re providing
an update on what progress were being made, how it’s going to be
approached, and what the task force will be able to get done.

Go ahead.

Q    On the same subject — and this is going to be really big news
across Latin America, especially in those countries where people have
come from: What is the Biden administration’s message to people who may
see this in the news in the next few days and think, “Oh, they’re
changing the policy.  Now might be a good time to go north”?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the message continues to be what it has been.  And I
appreciate you asking the questions because it is confusing as we take a
lot of these steps forward. 

One is that this is not the time.  We want to put in place an
immigration process here that can — that is humane, that is moral, that
considers applications for refugees, applications for people to come to
— into this country, at the border, in a way that treats people as human
beings.  That’s going to take some time.  It’s not going to happen
overnight.  Obviously, we have a bill that we are hoping we’ll be able
to move through Congress. 

But we also feel — I don’t think any parent can look at what’s happened
to those kids over the last couple of years and not feel that we should
do everything in our power to get those kids back with their parents. 
So we are trying to repair the damage and the horrific actions of the
prior administration by trying to do everything we can to reunite these
kids with their families. 

But it remains a dangerous trip.  It remains a time — this is not the
time to come to the United States.  We need the time to put in place an
immigration process so people can be treated humanely.

Q    One of the other things that immigration groups have been talking
about — some Democrats as well — is the idea of potentially some kind of
executive action that would shield immigrant workers who are considered
essential workers from the threat of deportation.  Is that being
considered?  Is that being worked on?

MS. PSAKI:  This will not be the end of our immigration actions — or our
actions, our efforts to work on these issues.  I don’t have anything on
that policy consideration for you though.

Q    Well, and that was my next question.  This is still being worked
on?  Can you give us a sense of what else may still be coming?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, then I would be getting ahead of a policy process,
which I can’t do from here, Ed. 

But this is a priority to the President to do everything he can,
obviously putting forward the bill, but also taking the executive
actions he had in his power to take to overturn the immoral steps of the
last administration.  So that’s why he’s doing all of these — taking all
of these steps within the first two weeks of being inaugurated.

Q    I suspect the answer to this one might be similar but I want to ask
it anyway.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    One of the things that was not addressed by these was the so-called
“Title 42” — the CDC thing — expelling migrants and asylum seekers with
little or no due process during the pandemic — the idea that they could
be sent back right away because of the pandemic.  Is that up for
review?  And why was that not perhaps addressed right away since it’s
been a concern for a lot of advocates of immigrants who were trying to
come across?

MS. PSAKI:  Certainly, I know it has been.  I would just say that
continuing to take policy steps to address the plight of immigrant — of
migrant families, to do so in a humane and moral way, is a priority of
this administration. 

We obviously are going to continue to work on the immigration bill that
we have proposed to Congress.  These executive actions are just part of
our strategy.  And if there’s more to report to you on that, I’m happy
to get to you directly.

Go ahead.

Q    Can I follow up on the immigration question?

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    The executive orders that have been described so far don’t actually
change or raise the refugee cap, which, as you know, President Trump
reduced substantially.  It doesn’t also order the immediate release of
children from ICE detention.  The President has said that that’s
something that should be done immediately.  Why didn’t he do it today?

MS. PSAKI:  I think we’re going to have more again soon — in the coming
days and weeks — on more steps and actions that the President is
interested in taking.  So I’m just not going to get ahead of that right
now.

Q    So you’re saying he might still do it but just isn’t doing it
immediately?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, I was saying that there are additional steps the
President will take, our policy teams will take, our experts will take
to address immigration in a humane and moral way. 

There are also a number of steps that are under the purview of the
Department of Homeland Security and Secretary Mayorkas, who, of course,
as you know, his confirmation was a bit delayed.  Some of those are
going to be under his purview, and so I point you to them to also engage
with on some of those questions.  But there is more the President will
have to share on refugees and other issues soon.

Q    And may I finally ask whether the President has made a decision on
keeping, or keeping the scope of, Space Force?

MS. PSAKI:  Wow.  Space Force.  It’s the plane of today!

Q    It’s not.  It’s an entire branch.

MS. PSAKI:  It is an interesting question.  I am happy to check with our
Space Force point of contact.  I’m not sure who that is.  I will find
out, and see if we have any update on that.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, a couple.  I’ll start with COVID relief.  Senator Manchin
today put out a statement saying he was going to vote for the budget
proposal, but made clear that his final vote needs to be on a proposal
that’s very targeted.  He is opposed to the $15 minimum wage.  Is the
$15 minimum wage a must-have for this White House in any final package?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Phil, I should’ve also brought you up here to just
talk about how a bill becomes a law, because I think you know.

Q    Well, I have 17-part reconciliation instructions question, but
that’s (inaudible).

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, good.  I can’t wait.  We’ll all tune in for it.

You know, Phil, I think there are a lot of points of view, as should not
be a surprise to anyone, of different members of Congress.  We respect
all of them.  We’re happy to hear them, hence the President met with 10
Republican senators last night.  But we’re not going to negotiate from
here or, frankly, in public about what is going to be in and out of the
package.  We want that to work through the legislative practice —
practice — process, sorry, that is that is ongoing now.

Q    And then, on the meeting with the Republican senators, you said the
word “reiterate.” I think in the statement last night, it had the word
“reiterate” three separate times.  Like, it’s very clear where you guys
—

MS. PSAKI:  We like that word.  It’s a good word. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a solid word.

Q    But it underscores scores that we’re — your guys’ position is firm.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    And so, I guess, my question is — you’re talking about staff talks
on technical details — is that basically the ballgame right now in terms
of the bipartisan talks?  Like, they include things on the technical
side; there are pieces if they want amendments.  But broadly, this is
what it is, and it’s moving?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the President’s commitment is to urgently
deliver relief to the American people, and that is what he has conveyed
in every meeting he’s had or engagement he’s had with Democrats and
Republicans.

And as we just talked about, there’s a process that’s just in the early
stages, that’s beginning on Capitol Hill, to do exactly that.  But there
are also steps that can be taken, or changes that can be made through
negotiations, that also, through the legislative process, have to happen
between the House and Senate.  There are amendments that can be proposed
and voted on.  And we’re going to see that process through, or allow
that process to go through.

As that’s happening, the President will be — continue to be engaged. 
He’ll continue to have more discussions with a variety of members of
Congress from both parties to see if there is places to come to
consensus and agreement on how to approach some of the issues and
challenges the American people are facing.

Q    Last one on COVID relief.  You guys have made very clear the $130
billion for K-through-12 is crucial to reopening schools.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    I think there is something along the lines of 60 to 65 billion in
past proposals that has been obligated, but is mostly unspent right now
on the public school front.  What are you guys doing to ensure that gets
out the door, given the priority it is in your next package?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, my understanding from talking to our economic
team is that the funding that was in the $900 billion package, I think
is — if that’s what you’re referring to — will be spent in the next
couple of weeks. 

And so what we’re trying to look ahead to is what are the needs as we’re
looking to public schools across the country — that many of them need
funding, many of them need PPE, many of them need testing, many of them
need, you know, better ventilation in their schools — to ensure we have
adequate funding needed to open the majority of schools within 100 days,
which remains the President’s goal.

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, today there was new data on the Sputnik V vaccine showing
that it’s quite effective, and I’m wondering if the administration is
concerned at all that Russia could use this vaccine to exert
geopolitical power with nations in need, perhaps in Latin America?

MS. PSAKI:  That is not a concern I’ve discussed with our national
security team.  Obviously, our focus is on our own FDA approval process
here and ensuring that we make as much of the vaccine available to the
American public.

And we just rejoined, as you know, the World Health Organization because
we believe that the more people who are vaccinated around the world, the
safer we all are. 

But I’m happy to speak with them about it and see if that’s a concern
they have.

Q    One other question on the COVID travel ban that is in place.  Is
that a temporary thing while the CDC and the Biden administration figure
out a safe way for international travel to occur?  Or is that seen as
more long term, especially given that variants are already here?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, these were steps taken, as you know, by our team, in
order to increase the safety of the American public.  And certainly we
don’t want them to be forever because we want to get the pandemic under
control.  But they will be in place as long as our health and medical
experts believe they’re necessary or essential in order to keep the
public safe. 

So, the impact of variants, which is a very good question, is something,
you know, they assess, and I would certainly encourage you to ask them
that question on our next COVID call.

Go ahead.

Q    There have been calls for some kind of boycott of the — China’s
2022 Olympics.  Given the administration’s recent support of the
genocide designation there, does President Biden support those calls to
perhaps find a new host country?  And have they engaged with other
allies on that topic?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’ve seen some reports of that, and I don’t have any
update for you or preview for you, or change of our approach to the
Beijing Olympics.  No.

Q    President Biden has promised to make these visitor logs public, and
bring that back — that tradition.  Obviously, you guys are not having a
lot of visitors due to the pandemic.  To the extent that these calls are
taking on virtually, is there any talk about a virtual visitor log or
some kind of transparency on how those virtual meetings are being
disclosed to the public?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, our pledge is to be — venture to be, hope to be the
most ethical — ethically stringent government in history.  And we’ve put
in place — he’s put in place a number of steps and policies to deliver
on exactly that. 

You’re right that there are not — are not currently many visitors.  At
some point, hopefully, there will be, and we will be returning to the
release of those visitor logs.  That was not the case during the prior
administration.  At this point, there’s not a discussion of making
virtual meetings a part of what’s released.

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Hey, Jen.  I actually have more visitor logs questions.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay.

Q    The first one is: Has anybody in the administration looked at the
logs from the weeks before or leading up to the January 6th riot to see
if anyone connected with the riot has been in the building?

MS. PSAKI:  You are not the first person to ask this question.  It’s a
very interesting one, or newsworthy one, I guess I should say.  I have
not had a chance to talk to our team on whether we even have access to
those logs.  I mean, we obviously know what information is put in from
visits — people who come to visit, and we have the ability to release
that over the coming months.  I’m not aware of an assessment of that,
but I will also ask our team if we have access to them or if there’s a
plan to look at them.

Q    Well, when you get back to releasing — I know under Obama they came
out on, like, a monthly basis — a few months after the date of effect.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    If it’s possible, would you release them for the prior
administration?  Because there were a lot of people coming in and out of
here where the public would only learn through a random media report or
if a camera got a picture.

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not even sure if it’s technically possible.  That feels
like the first question, so let me talk to our technical gurus and see
what I can find out.

Q    And just one more technical thing, if you don’t mind.  The first
impeachment, there was a lot to deal with a foreign leader call by the
President to Ukraine.  Is that system still intact, where there’s notes
and records of foreign leader calls?  And is anybody on NSC, or anybody
else, looking at those?

MS. PSAKI:  From the prior administration?

Q    Yes.  Like, the past foreign leader calls by the predecessor and
the President.

MS. PSAKI:  I am not aware of an assessment of those, Jeff.  I think our
focus is on our foreign leader calls the President — the current
President of the United States is making to global leaders in an effort
to rebuild our place in the world and work on some diplomacy.

Katie.

Q    Hi.  I just have another question on immigration.  On the family
reunification task force, can you talk — I know you said you’re at
square one, but can you talk a little bit more about the work ahead in
finding some of these kids?  I think the current number might be
higher.  You can correct me.  It’s 600 or some. 

And I’m also wondering if you can talk a little bit about how officials
are going to evaluate cases to determine whether the families will be
reunited in their home countries or if they will be allowed to stay
here.

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a great question, Katie, and some of that is what
Secretary Mayorkas — newly confirmed Secretary Mayorkas — and the task
force will have to assess is.  And it will be case by case.  There are
estimates of between six and seven hundred kids, but part of what we
need to do in the early stages — or I should say, what the task force
needs to do is determine what the accurate number is and where these
kids are, and then determine, case by case, what the best process and
approach is for reuniting them with their family members.

So this is — there’s a great deal of work ahead.  There is a team that
is very committed to that work.  And part of what I’m sure will be in
the report around 120 days is what progress they’ve made on that effort.

Go ahead.  Anita.

Q    Does the President think cutting off aid to Myanmar’s government
goes far enough, or are you all looking at additional steps?  And what
might those be?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the State Department may have put a statement
out, if I’m correct here, on the assessment made in the legal review
that is calling the events in Burma a coup. 

So — and as you also know, and we talked about a little bit here
yesterday, but there was a releasing of some — there were some sanctions
relief over the last several years because of steps that the government
had taken toward democracy.  There are — there has been a rollback of
those.  And obviously, looking at sanctions is a big tool that would
certainly be assessed.  And I think that would be the one I would focus
on at this point in time.

Q    And also, we haven’t heard the President — we haven’t seen a
readout of the President talking to President Xi.  And I was wondering
if there’s something scheduled or when that might be.  It’s been a
couple weeks. 

MS. PSAKI:  Less than two weeks, actually.  May seem longer to you. 

You know, the — our approach to China and our approach to our
relationship in China — with China, you know, is strategic, obviously. 
And we are working to ensure that we are approaching that relationship
from a position of strength, and that includes engagement with our
allies and partners. 

A lot of those calls have happened over the last 10 weeks — 10 weeks —
10 days.  Maybe that was a little Freudian there, the 10 weeks.  Ten
days.  They will continue, and also engagements with Democrats and
Republicans in Congress about the path forward.  I don’t have any call
to predict for you at this point in time. 

Obviously, with Secretary of State Tony Blinken now confirmed, there are
additional layers to engage with the Chinese, but we’ll let you know
when a call is happening and certainly have a readout for all of you as
well.

Q    Jen, it sounds a lot like the strategy is not to talk to him at
this time because you’re talking about speaking to allies and making
other calls first.  Is — have they requested a call?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything more for you.  I think — I don’t
appreciate the, like, putting words in my mouth.  That wasn’t what my
effort was.  What I was conveying is what our strategy is here from the
United States, which is to work with our partners and allies and
determine what the right time is. 

Of course, the relationship with China is going to be multi-layered. 
We’ll deal with climate.  We’ll deal with the economy.  We’ll deal with
security.  And that is, of course, a priority to President Biden.  He’s
spoken about it during the transition.  He’s spoken about it. 
Obviously, he’s had engagements with his national security team about a
range of issues, including China.  We’ve been here less than two weeks,
and when we have a call to read out, I’ll make sure you know. 

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I want to ask you a few on the Rescue Plan talks. 
And I want to follow up on a question that Phil had asked you.  You had
acknowledged that the gap between the administration and Republicans is
wide, but the talks last night was constructive.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    So after the discussion in the Oval Office last night, is the
number from the White House still $1.9 trillion?

MS. PSAKI:  It is.

Q    On the issue of the minimum wage, you had said that the President
believes that a nurse and a teacher, a couple who makes $120,000 should
get a check.  So that’s clearly a quote-unquote “red line.”  I don’t
know if you want to describe it as that, but something that the
President wants.

MS. PSAKI:  “Red line” is an old term.  We’re not going to use it
again.  (Laughs.)

Q    Okay.  That’s fair.

But when you were asked about the minimum wage, you said you’re not
going to negotiate from here and you want to work through that.  So it
seems as if the President might be open to dropping the minimum wage
from the bill.  Is that a fair assessment?

MS. PSAKI:  I know there’s a lot of appetite for what is going to be
negotiated in and out of the bill.  I totally get it.  This is a big
topic of interest.  But what I was just conveying as an example is that
ensuring those checks are in the hands of Americans is a top priority
for the President. 

I wasn’t taking in and out things in the bill.  That will be a
negotiation that will happen through Democrats and Republicans in
Congress.  Obviously, the reconciliation process has just started. 
There are many opportunities for Republicans to offer amendments. 
There’s a whole negotiation that’s going to take place.  And we’ll — the
President will continue to be engaged with members of both parties
through that process.

Q    And on the issue of Senator Manchin and his statement today, talked
about how he would like to see something targeted.  He said, “Let me be
clear — and those are the words I shared with President Biden — our
focus must be targeted on the COVID-19 crisis and Americans who have
been most impacted by the pandemic.”  His quote.  Does the White House
believe that $1.9 trillion is a targeted package?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the size of the package was determined not for shock
value, but to address the dual crises that we’re facing.  And that
includes ensuring that millions of Americans can put food on the table. 
One in seven Americans — American families don’t — are concerned about
food security right now. 

It ensures that we have funding, that we can reopen schools so that kids
can go back to school, mothers and fathers can not worry about their
kids, and insurance that — that people can apply for unemployment
insurance. 

These — the size of the package was determined, of course, in
consultation with members on the Hill but also based on the
recommendations of economists, on health experts, and that’s how we came
up with that number.

Q    And lastly, there’s going to be a jobs report on Friday.  Depending
on how that jobs report looks, might that change how the White House
views what needs to be in the package, or not?  Or you kind of believe
that this is the best framework now, and that’s what you’re going with?

MS. PSAKI:  I mean, if there is a jobs report that there were 10 million
jobs created, that would be great news.  I don’t suspect that will be
what the outcome of the jobs numbers will be.  So, no, it will not
change. 

As we saw from the CBO numbers, where there — which predict — projected,
I should say, that there would be growth this year, that’s obviously
positive.  But we’re digging out of a massive hole, and the challenge
right now is that it’s going to take years to return to the pace of job
growth — of economic growth that the country needs to be at.  So, no, I
wouldn’t suspect it would change things.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  A couple of follow-ups. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    First, to Tamara’s question, Governor Hogan said that there has
been two new — two more cases of the South African variant in Montgomery
County, and is in Maryland, and people were coming back from abroad.  I
mean, is it — is it not an opportunity to — are you worried?  Is that an
opportunity to eventually widen the travel restrictions? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what our team — our health and medical teams
do — so the CDC and others who are actual doctors — is make assessments
about what steps need to be taken, whether it’s masking that, as you
know, is now required on planes, or travel restrictions from certain
countries, in order to keep the American people safe. 

And certainly the —

Q    But it hasn’t worked in Maryland, obviously.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t know that it hasn’t worked because we also
have prevented a number of people from coming into the country and tried
to take steps to reduce the spread of COVID and also the spread of some
of these variants.  But they will assess steps that need to be taken
based on variants.  Obviously, that’s something that they review on a
daily basis.

Q    A follow-up to Anita’s question.  Correct me if I’m wrong, but the
President hasn’t spoken yet with Prime Minister Netanyahu.  He’s an
ally.  Isn’t that surprising?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t know that it’s surprising less than two weeks into
an administration.  He hasn’t called every foreign leader yet.  He
certainly would love to spend more time talking to foreign leaders. 
That’s — well, you know, his first love is foreign policy, but I expect
he’ll continue to have additional engagements in the weeks ahead.  And
obviously we have a long and abiding relationship with Israel — an
important security relationship.  I’m sure they’ll discuss that and a
range of issues when they do connect.

Q    Last question, Jen.  Since Bill Clinton — President Clinton and
President Obama made Canada the destination of their first trip, can we
expect the same thing from the President?

MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)  That was a very creative way of asking the first
foreign trip question.  I don’t have anything to preview for you in
terms of which — where the President will travel on his first foreign
trip. 

I’m as eager as you all are.  I’m as eager as you all are.  I love
foreign travel.

I will remind you that, you know, his first call was, of course, to the
Prime Minister of Canada, so that is certainly affirmation of the
importance of the relationship.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Yeah, thanks, Jen.  One on immigration and then one on jobs, if
that’s okay. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    So the President’s third executive order, as I’m reading it —
“Restoring Faith in Our Legal Immigration System and Promoting
Integration of New Americans” — should visa applicants in the K1, the
student E2 visa programs, should they take this as a sign that they’ll
be granted travel waivers to return the United States?  I know you were
asked about that last week.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, I was, and it is still under review. Obviously, as we
talked about a little bit last week — or I don’t remember if you were
here that day.  But —

Q    I wasn’t.

MS. PSAKI:  But it was a question someone else asked.  And married
couples, as you know, are able to travel.  There was a review of
students and of couples who were not married; that review hasn’t
concluded yet.

Q    And then, on jobs, given that mayor, I guess now Secretary,
Buttigieg has been confirmed, when can we expect to see a detailed
infrastructure plan, given the potential for new job creation there?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re — we’re going to officially invite Secretary
Buttigieg to come to this briefing room and talk to you all about it,
whenever he has that to discuss — or even before then.

He has been, obviously, working on getting confirmed, but I know he’s
eager to get to work, and we’ll see when he has more specifics to lay
out.

Go ahead.

Q    On the announcement today with respect to the vaccine, equity is a
big part of that.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    And you’ve been rolling out that previously.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    To what extent is international equity factoring in?  Right now,
the orders you have add up — if they all come through, which is
admittedly a big “if” — to quite a bit more than the U.S. would need. 
What would you do with all that?  And are you concerned that you might
be boxing out less wealthy countries from getting earlier access to the
vaccine?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s certainly not our objective.  The President’s
objective is to have as many vaccines.  As you said, there’s a lot of
factors that could happen here that would — could prevent this from
happening exactly as we’ve planned it.  Freezers can break.  Trucks can
break.  Snowstorms, as we’ve seen this week.  We’re fully aware of
that. 

May our problem be that we have too many vaccines to put in the arms of
the American people — that is not the current problem we’re tracking, so
that’s what our first focus is going to be at this point in time.

Q    So if that happens, will you distribute them to allies first on a
needs basis?

MS. PSAKI:  I certainly hope that’s our challenge and our problem, and
I’m sure we will be happy to discuss that if that is our issue.  But, as
you know, we’ve also rejoined the World Health Organization.  We want to
have a seat at the table.  It’s important that our global community is
healthy, not just our community in the United States.  But we’re going
to focus first on ensuring the American people are vaccinated.

Go ahead.

Q    Just another vaccine question.  You guys have — you mentioned you
ramped up 16 percent distribution last week —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — another 5 percent.  You also have the million doses going out to
the pharmacies as well.  Jeff was talking about how this is a ramp-up of
Moderna and Pfizer.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    What kind of visibility are you getting into what’s coming?  Like,
did you know the 15 percent was — or 16 percent last week was coming? 
Did you know the five — like, how long in advance do you know?  Did you
—

MS. PSAKI:  Did we know we could plan to announce the new —

Q    So you can actually announce things and kick them into gear?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, well, we’re working on trying to be able to have that
ability and that assessment.  As governors I’m sure will tell you, or
have told many of you, that’s also what they’re looking on.  Right? 
Looking at.  So we’re trying to get to a place where we know what’s
coming, so governors and local officials know what’s coming to them and
they can assess where to distribute it in their states. 

You know, the process is at the early stages, but our goal is certainly
to have an understanding of when we’ll be able to ramp up distribution
to states.

Q    So, like on something like today, how many days ago did you know,
“Okay, on Tuesday we can announce that on February 11th we’ve got a
million doses going out to pharmacies”?  What’s the turnaround on that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, that particular announcement has a couple of
components.  Right?  It’s, of course, engagement with states and
governors, and engaging with them is pivotal, but also with pharmacies
and ensuring that they’re able to do it.  I mean, if you log on to CVS
to do an appointment to get a flu shot, you want to know that the system
is going to work. 

So there are a lot of steps in the process.  I’m not sure how many days
in advance we knew that it was full to go.  Not many.  But, you know, it
takes a great deal of coordination to make sure governors are — feel
comfortable with the announcements being made, that we’re fully
coordinating with them, that they can explain to their public that, of
course, pharmacies are just a part of what we’re doing.  Right?  It’s
not — you know, a million doses is a lot; it is not going to vaccinate
the entire country.  We’re going to ramp that up.  So that leaves some
onus on them to be able to communicate where other people — where people
can also get their vaccine. 

So that coordination is key as a part of it — several components in this
one — but we don’t usually sit on these announcements, so I don’t think
that long.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, Senator Schumer just came out and said that he had a, quote,
“really good” lunch with the President and Secretary Yellen.  He also
said that the President told Republicans last night that the $600
billion was way too small.  Does that track with what he — with your
understanding of what he actually said to them last night?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  I mean, the President has been clear that our risk is
not having a package that’s too big, it’s having a package that’s too
small.  And there have been public proposals, of course, by these
senators and by others to split the package, to do a smaller package. 

And his view is that there are key components and funding that would be
needed in order to ensure that millions of millions of people have
checks, you know, in their hands, that we make — ensure people are
getting those $1,400 checks, that we ensure that we are properly funding
schools to reopen, that people can — that we’re getting — we have the
funding needed to get shots in the arms of the American people. 

So that is not a cheap endeavor and one that — but those key components
are all a priority to the President.

Go ahead, Anita.

Q    I just wanted to follow up on the meeting last night.  In the
readout, and all that we’ve heard, is about the relief bill.  Did any
other issue come up?  It was quite a lengthy meeting, a couple hours.  I
wondered if the President brought up anything or if the senators brought
up executive orders or other policy issues, or was it solely focused.

MS. PSAKI:  It was focused on the American Rescue Plan, and they had a
robust discussion about it.  I don’t have any more of a readout for you
than what we provided last night.

Q    And how about the lunch?  I know that — I think it was happening as
we came out here.

MS. PSAKI:  I know it’s happening right now, so I don’t actually know. 
But we will — we will put a readout of it afterwards.

Q    And the goal was just to discuss the same — the bill —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — but nothing else?

MS. PSAKI:  Exactly.  That was the — and obviously people can raise what
they want to raise.  I’m sure Democratic senators will share with all of
you what they raised.  But the focus of it was to discuss the American
Rescue Plan, the path forward, and the imperative of moving it ahead.

Go ahead in the back.  Oh, go ahead.  Oh, sorry, go ahead. 

Q    Okay.  Is there any plan or date set for the President to address a
joint session of Congress?  And are you guys already working on his
address?  And is selling the American Rescue package part of that, and
in what way?

MS. PSAKI:  Not yet and not yet, to the first two questions.  And it
really depends on the timing.  Of course, we have — there’s urgency, as
you’ve heard the President say and all of us say, in moving this package
forward. 

I think as he also said in his primetime address when he rolled — and he
announced the American Rescue Plan, he also has plans to announce a
Build Back Better agenda.  And our plans would be to do that once we are
at a point where it’s — that can be the next priority. 

So it really didn’t — we don’t have a date yet.  It depends on when that
date is and what the focus will be.  And not working on it quite yet.

Go ahead. 

Q    Yeah, so on the UAE aluminum tariff announcement, I know the
President had insinuated that he wants to do a full review of former
President Trump’s tariffs before acting on any of those.  And he — you
know, the President — the former President signed that out on December
31st.  Should we take this announcement as an indication that that
review is completed, or is this just a one-off instance, specifically
pertaining to UAE?

MS. PSAKI:  So, as you said — and for people who are not totally as
familiar with this issue as you are; I know there’s a lot going on in
the news — you know, shortly before the inauguration of President Biden,
the United States lifted a 10 percent existing tariff under Section 232
of the Trade Expansion Act on aluminum imports for the UAE.  His
campaign promise included a commitment to carefully evaluating all steps
taken by the previous administration on trade, as you also said,
including the private deals and assurances that may have been made. 

As part of his campaign commitment we are commit- — conducting an
immediate review.  So the review is underway of the previous
administration’s trade policy to determine what steps need to be taken. 
So that includes, you know, decisions on tariffs.  

And, you know, the previous administration’s decision to lift the
existing tariff on the UAE, under Section 230, at the last hour was made
clearly, in our view, on the basis of foreign policy issues unrelated to
trade. 

So it’s all a part of the ongoing review. 

Q    Thank you, Jen. 

MS. PSAKI:  Great.  Thanks, everyone.  See you tomorrow. 
                       

2:36 PM
