---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-08'
modified_time: 2021-02-09 13:28:04-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/08/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials/
published_time: 2021-02-08 18:30:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White House COVID- \u2060 19 Response Team and Public Health\
  \ Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:01 A.M. EST

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Good morning, and welcome to the COVID
Response update.  Thank you for joining us.  I’m Andy Slavitt, White
House Senior Advisor for the COVID Response Team.  Now, we’ve been
battling this pandemic for the better part of a year.  More than 450,000
Americans’ lives have been taken, we’ve been separated from our friends
and family, thousands of schools and businesses have been sitting empty,
and Americans have had their lives turned upside down by the pandemic. 

Meanwhile, millions of Americans are doing everything in their power to
put the country and the world back on the right course.  Millions of you
are wearing masks, and the evidence Dr. Walensky has discussed here
demonstrates that in communities where that happens, lives are being
saved.  That needs to continue and improve in the face of the threats we
confront. 

We know that millions of Americans are also waiting patiently to be
vaccinated.  Today, I want to begin the briefing by updating you on what
is happening while you’re waiting.  In the weeks and even months that
you are waiting, the nation’s efforts are being spent focused on many
who are most at risk of hospitalization and death from this virus: the
elderly, seniors, frontline health care workers, and many essential
workers. 

According to a recent CDC report, the Long-Term Care Program has
administered now over 4.8 million doses to more than 3.7 million of our
most vulnerable.  Those who were dying in large numbers over the last
year are now on a path to protection.  And in skilled nursing facilities
that have had at least one vaccination clinic, an estimated median of
almost 80 percent of residents have received at least one dose of
vaccine.

As vaccinations at these facilities are completed, that will mean many
more lives saved, many more vaccines that can be moved into the
inventory for the next priority groups.  And in total, of the over 40
million doses that have been administered, over 17 million doses have
been administered to people 65 or older. 

Now, this is a great representation of the American spirit of generosity
and American selflessness because our ability to vaccinate millions of
the elderly, seniors, and healthcare workers is a testament to a society
that has put our parents and grandparents, those who have served us, and
those who continue to sacrifice for us on the frontlines of the
healthcare system first. 

Now, at the same time, we need to step up efforts to increase
vaccinations of racial and ethnic communities that have suffered
disproportionately.  Health equity is a cornerstone of all of our work,
and we’ll be talking more about progress there in upcoming briefings.

Even with that perspective in progress, we understand that the process
moves more slowly than anyone would like.  But each day, we are putting
forth efforts to increase vaccine supply, including by use of the
Defense Production Act; to create more places to get vaccinated,
including new large community vaccination centers and retail pharmacies;
and mobilize more vaccinators by allowing retired physicians and nurses
and deploying the military. 

This is a national emergency and the approach we are taking reflects
this.  We are putting every resource and tool that the federal
government has into this battle, and we’re taking a whole-of-government
— indeed, a whole-of-country approach.  As soon as the Congress puts the
American Rescue Plan on the President’s desk, we will be able to further
increase this effort. 

We understand this is a long journey, but thanks to the sacrifice of so
many of you and the step-by-step plan we are executing, for many of our
most vulnerable Americans, the risk of death is being reduced.  And we
are committed to leaving no stone unturned. 

With that, I’ll turn it over to Dr. Walensky for a state-of-the-pandemic
update and Dr. Fauci for the latest in science before we answer your
questions. 

Dr. Walensky. 

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you so much, Andy.  I’m so glad to be back and
joining you today.  Today, I’m going to give you a brief update on the
pandemic.  As I mentioned on Friday, despite trends moving in the right
direction, we remain in a very serious situation.  COVID-19 continues to
affect too many people, as we continue to mourn all of those lives that
have been lost.

Cases have continued to decline over the last four weeks.  An average of
119,900 new cases were reported between January 31st and February 6th. 
That’s a drop of nearly 20 percent from the prior week, but still
dramatically higher than the last summer’s peak.  We must continue to
drive these cases down. 

New COVID-19 hospital admissions also continued to decline.  An average
of 9,977 admissions per day were reported between January 30th and
February 5th, a decline of nearly 17 percent from the week prior. 

This is promising, but hospitalizations also remain incredibly high. 
Over 83,000 Americans are hospitalized right now with COVID-19 — much
higher than the summer and fall.

Today, we are reporting that COVID-19 deaths increased 2.4 percent to an
average of 3,221 deaths per day from January 31st to February 6th.  As I
mentioned on Friday, sometimes delays in reporting can lead to
fluctuations in the data.  This is the case for the average number of
deaths reported today, which includes a delayed report of 1,570
confirmed deaths from one state.  These deaths were reported last week,
but actually had occurred over the prior several months.  We may
continue to see the variation in daily deaths for different reasons,
including reporting delays.

We are continuing to watch these data closely.  And although hospital
admissions and cases consistently — are consistently dropping, I’m
asking everyone to please keep your guard up.  The continued
proliferation of variants remains of great concern and is a threat that
could reverse the recent positive trends we are seeing. 

As of February 7th, 699 variant cases have been confirmed across 34
states, with 690 of these cases being the B117 variant, the variant
first reported in the UK. 

Please continue to wear a mask and stay six feet apart from people you
don’t live with.  Avoid travels, crowds, and poorly ventilated spaces. 
And get vaccinated when it’s available to you. 

I recognize that the pandemic has taken an enormous toll on all of us. 
But if we all work together and take these prevention steps, we can
finally turn the tide.  Thank you.  I look forward to your questions,
and I will now turn things over to Dr. Fauci

Dr. Fauci? 

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to address,
briefly, two issues that have come up for discussion over the last
several days, and one is the question of: Given the fact that there is a
greater demand than there is supply, should we be putting all of our
effort into getting the first dose into people, with less emphasis on
the second dose? 

Now, the reason for that — I have explained in the past — because the
science has shown in both of the vaccines that we have currently
available, the Moderna and the Pfizer — the strong data indicates that a
prime boost gives a maximum response of 94 to 95 percent efficacy.  But
the question has arisen, “Why not study in detail whether or not you can
get away with a single dose?” 

It is not an unreasonable thing to suggest a study.  The only issue is
that the practicality of that really makes that a situation that I don’t
think is able to be done for the following reason: If you look at the
number of people that would be required in a study to answer that
question — again, one versus two — with the currently available
vaccines, the time it took to get information on the phase three and the
number of people — that that study, with all due respect, would take
several months to get a meaningful answer.  At that time, the amount of
vaccine that would be available would almost be making that question
somewhat of a moot point. 

So then let’s ask ourselves — the question is: What do we do know about
one dose versus two dose?  And the data, I think, are important to
present.  We know from the original studies that, following a single
dose of either the Moderna or the Pfizer, you had a response that gave
you a neutralizing antibody above the threshold of protection.  So it
did give some degree of protection.  And the question was: It was
protection, clearly, against the wild type.  However, the boost, either
21 or 28 days later, was tenfold higher.  So it went, for example, from
1 to 100 to well over 1 to 1,000 in the titer. 

The reason that’s important: not only because of the height of the
response and the potency of the response, but as you get to that level
of antibody, you get a greater breadth of response.  And by “breadth of
response,” we mean it covers not only the wild type and currently
circulating virus, but also the variants that we see circulating,
particularly the 117 and the 351.  So it’s not just a matter of potency;
it’s a matter of the breadth of what you can cover.

The other theoretical issue that could be problematic with regard to
only a single dose: that if you get a suboptimum response, the way
viruses respond to pressure, you could actually be inadvertently
selecting for more mutants by a suboptimum response.  So, for that
reason, we have continued to go by the fact that we feel the optimum
approach would be to continue with getting as many people on their first
dose as possible, but also making sure that people, on time, get their
second dose. 

And finally, one thing I want to emphasize: As we know, and we’ve heard,
and it’s true, that the projection is that the 117 lineage would likely
become dominant in the United States by the end of March.  Please
remember that the efficacy of the currently utilized vaccines — the two
mRNA — are a quite effective against the 117 lineage.  So, underscoring
what Dr. Walensky just said, the two things that we can do is, A, make
sure we adhere to the public health measures that Dr. Walensky just
mentioned, and, B, get as many people vaccinated as quickly as we
possibly can.  That’s the best defense against the evolution of
variants.

I’ll stop there, and back to you, Andy. 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you, Doctor.  All right, why don’t
we go — why don’t we go to questions?

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you, guys.  I’m not seeing any hands
raised, but if you could raise your hand, we can go ahead and start Q&A.

All right, first we’re going to Kaitlan Collins at CNN.

Q    Hi.  So, I have two questions.  One about the variants.  I know
that, before, we’ve gone over them and we’ve said that they — the latest
numbers have been a couple hundred cases, but we also know that, you
know, we’re pretty behind on sequencing and working to ramp that up.  So
what number do we think is actually out there?  And how much higher do
you think it could be than the numbers that we’ve actually identified
positively so far? 

And then my second question is about a comment that Transportation
Secretary Pete Buttigieg made, saying that they are considering
requiring testing for domestic flights.  What would the benefits of that
be, given we know just how much transmission there is in the U.S. right
now and the data on how much it spreads on flights when everyone is
wearing a mask, or the lack of, I guess?  Would there be benefits to
that actually happening?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  So maybe, first, why don’t I turn to Dr.
Walensky to talk about our ongoing efforts at surveillance and
increasing our knowledge, and maybe a little bit about what the current
state of knowledge we think might be with regard to these variances. 

Doctor? 

DR. WALENSKY:  Great.  Thank you.  And thank you for the question.  What
I can say is we’re learning more about the number of variants, and the
number of variants that you’re hearing increase is very much, at least
in part, due to the fact that we’re doing a lot more sequencing of these
variants.  So over the last three weeks or so, we’ve increased our
sequencing about tenfold.  So as we look more, we’re certainly going
–anticipate we might find more.

Over the next several weeks, we are hoping — we are planning, actually,
to not only get collab — have collaboration with the state labs from
every state, so we’d make sure we’re sampling from every state, but also
from — with collaborations from commercial labs, as well as academic
labs.  So we anticipate that we’re probably going to be sequencing up to
three or four more than we’re already sequencing.  And I think once we
have more sequencing that’s happening, we’ll have a better idea as to
how many variants there are and what proportion are out there.

     ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  I’ll take your —

     Q    So how much higher —

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Oh, please, go.

Q    So do we have a ballpark estimate of how much higher it is than
what we actually know right now?  Because I think the understanding is
that it’s a lot higher than what we know.  Is that correct?

DR. WALENSKY:  I would be reluctant to give you an estimate right now
based on our current data, but I’d be happy to get back with you on that
one.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Let me take your second question.  I
haven’t heard Secretary Buttigieg’s comment.  But I would say, as — and,
Dr. Walensky, you may want to comment — is that with regard to domestic
travel, I think, in the words of Dr. Walensky and the CDC, now is not
the time to be traveling if at all possible.

And so, Dr. Walensky, do you want to say a word about traveling and
safety measures with regard to travel?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, what I would add is, the more screening that we’re
doing in places where people are gathering, I think the more
asymptomatic disease will be — we will be detecting.  And certainly
there’s a lot of — there’s more gathering that happens in airports, and
so, you know, to the extent that we have available tests, to be able to
do testing. 

First and foremost, I would really encourage people to not travel, but
if we are traveling, this would be yet another mitigation measure to try
and decrease the spread. 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Let’s go to the next
question.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Brian Karem with Bulwark. 

Q    Thank you very much.  And thanks for taking the question.  This
question is for Dr. Fauci.  Dr. Fauci, we are talking about the mutant
varieties of this virus, and we are stressing that we need to get as
many vaccinated as possible.  Now, when I speak to scientists, they tell
us that, eventually, that viruses like this tend to mutate to a less
harmful or a less virulent strain.  Is there any data or scientific
concerns that this particular virus is mutating into a more virulent
strain or a more dangerous strain and that it is more dangerous as it
mutates?

And then I have a follow-up.

DR. FAUCI:  Okay.  Well, the answer to your question is: Right now, we
certainly don’t have any data to indicate that it is mutating into a
less virulent strain.  The initial data that came out from the UK about
it having a degree of increased virulence, that is still, I think,
something — I wouldn’t say that’s questionable, but I think that needs
to be confirmed.  But thus far, no evidence that it is less virulent. 

Sometimes when viruses mutate, to spread more efficiently they become
less virulent, but we do not have any data to indicate that that is, in
fact, happening with SARS-CoV-2.

Q    And then the follow-up to that question is: If it is becoming — or
if your concern is that it is more virulent, how long will the efficacy
of the current vaccines under this structure — have you been able to
game that out to determine when that efficacy will be dampened or will
lessen?

DR. FAUCI:  Well, I think that’s obviously going to take an observation
over a longer period of time.  We’ve got to really be careful because
there were two things that are going on right now: A virus is
transmissible and is virulent, and the degree of transmissibility and
the degree of virulence can actually overlap and result — because you’ve
heard us say on our briefings that a virus that has a greater degree of
transmissibility will be making more people sick.  The more people that
get sick, the more people that will be hospitalized.  And the more
people that are hospitalized, you’ll likely get more deaths.

But on a one-to-one basis, whether or not it is truly more virulent:
Right now, we don’t have any indication that that’s the case here, and
we’ll just have to continue to observe, which we do.  You know, the
vaccine trials, they ended and came up with an efficacy of 94 to 95
percent, but the trials go on for two years.  So we’ll learn a lot more
over the next couple of years.  So they’re still following up on this,
both from the study as well as being reported to the FDA.  So if there’s
any information in that regard, it will become available to us as the
months and year goes by.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thanks, Brian.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Hey, Dr. Fauci, just to clarify
something, if you wouldn’t mind.  Very fair question from Brian
speculating about the future.  But maybe you can emphasize what we know
today about the efficacy and safety of the viruses relative to what the
threats we face today.

DR. FAUCI:  Well, right now, what we’re seeing now in our country is
still a dominant, original, wild-type virus of which the vaccines are
highly efficacious — 94 to 95 percent. 

The immediate concern that we have is that — the fact that we have the
117 in certainly a considerable number of states reported with a number
of people.  That modeling would tell us, Andy, that it could become
dominant by the end of March.  That’s the sobering news.

The encouraging news is that the vaccines that we’re currently
distributing right now are quite effective against that particular
variant, less so against the South African, the 351.  But hopefully we
will get the virus under much better control by the time there’s any
indication that that might become dominant.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Got it.

DR. FAUCI:  So, again, it gets back, Andy, to vaccinating as many people
as you possibly can and implementing the public health measures. 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Great, thank you. 

Okay, next question, please.

Q    Hi, thank you for taking my question.  I have actually two
questions.  The first is statistical for Andy.  You told us how many
doses were administered in the long-term care program.  What’s the total
number of doses that were set aside for that program?  In other words,
what’s the denominator?  And then, secondly, on the new pharmacy
program, is there going to be a separate registration system for that? 
And if so, what does that mean for all the people who had already signed
up at their local health departments and have been waiting in line?  Do
they start over?  Is there going to be some kind of integration between
these different systems now?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you for the question.  I thought I
was off the hook when you said it was statistical.  I was quite
confident it was going to go to one of the experts. 

Relative to the long-term care program, there are a lot of numbers
moving around.  And so I think it’s important to emphasize what I talked
about earlier, which is that we’ve administered 4.8 million doses to
more than 3.7 million people.

And what we don’t have for you today is a breakdown of how many doses
are first and second doses; likewise, what percentage of the population
in nursing homes or long-term care facilities are fully vaccinated. 

So I want to make sure I’m speaking as precisely as possible to what the
CDC study said.  And I would invite Dr. Walensky, when I’m finished, if
there are any additions or corrections to that, to add them. 

But it’s important that I think things are phrased that way.  We do know
that for the centers that have vaccination clinics, the median number of
people — and this was as of sometime in the end of January — the median
number of residents that were vaccinated was 80 percent.  So, that gives
you, I think, a decent approximation.

In terms of pharmacies, many of the pharmacies do have their own
registration systems in place.  And so those are the registration
systems that I think they will likely continue to use in the near term. 

I think your question about dealing with separate registration systems
is a good one.  For example, people may want to try to understand more
about how they can find a place where they can get vaccinated.  And I
think particularly, as there’s more supply, that’s going to be
important. 

And I have nothing to announce today, other than the — that we are
looking very closely at that question and how we might be able to help
people.

Should we go to the next question?

MODERATOR:  We’ll go to Kristen Welker at NBC.

Q    Hi, everyone.  Thank you.  First question is: Can you give us your
assessment of some of the states that have begun to relax their
protocols?  For example, Iowa, among those who has reversed some of the
indoor requirements in terms of masking and public social distancing. 

And also, given that a number of schools all across the country are
discussing how they are going to reopen — there is an urgency to that
matter — I know that you said that the CDC’s guidelines for school
reopenings would be coming soon.  When can people expect to see that? 
And have you gotten to a place where you can give us any indication
about whether you think teachers should be vaccinated before schools
reopen?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Great.  Well, look, I think both of those
are probably going to head for you, Dr. Walensky.  But let me — let’s do
— the first one is your comment on states or local jurisdictions that
may be relaxing some of the public health standards that the CDC has
been recommending.

DR. WALENSKY:  So maybe I’ll just start and say, given that we’re still
at over 100,000 cases a day, I would discourage any such activity, and I
would say that we are still in the first hundred days where we want
certainly everybody masked for the first hundred days. 

I think we have yet to control this pandemic.  We still have this
emerging threat of variants.  And I would just simply discourage any of
those activities.  We really need to keep all of the mitigation measures
at play here if we’re really going to get control of this pandemic. 

And in that regard, as we move towards and think about schools, what we
know mostly about schools, in terms of the data, are that most
infections come into the schools through the community.  The data from
schools suggests that there’s very little transmission that is happening
within the schools, especially when there’s masking and distancing
occurring, and that when there are transmissions in the schools, it is
because they brought — been brought in from the community and because
there are breaches in masking and distancing. 

So, if we want to get our schools open and our schools open safely and
well, the best way to do that is to decrease the community spread.  So I
would say we need to keep up our social distancing and our masking and
all of our other mitigation measures.  Our CDC guidance on school
reopening will be coming in the days ahead, and I look forward to
thinking through those with everybody.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Great, thank you.  Do we have a next
question?

MODERATOR:  Last question will go to Isaac Stanley-Becker at Washington
Post.

Q    Thanks for taking my question.  It follows up on Kristen’s first
question.  So, in light of the fact that this is the recommendation of
the CDC, can you say a little bit more about what the administration is
doing to communicate this guidance and these instructions to governors
and other officials out in the country, discouraging them from taking
some of these steps?  Or is — ultimately, is this largely a state and
local matter where the administration’s power is limited?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  So, I just want to confirm, not that the
question was asked that long ago, but your question — you’re talking
about conversations with governors about steps that they’re — those that
are taking steps to relax mitigation standards?  Is that your question?

Q    That’s right.  Just if you could say a little bit more about what
the administration is doing to provide counsel and instructions on
issues like mask mandates, dining restrictions to — you know, especially
in light of the spread of these variants. 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Well, all across government, we talk to
the states incredibly frequently, so maybe we’ll go around and see, Dr.
Walensky, if there’s anything you want to add to your previous answer.

DR. WALENSKY:  I will just say I think our stand on this is pretty well
established.  I attend a weekly governors call at least — and I know
that — and I’ve been in touch one-on-one with numerous governors
already.  So I’m doing my best, and I’m — would be happy to do be doing
more to encourage the states to decrease their community spread so that
we can decrease the threat of these variants, decrease our
hospitalizations, and get this pandemic under control.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  And the only thing I’ll add to that is,
you know, we understand the pressure the government — the governors are
under.  We are taking a collaborative approach as much as possible,
sharing with them the data, helping them understand — as we’ve covered
on this call — why we’re in such a critical period to combating the
virus, and hope to continue to work to persuade and partner with states
and localities to continue to follow sensible public health measures
until such time as we’re in a situation where the case rates are down —
are down lower.  We think that’s wise. 

We think that the — that the voice of the CDC is preeminent here.  They
look at all of the data.  They’re clear in communicating with the
public.  And we will continue to have those conversations with the
states.  But I won’t — I won’t go into any of the specific one-on-one
conversations that we have with states because I think that might be
counterproductive.

I want to thank you for — all for attending our briefing.  I think we
hit the half-hour mark pretty precisely.  We look forward to a
productive week, collectively, and to talking with you all again on
Wednesday.

11:30 A.M. EST
