---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-03'
modified_time: 2021-02-03 16:32:30-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/03/press-briefing-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials/
published_time: 2021-02-03 13:27:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
11:05 AM

MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, everyone.  A week ago, in our first COVID
response briefing, we committed to providing you with transparent
science-based and up-to-date information about the pandemic.  I hope
that five briefings in, we’re starting to establish a pattern of
providing the American people with the facts they need about the crisis
and our response, driven by our experts and scientists.

We act every day based on the fact that we already have more than
440,000 fellow Americans who have died, 26 million Americans infected,
and our ways of life totally upended. 

In his first full day in office, President Biden laid out a
comprehensive national strategy to defeat this virus and get back to our
way of life.  On vaccinations, President Biden put it simply when he
said, “We need to increase vaccine supply and get it out the door as
fast as possible.  We need to mobilize more medical units to get more
shots in people’s arms.  And we need to create more places where
Americans can get vaccinated.” 

The President set a goal to deliver 100 million shots in his first 100
days.  Today I want to give you an update on our execution against that
goal. 

We will also hear a state-of-the-pandemic update from Dr. Walensky and
an update on the latest science from Dr. Fauci.  We will then open it up
for questions. 

Since entering office two weeks ago, the Biden administration has taken
aggressive steps to activate the full resources of the federal
government to improve our vaccination supply.  First, we have increased
vaccine supply to states, tribes, and territories by over 20 percent. 
Second, we are providing visibility on supply on a rolling three-week
basis so governors and local leaders have the ability to plan and
maximize the number of needles in arms.  Third, we secured the equipment
required to extract a sixth dose from every Pfizer vial of vaccine.  And
fourth, we’re purchasing an additional 200 million doses to ensure that
every American can get vaccinated. 

And the data shows that we are making progress.  As you can see on our
vaccination progress report, our seven-day average daily doses
administered is, as you can see in the dark blue bar on the right, now
averaging over 1.3 million shots per day for the period from January
27th through February 2nd.  We are on track to meet the President’s goal
of 100 million shots in 100 days.

Notably, yesterday, the Department of Veterans Affairs delivered its
one-millionth shot, ensuring those who served our country are among the
first protected from this deadly virus. 

We are encouraged by this progress to increase supply, but we will
continue to push for every opportunity to do more.  At the President’s
directions, we have an all-of-government effort to provide all Americans
with access to get more places to get vaccinated.  Americans need more
access to more places to get vaccinated. 

Today I want to update you on establishing and supporting community
vaccination centers across the country.  These centers are helping to
provide new, more efficient places for people to get vaccinated. 

First, the federal government is expediting financial support to bolster
community vaccination sites nationwide, including in states like
Georgia, North Carolina, and Wisconsin.  As of today, FEMA has provided
more than $1.7 billion to 27 states, localities, tribes, and
territories.  This funding covers critical steps in the vaccination
process, including transportation and storage equipment, supplies needed
to administer vaccines, and safety equipment like PPE and masks.

Second, we’re deploying personnel to provide technical assistance to
support vaccination sites nationwide and provide additional staff from
the federal government.  FEMA has already assigned over 600 staff to
this effort, including experts in logistics, IT, and registration, with
over 350 of these staff deployed directly to the vaccination sites
across the country. 

The federal government is now supporting thousands of National Guard
members who are providing support to sites in 39 states, including 800
trained vaccinators.  And CDC is providing on-the-ground technical
assistance in jurisdictions across the country.

And, third, we are building new community vaccination centers across the
country.  The Department of Defense will dedicate substantial personnel
and resources to help manage many of these new sites.

The profile of these community vaccination sites will vary by community
need.  You’ll see big centers and stadiums, sites in school gyms and
community centers, mobile units in rural areas and outer boroughs,
pop-up sites in parking lots and other locations. 

We are working with state and local health departments to meet the
communities they serve, where they are, in places they know, with people
they trust.  And we’ll encourage all vaccination centers to collaborate
with community-based organizations and others who can help communities
with the greatest need. 

Today I’m pleased to announce the federal government will partner with
the state of California to launch two new community vaccination centers:
one in East Oakland and the second in the east side of Los Angeles — two
of the communities most hard hit by this pandemic. 

In the east side of Los Angeles, we’ll launch a large site on the campus
of California University — California State University-Los Angeles. 
This is one of the most diverse public universities in the country,
serving a large Latino community.  And we’re opening a new center at
Oakland Coliseum adjacent to the communities of Eastmont and Elmhurst,
which have some of the lowest health scores in the state. 

Both centers will be staffed primarily by a federal workforce from
agencies such as FEMA, DOD, U.S. Department of Agriculture, and HHS.  In
all of this work, we’re advancing equity.  FEMA has partnered with CDC
to launch vaccination sites that use processes and are located in places
that promote equity, deploying CDC’s Social Vulnerability Index. 

These sites in California are just the beginning.  We are working with —
in partnership in states across the country to stand up new sites, and
we’ll have more to say on that in the coming weeks. 

So, across the first two weeks, we’ve activated a whole-of-government
response.  We have increased vaccine supply, and we are ensuring that
all Americans in every community have more places to get vaccinated. 

Now let me turn to Dr. Walensky — Dr. Walensky for a state of the
pandemic.

Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you very much.  I’m delighted to be back with you
today, and I want to make sure we have time for questions, so I will be
brief in my remarks. 

As I said Monday, cases and hospital admissions continue to decrease,
and we now appear to be in a consistent downward trajectory for both of
these important outcomes.  COVID-19 cases have declined steadily since
hitting a peak on January 8th, dropping 13.4 percent to an average of
nearly 144,000 cases per day from January 26th to February 1st.  Cases
are now back to the level we were before Thanksgiving. 

Similarly, new hospital admissions have continued to decline since they
peaked on January 5th, decreasing 4.1 percent to an average of
approximately 11,400 admissions per day from January 25 to January 31. 

While deaths have continued to increase, their pace appears to be
slowing, with the average number of deaths increasing 1 percent to
slightly more than 3,100 deaths per day from January 26th to February
1st.

And the recent decline in hospitalizations gives us hope that the number
of deaths should start to decrease in the coming weeks. 

Although we have seen declines in cases and admissions and a recent
slowing of deaths, cases remain extraordinarily high — still twice as
high as the peak number of cases over the summer.  And the continued
proliferation of variants — variants that likely have increased
transmissibility, that spread more easily — threatens to reverse these
recent trends.

Based on contact tracing and recent — of recent variant cases, not
wearing masks and participating in in-person social gatherings have
contributed to the variant spread.  We must take prevention,
intervention seriously.  Now is not the time to let our guard down. 
Keep taking steps to protect each other: Wear a mask; maintain social
distancing; avoid travel, crowds and poorly ventilated spaces.  And
please get vaccinated when it is your turn. 

And this Sunday, remember: Whichever team you’re rooting for and
whichever commercial is your favorite, please watch the Super Bowl
safely, gathering only virtually or with the people you live with.  The
CDC recently posted guidance on how to safely enjoy the game. 

Thank you.  I’ll turn it to Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I want to make just a
couple of points related to questions and issues that have been brought
up over the past couple of days to help clarify it, and I’ll be very
brief.

We have heard from studies emanating out of the AstraZeneca platform
that, in the UK, they’re talking about the possibility, since their data
seems to show this, that if you prolong the interval between the first
and second dose — in fact, even go with a single dose — you can get good
results.  And, in fact, the interval between the first and second dose
can now be measured in months.  With — according to their own data, that
is actually a favorable response.

We certainly respect that the UK scientists and health officials are
going by their data and letting their own data for their own platform
dictate their policy.  The question is asked often: “Then why don’t we
do the same thing with our candidates that are now being distributed to
people in the United States?”  And the response is simple: We also are
going very much by the data and the science that has emanated out of
very large clinical trials.  As you all are aware, the Moderna trial,
with 30,000 people, and the Pfizer trial, with 44,000 people, indicate
to us that maximum responses are given with a prime followed by a boost
— 21 days with Pfizer and 28 days with Moderna.

Now, we know that sometimes, out of circumstances beyond the control of
people, that they may not make it at exactly the day of 21 day and 28
day.  And as we know from the CDC, under those special circumstances,
that it is okay if you get the second dose in either four to six weeks
later.  That doesn’t mean that we want to do it at six weeks later.  It
means that under special circumstances, it’s better to delay that couple
of weeks than not do it at all. 

But we feel strongly that we will go by the science, which has dictated
for us the optimal way to get the 94 to 95 percent response, which is,
in fact, durable for the period of time that we’ve been following it.

One other thing I want to mention: We live in a global community, and it
is encouraging to see that other countries are coming out with results
from their own vaccine trial, such as the Russian trial that we heard
about a day or two ago; the UK and European Union, which are now putting
vaccines into people, according to the data that they’ve accumulated;
the Chinese trials, et cetera.

We, in the United States, as I mentioned in a speech I gave a couple of
weeks ago to the World Health Organization Executive Board, that we are
back on the global scene.  We reentered into our arrangement with the
WHO, and we are part of COVAX. 

So I just want to remind people that this is a global effort, and the
more we get the virus controlled globally — and we will be part of that
process as part of the global community — the better off we will be. 
Because I’ve said it many times, and I’ll close by saying it again: We
have to be concerned about the mutants.  Viruses will not mutate well if
you don’t give them the opportunity to replicate in a very large way. 
Namely, if you have an open playing field for the virus, they will
replicate, and they will mutate.  The best way to prevent that is the
implementation of the public health measures that Dr. Walensky just
mentioned, both home and abroad, as well as the implementation of the
administration of vaccines, as effectively and efficiently and as
quickly as we possibly can.

So I’ll stop there and hand it back to Jeff.

MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, Dr. Fauci and Dr. Walensky.  You have
heard from our experts.  I want to reiterate, we are at war with this
virus.  It is clearly a national emergency, and we are doing all we
can.   
But it is critical that Congress does its part as well.  We need
Congress to quickly pass the American Rescue Plan to provide the funding
we need to continue to scale up our vaccination program, as well as for
more testing, more genomic sequencing, and more emergency supplies.  And
we must give families, schools, businesses, and state and local leaders
the support they need to fight the pandemic.

This will not be easy.  Vaccinating everyone in America is one of the
greatest operational challenges we’ve ever faced, and we will not stop
working until this mission is complete.

With that, let’s take a few questions.

MODERATOR:  For our first question, we’ll go to Weijia Jiang at CBS.

*(Technical difficulties.) *

All right, we’ll go to the second question while we figure that out. 

Second, we will go to Brenda Goodman at WebMD.

Q    Hello?

MODERATOR:  Oh, Weijia, you’re there. 

Q    Oh, I’m sorry.  Sorry about that.  And thank you guys for having
this briefing and for taking my questions.  I have two, if you don’t
mind. 

The first one is about skepticism that remains around the vaccines,
which you guys have all acknowledged.  And just about 20 minutes ago, a
new Monmouth poll shows about 50 percent of Americans plan to get the
vaccine when they can, but 24 percent say it is likely they will never
get it if they can avoid it.  So, my question is: Are there any
conditions under which you would recommend requiring a vaccine to access
certain places like federal properties, schools, or to travel, like if
we fail to reach herd immunity after a certain point, or if more
variants continue to spread?

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky, do you want to weigh in here?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah.  Thank you for that question.  I think it’s
important to recognize that we have vaccine hesitancy here.  We have to
address that vaccine hesitancy at its roots and understand why people
are hesitant.

I do believe that the more people who get this vaccine — we now have
over 32 million who’ve received at least one dose — the more people will
realize and recognize that it is being distributed and given safely and
that the side effects really are minimal to moderate — minimal, really —
with very rare risk of events that can be managed.

What I would say with regard to, you know, requiring: I think we can’t,
sort of, be in a place where we’re thinking about making requirements
for vaccination until we certainly have enough for the entire country,
to make sure that that’s possible.  So I would say, right now, it’s
premature to think about those requirements.  Our goal right now is to
vaccinate as many people as we can.

Q    Thank you so much.  I just have a —

MR. ZIENTS:  Let me see if Dr. Fauci has anything to add there.  Dr.
Fauci?

DR. FAUCI:  No, I agree totally with what Dr. Walensky said,
particularly the last part — is that when you’re talking about
requirements, which we do have for some vaccines — you know, Rochelle
and I both are physicians who practice medicine; we don’t do it in the
hospital unless we get our influenza shot every year.  That’s because we
have plentiful vaccinations available.  But it’s no time to talk about
that now while we still have a great demand that outstrips the supply.

MR. ZIENTS:  Good.  Okay.  Your second question?

Q    Thank you.  This is about vaccine supply actually, just to get some
clarification about something Dr. Fauci said on Monday — that, you know,
the U.S. should administer all the doses it has without holding any
back, and then, ideally, in three weeks, prioritize people getting
second doses.  I know that vaccine production has ramped up, but has it
increased enough so that you can give everyone their second dose and
keep up the same pace for new vaccinations?

MR. ZIENTS:  So as we talked about, I believe yesterday, we’ve steadily
increased the amount of vaccine that we are sending to states.  We are
up over 20 percent now across the first two weeks.  And important for
states’ planning efforts, we are giving a minimum of three-week
visibility into the next three weeks of shipments, which is something
that we heard from governors and state and local leaders.  We
anticipate, as we work hard to monitor and help and assist the
manufacturers, that we’ll continue to have supply increases.  As you
know, we’re also beginning to ramp up an initial phase with the
pharmacies.  I talked today about the community vaccination centers. 
That’s just the beginning of establishing new community vaccination
centers. 

So we are confident that there is going to be an increase in supply. 
And at the same time, we have the systems in place so that we can ensure
that second doses will arrive at the third week mark for Pfizer, and at
the fourth week mark for Moderna.  And as you’ve just heard from the
experts, from the doctors, it’s really important that people get their
second doses and get their second doses is on time.

Q    Thank you very much.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Next question, we’ll go to Brenda Goodman at
WebMD.

Q    Good morning.  Can you hear me?

MR. ZIENTS:  Yes.

Q    Great.  I wondered if we could get an update on vaccine
prioritization.  I know under the previous administration this was
largely left up to states to decide when they wanted to move to the next
levels of priority.  But we’re seeing a lot of states open this up for
teachers, and it’s kind of created a patchwork.  And I just wondered if
the federal government would be working more closely with states to kind
of get more vaccinations to teachers in particular so that schools can
reopen in the fall.

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky, do you want to start here?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question.  You know, the
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices has created these guides —
this guidance for how we should be thinking about prioritizing among all
essential workers and all of the population at large.

You know, those have been taken under recommendation — guidance from the
states, and then the states are creating their own individual plans. 
And, you know, those plans have to, sort of, be in sync with how they
are able to titrate, really, their supply versus the number of people
who are wanting it.  We don’t want to be too prescriptive so that they
have these queues of people, and yet we don’t want to be too open so
that they also have queues of people.  We don’t want to have too much
supply on the shelf. 

So we’ve left that to the states to manage, in terms of recognizing the
prioritization of ACIP, but also manage at their own local level. 

That said, I want to be very clear about schools, which is: Yes, ACIP
has put teachers in the 1b category, the category of essential workers. 
But I also want to be clear that there is increasing data to suggest
that schools can safely reopen and that that safe reopening does not
suggest that teachers need to be vaccinated in order to reopen safely. 

So while we are implementing the criteria of the Advisory Committee and
of the state and local guidances to get vaccination across these
eligible communities, I would also say that safe reopening of schools is
not — that vaccination of teachers is not a prerequisite for safe
reopening of schools. 

MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah, let me just add here.  You know, President Biden has
been very clear that he wants schools to reopen and actually to stay
open.  And that means that every school has the equipment and the
resources to open safely — not just private schools or schools in
wealthy areas, but all schools.  And that’s why we need the American
Rescue Plan passed now.  It includes money to get schools better access
to testing, enables smaller class sizes, acquire the necessary
ventilation, ensure everyone has PPE, and that schools are properly
sanitized.  It also includes much-needed funds to support the learning
and social, emotional needs of our kids in what has been an extremely,
extremely difficult year. 

So again, Congress has to do its part in order to make sure that we can
safely reopen schools and keep them open.

MODERATOR:  All right, next question.  We’ll go to Shannon Pettypiece
with NBC.

Q    Hi.  Can you guys hear me?

MR. ZIENTS:  Yes.

Q    I wanted to — you’ve raised a lot of concern about these mutants. 
Given what we know about their transmissibility, should we be rethinking
the social distancing guidelines?  Should we be double masking?  Should
we rethink indoor dining?  You know, is six feet apart still enough? 
With these new mutations, do we need to do things differently at all? 

I understand you want everyone to continue following the guidelines now
more than ever, but are you thinking about any new guidelines
potentially?

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci?

DR. FAUCI:  Well, the answer is we always evaluate guidelines, you know,
in real time, depending upon what the status is.  But I want to
emphasize what you just said: that, right now, we don’t have complete,
full compliance throughout the country of the fundamental public health
measures that are necessary to prevent the spread.  And I believe that
if we do, we will be adequately addressing the transmissibility of these
particular mutants. 

Now, the question keeps coming up, and I’ll give you my opinion of this,
which I believe will be in accordance with Dr. Walensky, but I’d give
her the opportunity also.  We get asked all the time: “Should we be
double masking?”  The CDC makes recommendations based on data that they
accumulate because it’s a science-based organization.  Right now, they
are looking at these different options of mask wearing. 

In the meantime, as I often get asked, “Should you be wearing two masks
or one mask?”  And I say, there’s no recommendation; however, there are
many people who take the commonsense approach.  If you’re talking about
a physical barrier — and, as the CDC recommends, you want at least two
layers within the mask as a physical barrier — and you feel maybe more
of a physical barrier would be better, there’s nothing wrong with people
wearing two masks.  I often, myself, wear two masks.  Can we make a
general recommendation that doesn’t have scientific basis yet?  No.  But
when the science comes along and tells us that it is better or not, then
you will see a recommendation being made by the CDC.

I’ll hand it over to Dr. Walensky for any further comment. 

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci.  I don’t have a lot to add there
except to say that the CDC is actively looking at this question.  And
what has been — what some of the data that have been emerging is as we
found some of these variants in the contact tracing of them, we are
finding that people were actually not taking the primary measures of any
masking or any distancing.  So I think that is really our best barrier
against these variants, is to do the masking, the distancing.  And you
will — more data will be forthcoming from the CDC with regard to the
value of double masking.

MR. ZIENTS:  I’ll remind everybody that on his first day in office,
President Biden signed an executive order requiring mask wearing in all
federal buildings, all federal places, and in public transportation,
interstate travel.  And that is all part of a nationwide 100-day mask
challenge.  The President is asking everybody to mask up for the next
100 days, and the estimates are that’ll save over 50,000 lives.  So
masking up is one of the things that all Americans should be doing.

MODERATOR:  All right, we have time for one more question.  Last, we’ll
ask we’ll go to Bricio Segovia with MVS Radio.

Q    Thank you for doing this and taking my question.  I have two
questions, if I may.  The first one is: With the new Brazilian COVID
variant and many countries in the Latin America region not having severe
travel restrictions in place, do you consider that the U.S. should take
further action in this region, including travel restrictions?  And have
any travel requirements been defined for individuals from Mexico into
the United States at land ports of entry in the southern border?

MR. ZIENTS:  So, yes, the President has put in strict travel
restrictions.  If you’re traveling from an international country, it
requires a test — a negative test three days in advance — and then
quarantining once you land in the U.S. 

The travel restrictions on certain countries, including Brazil, are even
stricter in terms of who’s allowed to travel to the U.S.  So travel
restrictions internationally have been tightened quite a bit during this
period of the pandemic.

I don’t know if you had a second question, too.

Q    I do have a second question, and actually a quick follow-up.  You
mentioned quarantining after landing in the U.S. Is that quarantine
going to be enforced? 

And my second question is: As countries ramp up vaccination efforts and
people get vaccinated in other parts of the world, do you see the need
to request a negative test to travelers who have been inoculated?  And
what are your thoughts on a universal travel document for the vaccinated
or a vaccination passport, which is being currently discussed
internationally?

MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah, let me hand — let me hand it over to Dr. Walensky in
terms of the CDC guidelines on quarantine and how they’re working with
state and local officials to make sure that the quarantines are
enforced.

Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for — thank you very much for that question. 
We are working hard with the state and local officials to work towards
increased compliance and work towards facilitating compliance to ensure
that those people who are landing here from international settings can
comply with the quarantine measures.  Again, seven days of quarantine,
as well a day — a test, day three to five, after landing. 

MR. ZIENTS:  Good.  Well, I want to thank everybody for joining today’s
briefing.  The next briefing will be on Friday.  Thank you.

11:35 AM
