---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-17'
modified_time: 2021-02-17 14:13:14-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/17/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-4/
published_time: 2021-02-17 14:13:13-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:05 A.M. EST

     MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, everybody.  It’s been 27 days since the
President launched his comprehensive whole-of-government strategy to
beat the COVID-19 pandemic.

     Central to the strategy is vaccinating all Americans.  When we
started this work 27 days ago, we inherited many challenges:  There was
not enough vaccine supply.  There were not enough vaccinators to help
get shots in arms.  And there were not enough places to get vaccinated. 

And 27 days later, while we’ve made a lot of progress, there is a long
road ahead.  We’re executing our strategy across multiple fronts, and
that execution is yielding results.  Today I will give you the latest
update on our execution in those three key areas: vaccine supply, number
of vaccinators, and places to get vaccinated. 

We’ll also hear from Dr. Walensky on the state of the pandemic, Dr.
Fauci on the latest science, Dr. Nunez-Smith on our equity work, and
Carole Johnson, White House Testing Coordinator, will discuss important
progress on testing. 

First, I’ll start with vaccine supply.  We’ve acted aggressively to
increase the vaccine supply.  Yesterday we announced another increase in
the weekly allocations of vaccine doses to states, tribes, and
territories from 11 million doses last week to 13.5 million doses this
week.  That’s an increase in vaccine allocations of 57 percent during
the first four weeks of the Biden-Harris administration. 

In addition, we’re doubling the weekly vaccine supply to local
pharmacies from 1 million to 2 million doses.  And thanks to the
President’s leadership, we’re on track to have enough vaccine supply for
300 million Americans by the end of July.   

Second, we’re mobilizing teams to get shots in arms.  We signed an order
to allow retired doctors and nurses to give shots.  Today we’ve deployed
over 700 federal personnel as vaccinators.  The federal government is
funding 1,200 National Guard members who are serving as vaccinators. 
For the first time, we have activated over 1,000 members of the military
to support community vaccination sites, and we’ve deployed an additional
1,000 federal personnel to support community vaccination sites in
operational roles.  We continue to take action to increase the number of
vaccinators and federal support teams. 

Third, we’re creating more places where Americans can get vaccinated. 
We’ve expanded financial support to bolster community vaccination
centers nationwide, with over $3 billion in federal funding across 40
states, tribes, and territories.  We’re bringing vaccinations to places
communities know and trust — community centers, high school gyms,
churches, and stadiums nationwide.  And we’re standing up innovative,
high-volume, federally run sites that can give over 30,000 shots a
week.  We’ve also launched efforts to get vaccines to pharmacies and
community health centers.

And the data shows that we’re making progress.  As you can see in our
weekly vaccination progress report, our seven-day average daily dose
administered is now 1.7 million average daily shots per day, up from 1.1
million only four weeks ago.  Our seven-day daily average of 1.7 million
compares to an average of 892,000 the week before President Biden took
office.  That is almost double in just four weeks. 

Throughout this work, we’re putting equity front and center, partnering
with states to increase vaccinations in the hardest-hit and
hardest-to-reach communities; increasing supply to convenient and
trusted locations like community health centers; deploying mobile units;
and improving data collection so that we have a better understanding of
the inequities currently experienced. 

Let me be very clear: We have much more work to do on all fronts, but we
are taking the actions we need to beat this virus.  There is a path out
of this pandemic.  But how quickly we exit this crisis depends on all of
us.  That’s why I encourage everyone to take the advice of Dr. Walensky,
Dr. Fauci, and Dr. Nunez-Smith.  Follow the public health guidance. 
Wear masks, social distance, and get vaccinated when it’s your turn. 

We will do everything we can as a federal government to defeat this
virus, but it will take all of us stepping up to do our part. 

With that, let me turn it over to Dr. Walensky.  Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you.  I’m so glad to be back with you today to
share the latest information on the status of the pandemic. 

Let’s first begin with an overview of the data, and then I want to
briefly discuss with you what CDC knows about recently detected COVID-19
variants and what we’re doing in response.

COVID-19 cases have now been declining for five weeks.  The seven-day
average in the past week — cases have decreased nearly 22 percent to an
average of slightly more than 86,000 cases per day.  Similarly, new
hospital admissions have been consistently declining since early
January, with a 21 percent decline in the seven-day average over the
past week, averaging approximately 7,700 cases per — admissions per
day. 

We continue to see the daily number of reported deaths fluctuate.  The
latest data indicate deaths declined by 0.6 percent to an average of
3,076 deaths per day from February 9th to February 15th.  These numbers
are a painful reminder that we have — of all those we have lost and
continue to lose — our family members, our friends, our neighbors, and
our co-workers — to this pandemic. 

While cases and hospitalizations continue to move in the right
direction, we remain in the midst of a very serious pandemic, and we
continue to have more cases than we did, even during last month’s — last
summer’s peak. 

And the continued spread of variants that are more transmissible could
jeopardize the progress we have made in the last month if our — if we
let our guard down.  As of yesterday, we have confirmed 1,277 cases of
the B117 variant across 42 states, including the first case of the B117
variant with the E484K substitution that had previously been found in
the UK.  Nineteen cases of B1351 variant have been found across 10
states, and three cases of the P1 variant has been found in two states. 

Reflective of our commitment to communicate openly and often about the
latest science on variants today, CDC is releasing two studies in the
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, as well as a commentary in the
Journal of the American Medical Association, on variants specifically.

In the MMWR reports, one study describes the different ways eight people
in Minnesota were infected with the B117 variant that emerged late last
year in the UK.  None of the eight individuals had traveled to the UK,
but three of them appeared to have been infected during international
travel to other destinations, and three during travel to California. 
One person was exposed to the virus in their home and another in their
community.

The second report examines the initial spread of the B1351 variant in
Zambia, where the average number of daily confirmed COVID-19 cases
increased sixteen fold from December to January, which coincided with
the detection of the B1351 variant in specimens collected in December.

The B1351 variant was first detected in South Africa.  And Zambia shows
substantial commerce and tourism linkages with South Africa, which may
have contributed to the transmission of this variant across the two
countries. 

In the JAMA viewpoint, co-authored by Dr. Fauci, we provide a synopsis
of what we know about the primary variants circulating in the United
States and the interagency steps the federal government is taking to
address these variants.  I know these variants are concerning,
especially as we’re seeing signs of progress.  I’m talking about them
today because I am concerned too.

Fortunately, the science to date suggests that the same prevention of
actions apply to these variants.  This includes wearing a well-fitting
mask that completely covers your nose and mouth; social distancing when
around others who don’t live with you; avoiding travel, crowds, and
poorly ventilated spaces; washing your hands often; and getting
vaccinated when the vaccine is available to you.

It is more important than ever for us to do everything we can to
decrease the spread in our communities by increasing our proven measures
that prevent the spread of COVID-19.  Fewer cases means fewer
opportunities for the variant to spread and fewer opportunities for new
variants to emerge.

Finally, a quick comment on masking.  As I stated last week, the science
is clear: Consistently and correctly wearing a mask is one of the most
effective tools we have to stop the spread of COVID-19.  For reasons
supported by science, comfort, cost, and practicality, the CDC does not
recommend routine use of N95 respirators for protection against COVID-19
by the general public.  Abundant scientific laboratory data,
epidemiologic investigations, and large population-level analyses
demonstrate that masks now available to the general public are effective
and are working.  And there is little evidence that, when worn properly,
well-fitting medical and cloth masks fail in disease transmission.

CDC continues to recommend the use of masks that have two or more
layers, that completely cover your nose and mouth, and that fit snugly
and comfortably over your nose and the side of your face.

Thank you, and I look forward to your questions.  I will now turn it
over to Dr. Fauci.  Dr. Fauci?

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to spend the
next couple of minutes addressing an issue that we have been asked about
continually since the successful demonstration of the high efficacy of
the vaccines that are currently being implemented right now in our
country: the mRNA vaccines of Pfizer and of Moderna. 

And the question is — we do know now that we have a 94 to 95 percent
efficacy in preventing clinically recognizable disease, but the looming
question is: If a person gets infected, despite the fact that they’ve
been vaccinated — we refer to that as a “breakthrough infection” — does
that person have the capability of transmitting the infection to another
person?  Namely, does vaccine prevent transmission?

And I had mentioned to you that we, together with the Moderna company —
and the Pfizer group is going to do it also — are also going to be
looking at the viral load in the nasal pharynx to determine if, in fact,
a person who’s vaccinated but has a breakthrough infection, compared to
a person who’s unvaccinated and has an asymptomatic infection, is there
a difference in the viral load?  That will be very important. 

What has happened over the past couple of weeks is there have been some
studies that are pointing into a very favorable direction that will have
to be verified and corroborated by other studies. 

But let me spend a minute to just describe it to you.  The real question
is: Is there a relationship between viral load and transmissibility?  We
know from ample studies over many years with HIV is that there’s a
direct correlation between the viral load that an individual has —
usually measured in the blood — and the likelihood that they will or
will not transmit their infection, for example, to a sexual partner. 
The lower the viral load, the less likelihood of transmissibility.  The
higher the viral load, the higher the likelihood of transmissibility. 

Well, when you’re dealing with COVID-19, you’re talking about viral load
in the nasopharynx.  So a study has just come out about a week and a
half ago from Spain that directly looked at it with a group of 282
clusters of infections.  And what it showed, in a Lancet article that
came out on February the 2nd, was something that we were hoping we would
see: that there was a direct correlation with the viral load and the
efficiency of transmission, very much the same as what we’ve seen in
diseases like HIV, only now it’s in the nasopharynx.  In other words,
higher viral load, good transmissibility; lower viral load, very poor
transmissibility. 

Now, together with that is another study that came out on February the
8th on an online journal, which I believe is worthy of being noted here
— even though, as I mentioned, you want corroboration with other
studies.  It was a study from Israel.  It looked at the following
question: If, in fact, you assume that decreased viral load is due —
will result in a decreased transmission, when you follow breakthrough
infections in the individuals in Israel who had been vaccinated,
compared to infections in individuals who were not, there was a markedly
diminished viral load in those individuals who were vaccinated but had a
breakthrough infection, compared to individuals who were not. 

It’s very interesting the Israelis were able to do that study.  It is
noteworthy that when you look at the amount of vaccinations per hundred
people — mainly how many vaccinations were given per hundred people —
Israeli — Israel is way up there, with 78 doses per 100 people, compared
to the United States, which is 16.7 doses per 100 people.  So we have
been hearing and seeing in the press that Israel has a remarkable
diminution in cases associated with the efficiency of their vaccine. 

The reason I bring this out to you is that it is another example of the
scientific data starting to point to the fact that vaccine is important
not only for the health of the individual — to protect them against
infection and disease, including the variants that Dr. Walensky has
mentioned just a moment ago — but it also has very important
implications from a public health standpoint for interfering and
diminishing the dynamics of the outbreak. 

So the bottom-line message is one that you just heard from Dr. Walensky
that I said the last few times that we had these press briefings, and
that is: When your turn to get vaccinated comes up, get vaccinated. 
It’s not only good for you and your family and your community, it will
have a very important impact on the dynamics of the outbreak in our
country.  And with that, I’ll hand it over to Dr. Nunez-Smith.

     DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Thank you so much, Dr. Fauci.  So, over these
past few weeks, you know, I’ve been — it’s been a great pleasure to be
here giving updates in how we’re centering equity in our response.  You
know, spent time describing the critical need for data, in particular
from states and localities, you know, to guide an equitable response. 

And last week, I introduced you to the individuals selected for the
COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force, a group that will convene to develop
recommendations to inform the work. 

So today, just very briefly, I wanted to zoom out a little bit and, just
at a high level, describe some of the elements of an equitable COVID-19
response that we’ve built and that we are building so far.

So in terms of the federal COVID-19 response, we have developed robust
efforts in three key areas on the continuum of COVID-19 impact, and
that’s vaccination, treatment, as well as testing.

So first, vaccination, as we’ve been discussing so far today, is just
critical.  And the federal programs — those include the community health
center partnerships, retail pharmacy program, the community vaccination
centers, and the mobile vaccination sites — those are being executed to
make sure we also reach the hardest hit.  And we’re working directly
with state and local leadership on these programs.

So second, I want to spend a little time today discussing equity in
COVID-19 treatment options.  We have been working very closely with the
Food and Drug Administration to discuss the promise and the potential of
three antibody therapies authorized for emergency use.  And in brief,
these therapies have been shown to reduce hospitalization and improve
outcomes for high-risk patients diagnosed with COVID-19.

You know, the potential for these therapies is especially high in the
communities that have been most affected by the pandemic.  And in fact,
the 25 locations currently participating in the administration’s rollout
of these therapies include 32 percent of the American population, and
also includes significant racial and ethnic diversity.  You know, from
Houston, to Detroit, L.A., to Atlanta — in coordination with community
leaders in these areas, we have the ability to reach 38 percent of the
black community, 42 percent of the Hispanic/Latino community, and 41
percent of the Asian community in the country.  And we also have reached
into rural populations.  So with regard to these therapies in
particular, we will continue to keep you updated.

And then third, we have been hard at work developing robust efforts in
COVID-19 testing as well. 

And so, with that, I want to pass it over to my colleague, Carole
Johnson, to describe the latest developments in the efforts to
streamline and increase COVID-19 testing.  Carole.  

     MS. JOHNSON:  Thank you, Dr. Nunez-Smith, for your leadership on
testing, on equity, and on so much more.  I’m really delighted to be
here with you today.  I’m Carole Johnson, the COVID Response Team
Testing Coordinator.

For the last three years, I served as a Human Services Commissioner for
the state of New Jersey, providing healthcare and social services for
our most vulnerable residents.  So when COVID came early and quickly to
our state, I experienced firsthand the difference access to accurate,
affordable testing could make in slowing the spread. 

I’m here today because while we’re working around the clock to vaccinate
folks, we also need to continue doing what we know works to protect
public health, and that includes robust testing.  We need to test
broadly and rapidly to turn the tide of this pandemic.  But we still
don’t have enough testing and we don’t have enough testing in all the
places it needs to be. 

Today, we’re taking a critical step along that path.  Thanks to Pre- —
President Biden’s leadership and his commitment to testing, we’re
announcing that the federal government will invest $1.6 billion in three
key areas: supporting testing in schools and underserved populations,
increasing genomic sequencing, and manufacturing critical testing
supplies. 

First, we’ll invest $650 million for testing to begin to help schools
with reopening and to reach underserved populations.  While this funding
will serve as a — only as a pilot until the American Rescue Plan is
enacted, we want to act quickly to help get support underway in these
priority settings.  The Department of Health and Human Services will use
these funds to create regional coordinating centers that will partner
with labs to leverage their underutilized testing capacity.  They’ll use
that capacity to support schools, underserved communities, and
congregate settings. 

Too often, testing can be hard to implement in non-medical settings or
it can be hard to find the right partner to make testing work.  These
coordinating ceters \[sic\] — centers will help match lab capacity with
demand from schools, congregate settings like homeless shelters or other
underserved populations.  These are places that typically don’t have the
resources or the bandwidth to build partnerships with academic or
commercial testing labs, and that’s where the government can be a
facilitator.  We’ll identify existing testing capacity, match it to an
area of need, and support and fund that testing.

     Second, we’ll invest almost $200 million to rapidly expand genomic
sequencing to identify, track, and stop the COVID-19 variants that we’ve
all heard and talked much about.  Essentially, genomic sequencing is the
process that tells us which COVID variants are in the country.  And this
surge in funding will result in a threefold increase in CDC’s genomic
sequencing capacity to get us to 25,000 samples a week.

As a result, we’ll identify COVID variants sooner and better target our
efforts to stop the spread.  We’re quickly infusing targeted resources
here because the time is critical when it comes to these fast-moving
variants. 

Finally, we’ll address the shortage in testing supplies.  Talk to anyone
who has focused on COVID testing over the last year, and they’ll tell
you the same thing: Our nation faces a shortage of critical supplies and
raw materials, including pipette ti- — tips; the specialized paper used
in antigen tests; and the specialized molded plastics needed to house
testing reagents, as a couple of examples. 

So our administration will invest $815 million in building and surging
domestic manufacturing capacity of these critical testing supplies.  We
need to build — to build the capacity to produce these materials or
we’ll continue to face shortages that will sidetrack our work in
expanding access to testing.

To be clear, these resources are a significant help in the short term,
but they are far from what’s necessary to meet the need for testing in
communities across the country.  They are merely a bridge until Congress
passes the American Rescue Plan to fully expand testing and ensure that
any American can get a test when they need one. 

With that, I’ll turn it back over to Jeff. 

MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thanks, Carole, and thanks, team.  I want to
emphasize the importance of testing.  Carole just laid out the case, but
I just want to add my two cents here.  We have too little capacity for
diagnostic screening and genomic sequencing.  It can take way too long
to get a test and there are too many barriers to widespread testing and
screening. 

Quality, affordable testing can be important to reopening our businesses
and schools, and keeping them open.  And genomic sequencing testing is
how we will spot variants early, before they spread.  So we need to make
a significant investment and ramp up testing across the country. 

We’re using available funds, so we can pilot programs and make
progress.  But make no mistake: We need the American Rescue Plan to
double testing capacity, promote innovation, and drive down costs per
tests.

Finally, before we open it up for Q&A, I want to make one last point. 
We know that millions of Americans have lost their health insurance as a
result of this pandemic.  This week, the administration opened a Special
Enrollment Period to get more people covered.  Between now and May 15th,
Americans can go to Healthcare.gov and enroll in quality, affordable
healthcare.

We encourage people to check out their options and to take steps to
protect you and your family.

With that, let’s open it up to questions.  

MODERATOR:  All right, first up we will go to Tamara Keith with NPR.

Q    Thank you so much for taking my question.  I appreciate it.  And
the question that I have is for Carole Johnson.  As you say, there is
this really big problem of a shortage of testing, and many experts say
that the U.S. needs a lot of very inexpensive paper-strip antigen tests
to finally provide enough testing.  You’ve mentioned this money, but
what else is being done?  What are the steps that need to be taken to
finally make that happen and, you know, make it so that schools
potentially really could do screening testing?

MS. JOHNSON:  Yeah, thank you so much for that question.  What we’re
doing today is trying to take what steps we can with the available
resources that we have.  But what we need to do is have the resources
that are in the American Rescue Plan to really give us the opportunity
to scale testing at the way we need to do it, and to build up not only
the testing itself and the manufacturing capacity for the testing, but
the testing services that make sure that testing isn’t just a product,
but it’s actually a service.  And we know how non-medical settings, like
schools and other settings, can actually adopt testing.

And so we need a range of options here, and we need — and that includes
easy-to-use and simple and affordable options.  And so that’s what we’re
focused on with the resources from the American Rescue Plan.

MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah, I’ll just add that as testing scales, when the
American Rescue Plan resources are invested, that’ll both improve the
quality of tests and dramatically drive down the cost of tests.  So
that’s why it’s very important we make that investment.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Next we’ll go to Carl Zimmer with the New York
Times.

Q    Thank you very much.  I am — just a question about the $200 million
for the genomic surveillance.  Is that — could you talk about where that
initial amount of money is going?  Is it going specifically to contracts
for private labs, or is there — will there be any focus on, for example,
trying to get a more representative sampling across the country in all
states, including ones that don’t have big resources of their own?  And
is there — anything going to be done in terms of the metadata that you
actually need to make sense of these?  Thank you.

MR. ZIENTS:  So, Carole, why don’t you start and then, Dr. Walensky, you
should also add your perspective.

MS. JOHNSON:  Thank you so much for the question and for raising what is
a key issue, which is ensuring that there is diversity — geographic
diversity in the collection of these samples. 

So the resources really are intended to go to CDC to help them ramp up
their capacity here, in terms of both what they do and what their
partners do, but with a focus on making sure that we have that
geographic diversity.

But I will turn it over to Dr. Walensky for more.

DR. WALENSKY:  Great.  Thank you, Carole.  And you’re exactly right.  We
need the geographic diversity.  We’re partnering with the states to make
sure that we have representation from all the states.  We’re partnering
with commercial labs.  We’re partnering with academia.  And we want to
expand those partnerships. 

So all of those are being done so we can increase both volume and
geographic diversity.  And then, as you know, it’s not just the tests
and getting the tests done; we need the computational capacity, the
analytic capacity to understand the information that’s coming in.

MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Zeke Miller with the Associated Press.

Q    Thank you for doing the call.  Forgive me, I have a three-parter. 
First, on the latest data that Dr. Walensky (inaudible), is there — are
we seeing any impact of the current pace of vaccines, (inaudible) the
reduction of new cases, or guess — or when do you expect to see the
impact of the vaccination program in the COVID data in terms of the
current cases?

Second, on the genomic sequencing: How long will it take to get to that
25,000 sequencing per week?  You know, is that something that you can
turn on in just a couple of weeks, or is that going to take several
months or even longer?

And then, finally, Jeff, if possible, can we get a status on the J&J
vaccine?  There’s been a lot of confusion about how much Johnson &
Johnson has ready to deploy, assuming they get the EUA.  Anything along
those lines would be very helpful.

MR. ZIENTS:  Okay, Zeke, let’s start with Dr. Walensky on the data
question and the genomic sequencing.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for the question.  You know, right now we
have about 54 million Americans who have had — received — or 54 million
shots that have been given.  About 5 percent of Americans have been
vaccinated twice.

And so what I would say is we’re not at the place where we believe that
the current level of vaccination is what is driving down the current
level of disease.  We believe that much of the surge of disease happened
related to the holidays, related to travel. 

And so we believe that now we’re coming down from that.  So I would
articulate really loudly that if you’re relying on our current level of
vaccination rather than the other mitigation efforts to get us to remain
low, that we shouldn’t rest in that comfort. 

We are scaling up vaccination as much as we can, but we are not at a
level where we believe that the vaccination alone is what’s driving the
decrease in cases right now.

In terms of sequencing, we are scaling up sequencing every day.  When we
will get to 25,000 depends on the resources that we have at our
fingertips and how quickly we can mobilize our partners.  I don’t think
this is going to be a light switch; I think it’s going to be a dial.

MR. ZIENTS:  Good.  On Johnson & Johnson, I want to start by saying
that, you know, Johnson & Johnson is at the FDA for evaluation right now
for safety and efficacy.  So it’s critical that we, you know, let the
FDA folks make this determination, which we anticipate will happen
across the next couple of weeks.

Depending on where they come out, we could have a third vaccine, which
would obviously be good and welcomed news, but at the same time, we are
ensuring that both the two EUA-approved vaccines, Moderna and Pfizer,
are distributed equitably and fairly.  And at the same time, we are
planning for the possibility of the third vaccine. 

I think, Zeke, what you’re referring to is the — you know, the deal was
done with Johnson & Johnson under the prior administration.  And as —
across the last few weeks, we’ve learned that there is not a big
inventory of Johnson & Johnson; there’s a few million doses that we’ll
start with. 

The Johnson & Johnson contract commits Johnson & Johnson to deliver 100
million doses by the end of June.  That is more back-end loaded.  We’re
working with the company to do everything we can — assuming they are
approved by the FDA — to bring forward as much — many of those doses as
possible into the earlier months. 

So I want to be clear that Johnson & Johnson has 100 million commitment,
for the end of June, of doses.  At the same time, we’re going to be
starting with only a few million in inventory, and we’re doing
everything we can, working with the company, to accelerate their
delivery schedule.

     MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Ed O’Keefe at CBS.

     Q    Hey guys, how are you?  Thank you for doing this again.  Two
things.  First, can you give us a sense of how the weather situation,
especially in Texas, might be affecting vaccine distribution rollout and
testing, for that matter?  A lot of vaccine appointments would have been
canceled in Texas, or other parts of the country impacted by this winter
weather.  How might these areas — if you guys have any sense of it — be
able to get back on track with the rollout?

And then, the President once again talked about the plan for K-through-8
schools, last night, getting to five days a week.  He was not asked as
explicitly about high schools.  Is there a realistic goal of getting
them open by the end of the school year, or in your view, is that off
the table at this point?

MR. ZIENTS:  Well, let me let me start with the weather delays, and then
I’ll turn to Dr. Walensky on older students and why that creates greater
complexity than younger students. 

You know, the weather is having an impact.  It’s having an impact on
distribution and deliveries from the delivery companies and the
distribution companies.  People are working as hard as they can, given
the importance of getting the vaccines to the states and to providers. 
But there is an impact on deliveries.

And then, as you pointed out, Ed, you know, there’s certain parts of the
country, Texas being one of them, where vaccination sites are
understandably closed.  And what we’re encouraging governors and other
partners to do is to extend hours once they’re able to reopen.  You
know, many vaccination sites do operate 24/7, you know, through the
weekends, through the evenings.  And we want to make sure that as we’ve
lost some time in some states for people to get needles in arms, that
our partners do all they can to make up that lost ground, consistent
with distributing the vaccine to people as efficiently and equitably as
possible. 

Over to you, Dr. Walensky. 

DR. WALENSKY:  Great, thanks.  So, several points with regard to high
schools.  One is, the science tells us that — we know as children age,
as they get closer to teenage years, that they act, in this disease,
similar to adults.  That is they are increased transmiss- — — they are
increased vectors, in terms of transmission, and that they are
increasingly sicker compared to younger kids — get increasingly sicker. 

So we have to be a little bit more cautious with our high school kids
because they act differently from kids who are really young.  That’s
thing one.

Thing two: High school kids are harder to cohort.  One of our key
mitigation strategies is to try and have small cohorts of kids, and it’s
very hard to cohort high school kids and to convey and rely on that real
high school experience of getting, you know, different classes and
different levels of classes.  So that’s a little bit more of a challenge
with high school. 

What I will say is there are opportunities for in-person learning in
middle school and in high school through all of our layered — levels of
community spread.  The most limited, which encourages virtual learning
when you’re in the red zone — the most community spread — does have
opportunities for high schools to open — high schools and middle schools
to open, if you can follow all the mitigation strategies.

That having been said, what we have seen with the cases coming down is
that while 90 percent of jurisdictions were in the red zone last week
when we spoke, this week, with cases coming down, we have about 75
percent in the red zone.  So the less community spread out there — the
more we do to decrease the amount of disease in the community — there
are well more opportunities for our children to get back to school, even
in the middle and high school ranges. 

MR. ZIENTS:  I’ll just add that, you know, doing this — smaller class
sizes, ensuring there are more school buses, having the equipment and
the testing available — this costs money.  And that’s why the passage of
the American Rescue Plan — the $130 billion for schools — is so
important to do.  It’s so much more expensive than the $130 billion to
not have our kids in school in any setting that is safe and feasible in
this environment.

MODERATOR:  All right, last question.  We’ll go to Tom Christopher at
Mediaite.

Q    Hi.  Can you hear me now?  Hello?  Can you hear me?

MODERATOR:  Yep.

Q    All right.  Good.  Yeah, I have two questions for Dr. Fauci, but
obviously any of you can chime in if you like.  First of all, I’m
wondering if you have done any statistical analysis of how many teachers
or people in teacher households have died or been hospitalized due to
COVID.  And have you done modeling for how many will die or be
hospitalized under the various reopening scenarios?  And I have a
follow-up.

DR. FAUCI:  I don’t have any information on that specifically; perhaps
Dr. Walensky does from an epidemiological standpoint.  But I don’t — I
have not seen it broken down on number of teachers who have died.  I
don’t think that information is readily available.  I might be wrong on
that, but, Rochelle.

DR. WALENSKY:  I am unfamiliar with data there.  What I can tell you is
most of the data that we have from schools have demonstrated that — and
teachers specifically have demonstrated — that when disease comes into
the school, it is not because of spread that is happening in the school,
it is because the members who are attending school — teachers, staff,
bus workers, and what not, bus drivers — have gotten disease from the
community, not from one another in schools.

Q    Okay.  And so my follow-up question is: Dr. Fauci, I’ve seen you on
TV saying that, you know, you can’t vaccinate all the teachers before
you reopen the schools, but I’ve also seen the President and the Vice
President saying, “Look, it’s really, really important that we vaccinate
teachers and they need to be prioritized.” 

And so, I know you don’t have the data, but assuming that the number
isn’t zero, what do you say to the teacher or the person who lives in a
teacher household who says, “You know, I don’t want to be the next or
last person to die of COVID because we were forced to go back to
school?”  Or do you say that the number is zero?

DR. FAUCI:  Well, first of all, let me just clarify the issue of having
to get every teacher vaccinated before you can really open schools and
get children back to schools.  That really is rather impractical to make
that a sine qua non of opening the schools. 

At the same time that we say that, we do say and we feel strongly that
we should try as best as we possibly can to vaccinate teachers.  And
they should be, as a high priority, within the area of essential
personnel.  So you definitely want to make sure that you don’t get that
confused.  Even though we don’t feel that every teacher needs to be
vaccinated before you can open a school, that doesn’t take away from the
fact that we strongly support the vaccination of teachers. 

The second part of your question I think relates to what Dr. Walensky
just said.  When you talk about the danger of teachers getting infected,
we know that when you talk about infection within the school setting,
it’s what really is going on in the community that is the risk of
infection to anyone, including teachers.

MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah.  Let me just —

Q    But does that mean that if, like, a teacher gets COVID out in the
community, are they then spreading it to other teachers in the school? 
Because, I mean, it sounds to me like — like that wouldn’t be very —

DR. FAUCI:  No, the data that we have right now — and Rochelle could
come in and, sort of, supplement what I’m saying — is that when you see
infections in the school setting, personnel or students, that it is
really reflective of what is going on in the community, not a very
special situation of a particular super-spreading type of a situation in
a school.  That’s not what we are seeing.  We’re seeing it reflective of
what’s going on in the community.

MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah.  Let me just add one point of emphasis here and then
we’ll close.  You know, the President and Vice President think states
should ensure teachers are prioritized, which has already being done —
that prioritization of teacher teachers for vaccinations — by about half
the states in the country. 

Teachers should be vaccinated, as Dr. Fauci said, like other frontline
workers.  And like other frontline workers, we should be grateful for
their service.  But the President and Vice President agree with the CDC
guidelines that it’s not a requirement to reopening schools. 

So with that, I want to thank everybody for joining today.  The next
briefing will be on Friday.  Thank you.

                        END                  11:47 A.M. EST
