---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-01'
modified_time: 2021-02-01 16:29:11-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/01/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-february-1-2021/
published_time: 2021-02-01 16:29:10-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, February 1,\_2021"
---
 
12:32 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Happy Monday.  I just have a couple of things for all of you
at the top.  First, over the weekend, the President’s Homeland Security
Advisor, Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall, convened a coordination call with the
Acting FEMA Administrator and the Director of the National Weather
Service on the storm system moving toward the Mid-Atlantic region — it’s
not just moving toward, I think it’s clear it’s here, if you look
outside of our window — and up the Eastern Seaboard. 

Liz and her team joined the FEMA daily operations briefing yesterday,
and remain in regular contact with the FEMA response team about changes
in the storm forecasts and any need for federal assistance.  The White
House wanted to assess the potential impact and determine any early
action that the federal government could take to support communities
across many states likely to be affected. 

Liz also proactively called governors of states in the storm’s path
overnight and into today, and she will remain in close touch; those
include Governor Cuomo, Governor Murphy, Governor Wolf, Governor Carney,
as well as New York City Mayor de Blasio.  She expressed the President’s
intent to ensure close coordination going forward among federal, state,
and local officials in preparing for and responding to weather
emergencies. 

Also, as you — many of you have noted, the President spoke with Senator
Collins yesterday.  As you all know, invited her and other Senate
Republicans to the White House later this afternoon.  This meeting is
part of the President and his administration’s — our administration’s
close and ongoing engagement with members of both parties in — on
Capitol Hill and on the American Rescue package. 

Throughout these conversations, we’ve underscored the economic and
health challenges that our country faces — issues he will, of course, be
reiterating today — and the need to move swiftly to address them with a
package that is big enough to get schools safely reopened, give
financially struggling families and communities a bridge, and deliver on
his promise to speed up vaccine delivery and defeat the virus.

It’s important to remember that the size of the package was designed
with the size of the crisis — dual crises, as we’ve said.  And I wanted
to just call out a couple of economists and some economic data that
we’ve seen over the last several days. 

A new report by the Brookings Institution estimates that with the
American Rescue Plan, we could boost GDP by 4 percent and return our
economy to pre-COVID levels by the end of 2021.  A separate analysis by
Moody’s Analytics found that the President’s plan would create 7.5
million jobs this year and double our economic growth, and return our
economy back to full employment one year faster.  The IMF’s chief
economist said their preliminary analysis found that the plan could
boost U.S. economic growth by 5 percent over three years.

A couple of other, just, updates for you: Just today, the U.S.
Conference of Mayors sent a letter to congressional leadership, urging
them to take immediate action on the American Rescue Plan.  This letter
was signed by over 400 mayors.  I know there’s a lot going on, so I just
wanted to highlight it for all of you.  And West Virginia Governor Jim
Justice, also a Republican, said in interviews today that he agrees that
going big in this moment is critical. 

And last thing I just want to do before we get to your questions — I
often note I’m going to “circle back.”  I hate to disappoint
conservative Twitter, but I am going to circle back on a number of
things, as we often do directly.  But Hurricane Maria funds, which was a
question that was asked last week: The President has made clear — the
status of them, I should say — that it is a priority for his
administration to release this funding.  We are working to do so.  So
that is in process.

On the White House fence, which a couple of people asked about, I
believe it was on Friday: Our goal, the President and the Vice
President’s goal, is for the Secret Service to adjust the perimeter as
soon as it makes sense from an overall security standpoint.  So we’re
working closely with them on that, and they are — of course, would be in
the lead on that front.

And the last piece I just wanted to give a quick update on was there was
a question about the White House’s support for FEMA’s requests of
troops.  We, of course, support a whole-of-government pandemic response
that is catering to the unique issues and needs of our states.  FEMA is
working in strong partnership with states to get a handle on their needs
and, accordingly, have requested the significant manpower, in some
cases, for this unprecedented pandemic response effort.  I expect we’ll
have more on this as the days continue this week on how they will be
utilized. 

With that, let’s go.  Darlene, welcome to the briefing room.  Oh, I know
you’ve been here many times before, but it’s our first engagement here. 
Go ahead.

Q    Welcome back.  (Laughs.)  On the President’s meeting this evening
with the senators, can you give us a sense of how he views that
meeting?  Is it going to be negotiating?  Is he going to be prepared to
counter any things that Republicans might offer?  Or is it just a
session where, you know, they asked to meet with the President and he’s
simply giving them an opportunity to voice their concerns?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has been clear since long before he came
into office that he’s open to engaging with both Democrats and
Republicans in Congress about their ideas.  And this is an example of
doing exactly that.  So, as we said in our statement last night, it’s an
exchange of ideas, an opportunity to do that.  This group obviously sent
a letter with some outlines — some top lines of their concerns and their
priorities, and he’s happy to have a conversation with them.

What this meeting is not is a forum for the President to make or accept
an offer.  So I think that’s an important — to convey to all of you.

And his view, it remains what was stated in the statement last night but
also what he said on Friday, which is that the risk is not that it is
too big — this package — the risk is that it is too small.  And that
remains his view, and it’s one he’ll certainly express today.

Go ahead, Darlene.

Q    So what would you say is more important to the President at this
point on this first legislative test: Is it going big or going
bipartisan?  It seems like you can’t have both. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the President believes we can.  And there is
historic evidence that it is possible to take a number of paths —
including through reconciliation, if that’s the path that is pursued —
and for the vote to be bipartisan. 

But it’s important to him that he hears his group out on their concerns,
on their ideas.  He’s always open to making this package stronger.  And
he also, as was noted in our statement last night, remains in close
touch with Speaker Pelosi, with Leader Schumer, and he will continue
that engagement throughout the day and in the days ahead.

Go ahead.

Q    You mentioned that President Biden’s proposed COVID relief package
is designed to be commensurate with the crises.  This group of 10 Senate
Republicans, what they’re offering, as you know, is more than a third
less — the topline number; the $600 billion is more than a third less of
that $1.9 trillion that President Biden says he wants.  Given that, do
you see that as a serious attempt to compromise on their part?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I appreciate the opportunity to give more comment on
their proposal.  I think it’s — they put their ideas forward.  That’s
how the President sees it.  He felt it was, you know, an effort to
engage, and engage on a bipartisan basis, and that’s why he invited them
to the White House today. 

But his view is that the size of the package needs to be commensurate
with the crisis — crises we’re facing — the dual crises we’re facing,
hence why he proposed a package that’s $1.9 trillion.

Q    Does the President plan to invite Democrats into the Oval to have
these similar conversations?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I can promise you — we’re less than two weeks in —
there will be many Democrats in the Oval Office, and I’m sure this is
just the — you know, part of our ongoing effort to engage directly.

Go ahead.

Q    Well, asking that again in a slightly different way: There are
Democrats who see that the first meeting the President is having
face-to-face with lawmakers is with Republicans and not Democrats.  I
guess, why would the Dem- — why is the White House doing that?

MS. PSAKI:  Who — are there any specific Democrats you want to call
out? 

Q    No.  But they’ve been — it’s been talked about.  There’s concern
that, you know —

MS. PSAKI:  Just people talking about it in hallways?

Q    Yeah, something like that.  Sure.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Well, I can assure you that Speaker Pelosi and
Senator — and Leader Schumer, they have been in very close touch with
the President directly, and members of the senior team.  He has been in
touch, but also members of our senior team have been in touch with
Democrats across the political spectrum, and that will continue.  And
there will be definitely Democrats who will be part of conversations
here at the White House.

Q    Two others on that.  You said in your statement that the scale of
what must be done is large.  That’s bottom-lining.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Is $618 billion considered large by the White House? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think our statement last night made clear that the
President believes that the risk is not being too — going too small, but
going — going not big enough.  And that his view is that the size of the
package needs to be commensurate with the crises we’re facing.  That’s
why he proposed $1.9 trillion.  There’s obviously a big gap between $600
billion and $1.9 trillion.  I don’t think any of us are mathematicians,
otherwise we wouldn’t be here, but we can all state that clearly.  And
so, clearly, he thinks the package size needs to be closer to what he
proposed than smaller.

Q    And in that statement, you called out $1,400 relief checks a
substantial investment in fighting COVID and reopening schools, aid to
small businesses and hurting families.  A lot of that isn’t in the
Republican proposal.  So why have this meeting at all if they’re not
even going to take seriously what he is proposing?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, this is an exchange — an opportunity to
exchange ideas, to have a conversation.  That’s why he invited them over
here to the White House.  He outlined the specifics of what he would
like to see in the package in his speech — his primetime speech just a
few weeks ago.  And there are some realities, as we look to what the
American people are going through right now.  One in seven American
families don’t have enough food to eat, right?  We’re not going to have
enough funding to reopen schools.  We don’t have enough money to ensure
that, you know, we can get the vaccine in the arms of Americans. 

So there are some real impacts, which he will certainly reiterate, as he
has publicly and privately, in many conversations.  But they’ve put
forth some ideas; he’s happy to hear from them.  But he’s — also feels
strongly about the need to make sure the size of the package meets this
moment and feels the American people expect that of their elected
officials as well.

     Q    Can I ask you a quick one on Burma?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    The statement the President just put out —

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  

Q    — among other things, it says, “The United States is taking note of
those who stand with the people of Burma in this difficult hour.”  Is
that perhaps a message to China?

MS. PSAKI:  I think it’s a message to all countries in the region and
countries who — you know, will be asked to respond or to consider what
the appropriate response will be in reaction to the events that have
happened over the past couple of days.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  On Friday, we heard the President come out and say that
while he wants to pass this bill with support from Republicans, “if we
can get it,” it has to pass with no — no “ifs, ands, or buts,” as he put
it.  That “if we can get it” part, should we take that as a sign that
the President recognizes he may have to be abandoning his hopes
for bipartisanship?

MS. PSAKI:  I think it’s hardly an abandoning of bipartisanship.  We’re
still at a phase where the House and Senate are working through — as you
know, from covering Congress — the entire reconcili- — what the process
would look like on the budgetary front this week. 

Senator — Leader Schumer and Speaker Pelosi have both said they would
also like it to be bipartisan.  We’ll see what comes out of this meeting
today.  And if there are good ideas to put forward, we’ll put forward
them.  There’s still time to do exactly that. 

And even if, through the parliamentary process that the Congress will
decide, it moves toward reconciliation, Republicans can still vote for
that.  And there’s certainly precedent of that in the past.

Q    You mentioned that the Republicans can still vote for the bill,
obviously, even if it’s done through reconciliation, but some Republican
sources say that’s not really bipartisanship; it doesn’t satisfy that
promise because it’s not true compromise.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think that the one in seven American families who
can’t put food on the table, and the teachers who are waiting to ensure
their schools have the ventilation, the PPE, the testing they need,
those — they will tell you that they expect their members to meet this
moment.  And we saw this as a good-faith proposal they’ve put forward, a
good-faith effort to have a discussion.  The President is inviting them
here in good faith, and we will see where it goes from here.

Q    And what’s the President’s message to senators like Portman and
Capito, who will be here today, who have seemed to warn that if you
can’t get unity on this issue, it’s going to be much harder to achieve
down the road on other issues?

MS. PSAKI:  The President is confident that issues like reopening
schools, getting shots in the arms of Americans, ensuring people have
enough food to eat are not just Democratic issues.  He takes his former
Republican colleagues at their word, of course, that they’re committed
to these issues too.  And that’s why he wants to have the conversation.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I want to ask you about GameStop.  Some lawmakers
have proposed legislative reforms, like restrictions on short selling
and financial transactions tax that — the latter of which President
Biden supported during the 2020 campaign.  So I want to ask you now if
the White House would support actions like those to address the
situation.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as we’ve noted in here several times before, but I
just want to reiterate: Obviously, this is under the purview of the SEC,
in terms of their review and monitoring. But this is — there is an
important set of policy issues that have been raised as a result of
market volatility in recent days, and we think congressional — attention
to these issues is appropriate and would welcome working with Congress
moving forward as we dig into these further policy issues. 

But I don’t have anything further to predict for you other than we
certainly welcome the opportunity to work with members who have proposed
ideas.

Q    Has there been any direct engagement with those members so far on
what they’ve proposed?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to read out for you on that front. 
Obviously, we’re engaged at a variety of levels every day, with a range
of offices, on a number of issues.  So — but I don’t have anything more
for you on that.

Q    And then, lastly, one more on this.  Sorry.  Is — so there’s no
confirmed members, right now, on the Financial Stability Oversight
Council.  And is it the White House view that that lack of officials in
place is affecting your administration’s approach to this situation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, the SEC is looking carefully at recent
activities and if they’re consistent with investor protection, and fair
and efficient markets.  That’s where we think the purview is and the
focus is at this point in time.

Go ahead.

Q    If I can ask one follow-up on the meeting with the Republicans and
then a follow-up on the Burma question as well.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    What is the timeline that the President sees for these negotiations
to end?  What is the — I mean, how urgent is this?  If these benefits
are going to end in the middle of March, how much time is there to have
these types of meetings, as you say, with Democrats and others that may
want to take part?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s incredibly urgent.  And as you noted, there is — you
know, there are — there are not — there are timelines coming up, I
should say, in terms of when the Americans who are applying for
unemployment insurance will no longer be able to get access.  As I noted
earlier, one in seven American families doesn’t have enough — can’t put
food on the table. 

We need to plan for how we’re going to get more vaccines in the arms of
Americans.  We need to have funding to help public schools have the
preparations needed to reopen.  So there is urgency.  This is what the
President is spending his time on, as evidenced by the meeting later
today, and what the majority of our senior team is focused on at this
moment.

But there is still time to make changes, to continue to have a
discussion.  And that’s why he’s — we’re, kind of, escalating the number
of meetings and engagements we’re having through the course of this
week.

Q    And on Burma, if I can: On the President’s statement that he put
out, he says, “The reversal of progress will necessitate an immediate
review of our sanctions, laws, and authorities followed by appropriate
action.”  Is the “appropriate action” related solely to sanctions?  Or
what other type of response may be on the table?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think that’s why the Pres- — that was called out in
the President’s comments, as you know.  We removed sanctions — the
United States, I should say, removed sanctions on Burma over the past
decade based on progress toward democracy.  “The reversal of that
progress will necessitate an immediate review of our sanctions, laws,
and authorities followed by appropriate action.”  So that’s why he
called it out.  I don’t have anything — any additional steps beyond that
to predict for you at this point in time.

Go ahead.

Q    Some Democrats are hoping to repeal the $10,000 cap on state and
local tax deductions in the COVID bill.  Does the President support
those insertions?  And more broadly, does he support a general repeal of
that deduction?

MS. PSAKI:  You know, the President supports Democrats and Republicans
putting good ideas forward and having a discussion about them, and
determining how we move forward with urgency to get this plan passed. 
But I’m not going to negotiate from here.

Q    Sure.  Senator Manchin was a little upset with some comments the
Vice President made on a local television show.  Has the White House
reached out to him in any way to, kind of, clear the air?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ve been in touch with Senator Manchin, as we have been
for many weeks, and will continue to be moving forward.  And not only is
he a key partner to the President and to the White House on this
package, but on his agenda.  And we will remain in close touch with him.

Q    And my last question on Burma.  In regards to Myanmar, what, if
any, efforts are being made to coordinate a response with allies such as
Japan, EU, and Britain?  And has there been any context with China to
discuss the situation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have had intensive consultations at multiple levels
with allies and partners in the region and around the world.  I would
expect many of those would come through the State Department.  So I’d
certainly defer — refer to them for more specifics.

Hans.

Q    Yeah.  Can I just follow on Burma?  In your statement last night
when you said you might “take action,” you referred to it as “Burma” and
“Myanmar.”  And in the President’s statement just now, he only uses
“Burma.”  Is that indicative of a formal shift of the United States
government on how you’re to refer to that Southeast Asian country?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, our official policy is that we say “Burma” but use
“Myanmar” as a courtesy in certain communications.  So, for example, the
embassy website refers to Burma — Myanmar because they are by definition
dealing with officials and the public.  The State Department website
uses “Burma (Myanmar)” in some places and “Burma” in others.

Q    So there’s no official change?  U.S. might use both, and the
President goes four times with “Burma.”  Was he meaning to be
discourteous?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think that’s the conclusion you should draw. 
Certainly he is watching this closely, as is evidenced by his statement.

Go ahead.

Q    When you said there is still time for negotiation, can you be a
little bit more specific?  Is the President trying to give this one
week, two weeks to try to come up with a bipartisan solution? 

And then, secondly, the CBO said this morning that the economy should
return to pre-pandemic levels by about midyear, even if there is not
additional legislation.  So how does assessment affect what your —
affect the negotiations?

MS. PSAKI:  So, on the first, I’m not going to give a deadline here
other than to say that it is urgent we move forward for all the reasons
we’ve already been discussing, including the need to ensure families can
put food on the table; the need to ensure we have time to plan for
getting schools the necessary funding to reopen; the need to ensure we
can get vaccines in the arms of Americans. 

Clearly, there’s urgency.  As you know, and as many of you know who
cover Congress, there’s a process that’s ongoing this week.  There’s
still some time here as that process works its way through for changes
to be made.  So that was what I was referring to.

On the second question, you — sorry, can you repeat the second question
one more time?

Q    Yeah.  The CBO — their projection this morning is the economy is
going to return to pre-pandemic size by the middle of the year, and
that’s without any additional stimulus. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President’s plan, as we’ve been discussing in
here, was designed to achieve certain basic goals: getting shots in the
arms of Americans, helping the one in seven families who are going
hungry and the nearly 7 million Americans who are facing possible
eviction during a pandemic. 

The CBO projections for next year’s growth isn’t a measure of all of
these things.  Right?  It’s not a measure of how each American family is
doing, and whether the American people are getting the assistance they
need or whether we’re able to get vaccines in the shots of people. 

So, you know, we’ve — of course, it answers a different question, I
should say.  So our focus is on what the American people need to get
through this crisis, which is why we are pushing for this piece of
legislation.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  On school reopening: The Democratic mayor of Chicago
has said that it’s safe to reopen schools.  They’ve invested $100
million into safety measures.  But the teachers there remain on the
verge of striking.  Does the White House agree with the mayor that if
enough funding has been put into place and safety measures have been
taken, that kids should return to schools?

MS. PSAKI:   Well, let me first say the President has been — has
enormous respect for Mayor Lightfoot, and he has also been a strong ally
to teachers his entire career.  Of course, as you know, Dr. Biden, his
wife, is a teacher — so even in his home. 

He trusts the mayor and the unions to work this out.  They’re both
prioritizing the right things, which is ensuring the health and safety
of the kids and teachers, and working to make sure that children in
Chicago are getting the education they deserve. 

So he’s hopeful, we are hopeful they can reach common ground as soon as
possible.

Q    Does the White House have a role to play here, though, in Chicago
and other cities in terms of mediating these negotiations and getting
kids back to school? 

MS. PSAKI:  We certainly remain in touch with a range of parties, but
again, we hope that they can come to common ground soon.

Q    And just, lastly: On the overall COVID relief package, in terms of
understanding what, you know, the White House means by “bipartisan,”
would you consider a bill bipartisan if it doesn’t have any Republican
support in Congress but it has, you know, support among Republican
voters?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think you touched on an interesting point, which is
that 74 percent of the public, according to recent polls, supports this
package and the key components of this package. 

Q    So is it considered bipartisan?

MS. PSAKI:  Democrats and Republicans — we just saw the Republican
governor of West Virginia come out earlier today and advocate for a big
package. 

So, you know, when the President talks about unifying the country and
bringing the country together, he’s not suggesting that he is going to
make one party out of the Democratic and Republican parties in
Congress.  But he is meeting with Republicans today — 10 Republicans who
have sent this letter — because he feels they made a good-faith effort
to put a — the top lines of a proposal forward, and he wants to have
that engagement and encourages that sharing of ideas. 

So I don’t think it’s an either/or, but I think it’s a both.  And we
certainly feel that the components that are in this package are the
basis of what should garner bipartisan support. 

Q    So based on the polling you cited, if there’s not enough Republican
support in Congress, would that be considered bipartisan, based on the
measures he’s setting for himself?

MS. PSAKI:  I will let you be the judge of that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you very much, Jen.  I have a question for one reporter who
couldn’t be here because of social distancing.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    This is a question from Cleve Wootson from the Washington Post:
What kind of preparations went into Vice President Harris’s interviews
in the West — with West Virginia stations yesterday — or last week? 
What kind of preparation —

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not sure what your question is.

Q    What kind of — what preparations went into Vice President Harris’s
interviews with local stations in West Virginia?

MS. PSAKI:  Like how did her team prepare her?  Or can you be more —

Q    Was it part of a larger White House strategy to put pressure on
politicians in West Virginia?

MS. PSAKI:  Our focus — the bottom line is, our focus is communicating
with the American people about how the American Rescue Plan can help put
food on the table, can help ensure we can get vaccines in the arms of
Americans and help send kids back to school.  That’s our overarching
objective with all of the communications we do.

Q    And after Senator Manchin’s criticism of that interview, did
President Biden personally speak with Senator Manchin?

MS. PSAKI:  As I noted before to an earlier question, we’re certainly in
touch with Senator Manchin and his team, as we have been for some time,
and we’ll continue to be.  And he’s an important partner as we look to
move forward on this package and, of course, all of the President’s
agenda.

Q    And I have a question about the meeting with Republican senators
today.  The proposal that they put forward would take the over $300
billion in aid to states and local governments that Biden has put
forward and zero that out.  There would be no aid in that proposal to
state and local governments.  Is that a non-starter for President
Biden?  I mean, can he even move forward with a proposal like that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there is a reason that that funding was in the initial
proposal, including — you know, sometimes the definition of calling it
“state and local” means people don’t know what it means.  Right?  It is
— and I’m not suggesting you’re doing that.  We’ve probably shorthanded
it too.  You know, that is funding for firefighters, for, you know,
local communities, for enabling them to help get through this period of
time. 

I’m not going to outline for you what the red lines are from the podium
when there’s discussions that are ongoing.  But again, the reason that
each component was put in the package was because economists, health
experts, many that the President and others consulted with felt there
were essential components to help get the American people through this
period of time.

Q    Can I follow up on that state and local —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Republicans are pointing to a JP Morgan report that most states
haven’t had a drop in tax revenues and some states have seen an increase
in tax revenues as an example of why that state and local tax relief —
or state and local relief isn’t needed in this latest package.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think our objective is to focus on not JP
Morgan reports, but what state, local governments and others are telling
us they need to ensure that the people in their districts, the resources
in their districts, the people who are making government function in
their districts have the funding and resources they need. 

Go ahead.  Hi, Yamiche.

Q    Hi.  How are you?  Two questions.  The first is, does the President
support House Democrats moving forward with the process of
reconciliation?  Today, there’s some reporting that they’re waiting for
guidance from the White House.

MS. PSAKI:  The President, as was noted in the statement last night, is
grateful for the urgency and the pace at which they’re moving.  And, as
you know, this process can take a little bit of time, but he certainly
supports them moving forward to move a package ahead. 

But again, you know, this — the process through — the mechanics through
which they move is up to them; he’s leaving it up to them.  And he
believes that there is still room for bipartisan support for this
package, which is why he’s having this meeting today and why he’ll
remain very engaged himself, and why he’s asked his senior team to
remain very engaged in the days ahead.

Q    And a follow-up to that.  With reconciliation, is there a timeline
that this White House is looking at as, “Okay, now we have to move
forward with reconciliation”?  You keep talking about how urgent it is. 
I’m wondering if there’s a deadline in the White House’s mind or in the
President’s mind to say, “Okay, we have to move forward at this date.”

MS. PSAKI:  Again, urgent means urgent.  It means this is going to be
the focus of the President, the Vice President, his senior team; hence
he’s having a group of Republican senators here later today.  He will
continue to be closely engaged with not just Speaker Pelosi and Leader
Schumer, but a range of Democrats, as will members of our team.  And the
fact that he’s spending so much time on it, and our team is, shows you
how much of a priority it is here. 

Q    And then, can I ask you about COVID?

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    I know there was a COVID briefing today, but one statistic that
really stood out to me and probably to a lot of Americans is: About 47
percent of vaccinations are coming in with no — with racial data.  That
means more than 50 percent don’t have racial data.  I’m wondering if the
President has a fix for that, if there’s a legislative or policy change
that’s going to be made, because I’m wondering how you ensure that the
virus — that the vaccine is given equitably if you don’t know who’s
getting it.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, you know, the racial disparities and the impact
of this pandemic are not lost on the President, and that’s one of the
reasons he asked Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith — who was, of course, part of
the briefing this morning — to lead this taskforce, and why he
campaigned on the need for response rooted in addressing the
disproportionate impact on communities of color. 

There are a couple of steps that we are taking substantively.  One
includes standing up and supporting additional venues for vaccinations,
targeted — reaching those at the highest risk and the communities
hardest hit by this pandemic.  So, going into communities and meeting
people where they are and not expecting, you know, every community to go
out and seek and search where they can find the vaccine; meeting with
states to discuss their plans for ensuring equitable vaccine
distribution, and offering assistance in achieving that goal.

So as you all know — and we’ve talked about it in here — governors are
obviously overseeing the distribution and efforts to ensure that the
vaccine is getting into communities across the country.  We are closely
engaged with them and looking for ways to help assist in that front and
think strategically and creatively about how to do that.  And we’re also
working with CDC to identify and explore ways to urgently improve the
quality of vaccination data reporting by race and ethnicity.  There’s no
question it’s not the level that we need it to be at.

Q    But is there a directive that’s going to happen, or a message to
the people that are giving out the vaccines, “We need this data”?  I
just wonder how that actually gets changed on the ground level.  Is it —
I don’t know if it’s a presidential memorandum or policy change.  I’m
just wondering if someone walks into CVS, how does that person taking
their data say, “Yes, the White House needs me to get this data from
this person”?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, this is — equity is essential and a priority in
all — everything we do, including addressing COVID and the pandemic,
which is the President’s top priority.  I would certainly defer to our
health and medical experts who I know spoke to this a bit this morning. 
And I think Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith will be out more in the next 24
hours or so talking more about steps we can take on this front.

Go ahead.

Q    I have a follow to Yamiche’s great question about reconciliation,
and it’s that the Senate Republican Leader, Mitch McConnell, back in
2017 famously said, “Winners make policy; losers go home.”  Given that,
why shouldn’t Democrats, why shouldn’t President Biden be as tactically
ruthless as Republicans have been in pushing priorities that he
champions?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the President has been clear that he is
encouraged by the pace and — the rapid pace, I should say, that Speaker
Pelosi and Senator Schumer are moving this package forward at. 

At the same time, as you know, there is time — because this process can
take a bit — to make changes as needed.  And he wants to be a part of
those conversations; hence he invited Republicans to do that exactly
here today. 

I can’t speak to Senator McConnell’s role or commitment or point of view
or anything.  He’s certainly not asking me to be a spokesperson, Lord
knows.  But, you know, President Biden ran on a commitment of, of
course, unifying the country but also of hearing from all sides and
giving — having — engaging and having an opportunity to have
discussions.  And today is part of doing that.

Q    And, quickly, can I circle back — to use that phrase — to a
question I asked during the transition?  (Laughter.) 

MS. PSAKI:  Anyone can steal it.  It just means you have to get back.

Q    So I’ll circle back to this: Has the White House made a
determination about whether it will continue to extend the privilege of
intelligence briefings to former President Trump, given the concerns
among some Democrats that he’ll either misuse it or leverage it to
enrich himself?

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  This is a good question.  I’ve raised it with our
intelligence teams — or our national security team, I should say.  It’s
something, obviously, that’s under review, but there was not a
conclusion last I asked them about it, but I’m happy to follow up on it
and see if there’s more to share.

Go ahead, in the back. 

Q    All right.  Thank you, Jen.  Last Friday, a few dozen men from the
white supremacist group Patriot Front were filmed marching on the
National Mall toward the Capitol.  What is the administration’s latest
threat assessment on white supremacist groups like this coming to
Washington?  Is the threat seen as increasing?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the fact that there was a tasking done through
our national security team on domestic violent extremism that is going
to review all activity that could pose a threat, including the
activities of white supremacists, tells you what a priority it is and
tells you that we believe that there is more that needs to be done and a
greater assessment. 

So that review is ongoing.  As soon as it’s concluded, I’m sure we’ll
have more to share with all of you about our view at this point in time.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  On just a bit of a housekeeping matter: Since the
Senate delayed its confirmation vote on Alejandro Mayorkas, does that
mean that the immigration rollout that you guys have linked to that
confirmation is going to be pushed back as well?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are certainly hopeful he will be confirmed
tomorrow, and we have every intention of moving forward tomorrow with
the immigration executive actions that we have discussed in here a bit.

Go ahead in the back.

Q    Thank you.  Last week, a statue of Mahatma Gandhi was desecrated,
vandalized in city of Davis in California.  There’s (inaudible) among of
Indian Americans and others — followers of Gandhi in this country.  Does
the President knows about it?  Does he has any thought?  And this for
the third time this has happened in this country in last one year.  The
last two times it happened in this city itself, in Washington, D.C.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we certainly would have concern about the desecration
of monuments of Gandhi.  And I — you know, that’s certainly what we
would express. 

Were you ask — sorry, what was the last part of the question you were
asking?

Q    Does the President know if — knows about it, and what are his
thoughts on it?

MS. PSAKI:  If there’s more to share on the President’s point of view on
it, I’m happy to get back to you on that.  But certainly we would, you
know, condemn that desecration and watch it closely.

Q    One follow-up on Burma — a (inaudible) question.  Do you — do you
recognize the new army leadership in Burma, or you don’t recognize that
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think our statement makes clear what our view is on
the events of the last few days and where we stand with the — you know,
declared new government.

Q    As you know, President Trump has been barred from a lot of social
media sites.  I was curious whether you think his absence has made your
job any easier, or the White House’s job any easier, as it kind of goes
forward on these COVID negotiations?

MS. PSAKI:  In what way?

Q    He’d create a lot noise.  Right?  He would have certain
gravitational pull with Republicans who may be — may be more inclined to
take a harder position.  I wonder if that’s been anything that you guys
have thought about or, kind of, considered?

MS. PSAKI:  This may be hard to believe: We don’t spend a lot of time
talking about or thinking about President Trump here — former President
Trump, to be very clear.

I think that’s a question that’s probably more appropriate for
Republican members who are looking for ways to support a bipartisan
package, and whether that gives them space.  But I can’t say we miss him
on Twitter.

Q    Does President Biden support the continuing ban of President Trump
on their sites? 

MS. PSAKI:  I think that’s a decision made by Twitter.  We’ve certainly
spoken to, and he’s spoken to the need for social media platforms to
continue to take steps to reduce hate speech, but we don’t have more for
you on it than that.

Q    Is there a particular way that the President is trying to keep in
touch with basic American — everyday Americans, such as getting a
sampling of letters that are sent to him, as some of past Presidents
have done, especially as it relates to the pandemic?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s such a good question.  You know, he is looking to
remain engaged.  It’s hard when we haven’t done any travel yet, and
we’re certainly hoping to do that at some point in time to engage with
Americans more directly.

I don’t have anything specific.  He does receive, of course, letters. 
It takes some time for them to come in.  As you know, they kind of go
through a process once they are — arrive at the White House.  That’s
something he’s eager to have access to. 

Obviously there’s also, you know, many ways to provide feedback or input
to the White House, which he’s eager to receive too.  But let me see if
I can get more detail for you on that.

     Go ahead, Darlene.

Q    Another housekeeping question.  Do you know if all 10 senators are
coming to the meeting this evening? 

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a great question.

Q    I know they were all invited, but are they all coming?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have an official manifest, but we will venture to
circle back with all of you on that after the briefing.

Q    And if I can ask another one on Burma: The President’s statement
that just came out, he’s calling on the international community to come
together in one voice to press the Burmese military to reverse what
they’ve done.  But do the events at the Capitol on January 6th make it
harder for the United States to be part of this international community
that he’s calling on?

MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think President Biden — I don’t think the
international community sees President Biden as a root of the events on
January 6th.  And certainly he has made every effort through
conversations directly with partner and alli- — partners and allies,
through how he has spoken publicly in disgust about the events on
January 6th, and through his own commitment to restoring rule of law,
democracy here in the United States.

The United States remains a country in the world that is looked to for,
you know, leadership.  And it’s going to take some time, but he’s
certainly committed to doing that.

     Go ahead. 

Q    Another housekeeping related to the Capitol.  Does the President or
anyone else here plan to visit Wednesday to pay respects to Officer
Sicknick?

MS. PSAKI:  I will check on his schedule for you, Ed, on if there’s more
to outline for you.

Go ahead, Hans.

Q    You may get into this tomorrow if we have an immigration preview
early, but if — for unaccompanied migrants arriving at the border now,
after the appeals court decision, are they being turned away right now?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re going to have a briefing tonight for all of you on our
actions tomorrow, and the President will have more to say.  So we’ll —
I’ll refer to that.

Q    Is that going to be one of the subjects — one of the items that’s
going to be discussed?

MS. PSAKI:  We didn’t — I’m not going to preview it more for you.  We’re
still, kind of, doing the final review, believe it or not.  But we’ll
have a briefing tonight in advance of our announcement tomorrow.

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Great.  Thank you, everyone.

                                       END                     1:10 P.M.
EST
