---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-22'
modified_time: 2021-02-22 18:35:35-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/22/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-6/
published_time: 2021-02-22 18:35:34-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:05 P.M. EST

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  I’m starting today on a solemn note as
we’re nearing 500,000 Americans who’ve lost their lives from COVID-19. 
To mark this grim milestone, this evening, the President and First Lady,
along with the Vice President and Second Gentleman, will hold a moment
of silence in a ceremony at sundown to honor those who have lost their
lives to this pandemic. 

Everyone lost is someone whose life and gifts were cut short.  Our
hearts go out to all of those who are grieving loved ones who are so
deeply missed.

For those of us in the administration, the occasion makes us more
determined to turn the tide on COVID-19 so the losses can subside and
the healing can begin.  The President has asked us to use every possible
resource to make that happen.

On Friday, I provided an overview of how the extreme weather had
impacted our vaccination efforts.  And today, I want to give an update
on our progress to recover.  That progress began as soon as the weather
began to improve, thanks to an all-out, round-the-clock effort from our
teams and partners. 

McKesson ran extended shifts Saturday and Sunday to pack vaccines, and
members of the military joined them in their efforts.  Seventy McKesson
employees volunteered to work 1:00 a.m. shifts Saturday night, Sunday
morning to prepare shipments to meet an 11:00 a.m. transit deadline.  On
Sunday, UPS extended its onsite trailer time at the McKesson facility in
Kentucky to allow them to pack hundreds of thousands more doses.

Thanks to that and many more, those efforts, today alone, we plan to
deliver 7 million doses.

This is a combination of catch-up from last week’s doses that were
delayed from the weather and doses going out as a normal part of today’s
normal distribution.

I reported on Friday that we would catch up on deliveries by the end of
this week.  We now anticipate that all backlog doses will be delivered
by midweek.

But delivering doses to administration sites is, as we know, only the
first step.  Sites around the country have a significant job ahead of
them to quickly vaccinate the public.  It will take some time for those
sites to catch up. 

We encourage vaccination sites to follow that same lead of those who are
working extended hours to catch up on deliveries by scheduling more
appointments to vaccinate the anxious public as quickly as possible.

There are still vaccination sites closed from today’s — from the storm’s
impact.  Texas’s seven-day average of administered COVID-19 doses
decreased by 31 percent in the past week due to winter weather impacts. 
Some Houston-area vaccination clinics and testing sites have now
reopened.  Austin Public Health does not believe reopening is safe at
this time but announced that when operations resume, they will include
extended hours and additional locations.

Next, I want to begin to turn to our efforts to educate and communicate
with the public about the importance of vaccinations.  After all,
today’s challenge of vaccinating those who are waiting must be
accompanied by an equally aggressive effort to reach people who are
considering getting vaccinated but haven’t yet decided to.

We are so fortunate to have highly effective vaccines and safe vaccines,
which makes the conversation with the public a much more straightforward
one. 

So let me tell you a little bit about the three stages of our approach
to communication:

For the last month, we’ve been in the first stage of this work.  That
first stage has entailed a significant number of activities: listening
to the public’s concerns, hearing from experts, testing how different
audiences react to different methods of communication and different
messengers, and ensuring that we can provide clear answers that the
public deserves.

Today, we begin a second and more public stage: engagement with key
stakeholders.  The COVID team has begun meeting on an ongoing basis with
state and local health leaders, nonprofits, businesses, and unions about
the pandemic.  We’ve held more than 100 one-on-one discussions with
these groups and we’ll continue this engagement throughout the response.

Now, to continue to inform our efforts around vaccine confidence, over
the next two weeks, the White House, along with CDC and HHS, will host a
series of listening sessions with key stakeholder groups.  These
meetings will be led by Dr. Nunez-Smith, who is leading our equity
work.  These conversations will focus on how to strengthen vaccine
confidence and how to eliminate barriers that underserved communities
are facing to vaccinations, like paid leave, transportation, and
scheduling.

The meetings are kicking off today with a conversation with key leaders
in the African American community.  And throughout the week, we’ll be
meeting with Latino groups, faith leaders, and members of the rural
community.

These listening sessions will continue our effort to hear directly from
communities who’ve been hit hardest by this pandemic and help us build
strong partnerships with those who will be key to our efforts to build
vaccine confidence and reach everyone in our response.

As a part of this effort, beginning today through Wednesday, CDC is
hosting a National Forum on Vaccines, where they’re bringing together
thousands of participants from around the country — from practitioners
to jurisdictions to others working on the ground — to discuss practical
strategies, technical resources, and best practices for vaccination
efforts.

In a moment, Dr. Walensky will discuss this.

All of that continues our work on not only a whole-of-government
response, but to leverage the best existing resources outside of
government to end this pandemic as quickly as possible.

And our third phase — the public education campaign — will be timed for
maximum effectiveness and designed based on both our learnings and take
full advantage of the participation of many throughout the country.

So with that update, I will turn it over to Dr. Walensky and then, from
there, to Dr. Fauci.  And then we’ll take your questions.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Andy.  I’m glad to be back with you today.  We
continue to see trends head in the right direction, but cases, hospital
admissions, and deaths remain at very high levels. 

COVID-19 in the United States has been declining for five weeks, with
the seven-day average dropping 74 percent since the peak seven-day
average on January 11th.  The current seven-day average — approximately
66,000 cases per day — is similar to that seen during last summer’s
peak: Cases remain significantly elevated. 

And the seven-day average for new hospital admissions — 6,500 a day —
reflects a 60 percent decline since the peak seven-day average on
January 9th, the lowest seven-day average in new hospital admissions
since last fall. 

The number of reported deaths also continues to decline, with the
seven-day average slightly more than 1,900 deaths, dropping 39 percent
compared to the prior seven-day average.  This is the lowest since the
beginning of December.  However, this seven-day average is
counterbalanced by the stark reality that this week we will surpass one
half million COVID-19 deaths in the United States — a truly tragic
reminder of the enormity of this pandemic and the loss it has afflicted
on our personal lives and our communities. 

While the pandemic is heading in the right direction, there is still
much work to do.  One area that is particularly important is getting
students back to in-person instructing — instruction, while protecting
teachers, students, and staff.

A little more than a week ago, we released our Operational Strategy for
opening K-through-12 schools.  This strategy provides the long-needed,
science-based roadmap to help schools open safely and remain open for
in-person instruction. 

Since the release of this strategy, we have been working closely with
the Department of Education, public health partners, and education
partners, including teachers and other school staff, to increase
awareness of the guidance and to support its use in ongoing discussions
and planning efforts for school reopenings.  The goal is to achieve the
reopening of schools safely. 

In addition, we continue to study COVID-19 spread in schools to identify
the factors that contin- — that contribute to outbreaks and steps that
can help prevent spread in schools.  Today, CDC published a concerning
report in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report that details an
investigation of COVID-19 spread in eight public elementary schools in a
single school district in Georgia during a period of high community
spread.

In the report, researchers identified nine clusters of COVID-19 cases
involving 13 educators and 32 students of at least six elementary
schools.  In two of these clusters, COVID-19 was spread first from
educator to educator, and then from educator to student.  These two
clusters accounted for half of all the school-associated cases.

Across the nine clusters, educators played an important role in the
spread of COVID-19 in the schools.  COVID-19 spread often occurred
during in-person meetings or lunches and then subsequent spread in
classrooms.  COVID-19 was also spread from student to educator and from
student to student, but this occurred less frequently. 

The two main reasons for the spread of COVID-19 in these schools were
inadequate physical distancing and mask adherence.  In the schools,
physical distancing of at least six feet was not possible because of the
high number of students in class, as well as because of classroom
layouts.  In addition, COVID-19 may have spread among educators and
students during small group discussions where educators were in close
proximity to students. 

Although the school district mandated in-classroom mask wearing except
while eating and mask wearing was reportedly high, the study found that
there were instances where lack or inadequate mask wearing by students
occurred.  In these situations, lack of physical distancing likely
increased the risk of spread.  In addition, students ate lunch in their
classrooms, which may have also contributed to spread. 

These findings underscore the importance of strict mask adherence to the
five key layered mitigation strategies outlined in the CDC’s K-12
Operational Strategy.  In particular, universal mask wearing, physical
distancing of at least six feet, and using cohorting or podding of
students are important to minimize spread throughout the school
environment.  This is especially true for schools that have high rates
of COVID-19 in their community.  As we have noted, distancing
requirements, which we recognize are very challenging, can be relaxed as
school — as community rates come down. 

It’s also worth noting that approximately 60 percent of close contacts
of the cases agreed to be tested for COVID-19.  And for those who
weren’t tested, testing took five to seven days — a delay that makes it
incredibly difficult to rapidly contain spread. 

These findings highlight an additional key mitigation strategy
recommended in CDC’s school guidance: the need for diagnostic testing,
and rapid and efficient contact tracing, in combination with isolation
and quarantine, in collaboration with the health department. 

The findings also highlight the importance of scaling up vaccination
efforts across the country, including the continued need to prioritize
teachers and other school staff for vaccination as part of the frontline
essential workers, consistent with the recommendation of the Advisory
Committee on Immunization Practices. 

CDC’s Operational Strategy specifically includes vaccination for
teachers and school staff as an additional layer of protection that can
be added to the five key layered mitigation strategies. 

Finally, I want to emphasize that while CDC’s Operational Strategy does
provide for in-person instruction during all levels of community spread,
the safest and quickest way to open schools and keep them open is to
have as little COVID-19 in the community as possible.  Enabling schools
to open and remain open is therefore a shared responsibility.

Encouragingly, consistent with the recent declines in COVID-19 cases in
the United States, the percentage of counties with the highest level of
COVID-19 transmission continued to drop, declining from approximately 90
percent, when we released our school guidance about 10 days ago, to 60
percent, as of yesterday.  Now, approximately 18 percent of counties
have COVID-19 levels at the low or moderate levels with — that’s
consistent with full in-person learning for all K-12 schools in CDC’s
guidance.  And 22 percent are at the substantial level, consistent with
hybrid learning or reduced in-person attendance for all K-12 schools.

For the 60 percent of counties that remain in the red zone — the
counties with high transmission — we encourage at least the K-5 students
to return to school in hybrid or reduced in-person attendance, and for
middle and high school schools virtually only — unless they can strictly
implement mitigation measures and have few cases.  Schools that are
already open should continue to provide in-person instruction, as long
as cases are low and they strictly use mitigation measures to keep them
low. 

I hope these findings serve as a catalyst to each of us to continue to
do our part to drive down the number of cases and reduce the spread of
COVID-19.  I know this is not easy, and so many of us are frustrated
with the disruption the pandemic has had on our lives and our children’s
education.  But working together as a nation, we can turn the tide. 

Finally, I want to share some news about our virtual National Vaccine
Forum that kicked off this morning.  I’m excited to share that we have
over 11,000 participants from 6,000 organizations across all 50 states,
nearly all territories, and 128 tribes and tribal organizations. 

Over the next three days, these participants will share information and
best practices on how to build trust and confidence in COVID-19
vaccines, use data to optimize vaccine implementation, and provide
practical, real-world experience on how to increase vaccination
capacities in our communities.

I encourage each of you to watch the livestream plenary session
throughout the day and get engaged in your community vaccination
efforts. 

Before I turn to Dr. Fauci, I want to reiterate to everyone to continue
to do your part to protect yourselves and each other by wearing a
well-fitting mask, staying six feet apart from the people you do not
live with, avoiding travel and crowds, washing your hands often, and
getting vaccinated when the vaccine is available to you. 

And now I will turn it over to Dr. Fauci.  I look forward to your
questions.

Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’m going to talk for a
few minutes today.  I’m updating you on where we are on some selected
therapeutics for COVID-19. 

So if we can move ahead to my first slide.

In general, when one thinks of therapeutics, you think of them as
therapeutics for early or moderate disease versus therapeutics for
moderate-to-advanced disease.

Clearly, the strategy early on is to block the replication of virus and
prevent it from going from the upper airway to the lungs and other organ
systems.  However, we have found, through experience over the past many
months, that when one gets advanced disease, the hyper or aberrant
inflammatory or immunological response gives as much to the morbidity
and mortality as the actual virus replication itself.

And in that regard, a variety of drugs have been tested.  One, such as
remdesivir, has gained FDA approval.  Its effect is clear but modest. 

hen regard to getting early intervention, monoclonal antibodies, both
from Lilly and from Regeneron, have received emergency use
authorization.  Here again, the earlier one uses these, the better. 
These are as efficient and more efficient in those individuals who don’t
necessarily have a good antibody response. 

The same can be said of convalescent plasma, which has also earned an
emergency use authorization — again, because of the variability in the
titer of antibody in various plasma concentra- — excuse me, plasma
aliquots.  The issue here is getting this as early as possible.

There have been a number of trials of a variety of antivirals or other
agents that are off the shelf that have not been targeted.  I’ll get to
targeted intervention in just a moment.  And then hyperimmune globulin
is also in clinical trial.  And we await the results of all of these. 

With regard to therapeutics for advanced disease, as I mentioned, that
is generally aimed at blocking an aberrant inflammatory or immunological
response, as well as other pathogenic mechanisms, which are not
necessarily that well understood. 

We have dexamethasone — a drug approved for many, many, many years — as
the standard of care for advanced disease, particularly people in the
hospital on respirators and/or requiring high-flow oxygen.

Baricitinib and remdesivir have earned emergency use authorization, and
a number of immunomodulators, including those that block a variety of
cytokines and cytokine receptors, are currently in clinical trials. 

Can I have the next slide?

The bottom line of what we need to do looking forward and the clear need
in this is the development of potent antivirals directly acting on
SARS-CoV-2, very similar to what was done with the highly successful
drug development program for HIV, as well as for hepatitis C.  And what
I refer to is the future development of therapeutics will be based on
the identification of vulnerable targets in the SARS-CoV-2 replication
cycle and the design of drugs to inhibit these vulnerable targets.  As I
mentioned, we are beginning this, and this is going to be the direction
of the future. 

I want to point out to the group that the NIH, in April, put together a
Treatment Guidelines Panel that is a living document of clinicians and
people involved in the care of SARS-CoV-2-infected individuals, who
analyze the literature as well as the now very common pre-print
literature and updated in — meaningfully, in very frequent intervals. 
It is a living document. 

As I mentioned, there are 47 voting members of this.  And since this was
put online in April of 2020 — easily accessible by
COVID19TreatmentGuidelines.nih.gov — there have been over 11 million
hits to this. 

The reason we feel this is important — and I want to, again, bring it to
everyone’s attention — is that it is an easy way to get experienced
clinicians to analyze data that’s already in the literature, as well as
data that is in pre-print form, and involved in just clinical
experience.  It has been very advantageous to clinicians not only in the
United States, but worldwide.

And if I can have the next slide.

Finally, I want to just bring to your attention something that the FDA
has done today in having a press briefing, I believe, at 1:30. 

I want to bring it to your attention because although they delineated
the aspects of it, I want to make sure everyone is aware of the very
important work that the FDA is doing.  And that is, they are guiding the
medical product developers by updating their guidelines on how they
address the virus variants.  And the products involved that are impacted
by this updated guidance are vaccines, COVID-19 tests, and therapeutics.

Why is this important?  It is very clear that we are faced right now,
and will be in the future, with variants that are already present, and
that with all of the immunologic and other pressures that are going on
and the high degree of replication throughout the world, that there will
be the selecting of a variety of variants. 

We ourselves in this country are already facing variants that are having
impact, such as the UK variant.  We have this — the South African
variant in our nation.  And we’re even having the evolution of variants
within our own country. 

With regard to vaccines, the FDA outlines the scientific recommendations
for the modification to authorized vaccines.  In other words, we have
vaccines that are out there that are highly efficacious. 

The manufacturers of these are going to want to know how they can
address and modify their vaccines to address the ongoing evolution of
variants.  And we expect the manufacturing recommendations to remain the
same.  And the effectiveness is going to be determined by immunogenicity
studies.  In other words, likely not have to prove efficacy in a large
study. 

The same holds true for COVID-19 test.  The updated guidelines describes
the FDA’s activities to better understand the public health impact on
the variants and the impact on the test performances, and provide
recommendations to the developers of these tests regarding the future
genetic mutations and what they need to do when designing or modifying
their existing tests.

And finally, the same holds true for therapeutics, both drugs and
biologics.  The FDA will provide recommendations on the efficient
approaches — how to generate data that potentially could support an EUA
for monoclonal antibody products that might actually be effective
against emerging variants, which obviously will be an issue because we
already know particularly that the South African variant is, in fact,
obviating the effect of several of the monoclonal antibodies that people
have developed.

And former guidances on therapeutics will also be updated to address the
evolving landscape of the COVID-19 drug development, again, in the
context of emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants.

In summary, the FDA will give guidance to how these companies can
address a problem that we know is with us already and that will be a
problem in the future. 

I’ll stop there.  And back to you, Andy.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci, Dr. Walensky.

Let’s take a few questions.

MODERATOR:  Great.  And if you haven’t raised your hand yet, you can go
ahead and do that, and that’s how we can select you. 

First off, we’ll go to Katherine Eban at Vanity Fair.

Q    Thanks so much for having this briefing; it’s very helpful.  My
question is: What is the Biden administration’s policy for vaccinating
federal employees?  How are they prioritized? 

And a few other add-on questions.  Do you know if the Biden
administration’s policy contrasts with that of the Trump administration,
regarding who was vaccinated when?  And in the — in looking for —
accounting for the missing doses of vaccine, have all of the doses that
have been administered to federal employees been accounted for?  Thank
you.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay, multiple parts of that question. 
I’ll do my best to answer.

As it respects to federal employees, what I can tell you is that the
federal government is following the ACIP guidelines.  And if you’d like
more detail or if you have more specific detailed questions on aspects
of federal employees, frontline workers, versus others, we will follow
up with you and answer those questions. 

When you say “missing doses,” can you clarify what you’re referring to,
please?

Q    Yeah, Dr. Walensky had spoken some time ago about vaccine doses
that could not be accounted for, and there was a question of whether
that was due to a lag of reporting from the states to Tiberius.  And my
question is: Have all of the doses that have been used for federal
employees been fully accounted for?  And is there somebody whose job it
is to track that?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  So — so, look, I — and, Dr. Walensky, you
can comment after me if you’d like.  But I believe what you’re referring
to is a comment made some number of weeks ago, right after we arrived
here.  At that point in time, when we arrived here, about 46 percent of
the vaccines that had been distributed to states had been administered. 
And so I think what Dr. Walensky was saying is: We have a whole lot of
vaccines that have been delivered that need to now be administered.

Now, today, that number is about 80 percent.  So we were at 46 percent,
and now we’re at 80 percent.  And we applaud the states and the
vaccinators and everyone involved in improving that effectiveness. 

So I don’t think — and again, I will invite Dr. Walensky to, of course,
correct me if I’m wrong — that she was referring to quote, unquote,
“missing vaccines”; simply that we needed to get the vaccines that had
been delivered to be administered more effectively and more equitably. 

Dr. Walensky?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I don’t have much to add.  I think when we came
into the administration, we had to make sure we didn’t follow all the
paths and where all the doses were, and I think we’ve done so, just as
you commented.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Next question.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Chris Megerian at Los Angeles Times.

Q    Hi, everyone.  I was interested in your thoughts on the messaging
around the vaccines.  There’s a lot of conversation about how you need
to keep doing the same things even after you get vaccinated — you know,
like wearing a mask, not seeing your family, things like that.  Do you
think that’s preventing people from being more enthusiastic about
getting vaccines?  And may we see that change in the future?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Well, I’m going to invite both Dr.
Walensky and Dr. Fauci to comment on that, and then — you know, and then
I will as — I will as well, if there’s anything to add.

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah, I — actually, let — I’ll start — well, whatever. 
(Laughs.)  I’ll start off and be very brief and hand it to Dr.
Walensky.  

There are certain aspects of being vaccinated — and what that means to
you personally and your own personal safety and that of your family —
versus what vaccines will allow you to do in society.  One relates to
you, yourself, being vaccinated, and the other relates to the number of
people and the relative percentage of people in society that will be
vaccinated, because there will be things that you will not be able to do
because the burden of virus in society will be very high, which it is
right now.  Even though we’re going way down on the decline that Dr.
Walensky showed you, we are still at an unacceptably high baseline level
with a seven-day average being quite high. 

So there are things, even if you’re vaccinated, that you’re not going to
be able to do in society: for example, indoor dining, theaters, places
where people congregate.  That’s because of the safety of society.  You,
yourself, what you can do when you are together with another person, we
are looking at that, and we’re going to try and find out very quickly
what recommendations could be made about what people can do. 

One of the things that’s universal here that we know: that at this point
in time, it is unclear whether when you get vaccinated and you might be
protected from clinical disease, which is the primary endpoint of the
vaccine studies, that you could conceivably be infected, have virus in
your nasopharynx, and at that same time have no symptoms, which is the
reason why we recommend and say you still need to wear a mask.  Because
if you do have virus in your nasopharynx, even though we hope that when
the data comes in, it’s going to show that the virus level is quite low
and you’re not transmitting it, we don’t know that now.  And for that
reason, we want to make sure that people continue to wear masks despite
the fact that they’re vaccinated.

So, Dr. Walensky, why don’t you add to that?

DR. WALENSKY:  Great.  Thank you.  I will say we’ve already started to
come out with some guidance that demonstrates the difference if you’ve
been vaccinated versus if you haven’t.  So, for example, if you’ve been
exposed and you’ve been fully vaccinated — two doses — there is no
longer a need to quarantine after you’ve been exposed.  So we are
starting to emerge with some guidance in this area, and more will be
forthcoming. 

I would echo exactly what Dr. Fauci said.  We are working on rolling out
a lot of vaccine to a lot of people, and yet we still have a lot of
disease — 66,000 cases a day.  So what we might be proposing, in terms
of guidance, will really likely be at the individual level and not at
the community level.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  And let me just follow up, to make a
broader point.  The broader point that Dr. Fauci and Dr. Walensky both
alluded to is this: The scientific team, the President — as the
scientific team, including prominently Dr. Fauci and Dr. Walensky — are
very much working together on those sets of recommendations.  And I
think it is in our interest to make sure they release information based
on data, not on — to your — the tenet of your question — trying to
convince the public of something that isn’t necessarily based on data. 
I think that you will hear that consistently from this administration. 

I will tell you that people are interested in taking the vaccine in
large numbers for the same reason people are interested in taking the
vaccine for MMR and for the flu: because they want to live.  They don’t
want to be sick and they don’t want to die.  And that is a very
important benefit that people don’t often talk about quite as much but
that the public, we believe, clearly understands. 

So beyond that, what we’re able to do as a society — the scientific team
is going to continue to study based upon prevalence, based upon
vaccination levels, and based upon the data, and we’ll come out with
more.  And there are plenty of commentators outside of the government
that are, of course, expressing their own views and their own opinions. 
And so I think that’s — that’s a part of the discourse, but it’s not one
that this — that we are going to jump into too hastily.

Next question.

MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Erin Banco at the Daily Beast.

Q    Hey, there.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I have two questions
for you all.

The first question is about issues surrounding the CDC vaccination
tracker.  A lot of state officials that we spoke to over the past couple
of weeks were dissatisfied with how their state was being reflected in
that vaccine tracker.  I want to know if there have been any steps to
clear up that data, whether those concerns have been dealt with, and
what the issue was there.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that.  We are actively working on the
vaccine tracker.  We recognize there are challenges in rolling it out,
and we are working to fix them imminently.

Q    Great.  Thanks so much. 

My second question is: We hit the 500,000 mark today, or I guess late
last night.  Some officials and health experts have said that we are
almost certainly undercounting COVID-19 deaths in this country.  I
wonder if any of you could speak to that and whether — or how confident
you are in whether, you know, more than 500,000 people have died as a
result of COVID-19 in this country.  And I also haven’t seen a mortality
study done yet since the pandemic began.  Is that going to happen?  And
when that might be published?  Thanks.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I mean, I think we can — even if — even if we were
perfectly precise in how we defined COVID-19 early on as we were
learning about the disease and we were accurate in our counting, I think
we can sort of understand that there has been excess mortality from this
pandemic outside of COVID-19 specifically.  So people who delayed in
getting medical care — many, you know, delayed in coming in. 

So I think that when history writes this, we will understand that the
mortality related to this pandemic is far greater than the numbers that
we have been counting for numerous reasons.  There have been numerous
mortality studies that have been done, and I’m certain there will be
more forthcoming because we are continuing to accumulate mortality,
unfortunately.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay, next question.

MODERATOR:  Last question will go to Maggie Fox at CNN. 

Q    Thanks very much.  Can I ask about the Johnson & Johnson vaccine? 
If it wins emergency use authorization, what are the plans for
distributing the initial supply?  Have you got a number in mind for how
many doses you think you’ll have?  And will they go to the states?  Will
they go to retail pharmacies?  Will they go to some of these independent
retail pharmacies?  Can you talk a little bit about what your plans for
that are?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  So I think we’re going to wait on that
until after the FDA does its work and then after the ACIP does its work,
all consistent with our philosophy of letting the science go first. 
Once we understand what the scientific community has to say, we will
then be in a position to answer, I think, the very relevant questions
that we need scientists’ advice on.  And again, this is the President’s
directive to let science lead, and then we will rapidly follow that up
with a strategy, both distribution and targeting and otherwise, that
reflects that.

Dr. Walensky or Dr. Fauci, is there anything you want to — you would add
to that?

DR. FAUCI:  No, that’s precisely correct.  It’s very important, because
the FDA is going over the data very, very carefully.  They’re meeting
with their VRBPAC, and that, in the data, there may be hints about just
how this would be used most appropriately and most effectively.  When we
find that out, then the policy of the distribution would become much
more scientifically based, as Andy has said.

DR. WALENSKY:  And then, right on its heels will be the ACIP from the
CDC to, sort of, give some guidance as to how it should be rolled out.

Q    Can I just follow up a bit though?  Do you have any idea of how
many doses there will be?  The science isn’t guiding that.  You know
whether they’re manufacturing and where they are in that.

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah, we’re —

DR. FAUCI:  No, they’re — it’s — they’ve been contracted for 100 million
doses, which we will hopefully get by the end of June, the beginning of
July.  The rollout of that — there will not be a lot of doses right on
the heels of EUA, but that will accelerate as we get into the months
towards the contractual arrangement of when 100 million doses will be
given.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah.  And we’ll be speaking to that
also.  But, again, we’re going to wait for the FDA and the ACIP to do
their work, and then I commit to you, you’ll be hearing a lot more,
presuming that the EUA is granted.  And we’re not, of course, going to
take anything for granted, but presuming that that happens, I commit to
you, you’ll be hearing a lot more about all those topics.

I want to take the opportunity again to thank you for listening in to
the briefing and, on this solemn day, to encourage you to watch the
President’s remarks this evening with the Vice President, the First
Lady, and the Second Gentleman to remember the 500,000 people that we’ve
lost. 

And we will look forward to bringing you more information later in the
week, of course.  Thank you.

3:46 P.M. EST
