---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-10'
modified_time: 2021-02-10 14:03:36-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/10/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-3/
published_time: 2021-02-10 14:03:35-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White House COVID- \u2060 19 Response Team and Public Health\
  \ Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:02 A.M. EST

     MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning.  Three weeks ago, the President launched
his comprehensive whole-of-government strategy to tackle the COVID-19
pandemic.  Central to that strategy is getting shots into the arms of
the American people.  We’ve been making steady progress over the past
few weeks, getting more vaccine supply, getting more vaccinators on the
ground, and creating more places to get vaccinated.  We are on track to
meet the President’s goal of delivering 100 million shots in his first
100 days in office.

Today I want to give you an update on our execution against that goal. 
We’ll also hear from Dr. Nunez-Smith, get a state-of-the-pandemic update
from Dr. Walensky, and an update on the latest science from Dr. Fauci. 
We’ll then open it up for questions.

The President has made clear that we’re not going to solve this crisis
overnight, but we are using every tool at our disposal to make progress
in our effort to put this pandemic behind us.

First, we continue to take steps to increase the vaccine supply and get
it out the door as fast as the manufacturers can make it.  Yesterday we
announced another increase in the weekly allocations of vaccine doses to
states, tribes, and territories. We have achieved a 28 percent increase
in the first three weeks of the administration.

We’re helping states administer the supply more efficiently and
equitably by providing them with visibility into the supply they will
receive over the coming three weeks.

Second, we’re mobilizing teams to get shots in arms.  At the President’s
direction, we’re moving quickly to get more vaccinators on the ground,
including retired doctors and nurses.  We’ve deployed hundreds of
personnel across the federal government, from FEMA to USDA to HHS and
other federal agencies, to support vaccination operations nationwide. 
And we have plans to deploy thousands more.

Third, we’re creating more places where Americans can get vaccinated. 
To do so, we’ve expedited financial support to bolster community
vaccination centers nationwide, with over $3 billion in federal funding
across 35 states, tribes, and territories.  We’re putting equity front
and center, partnering with states to increase vaccinations in the
hardest-hit and hardest-to-reach communities.  We’ve launched efforts to
get more vaccines to pharmacies and community health centers.

And we’re building new vaccination centers from the ground up, in
stadiums, community centers, school gyms, and parking lots across the
country.

And the data show that these efforts are working.  As you can see in our
vaccination progress report, our seven-day average daily doses
administered is now 1.5 million shots per day, up from 1.1 million only
two weeks ago.

But let me be very clear: We have much more work to do. This is just the
start.

Today we have two updates on how we continue to increase the number of
places to get vaccinated and ensure our response is equitable.

First, we are building new vaccination sites.  Last week, we announced
new mass vaccination centers in California.  And today I’m pleased to
announce that we’ll partner with the state of Texas to build three new
major community vaccination centers in Dallas, Arlington, and Houston —
communities hit hard by the pandemic.  In Houston, we’re building a
major site at NRG Stadium; in South Dallas, a new site at Fair Park; and
in Arlington, a site at AT&T Stadium.  Together, these sites will be
capable of administering more than 10,000 shots in arms a day.

We are deploying federal teams immediately to work hand in hand with the
state and local jurisdiction.

We appreciate Governor Abbott, Representative Sheila Jackson Lee,
Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson, Representative Mark Veasey, and
Representative Ron Wright.  Local mayors and county leaders are also
part of this partnership.

We expect these sites to start getting shots in arms beginning the week
of February 22nd.

Importantly, FEMA has partnered with CDC to launch these and other
vaccination sites that use processes and are in locations that promote
equity, deploying CDC’s social vulnerability index.

Second on this point, we continue to put equity at the center of our
work more broadly, guided by Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith. 

Today we’re pleased to announce the members of our Health Equity Task
Force.  Ensuring that we reach every person in our response is something
that the President and Vice President feel very strongly about.

On his second day in office, President Biden signed an executive order
to create this task force.  And we could not have picked a better leader
in Dr. Nunez-Smith to help drive this work.

I also want to note that Vice President Harris’s work in the Senate
informed the development of the mission and work of the Health Equity
Task Force.  Then, Senator Harris introduced the COVID-19 Racial and
Ethnic Disparity Task Force Act to gather data about disproportionally
affected communities and provide recommendations combat the racial and
ethnic disparities in the COVID-19 response.  Today, that vision becomes
a reality as we create this task force to help lead our national
response. 

So now I’ll turn it over to Dr. Nunez-Smith. 

Dr. Nunez-Smith.

Dr. Nunez-Smith, are you on mute?  Maybe you can try again, Dr.
Nunez-Smith.

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Okay, we’ll start over.   

MR. ZIENTS:  That’s perfect.  Thank you.  Thank you.  

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Okay, great.

MR. ZIENTS:  Wonderful.

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  So, thank you, Jeff.  And good morning to everyone. 
You know, shortly after COVID-19 was first identified in the United
States, we began to see disparities in testing, in cases, and in rates
of hospitalization and mortality.  And these inequities were quickly
evident by race, ethnicity, geography, disability, sexual orientation,
gender identity, and other factors. 

You know, as the pandemic has progressed over the past year, so too have
the inequities.  And over the fast — the past few months, we’ve seen new
disparities emerge — you know, most notably with regards to access to
therapeutics and vaccines.

So, absolutely, make no mistake about it: Beating this pandemic is hard
work.  And beating this pandemic while making sure that everyone in
every community has a fair chance to stay safe or to regain their
health, well, that’s the hard work done the right way.

So President Biden and Vice President Harris have made it clear since
the beginning that they are committed to centering their
administration’s COVID-19 response on equity.  And as Jeff mentioned,
Vice President Harris set a blueprint for how to advise this commitment
during her time in the Senate.  And President Biden not only agreed with
the necessity of such a task force — you know, as Jeff said, he signed
an executive order requiring its formation in his first full day in
office.

Next slide, please.

And today, that vision for our federal COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force
officially becomes a reality.  Not only am I humbled and honored that
President Biden has asked me to serve as the chair of this COVID-19
Health Equity Task Force, but I am truly excited to share that the
President has announced the 12 individuals he has selected to serve as
non-federal members.

These individuals were identified through conversations with stakeholder
groups, on recommendation by organizations and individuals, and through
the visible effort and expertise they have lent to their communities in
the fight against COVID-19.  And their bios are available on the
Department of Health and Human Services website.

But in addition to their noteworthy backgrounds and expertise, these
individuals represent a range of racial and ethnic groups and also key
constituencies, including children and youth; educators and students;
healthcare providers; immigrants; individuals with disabilities;
LGBTQ-plus individuals; public health experts; rural communities; state,
local, territorial, and tribal governments; and unions.

And in my discretion as chair of this task force, I will be asking
representatives from the Departments of Agriculture, Education, Health
and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, Justice, and Labor to
sit on this task force, as well, to offer their critical perspective on
some of the most effective levers we can pull in our efforts for
COVID-19 health equity.

Next slide, please.

Just a quick word on the actual work of this task force.  This advisory
body is charged with issuing a range of recommendations to help inform
the COVID-19 response and recovery.  So this includes thinking about the
equitable allocation of COVID-19 resources and relief funds; you know,
effective outreach and communication to underserved and minoritized
populations; and improving cultural responsiveness within the federal
government.

You know, additional recommendations will advise on efforts to improve
our data collection and use, as well as a long-term plan to address data
shortfalls regarding communities of color and underserved populations. 

And the work of the task force will conclude after issuing a final
report to the COVID-19 response coordinator on the drivers of observe
(inaudible) COVID-19 inequities,  the potential for ongoing disparities
facing COVID-19 survivors, and actions to ensure that future pandemic
responses do not ignore or exacerbated health inequities.

We want everyone to feel connected to this work.  So, in addition to
this COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force, the administration has already
begun — will, of course, continue.  And that will include the launch of
a series of constituent listening sessions to engage with key
communities whose voices we know are so important to (inaudible)
conversation about equity.  We will always, always (inaudible) endeavor
to engage with every community to inform (inaudible) necessary to drive
positive change.

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Nunez-Smith? 

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  So I just want to issue congratulations to all of the
individuals. 

MR. ZIENTS:  We’re having a little bit of technical difficulty.  Why
don’t we do this: Why don’t we go to Dr. Walensky, sort through those
technical difficulties.  We’ll come back to you at the end for you to
complete your remarks. 

So let’s go to Dr. Walensky on the state of the pandemic.

Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Great, thank you so much, Jeff.  And thanks to all of you
again for being with us today.  Cases and new hospital admissions
continue to fall.  Deaths have decreased slightly in the most recent
seven days.  And we are watching these data closely.  Because cases,
hospitalizations, and deaths remain high, and because we are still
losing more than a thousand Americans daily to this disease, we must
continue to take every action we can to protect our loved ones and our
communities. 

One of the simple things we can all do, one thing that will make the
biggest difference, is to wear a mask.  I know some of you are both
tired of hearing about masks, as well as tired of wearing them.  Masks
can be cumbersome.  They can be inconvenient.  And I also know that many
of you still have questions about masks.  You may be unsure if they
work, what kind is best, and whether two masks are better than one. 

We’ve learned a lot about masks over the past year.  Today, I want to
share with you some new science that is emerging about masks and what we
know now that we didn’t know when the pandemic started. 

The science is clear: Everyone needs to be wearing a mask when they are
in public or when they’re in their own home but with people who do not
live in their household.  This is especially true with our ongoing
concern about new variants spreading in the United States. 

Masks offer two kinds of protection.  When I wear a mask, it protects
you and it protects me.  But to get the most protection possible, we all
have to wear them. 

Research has demonstrated that COVID-19 infections and deaths have
decreased when policies that require everyone to wear a mask have been
implemented.  So with cases, hospitalizations, and deaths still very
high, now is not the time to roll back mask requirements.

I have also seen very — many well-meaning people wearing masks that do
not fit well or fit incorrectly.  In fact, recent survey data from
Porter Novelli found that among adults who reported wearing masks in the
past week, half said they wore their masks incorrectly in public.

New data released from CDC today underscore the importance of wearing a
mask correctly and making sure it fits closely and snugly over your nose
and mouth. 

In this new study, researchers used experiments in the laboratory, not
the real world, to assess how different strategies to improve the fit of
masks impacts masks’ ability to block aerosolized particles emitted
during a simulated cough, as well as to reduce exposure to aerosol
particles emitted during simulated breathing. 

The size of the aerosol particles in the experiment were designed to
mimic the respiratory droplet particles most important for
person-to-person transmission of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes
COVID-19.

Specifically, the experiments compared the performance of no mask, a
single cloth face mask, and a single medical procedure mask with two
approaches to improve the mask fit of the surgical mask: wearing a cloth
mask over the procedure mask, and knotting and tucking the ear loops of
the medical procedure mask.

In the study, wearing any type of mask performs significantly better
than not wearing a mask, and well-fitting masks provided the greatest
performance both at blocking emitted aerosols and exposure of aerosols
to the receiver.

In the breathing experiment, having both the source and the receiver
wear masks modified to fit better reduced the receiver’s exposure by
more than 95 percent, compared to no mask at all.  

These experimental data reinforce CDC’s prior guidance that everyone two
years of age or older should wear a mask when in public and around
others in the home — in the home, not living with you. 

We continue to recommend that masks should have two or more layers,
completely cover your nose and mouth, and fit snugly against your nose
and the sides of your face. 

I want to be clear that these new scientific data released today do not
change the specific recommendations about who should wear a mask or when
they should wear one, but they do provide new information on why wearing
a well-fitting mask is so important to protect you and others.

Based on this new information, the CDC is updating the mask information
for the public on the CDC website to provide new options on how to
improve mask fit.  This includes wearing a mask with a moldable nose
wire, knotting the ear loops on your mask, or wearing a cloth mask over
a procedure or disposable mask. 

There are also new options available to consumers, called “mask fitters”
— small, reusable devices that cinch a cloth or medical mask and that
can create a tighter fit against the face and thus improve mask
performance. 

The bottom line is this: Masks work, and they work best when they have a
good fit and are worn correctly.

Importantly, as per our usual guidance, masks should be used in
combination with other prevention measures to offer you and your
community the most protection from COVID-19.  Stay at least six feet
apart from other people you don’t live with, avoid crowds and travel,
and wash your hands often.

When we take all of these prevention steps and wear masks that fit well,
we protect ourselves and we take care of each other.

I also want to follow up on a question I received during Monday’s
briefing from Kaitlan Collins.  I was asked about CDC’s best estimate on
the prevalence of variant cases in the United States based on current
case data and volume of sequencing. 

Our latest estimate nationally is that between 1 and 4 percent of cases
in the United States are due to the B117 variant, the variant most
frequently found in the United States.

It’s important to note that some states have seen higher numbers of
variant cases, and thus the proportion attributable to B117 in these
states is likely to be higher than in other states.  We do not believe
the variants are distributed equally across the country at this time. 

And with that, I will say thank you, and I will look forward to your
questions and pass it back to Dr. Fauci.

Dr. Fauci?

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I would like to just
take a couple of minutes to preemptively answer three types of questions
that I have been asked over the last several days that I believe are
important to address preemptively because they will come up. 

The first relates to the fact that many states, cities, and locations,
who have gone from 1A to 1B, will soon or already — or have already gone
into the 1C of the phase. 

Within 1C are persons 16 to 64 years of age with underlying conditions,
including those that might be immunosuppressed because of certain drugs
such as glucocorticoids or corticosteroids for diseases like
autoinflammatory diseases or allergic diseases. 

There has been a number of individuals who feel that they should not get
vaccinated because of those underlying conditions.  I want to set the
record straight for these individuals because they are more vulnerable
to the more severe effects of if they do get infected.  Therefore, they
are the very people who should get vaccinated. 

When you think in terms of having an immunosuppressed state — for
example, if you’re on glucocorticoids for rheumatoid arthritis or you’re
on some of the monoclonal antibodies that block the markers of
inflammation — that under those circumstances, if that’s where you are,
there is not a safety issue with regard to the vaccine.  Safety issues
in immunosuppressed individuals relate to live, attenuated vaccines
which are contraindicated in people who are immunosuppressed.  There is
no safety reason not to get vaccinated.

So for those who are thinking of getting vaccinated or soon will come up
for vaccination, this is something that would be beneficial to you.  The
only potential downside might be that you might not have as robust a
response to the vaccine as if you had a normal immune response. 

But clearly, getting a less-than-optimal response is much better than no
response at all.  And I’m sure we’ll be getting back to this question as
more vaccines become available and more people in that category will be
ready to get vaccinated. 

The next is the question of the vaccination of children, namely
pediatrics and pregnant women.  As we all know, these were not included
in the original clinical trials that led to the EUA for the two vaccines
that are currently available. 

But I want to point out that since the EUA and under the EUA,
approximately 20,000 pregnant women have been vaccinated with no red
flags, as we say, and this is being monitored by the CDC and the FDA. 
So that’s where we’re going there.

With regard to children and pregnant women, as I mentioned on a prior
discussion with this group, the fact remains that we will be starting
clinical trials, and some have already started.  We will not need to do
tens of thousands of people; we will need just enough measured in
hundreds to thousands for safety and whether or not we induce an immune
response that is equivalent to the immune response that has been proven
to be protective under the trials that have now shown to be 94 to 95
percent effective.

And finally, the last issue relates to something that Dr. Walensky just
said about the prevalence of the B117 or UK variant.  The models tell us
that this very well might become dominant in the United States by the
end of March.  That being the case, we should not despair at that
because there are things that we can do to prevent that.  It is not
outside of our power to do that. 

For example, the vaccines that we are using clearly are effective
against this.  We know that from in-vitro correlate studies, as well as
for vaccines that are other candidates. 

So the two things that we can do are some of the things that Dr.
Walensky just mentioned: wearing of masks, avoiding congregate settings,
keeping your distance, and washing your hands — together, when vaccine
becomes available to you, to please get vaccinated. 

So I’ll hand it back to you, Jeff.

MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, Dr. Fauci.  And, Dr. Nunez-Smith, I
understand that you were at the end of your comments.  So hopefully the
technical issues are behind us and you’ll be available for questions. 

I just want to pick up where you left off, and that is that equity is
core to our strategy to put this pandemic behind us.  And we’re grateful
to you for your expertise and leadership.  Through efforts like
community vaccination centers located in the hardest-hit areas, mobile
units, the community health center program we announced yesterday, along
with efforts to build vaccine confidence, we are providing tools to
communities around the country to do this work. 

After this briefing, Dr. Nunez-Smith and I will join Governor Cuomo to
announce two new community vaccination centers in underserved
communities in the state of New York, another example of this work
coming to life on the ground.

With that, let me open it up for questions.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you, everybody.  We only have time for a
couple of questions today.  First, we’re going to go to Bertha Coombs at
NBC.

Q    Hi, thanks very much.  When you’re talking about outreach in these
underserved communities, one of the things that we are seeing right now
is that there are several waiting lists or people who are already on
state lists waiting, who haven’t gotten access.  And now the pharmacies
are opening up, but those seem to be first come, first served.  How are
you going to try to create an equitable access for people who already
been waiting to be able to get access to these new vaccine doses coming
online? 

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Nunez-Smith, let’s see if your technical issues are
resolved. 

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  I know.  Are you able to hear me? 

MR. ZIENTS:  Yes.

Q    Yes. 

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Okay, great.  Thank you so much for the question.  You
know, we are 100 percent committed to making sure that there is
equitable access to the vaccines. 

And the points you raise around registration are well noted.  I think
there are great efforts underway.  I would want to really lift up the
work of community-based organizations and faith organizations and others
to address, really, what — some of these mechanisms that we’ve talked
about today, including location of mobile units, mobile access, as well
as pop-up community vaccination sites. 

And we’re going to see more in the range of outreach, you know, with our
federal — Federally Qualified Community Health Centers doing outreach to
their patient populations to bring them in, as well as some of the
pharmacies and others expanding ways to register through telephone and
other things that I think will be really helpful.

We’re keeping a close eye on this, and we’ll continue to circle back
with updates.

Q    And you’re making sure that, for example, if there is a pharmacy in
Harlem or Overtown, that the people who wind up getting those slots
aren’t sliding over from wealthier neighborhoods?

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  It is our top priority, for anybody who is at “yes”
and it is their turn, that they’re able to connect with vaccination.

Q    Thanks.

MODERATOR:  Great.  We have time for one more question.  We’ll go to
Laura Santhanam at PBS.

Q    Thank you so much for putting on this — this presentation.  Can you
talk to me a little bit more — or just elaborate on the points about
variant prevalence and how vaccine supplies are responding to that? 
Thank you.

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci? 

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah, as you heard from Dr. Walensky, and I alluded to that,
the B117 is, you know, becoming widespread in the United States.  It
varials \[sic\]; it isn’t uniformly distributed throughout the United
States. 

The variant — that is the 351, the South African variant — has been
recognized in a couple of states with just a few people, but it is very
likely more prevalent than that because we don’t have yet the full
sequence surveillance that we’ll be doing.

When you’re talking about the relationship between vaccination and
variants, there are a couple of things that we do know: We do know that
the 117 — the one that is the UK, as it were; the one that we’re
concerned that over the next month or so it might become dominant — if
you look at the antibodies that are induced by the vaccines that we use,
they do very well in vitro, in the test tube, against the B117 variant. 

Also, the J&J study, which was done in the UK — and, in fact, was able
to show that the protection against that was really quite good to the
tune of about 90 percent.

The other variant of concern is one that is a bit more problematic, and
that is the one that is not yet, to any great degree, in the United
States — although we know it’s here — and that’s the 351-lineage
variant, which is the one that is dominating in South Africa. 

When you do those in vitro studies of looking at the antibodies that you
induce by the vaccines that we use, there’s about a five- to six-fold
diminution in efficacy against that.  Fortunately, it stays within the
realm of protection.  So there is a degree of protection, even though
it’s diminished somewhat. 

The good news that we got from other trials, particularly in South
Africa, is that even though there was diminution in the effect of
protection against mild to moderate disease, when you looked at serious
disease, severe disease — particularly hospitalizations and deaths —
there was rather substantial protection.  In fact, with no
hospitalizations or deaths in vaccinated individuals who were infected
with the 351.

Bottom line is that we have vaccines that work well against it, and
obviously, we’re going to be planning, if necessary, to upgrade vaccines
in the future if we ever have to do that.

MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, Dr. Fauci.  And I want to thank everybody
for joining today’s briefing.  Thank you.         

11:32 A.M. EST
