---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-08'
modified_time: 2021-02-09 13:27:55-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/08/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-february-8-2021/
published_time: 2021-02-08 16:12:06-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, February 8,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:07 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  (Phone alarm rings.) 

TJ has an alarm going off.  He’s excited about the briefing. 
(Laughter.) 

Hey, just a couple of things for you all at the top.  The President and
his entire administration are continuing to engage closely with leaders
on Capitol Hill about the need to act quickly on the American Rescue
Plan so we can finish the job of getting $2,000 checks out to Americans,
so we can get more vaccines in the arms of Americans, so we can get
economic relief to families facing eviction or food insecurity, and so
we can help reopen schools safely.

We’re encouraged that both Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Schumer
are in full agreement about the need to move swiftly on the President’s
proposal, and the committee mark-ups we’ll see throughout this week are
evidence of Congress acting on that expeditiously.

Our expectation is that this week’s House mark-ups will track closely
with what the President has proposed, but there will, of course, be
adjustments to strengthen the bill and tweaks as a result of the
legislative process — which he’s quite familiar with, having served
there for 36 years — which is exactly how the process is supposed to
work. 

We’re also going to continue to make the case directly to the American
people about the urgency of getting this package across the finish line,
including though national and local TV and radio interviews, engagement
with hundreds of mayors and county elected officials, and consultations
with stakeholders across the political spectrum, from labor and rural
leaders to the faith community.   

Here is a quick overview — a number of you have asked about this — of
the sense of the scope of our efforts:

Over a dozen senior administration officials have conducted over 100
national TV, radio, and podcast interviews to discuss the American
Rescue Plan.  We’ve done over 30 local TV interviews in states ranging
from Nevada to Louisiana to Pennsylvania.  In the last week alone, our
legislative affairs team had done more than 300 calls with members and
staff on the Hill, including 40 calls with Republicans or bipartisan
groups.

And you can expect that the President will engage throughout the course
of this week with a range of stakeholders, including business leaders,
mayors, and governors.

And as we’ve discussed before, this message is resonating.  Poll after
poll show a bipartisan majority of the American people in support of the
President’s plan.

A couple of other quick updates for all of you:

Many folks likely noticed, if you all watched the Super Bowl, the
President and the First Lady yesterday appeared in a  PSA that aired
during the pre-game show, thanking healthcare workers and addressing the
importance of continuing to wear masks and getting vaccinations when
it’s your turn.  This is a good example of how you can expect the White
House, in the coming months, to reach out with critical public health
messaging as part of an education campaign, meeting Americans where they
are — on their couches, watching the Super Bowl, for yesterday — and
communicating about the important mitigation steps people can take.

As many of you also know, last night during the Super Bowl, President
Biden called service members to thank them for their courage,
dedication, and service to our nation.  He first called troops with
Resolute Support Mission in Kabul, and then the USS Nimitz.  He then
shared via ship broadcast a message to the nearly 5,000 sailors and
Marines who comprise the USS Nimitz crew. 

With that, let’s get your questions.  Go ahead, Alex.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I have two.  The first is on your favorite topic:
impeachment.  Does the President have plans to watch any of the trial
this week?  And does the White House prefer a speedy impeachment trial,
or would the President prefer a full airing of the violence of the
Capitol and Trump’s role in inciting it through things like live
witnesses?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, the President himself would tell you that we
keep him pretty busy, and he has a full schedule this week, which we
will continue to keep you abreast of and — as soon as we have more
details.  But we’ve already announced his plans to go visit the NIH, to
go visit the Department of Defense.  As I noted, he will be engaging
with business leaders, mayors, and governors — and of course continuing
to make the case and have conversations with Democrats and Republicans
directly about his hopes and plans for the American Rescue Plan moving
forward as quickly as possible.

So he — I think it’s clear from his schedule, and from his intention, he
will not spend too much time watching the proceedings of — any time over
the course of this week.  He will remain closely in touch with Speaker
Pelosi, Leader Schumer, a range of officials on the Hill about his
plan.  And that’s exactly what they want him to do, is to remain focused
on that. 

And he will leave the pace and the process and the mechanics of the
impeachment proceedings up to members of Congress.

Q    And President Biden said there’s no need for Trump to receive
intelligence briefings.  Has Trump requested any?  Has he received any? 
And is that the official decision?  Or who was that decision left up
to? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President said, when asked, that he — there was no
need for him to receive them.  And he referenced, of course, his erratic
behavior, which I think many Americans would agree with him on.  He was
expressing his concern about former President Trump receiving access to
sensitive intelligence. 

But he also has deep trust in his intelligence — own intelligence team
to make a determination about how to provide intelligence information
if, at any point, the former president requests a briefing.  So that’s
not currently applicable.  But if he should request a briefing, he
leaves it to them to make a determination. 

Go ahead. 

Oh sorry, I’ve been meaning to go to Reuters next, so we’ll go right to
you next.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you so much.  So, you mentioned that there will be
adjustments — or there could be adjustments —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — to the ARP.  One component of that is — that was really important
as far as campaign promise was the $15 minimum wage.  The President has
already signaled that that may not make it into the full package.  How
important is that measure still to the White House?  And how will you
get it done?

And then also, the other thing that came up this weekend is looking at
tweaking the level of who gets the stimulus checks.  And Janet Yellen
mentioned $60,000.  Can you explain who gets left out, right?  You know,
if you get the 60 — you know, who is between the $60,000 and the
$75,000?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, on the first question, the President is —
remains firmly committed to raising the minimum wage to $15.  That’s why
he put it in his first legislative proposal, and he doesn’t — he
believes that any American who is working a full-time job trying to make
ends meet should not be at the poverty level.  And it’s important to him
that the minimum wage is raised.

He was referring this weekend to, as you noted in your question, the
parliamentary process.  Obviously, it’s — the most likely path at this
point is through a reconciliation process.  There is a parliamentarian
who will make decisions about what can end up in a final package.  And
that was certainly what he was referencing in his comments.

In terms of what the options are, we’ll see what the parliamentarian
decides, and then we’ll see what additional options are.  But we’re
getting a little ahead of where we are at this point in the process. 
I’m sure we can continue to have a discussion about it in here.

And then say your second question one more time. 

Q    Sixty thousand.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, one of the pieces that the President has talked
about is his openness to engaging and having a discussion about what is
called, kind of, the — unofficially called, I guess — the “scale up,”
right?  So his proposal, as you know, had proposed $1,400 checks to make
the $2,000 whole.  He had proposed, kind of, a threshold.  There’s a
discussion right now about what that threshold will look like.  A
conclusion hasn’t been finalized; that will be worked through Congress.

But either way, his bottom line is that families making $275,000,
$300,000 a year may not be the most in need of checks at this point in
time.  But whatever the threshold is, there will be a scale up.  So his
view is that a nurse, a teacher, or a firefighter who’s making $60,000,
shouldn’t be left without any support or relief either.  It’s just a
question of, sort of, where the scale up looks like — what it looks like
in a final package.  But it’s still being negotiated at this point in
time.

Q    Jen, if I could just ask you on the $15 — you know, doesn’t it make
it much harder to get it through if you don’t attach it to this COVID
relief bill?  I mean, does that really — and then, the CBO is saying
that, in fact, if you did go through with it, that, you know, it would
lead to a 0.9 percent reduction in the number of jobs.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I heard about the CBO score as I was walking out here,
so I haven’t talked with our economic team about that specifically.  And
at this point in time, it’s still working its way through the process in
Congress, and the parliamentarian still has to make a determination
about what will be in the final package.

Oh, I promised I’d go to you first —

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  “Next,” I should say.  Thank you.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  I have a couple of questions on COVID, but I wanted to
start with Iran. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure. 

Q    President Biden said that the U.S. would not lift sanctions first
and that Iran would have to stop enriching uranium before negotiations
could resume.  But since then, the Supreme Leader has said that the U.S.
has to act first and roll back sanctions in order to reengage.  Is this
a non-negotiable point for President Biden?  And if so, how do you get
out of this stalemate?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, just to be very clear, the President never said that
exactly.  It was stated by the interviewer, who — Norah O’Donnell, who
did the interview — and he didn’t respond to the question.

So the President’s view — position is that if Iran comes back into full
—

Q    I believe he nodded when she asked that question.

MS. PSAKI:  I think if we were announcing a major policy change, we
would do it in a different way than a slight head nod.  But, overall,
his position has — it remains exactly what it has been, which is that if
Iran comes into full compliance with its obligations under the JCPOA,
the United States would do the same, and then use that as a platform to
build a larger and stronger agreement that also addresses other areas of
concern. 

And that would, of course, be done with our P5+1 partners as it was done
when we were putting together the JCPOA in the first place.

Q    So what’s the response to Iran’s argument that it was actually the
U.S. that violated the JCPOA by abandoning it, and therefore, it’s the
U.S.’s burden to reengage?

S. PSAKI:  Well, that — those were actions of the former administration,
as you know.  And President Biden, of course, was a part of an
administration that MS. PSAKI:  Well that — those were actions of the
former administration, as you know.  And President Biden, of course,
were advocating for the plan to be put together to begin with.

But I think his position, the position of our national security team,
and the position that he’s been in discussion with our partners about —
or I should say, conveying to our partners — is that it’s really up to
Iran to come back into full compliance and — with its obligations under
the JCPOA.  And at that point, we could move the discussion forward.

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    And on COVID: Can you talk about the concrete steps the
administration is doing to target and stop the spread of the variants we
keep hearing about?  Does that include surging vaccines to areas
impacted like South Florida or California with the B117 strain?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know, for those of you — and I know we had a lot of
briefings today — who had the opportunity to participate in the briefing
with some of our medical and health experts, they talked about the
importance of not only vaccination — getting the vaccine when you’re
eligible — that that is a protective step, obviously — and also abiding
by a number of the mitigation steps that our health experts have
recommended.  But beyond that, I don’t — I’m not going to go beyond the
advice of our health and medical experts at this point in time. 

Go ahead, Kaitlan.

Q    Two questions for you, one on the minimum wage.  You’re saying it’s
up to the parliamentarian to make a decision about whether that can be
included in here.  Of course, we know Senator Sanders said they’re still
waiting on that.  But technically, the Vice President could overrule the
parliamentarian on this.  And it hasn’t happened in a long time, but is
that an option the White House is considering?  Would Vice President —
or would President Biden want Vice President Harris to overrule the
parliamentarian to include this in this package?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not aware of that being allowed; I’d certainly
take you at your word.  I think our view is that the parliamentarian is
who is chosen typically to make a decision in a nonpartisan manner in
terms of what can be included in a package that goes through
reconciliation, is the proper process to — for this to journey through.

Q    So, when President Biden told CBS that he did not think it was
going to survive, what was — who had told him that he — it wasn’t going
to make it through likely?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President was in Congress for — in the Senate for
36 years.  Again, it still has not worked its way through the process,
and that can take a bit of time, and we certainly defer to the
parliamentarian and members of the House and — of the Senate, I should
say — to give you a better assessment of what the timeline looks like.

Q    Okay, I have another question on impeachment.  But just to be
clear, so —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — if the parliamentarian says no — no $15 minimum wage — that’s the
decision the White House is going with?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let’s wait and see what they say.  And the President
remains committed to raising the minimum wage.  It’s something he talked
about on the campaign trail, something he firmly believes in as a — as a
person and as a leader, but there hasn’t been a determination made at
this point in time.

Q    Okay.  And on impeachment, the President and the White House has
not said either way if he believes that former President Trump should be
convicted by the Senate in this trial.  But if he doesn’t believe that
he should get access to intelligence briefings, why can’t he say whether
or not he should be convicted by the Senate?

MS. PSAKI:  He’s no longer in the Senate.  He’s retired from the Senate
and he’s President of the United States, and his focus is on getting
relief to the American people.  That’s exactly what he’s conveyed
publicly, of course, and privately as well.  And he’ll leave it to his
former colleagues in the Senate or members of the Senate to determine
the path forward.

Q    But doesn’t he think that someone — if he believes his behavior is
too erratic to get access to intelligence, then doesn’t he believe that
he should be barred from holding office again?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he ran against him because he felt he was unfit for
office and he defeated him, and that’s why he’s no longer President —
Trump is no longer President of the United States.  So I think his views
of the former President are pretty clear.  But he’s going to leave it to
the Senate to see this impeachment proceedings forward — through. 

Go ahead.

Q    Just to follow up on that question, will the President commit to
giving his view once the — all the evidence is heard in the impeachment
trial?

And then, secondly, a question on Myanmar.  What is the U.S. doing to
perhaps accelerate some of the action we’re seeing over the weekend with
protests?  And secondly, how concerned is the U.S. about China, which
has not stepped in forcefully and is not calling it a “coup”?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  The — we have been — our national security team has
been in touch with a number of our partners and allies.  We’ve obviously
— we were outspoken quite quickly in the days following the coup.  And
we named it — designated it a coup very quickly. 

In terms of what actions we’re taking, there are considerations that are
underway or policy processes that are underway on our national security
team, as we speak.  I don’t have an update on that today, but when we
do, we will certainly make you all abreast of that.  And certainly, we
are concerned about China’s absence from the conversation and lack of a
vocal role here.

On the first question, the President was asked about this this morning,
and he made pretty clear he wasn’t planning to speak to it.  So I —
again, he’s no longer in the Senate.  And we put out a statement at the
conclusion of the House proceedings.  I — certainly, we’d consider doing
that at the conclusion of the Senate, but I don’t expect that he’s going
to be, you know, posturing or commenting on this through the course of
the week.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I do have a question on COVID.  But first, on
energy: When is it that the Biden administration is going to let the
thousands of fossil fuel industry workers, whether it’s pipeline workers
or construction workers who are either out of work or will soon be out
of work because of a Biden EO, when it is and where it is that they can
go for their green job?  And that is something the administration has
promised.  There is now a gap.  So I’m just curious when that happens,
when those people can count on that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’d certainly welcome you to present your data of all
the thousands and thousands of people who won’t be getting a green job. 
Maybe next time you’re here, you can present that.

Q    Well, no, but you said that they would be getting green jobs.  So
I’m just asking when that happens.  Richard Trumka, who is a friend —
longtime friend of —

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    — Joe Biden, says, about that day one Keystone EO — he says, “I
wish he…” — the President — “…had paired that more carefully with the
thing that he did second by saying, ‘Here’s where we are creating the
jobs.'”  So, there’s partial evidence from Richard Trumka. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you didn’t include all of his interview.

Q    Well, okay — how about — okay, so —

MS. PSAKI:  Would you like to include the rest? 

Q    So how about this: The Laborers’ International Union of North
America said the Keystone decision will “cost 1,000 existing union jobs
and 10,000 projected construction” jobs.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, what Mr. Trumka also indicated in the same interview
was that President Biden has proposed a climate plan with transformative
investments and infrastructure and laid out a plan that will not only
create millions of good union jobs, but also help tackle the climate
crisis. 

And as the President has indicated when he gave his primetime address to
talk about the American Rescue Plan, he talked about his plans to also
put forward a jobs plan in the — in the weeks or months following.  And
he has every plan to do exactly that.

Q    But there are people living paycheck to paycheck.  There are now
people out of job once the Keystone pipe — out of jobs once the Keystone
pipeline stopped construction.  It’s been 12 days since Gina McCarthy
and John Kerry were here, and it’s been 19 days since that EO.  So what
are these people who need money now — when do they get their green job?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President and many Democrats and Republicans in
Congress believe that investment in infrastructure — building
infrastructure that’s in our national interests, that boosts the U.S.
economy, creates good-paying union jobs here in America, and advances
our climate and clean energy goals — are something that we can certainly
work on doing together.  And he has every plan to share more about his
details of that plan in the weeks ahead.

Q    And then just a quick one on the stimulus.  There’s reporting that
House Democrats are going to come out with a $3,000-per-child stimulus
for some eligible families.  Is that something that the White House
supports making a permanent benefit?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President talked about this a bit on the campaign
trail, and the importance of child tax credits to help working families
ensure they can make ends meet.  This proposal is emergency funding, as
I understand it.  It’s a central priority of his first legislative
proposal to cut child poverty half — in half in the first — this year —
sorry.  And that’s why he included a Child Tax Credit in the American
Rescue Plan.  But that’s, again, emergency funding and something that
will help people get through this period of time.

Okay, go ahead. 

Q    This is a follow-up to Peter’s question.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    What’s this White House’s stance on a universal basic income — this
idea of the government giving out the regular checks on a routine basis
to Americans who might need it?

MS. PSAKI:  I know that’s been proposed by a number of people, including
some on the presidential campaign trail.  I don’t have anything more for
you on it.  I’m happy to check with our economic team if that’s
something that they’re looking at, at all.

Q    As a corollary to it, do you agree with the need that many on the
Hill, and not just Democrats, are expressing that there ought to be
these enormous — well, I won’t say “enormous” — but $3,000- or
$4,000-per-child checks for families right now?

MS. PSAKI:  I — as I tried to just indicate, I mean, the President
supports the proposal that Representative Neal and others have put
forward to ensure that there is money in the — in the package that helps
bring relief to families in the form of a Child Tax Credit.  That’s
something he certainly would support. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  And I have two questions.  One of the other things that
Secretary Yellen said yesterday is that the President is open to a
mandate on family leave and childcare.  Is there a timetable on that?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any more details or a timetable for you. 
Certainly, as a father himself, this is an issue that he has spoken
about in the past.  But I don’t have any more details at this point in
time. 

Q    And also, yesterday, did the President or did the White House have
any concern about what we all saw on TV from Tampa, about the thousands
of people out celebrating and without masks?  Any concern there?

     MS. PSAKI:  Certainly.  I mean, the President — I haven’t spoken
with him specifically about the events of this weekend, but, you know,
he did a PSA yesterday with Dr. Biden, making clear that social
distancing, that mask wearing, that getting the vaccine when you have
the opportunity to get the vaccine are vital steps to keeping more
Americans safe and saving more lives. 

And certainly, we know the Super Bowl looked not — like, different from
what it has in the past, and he also conveyed that he’s hopeful that
next year will be a moment where everybody can celebrate and party.  But
he is, of course, concerned when there are pictures and photos — we all
are — that show many, many people without masks, in close distance with
one another, at the height of a pandemic.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, I have two questions.  First, President Biden said in the CBS
interview that he hadn’t spoken to President Xi yet because he hadn’t
had an occasion to talk to him; there’s no reason not to call him.  But
has there been — is it actually part of the strategy to not call him yet
and to hold off on that in hopes of, kind of, sending a message to China
that, you know, President Biden is not going to, you know, try to work,
you know, really hard to curry favor?  Is there something happening
there?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, part of our strategy is to consult closely with our
partners and allies.  And you saw we did readouts of these calls over
the past week or so, that he spoke — the President spoke with the Prime
Minister of Japan, he spoke with the Prime Minister of South Korea, he
spoke with the Prime Minister of Australia.  And China was, of course,
an important topic of conversation during those conversations. 

He also discussed China with — in calls with his European allies thus
far.  So part of our strategy is certainly engaging with partners in the
region and allies, and doing those calls and engagements first, and also
having consultations with Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill. 

We’ve only — I know I can’t say this forever, but we’ve only been here
two and a half weeks.  He has not called every global leader yet.  He’s
not had engagements with all of them, and I’m sure he will do more of
that in the weeks ahead.

Q    But he has spoken to President Putin, who is somebody who is not
quite an ally.

MS. PSAKI:  Certainly not.  Yes.

Q    So — and that was more than a week ago at this point.  So —

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, but he had that conversation in part because there was
a timeline for New START and the deadline that was approaching with New
START.  And during that conversation, he made very clear that there are
significant concerns he has, the administration has, about the reported
actions of the Russian government.  But for the most part, his other
calls have been with partners and allies in the region, in Asia and
Europe as well, at this point in time.

Q    And then, on something else.  Ron Klain said on January 21st that
the administration was going to try to build what he described as a
“national clearinghouse” for information about the COVID vaccine.  Is
something like that being built in the administration?  And if so, how
long do you think that’s going to take?  I think people are really
struggling to find information about their state, their county, and, you
know, there’s just so — there’s so much difficulty in the vaccination
process.

MS. PSAKI:  You’re right, there’s a great deal of confusion.  And one of
the focuses we have had is trying to alleviate that confusion, and part
of that has been through working with governors and local elected
officials. 

One of their biggest requests has been to have more of a heads up on how
much vaccine supply there would be, of course, to increase vaccine
supply.  We’ve worked to do both, to give — ensure that there’s
(inaudible) planning time for vaccine allocation, increases in
allotments as supply allows, and of course, deploying government
resources to sites where they are needed.

We’re looking at a host of measures that could help us achieve our goal,
of course, of getting 100 million vaccines in the arms of Americans in
the first 100 days, and also ensuring that we’re reaching communities
where there are higher levels of vaccine hesitancy. 

But the President — and the President has directed his team to do — use
whatever tools and resources necessary to get the job done. 

So there are a range of options under consideration, but I don’t have
any updates for you on that particular proposal.  Certainly a lot of
people would love that, but we’re looking to prioritize how we can be
most impactful as quickly as possible in working with states and
governors to make those determinations.

Go ahead, Anne.

Q    Thank you.  Back on impeachment.  You mentioned that the President
will be in close contact with Senator Schumer.  Do you expect that to be
daily?  Have they — for example, have they spoken since he’s gotten back
from Delaware?  Do you — like, will that be a regular way that the
President is briefed on the progress of the impeachment trial?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t expect that would be a primary topic.  I actually
expect it would be more about the American Rescue Plan and progress
being made on that front. 

There are, of course, markups happening this week — more on the House
side.  And the President has remained in close touch with Speaker Pelosi
and Leader Schumer very regularly over the course of the last few weeks,
and I expect that would continue. 

Q    Do you expect that they will have any strategy discussions at all
as the trial is unfolding?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t expect that would be a primary point of discussion
of their conversations.

Q    And you said that he’s not — he’s busy and he’s not going to be
spending moment-by-moment attention to it this week, but will he get a
daily update, or perhaps more frequently than that, from White House
staff?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t expect that will be a primary focus for him this
week or of his senior staff either.

Q    I’ve got a foreign policy question following on —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — Weijia’s question about Iran.  When the President ruled out
dropping U.S. sanctions immediately, he didn’t then go on and talk about
some of the other strategies that are out there, including, for example,
that the United States might drop its objections to Iran receiving an
IMF loan — credit-related IMF loan.  There are a couple other ideas that
would allow Iran to get some economic benefit that would not be
sanctions and maybe grease the wheel for negotiations.  Does the
President have a view on that — on those strategies?  And were they part
of the discussion at the principals meeting on Friday? 

MS. PSAKI:  I am not going to rule — read out a principals meeting,
which was primarily focused on a range of issues in the Middle East.  Of
course, Iran was a topic of discussion, or was expected to be a topic of
discussion. 

I think during the interview, the President was asked about whether he
would roll back sanctions, and he conveyed, no, that it’s — the ball is
in Iran’s court.  It wasn’t a more extensive conversation than that
during the interview.  And that’s long been his position, so that really
is the next step in terms of engagement with Iran from here.

Q    So that is not ruling it out necessarily?  That there might be
other ways to, sort of, help Iran get back to the table that would be
short of dropping U.S. sanctions?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think his view is that the ball is in Iran’s
court to come back into full compliance with the JCPOA, and that that
would be the basis for the United States doing the same and then using
that as a platform to build a longer and stronger agreement.

But that is really the next step, in his view, in the process.

Q    I have one more very quickly on the Post Office, if I could. 
On-time First Class mail delivery dropped to 38 percent in December of
this year from 92 percent the year before.  Does the President have a
view on whether the Postmaster General should keep his job?  And if he
would like to see the Postmaster General removed, would he move to
change the makeup of the governing board that could make that happen?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as I understand it, there are a number of openings
right now on the governing board of the Post Office — or vacancies, I
should say — that would, of course, work their way through a personnel
process.

I don’t think I have anything more for it on this for you, but I can
follow up with our team and see what more we can report out. 

Go ahead.

Q    Back on the subject of the COVID checks.  Bernie Sanders said it
would be absurd to lower the threshold — the income threshold.  And some
other Democrats have raised the prospect that doing so could lead to a
political backlash, given voters in Georgia were explicitly promised
this aid by the President, and they didn’t really have any reason to
believe that fewer people would qualify for that aid under the
Democrats’ plan.  So I’m wondering if that’s something you guys are
concerned about and how you would address that criticism.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President proposed the $1,400 checks to make — to
— plus $600 is, of course, $2,000 — because he was — felt it was
important and vital to get that direct relief to as many Americans as
possible and target that relief to the Americans who need help the
most.  And that’s how his original plan and proposal was designed. 

He’s also said, and I’ve said many times from here, that the final plan
will look different from what the plan he proposed in his joint session
address.  It’s still working its way through Congress, and I don’t think
a conclusion has been made yet on the exact level of targeting.  And
when it does, we’re happy to have a conversation about that.

But part of this is, you know, an opportunity for members of both
parties and members who are across the political spectrum — of course,
even in the Democratic Party — to weigh in on what the path forward
should look like.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  A little bit of follow-up on a Iran and China
question.  What does President Biden consider the biggest threat to the
U.S. national security?

MS. PSAKI:  Overall in the world?

Q    Yes.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not sure I’m going to define that for you in this
moment.  There are a range of threats that he’s talked about in the
past, and I’m sure he’ll have more to say on his national security
approach and strategy in the weeks ahead.

Q    And then, one question.  Last week, a report made by NGOs and
universities was sent to the White House, recommending that United
States break negotiations on trade and others, with Brazil, over climate
and human rights violation.  And likewise, some Democrats on the Hill
already had expressed the same opposition to expand economic partnership
with Brazil.  Is the White House paying attention to those reports and
to what’s happening in Brazil?

MS. PSAKI:  We certainly are paying close attention to what is happening
in Brazil.  Obviously, we share a vibrant partnership that spans two
centuries of mutual interest and shared values.  And we, you know, have
even announced in recent days — you know, on February 5th — the United
States government, through USAID, announced it has delivered an
additional $1.5 million in emergency COVID response in Brazil. 

And, we, of course, remain, you know, closely engaged in these — in what
is a significant economic relationship.  We are, by far, the largest
investor in Brazil, including in many of Brazil’s most innovative and
growth-focused companies, and we’ll continue to strengthen our economic
ties and increase our large and growing trade relationship in the months
ahead.

Q    But, Jen, the policies of the Brazilian President and President
Biden, on many issues — climate, gay rights, other ones — are very
different.  How can they work together?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, just as is true in many of our relationships, we look
for opportunities to work together on issues where there is joint
national interest.  And obviously there’s a significant economic
relationship, and we will not hold back on areas where we disagree,
whether it’s climate or human rights, or otherwise.  And so that will be
the path forward with our relationship with Brazil as well.

Go ahead, Yamiche.

Q    Thanks so much.  A few questions.  The first is, what should
Americans take away from the fact that President Biden campaigned on
unity, talked about unity, got into office, about two weeks in has
decided — all but decided, it seems, to go with a process where
Democrats can pass a $1.9 trillion plan without the support of
Republicans? 

I know that there are Republicans across the country that the White
House is pointing to saying, “They support this bill.”  But there is
this — there is the fact that Democrats don’t have to have Republican
support in Congress for this bill, and the President is seemingly
supporting that process.  So I’m wondering what people should take away
from that.  And will that definition of bipartisanship be the one that
is going forward with this White House?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President ran on unifying the country, not on
creating one political party.  But I will note that 16 of the last 21
reconciliation bills that have gone through Congress have been
bipartisan.  And certainly there’s opportunity for Republicans to not
only offer amendments as it’s going through the House committee process,
and then will go through the Senate committee process following that,
but they will have the opportunity to, of course, vote for a package
that will — that the vast majority of the American people support.

So, you know, the President is — his first priority is getting relief to
the American people.  But the vast majority of the public — Democrats,
Republicans, independents — are with him in that effort.  There’s a long
history of bipartisan support for reconciliation bills, a parliamentary
process again. 

Again, I don’t think the American people are particularly worried about
how the direct relief gets to their — into their hands.  And, you know,
that — if that’s the process that it moves forward through, which seems
likely at this point, the President would certainly support that.

Q    I have a question also on impeachment.  I know the President, you
say, isn’t going to be watching it, but there are going to be millions
of Americans who will be watching it.  I wonder what the President’s
message is to Americans, especially the ones that are still mourning the
loss of people who died in the Capitol, who are still wondering whether
or not the President — former President Trump will be possibly acquitted
in this trial. 

Even if he — even if Biden doesn’t look — President Biden doesn’t want
to say whether or not President Trump should be convicted, I just wonder
if the White House has any message to Americans who are gearing up for
what could be a tumultuous and dramatic two weeks.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President’s focus is on delivering what those
millions and millions and millions of Americans care deeply about, which
is getting the pandemic under control, putting 10 million Amer- — you
know, putting millions of Americans back to work, getting vaccines in
the arms of Americans, reopening schools.  And he has been clear that he
views the events of January 6th as a horrific attack on our democracy. 

He put out a statement — we put out a statement from him, I should say,
when the House voted.  But he’s going to leave it to the Senate to
determine the path forward here.  That doesn’t change.  You know, and
his view is that he was elected to deliver on the promises he made on
the campaign trail.  So that’s what he’s going to keep his focus on in
the weeks ahead.

Go ahead.

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead, Yamiche. 

Q    Saying that the GOP can offer amendments, that doesn’t mean that
they have to listen to them or accept them.  So I wonder, then, if
Republicans have to just accept what the Democrats have approved.  I
just wonder if you could talk a bit more about this definition of
“bipartisanship,” because there is this — I know you’re saying that
Democrats are giving Republicans the opportunity, but there’s still this
— this idea that Democrats are in — two weeks in, are going it alone.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, 16 of 21 reconciliation bills in the past have
received bipartisan support.  And the ideas in this package, the
proposals in this package, have broad support from Democrats,
Republicans, and independents across the country.  So I would pose the
question back to Republicans: Why aren’t you supporting what the vast
majority of the public supports? 

I’ll leave it at that.  Go ahead.

Q    And can I ask you about military and sexual assault?

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, sure.  Go ahead.

Q    It’s completely different, but —

MS. PSAKI:  It’s okay.  We can switch topics.  That’s fine.  Go ahead.

Q    A completely different topic, which is, Defense Secretary Lloyd
Austin wrote his first memo on January 23rd that the President had
ordered a 90-day commission to pursue solutions to sexual assault in the
military.  I’m wondering if you could talk a little bit about if that’s
a White House commission, a Defense commission; who picks the
commissioners — anything more you can say about that commission that’s
supposed to be looking at sexual assault in the military.

MS. PSAKI:  I believe it’s a commission at the Department of Defense. 
It’s certainly an initiative the President of the United States
supports, but I would send you to the Department of Defense for more
specifics about the timeline and membership.

Go ahead.

Q    With some of the crises that the nation has faced in recent months
— you’ve got COVID, more than 400,000 Americans dead; January 6th, the
attack on American democracy — there have been calls for a 9/11-style
commission to write the official histories of those events.  Is that
something the President would support?

MS. PSAKI:  Of the COVID commission?

Q    Or 9/11.  I’m sorry, or January 6th, rather.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you know, a determination of that kind would be made
by Congress, as you all know.  And his focus, at this point in time, is
on addressing the crisis in this moment — right? — which is ensuring
that more Americans get shots in their arms, that we are getting the
pandemic under control. 

There has been a report by HHS looking at the prior administration’s
handling of the COVID crisis, and we’ve also not held back in areas
where we felt that it was handled in a way that impacted the lives of
millions. 

So — but at this point in time, our focus is really on getting the
pandemic under control, and we’ll leave that decision up to Congress.

Go ahead.

Q    Two quick ones.  One, news of the day: Has President Biden reached
out to anybody from the Tampa Bay Buccaneers?  And if not, is that
something that’s going to happen today?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s very exciting, the outcome of the Super Bowl, I guess,
if you’re a fan of the Buccaneers.  But we will be inviting — I don’t
have an update for if it’s happened yet, but I do have an update though
that we look forward to inviting the Buccaneers, as well as the 2020 NBA
champions, the Lakers, to the White House, when it is COVID safe.  But I
don’t know when that will take place yet.

Q    Thank you.  And on immigration, there’s some new reporting that ICE
is going to get some new guidance to no longer focus on deporting
illegal immigrants who have been convicted of DUIs, simple assault,
solicitation, drug-based crimes, among other things.  And I’m curious
how that is in the interest of public safety.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, it’s guidelines that would be put out by the
Department of Homeland Security, and I’d certainly send you to them. 
They have a confirmed Secretary now. 

But the priority for the enforcement of immigration laws will be on
those who are posing a national security threat; of course, a public
safety threat; and on recent arrivals.  Nobody is saying that DUIs or
assault are acceptable behavior.  And those arrested for such activities
should be tried and sentenced as appropriate by local law enforcement. 
But we’re talking about the prioritization of who is going to be
deported from the country.

Q    And more broadly, would this be what Biden was talking about in the
debate, where he said, in the Obama administration, they didn’t do
enough to reform the immigration system, because he was just Vice
President, but that if he was President, things would change?  Is this
the kind of change that he was talking about?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the kind of change he was talking about was
putting forward an immigration bill, at a time where modernization of
immigration is long overdue, that addresses not only a pathway to
citizenship, but puts in place smart security measures and addresses the
root causes of these issues in the countries in Central America. 

So I think that’s primarily what he was referring to, but also
prioritization, which, again, would be up to the Department of Homeland
Security.  To ensure our focus is on the individuals who pose the
greatest national security threat is also something he’s long supported.

Go ahead, Kaitlan.

Q    Sorry.  You seem to be saying this, but I just want it to be clear.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    President — former President Trump has not requested any
intelligencer briefings, right?

MS. PSAKI:  Not — not that I’m aware of, but I would point you to the
intelligence community and the ODNI for more specifics.

Q    And a follow-up on that.  Why — is there a reason Morgan Muir is no
longer leading President Biden’s daily intelligence briefings?

MS. PSAKI:  I believe he is overseeing the process of preparing
materials —

Q    Yeah, he’s still in the role, but —

MS. PSAKI:  — but I don’t have any more details.  I’d point you to ODNI
on that as well.

Q    Okay.  So there’s no reason you know of that he’s not leading the
in-person briefings?  He’s assembling the daily briefings —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — not leading them in person, like he was.

MS. PSAKI:  Which is a very important role to play, and very — very
labor intensive.  But I would point you to them for more specifics on
the briefings and who will be providing the briefings.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I have two questions.  One is a quick follow on
impeachment.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Aside from the particulars of this case, does President Biden think
it’s constitutional to impeach and convict a former President who is no
longer in office?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m just not going to have any more for you on weighing in
on impeachment.  I appreciate the — it’s a big story, but our focus is
on the American Rescue Plan and delivering for the American people.

Q    Got it.  I do have a COVID —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — COVID-crisis-related question because —

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    — the attacks in the Asian American community continue to rise, and
over the weekend, there some videos that went viral because elderly
Asian Americans were really attacked and in a way that is difficult to
watch.  And I wonder, other than the presidential memorandum, is
President Biden going to take any further actions to address this
problem or — and has he seen the videos?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not aware that he’s seen the videos, but he is concerned
about the discrimination against, the actions against the Asian American
community, which is why he signed the executive order and why he has
been outspoken and making clear that, you know, attacks — verbal
attacks, any attacks of any form are unacceptable, and we need to work
together to address them. 

But obviously, the executive order is something he did very early in his
administration — it’s still early, but even earlier — because he felt it
was so important to put a marker down.

Q    Is there anything more that can be done, like offer DOJ or FBI
assistance to local law enforcement authorities?  I mean, what —

MS. PSAKI:  I’d certainly defer to — you know, we would support, of
course, additional action on a local level or a federal level, but I
would send you to DOJ or FBI for any further specifics on that.

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, everyone.  See you tomorrow.

12:50 P.M. EST
