---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-02-16'
modified_time: 2021-02-16 16:57:19-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/02/16/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-february-16-2021/
published_time: 2021-02-16 16:57:18-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, February 16,\_2021"
---
 
12:17 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Happy Tuesday.  All right.  I have a couple of items for all
of you at the top.  A lot of you have asked — maybe not in this room,
but in general: What’s next?  What are we focused on next?  And the
answer is the President is going to continue working on getting the
American Rescue Plan passed.  That is his top priority.  He is traveling
to Wisconsin later this evening, as you know, to have a conversation,
engage with the American people about his plans to get the pandemic
under control, to put people back to work.  And Congress is continuing
to do their job.  Over the course of the coming weeks, we’re looking
forward to making progress. 

There was also news out this morning about a foreclosure moratorium
extension.  Some of you may have seen.  The COVID crisis has triggered a
housing affordability crisis, with more than 10 million homeowners
behind on mortgage payments and communities of color at even greater
risk of eviction and foreclosure. 

Today, the administration is taking another step to bring urgent action
— relief to the American fam- — American families struggling to keep a
roof over their heads.  So, something the President talked about on day
one, we talked about on day one.  But today, the Departments of Housing
and Urban Development, Veterans Affairs, and Agriculture announced they
will extend and expand the foreclosure relief programs, building on the
steps President Biden spoke about a couple of weeks ago.

These critical protections were due to expire in March.  But as part of
today’s announcement, the foreclosure moratorium and the mortgage
forbearance enrollment window will be extended through June 30th.  The
administration will also provide up to six months of additional mortgage
payments to — forbearance for borrowers who entered forbearance on or
before June 30th, 2020.

These actions will bring needed relief to most of the 2.7 million
homeowners currently in forbearance and extend forbearance options for
nearly 11 million homeowners with government-backed mortgages across the
country.  It’s critical — it remains critical that Congress pass the
American Rescue Plan to deliver more aid to struggling homeowners. 

As we speak, or maybe a little earlier, depending on when the call
wrapped, Jeff Zients had a regular call with a number of governors — our
COVID Response Coordinator, of course — providing them with key updates
on our pandemic response, as well as hearing from them about the work
they’re doing on the ground. 

As a part of that call, he announced that we’re increasing the vaccine
supply to 13.5 million doses per week that will go out to states.  This
is a 57 percent increase from the amount states received when the
President was inaugurated.  So since then, obviously, we have announced
a couple of increases over the course of time. 

We’re also announcing that we’re doubling the supply to our pharmacy
program.  When we announced that, we said it would be — it would be
building over time.  So this — today’s announcement amounts to 2 million
doses going to local pharmacies this week, and this program will expand
access in neighborhoods across the country so that people can call and
make an appointment and get their shot conveniently and quickly. 

Eventually, as supply increases, more than 40,000 pharmacy locations
nationwide will be providing COVID-19 vaccines through this program. 
This is a critical, critical part of our plan. 

Last — or, sorry, second to last item.  Last but certainly — or second
to last, but certainly not least, we opened Healthcare.gov as planned
and as we had announced for special enrollment period until May 15th to
provide all Americans the opportunity to sign up for health insurance. 
They can go to Healthcare.gov.  Nearly 9 million Americans are eligible
for free or subsidized health insurance. 

Finally, as you know, a brutal Arctic mass impacted the central United
States this weekend, bringing freezing rain, sleet, and snow from Texas
to the Mid-Atlantic.  On Saturday night, Texas Governor Greg Abbott
requested a federal emergency declaration due to the severe weather
storm.  Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall called
Governor Abbott on Sunday to let him know that the President had
immediately granted his request to help meet the state’s mass care and
shelter needs. 

Yesterday, Liz additionally called the other governors in the storm’s
path on behalf of the President, including Governor Ivey of Alabama,
Governor John Bel Edwards of Louisiana, Governor Laura Kelly of Kansas,
Governor Reeves of Mississippi, and Governor Kevin Stitt of Oklahoma. 
She expressed the President’s strong commitment to ensuring that the
federal government proactively does everything it can to support state
and local officials in preparing for and responding to the events that
impact our citizens.  We will, of course, continue to monitor the
storm’s updates in the days ahead. 

With that, Zeke, go ahead. 

Q    First, Jen, the President’s schedule didn’t have a whole lot of
official events before he leaves this afternoon.  Can you give us a
sense of what he’s been doing today? 

And then, does he plan to reach out to those specific governors from
those affected states — Governor Abbott and others — who have been
affected by the storm?

MS. PSAKI:  I expect — so let me take the second, first.  The President
has been kept abreast, as I noted, of the events and been provided
updates — regular updates on the storm and the progress and, of course,
the emergency declaration.  I don’t have any calls to read out, but I
expect he will be involved personally.  And if we have calls that he’s
making himself, we will provide that information to all of you. 

In terms of what he’s spending his day doing, he’s continuing to have
meetings with his policy teams and experts about his plans to bring
relief to the American people and public.  And, you know, he’s remained
— he’s remained focused on that today behind the scenes before he
travels to Wisconsin for a town hall later this evening. 

Q    And then, just on this vaccine announcement: Is there any
discussion of this winter weather affecting the vaccine distribution? 
And what steps is the federal government taking to ensure that there’s
no spoilage of those vaccines, which have to be kept in those very cold
temperatures during shipping, and (inaudible) delays?

MS. PSAKI:  You’re right that we monitor, obviously, weather.  Mother
Nature and the weather can sometimes impact and requires contingency
planning, which is something our team is quite focused on.  Our COVID-19
response team is also in close touch with state and local governments
across the country.  We’re monitoring the situation in Texas very
closely.  Obviously, FEMA is running point on a number of the
operational pieces.  But while I don’t have an update now, it’s
something we’re very mindful of, and we contingency-plan to ensure
people are getting the doses they need at an appropriate timeline.

Q    And just one quick one on a different topic.  Congressman Bennie
Thompson filed a civil suit against former President Trump — part of
what we expect to be sort of a slew of civil suits against the former
President and others involved in the January 6th insurrection.  Does
President Biden have any response to that?  And does he support efforts
like that to use the civil courts to hold President Trump accountable?

MS. PSAKI:  You know, he certainly supports the rights of individuals —
members of Congress and otherwise — to take steps through the judicial
process, but I don’t think we have a further comment on it than that. 

Go ahead.  Oh sorry, Trevor, let me go to you.  I promised.  Go ahead. 

I’ll come to you next, Mary.

Q    So, just on — two on foreign policy for you.  First, there was a
rocket attack in Iraq yesterday, and Iraqi officials have said that the
group that took responsibility for that attack has ties to Iran.  My
question is: One, whether you’ve made that determination as well.  And,
two, what kind of retaliation would be considered (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Appreciate the question.  We’re still working through
attribution with our Iraqi partners to determine precise attribution for
this attack.  Obviously, that’s a priority. 

I will convey that we are outraged by last night’s rocket attack in the
Iraqi Kurdistan Region.  Initial reports indicate that the attacks
killed one civilian contractor and injured several members of the
coalition, including one American service member and several American
contractors.  And we offer our condolences to the loved ones of the
civilian contractor killed.  The Iraqi people have certainly suffered
for far too long from this kind of violence and violation of their
sovereignty.

I will also note — and I think the State Department provided this
update, but just for all of you — Secretary Blinken has reached out to
the Kurdistan Regional Government Prime Minister Barzani.  And Secretary
Austin is speaking with his counterpart to offer assistance with the
investigation and to help hold accountable those responsible for this
attack.  But we have not determined attribution at this point. 

Q    And do you expect that there would be retaliation if — once that
declaration is made?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as always, the President of the United States and the
administration reserves the right to respond in the time and the manner
of our choosing, but we’ll wait for the attribution to be concluded
first before we take any additional steps or obviously have any
additional announcements. 

I will convey to you that obviously diplomacy is a priority with this
administration and something that is front and center to our engagement
with our global partners around the world.  And certainly, these calls
are evidence of that, but that will always be a part of our strategy as
well. 

Q    And to the point of diplomacy, one thing that Germany has asked for
is some relief, as far as the Nord Stream 2 pipeline.  And I’m just
curious if you have an update on that, whether Biden will consider
waiving the ability to do sanctions on (inaudible).

MS. PSAKI:  Well, our position on Nord Stream 2 has been very clear, and
it remains unchanged.  President Biden has made clear that Nord Stream 2
is a bad deal.  It’s a bad deal because it divides Europe, it exposes
Ukraine and Central Europe to Russia — Russian manipulation, and because
it goes against Europe’s own stated energy and security goals. 

We’re continuing to monitor activity to complete or to certify the
pipeline.  And if such activity takes place, we’ll make a determination
of the applicability of sanctions.  Importantly, sanctions are only one
among many important tools to ensure energy security.  And we’ll — of
course, we’ll do this all in partnership with our allies and partners,
but our position has not changed on the — on the deal. 

Go ahead. 

Q    The President is changing gears this week, obviously, looking
beyond the Hill to get out and sell this plan to the American people. 
Is this a sign that he recognizes that he’s not likely to get
Republicans in Washington on board?

MS. PSAKI:  He certainly wouldn’t agree with that.  I would say that the
President’s view of the package — well, one — I would say first — the
President has not “shifting gears,” he has been focused every single day
— even as others have not, which is understandable — on engaging with
partners, stakeholders, people who agree with him, people who don’t
agree with him on getting this package through. 

This is an opportunity, as you noted, to go out and have a conversation
with the people of Wisconsin — people who agree with him, people who
disagree with them.  But if you look at the polls, they are very
consistent.  The vast majority of the American people like what they see
in this package.  And that should be an indication, or should be noted
by member of Congress — members of Congress as they consider whether
they’re going to vote for it or not. 

Q    So is he hoping then that these visits will help build pressure on
members of Congress?

MS. PSAKI:  No, his objective is really to make sure he is engaging
directly with the people who are impacted by the pandemic, who are
impacted by the economic downturn, who are worried about whether they’re
going to get a shot, who are — don’t know where — where to get
information, who are worried about whether they’re going to be able to
put food on the table.   That’s the focus of this trip. 

Obviously, Republicans in Congress will have to make their own choice
about whether they support the final package.  It’s still working its
way through Congress.  But the vast majority of the public supports it,
including the vast majority of most members’ constituents.  So it’s
really a question for them. 

Q    And on another topic, would the President sign legislation to
create a commission to investigate the January 6th attack?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I saw an announcement — I believe it was yesterday, if
I’m remembering correctly — by Speaker Pelosi — or some comments, I
should say.  It’s, of course, Congress’s decision to form this
commission, as we’ve talked about a bit in here, but it’s certainly one
the President would support.

And President Biden has made clear his views on the tragic events of
January 6th, including where responsibility for them lies.  He backs
efforts to shed additional light on the facts to ensure something like
that never happens again. 

In addition to the recently announced desire to put together a
commission or form a commission, we’ll continue to work with Congress to
identify measures that the federal government can take going forward to
prevent violence we saw on January 6th.  And as you know, probably,
Mary, there’s a number of hearings that are upcoming in the coming
weeks, and we’ll be cooperative with those, of course.

Q    What would he hope to learn through a commission?  Because
obviously, we saw a very thorough airing of the events last week. 

MS. PSAKI:  Again, I don’t think the tenets of the commission have been
formed.  That’s up to Congress to do.  We have a role to play in the
federal government, of course, with ongoing investigations out of the
Department of Justice, but he supports efforts to move forward with it —
the desire to have one, certainly, understanding and knowing how much
the events on the 6th impacted members sitting on the Hill. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, thank you.  The President and yourself have frequently cited
what you describe as the “failures” or the “shortcomings” of the Trump
administration, as it relates to their response to COVID.  We’re now
nearly a month into this administration.  Does the Biden administration
now own the coronavirus response?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly, the President of the United States owns the
response to the COVID pandemic.  That’s why he has focused on it every
single day.  However, it’s important for the American people to know
what we inherited when the President came into office.  And what he
inherited was not enough supply, not enough vaccinators, not enough
places for vaccinations to happen.  Communities had been left to fend
for themselves.  And so, that’s what he’s been focused on and working
on. 

But certainly, if he were standing here, he would say that’s why it’s
the issue he wakes up every morning and is focused on, because
addressing it is what’s on the minds of the American people.  And he’s
the President; it’s his responsibility to focus on it.

Q    Let me ask, if I can — I want to bounce around a little bit back to
the impeachment trial that just wrapped up.  You guys posted a statement
late on Saturday where he said the final vote, though it “did not lead
to a conviction, the substance of the charge,” the President said, “is
not in dispute.  Even those opposed to the conviction” — he cited Mitch
McConnell — “believe \[that\] Donald Trump was guilty of a ‘disgraceful
dereliction of duty’ and ‘practically and morally responsible for
provoking’ the violence unleashed on the Capitol.” 

So, if he wasn’t convicted through an impeachment trial via Congress,
via the Senate, how should a President who commits acts that President
Biden says are not in dispute be punished?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, obviously, there was a process that worked
its way through the Senate.  That’s why we put out a statement on
Saturday evening.

Q    Does he support criminal prosecution?

MS. PSAKI:  That — that will be up to the Department of Justice to
determine.  We’re doing something new here, and there’s going to be an
independent Justice Department to determine what any path forward in any
investigation would look like.

Q    Absent this President’s actions though, do you think — does
something like this — does it seem — I mean, Mitch McConnell left that
door open to criminal prosecution.  Would actions like this — do they
meet the bar for criminal prosecution?

MS. PSAKI:  I am not going to speculate on criminal prosecution from the
White House podium.  We — the President is committed to having an
independent Justice Department that will make their own decisions about
the path forward.

Q    Let me ask you a last question, if I can.  It’s housekeeping around
here.  TJ Ducklo, as we know, is no longer working for this White
House.  He was suspended for a week after comments that he made to a
female journalist.  The President, as you know, on Inauguration Day
said, “If you’re ever working with me and I hear you treat another…with
disrespect, talk down to someone, I promise you I will fire you on the
spot…No ifs, ands, or buts.”  He didn’t fire TJ on the spot.  He has
since resigned.  Has the President’s position on talking down or
disrespecting others changed?

MS. PSAKI:  I think the President leads by example, and I try to do the
same.  And on Saturday, when we announced that TJ Ducklo had resigned
his position — something we all agreed was the right path forward — I
made clear that every day we’re going to try to meet the standard set
out by the President in treating others with dignity and respect, with
civility, and with a value for others through our words and our
actions.  He’s no longer employed here, and I think that speaks for
itself. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, thank you.  As you prepare to put out an immigration plan as
soon as the end of this week, can you give us a little more information
on the timing?  And also, when it comes to the DREAMers, can you give us
any specifics on whether a potential pathway to citizenship will be part
of the plan for that particular group?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there certainly is — part of the proposal that the
President outlined and proposed on day one is an earned path to
citizenship — right? — for 11 million immigrants who are undocumented
immigrants, who are living in the country. 

He’s also somebody who believes in the rights of the DACA recipients to
be in the country.  He was here during the, of course, Obama-Biden
administration, of which he played a prominent role — an important role
— and supported that program.

We’ve outlined the tenets of what we think the proposal should look
like, which includes that, but also includes funding to address the root
causes, includes investment in smart security.  But Congress will have
to work through what it looks like moving forward and what components
will be included in here or what components could be dealt with
separately.

Q    And how important will it be to this administration that this be
one overarching, large, comprehensive package versus pieces of an
immigration plan that are broken up and passed separately?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I understand and I’ve read — I know there’s different
points of view and different views from prominent and important
advocates on this particular issue.  But we’re going to let the bill be
presented formally at some point soon; I’m not going to get ahead of
that process. 

And certainly the President feels that all of these requirements that
are in the bill — these components of the bill — are what makes it
comprehensive.  They all need to be addressed; that’s why he proposed
them together. 

Q    And does the President plan to rescind these Trump-era restrictions
on immigration and work visas that have dramatically limited
immigration?  They’re set to expire at the end of March.  Will he let
those expire naturally or will he rescind them before that?

MS. PSAKI:  Let me talk to our Department of Homeland Security.  It’s
likely a conversation that would happen in coordination with them. 
Obviously, the President — his view is that the approach of the prior
administration was immoral but also ineffective in terms of addressing
the challenge — the many challenges of an outdated immigration system. 
But I don’t have an update on those particular requirements.

Q    And then just one question on Afghanistan.  Has the administration
decided whether to further troop withdrawals below 4,500?  And if the
decision hasn’t been made yet, when do you expect one?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update on that front or a timeline of when
any additional decisions will be made.

Q    Do you feel that the previous administration withdrawing troops so
quickly tied this administration’s hands?

MS. PSAKI:  You know, I think the President is somebody who is not new
to the global stage, and certainly not new to the difficult decisions
that me- — need to be made around issues related to Afghanistan, issues
related to the men and women who are serving, and our own national
security.  So he’s making decisions through that prism, but I just don’t
have an update on what any timeline will look like. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  First, on the vaccine: You were talking earlier about
how the President wants to address the concerns of everyday Americans
with vaccine and the pandemic.  One way the White House Chief of Staff
proposed doing that last month was creating a national clearinghouse for
vaccine information that would either be available online or through a
hotline. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Can you update us on the — on the progress of that?  Is that close
to being rolled out? 

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update for you, other than to convey that
our team is always considering a range of options to make information
more accessible, ensure more people — more of the American public know
how they can get a vaccine, when they can get a vaccine, where they can
go to get a vaccine.  That’s part of the reason the President is, of
course, traveling to Wisconsin.  But I don’t have any update for you on
a clearinghouse or a website.

Q    So it sounds like that’s only still under consideration.  Is that
something that’s really not in the works at the moment?

MS. PSAKI:  There are a range of options under consideration, and their
focus is on taking the steps that are the most effective and efficient,
and prioritizing those in the order through which they would help the
American people.

Q    Now, on the situation in Texas, beyond disaster relief, is the
administration considering any actions to address not only Texas’s power
grid, but the power grid in the central United States that seemed to
really struggle with the winter weather, in addition to some other
issues?  I know Texas is not really part of the national power grid.  Is
the administration looking at that situation and considering any kind of
actions in the short term to address it?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think our focus right now is ensuring that the
millions of people across Texas who were impacted by the storm get the
relief they need.  Obviously, that’s why the President and his homeland
security advisor took very quick action over the weekend. 

Clearly, as there are investments in the future in energy se- — in
energy — forms of energy, I should say, across the country, they’ll need
to plan for inclement weather.  But I think that’s a discussion and
conversation that’s a little bit down the road.

Q    Well, due to the fact that the Texas grid is not part of the
national system, was that alarming to anyone in the administration?  I
mean, would you prefer that there be a national grid that’s all
integrated?

MS. PSAKI:  I would send you to the Department of Energy and others to
answer that question.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Back on tonight’s trip: Is there any particular
reason Wisconsin was chosen as the site of tonight’s town hall?

MS. PSAKI:  You don’t like Wisconsin?  (Laughs.)

Q    No, I’m just wondering —

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a little cold.  I looked it up this morning.  But —

Q    I’ve been there; it’s lovely.  But is there any particular reason
why?  Is it Ron Johnson, in terms of pressure on him, or engage
Democrats in a state the President just won?  Why Wisconsin?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Wisconsin is a state where clearly there are
Democrats, Republicans, independents, as we saw from the final outcome
of the vote in November — people who have different points of view on a
range of issues.  And it was a state that — where people have been
impacted by the pandemic; they’ve been impacted by the economic
downturn. 

And the President felt that he could have a good conversation with
people about the path forward and also even people who disagree with
him.  So it was not more complicated than that.

Q    Let me ask you about the President’s ambitions in terms of getting
Congress to pass gun control measures.  In a statement you issued over
the weekend, the President said the time for action is now.  You’re
asking Congress to do a lot of things now.  What is your timetable for
action on what the President calls “commonsense” measures?  And what’s
the realistic hope that you have that they’ll pass both houses?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we haven’t proposed a package at this point, so it’s
hard for me to make a prediction about its likelihood of passing.  But I
will say that the President is somebody, throughout his career, who has
advocated for smart gun — smart gun safety measures.  He has — not
afraid of standing up to the NRA — he’s done it multiple times and won —
on background checks and a range of issues.  And it is a priority to him
on a personal level. 

But I don’t have a prediction for you or a preview for you on a timeline
of a package, and certainly not what it will look like and how it would
go through Congress.

Q    One more question for you.  The colleague who sat in this chair
last week asked you a question about whether you — this administration
sees Saudi Arabia or Israel as allies of the United States.  Your answer
was interpreted by some as something other than “yes.”  So I want to
give you an opportunity to answer that question more directly now. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first let me say, on Israel, I know there’s been some
questions about when the President will speak with Prime Minister
Netanyahu, which was, I think, the root of that question or how the
question started.

So let me first confirm for you that his first call with a leader in the
region will be with Prime Minister Netanyahu.  It will be soon.  I don’t
have an exact day for you, but it is soon.  Stay tuned.

Israel is, of course, an ally.  Israel is a country where we have an
important strategic security relationship.  And our team is fully
engaged — not at the head-of-state, yet, level quite yet, but very
soon.  But our team is fully engaged, having constant conversations at
many levels with the Israelis.

And on Saudi Arabia, I would say: You know, we’ve made clear from the
beginning that we’re going to recalibrate our relationship with Saudi
Arabia and that — you know, President Biden — one of the questions there
was also — just to go back to the context of it — whether he would be
speaking with MBS.  And part of that is going back to engagement,
counterpart to counterpart.  The President’s counterpart is King Salman,
and I expect that, in appropriate time, he would have a conversation
with him.  I don’t have a prediction of the timeline on that. 

But I’ll also say that, you know, we have — Saudi Arabia is in a
position where they’re defending themselves from threats from the
region.  You know, they are — they have critical self-defense needs, and
we will continue to work with them on those, even as we make clear areas
where we have disagreements and where we have concerns.  And that’s
certainly a shift from the approach of the prior administration.

Okay, go ahead.

Q    I’m just following up on his question.  Does the President still
plan to take executive action on gun violence?

MS. PSAKI:  The President has a range of actions at his disposal.  I
think you were asking, Steve, about a legislative package, which I
know.  But he hasn’t ruled out either of those options, of course, but I
don’t have anything to announce for you in terms of what the next steps
would look like.

Q    If I can just follow up on Texas.  Is there anything else the White
House can do to administer immediate relief to the residents of Texas
right now?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we are — our team — our national security
team, in part led by Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall, who is our Homeland
Security Advisor — a position, I would note, that did not exist in the
prior administration — is in close contacts — in close contact, I should
say, monitoring developments of the storm.  The President is kept
abreast of that as well, and we are engaged with them and what their
needs are and what steps can be taken. 

Of course, declaring a federal disaster declaration ensures that you
have access to, you know, national resources, and I think that was a
step that was welcomed by the governor.

Go ahead.

Q    I have a quick circle-back question.  You said a few weeks ago that
the White House would check to see if it was technically possible to
release the visitor logs from the Trump administration.  Is there any
answer on that?

MS. PSAKI:  I actually did answer that question, so —

Q    You did already?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes. 

Q    What was the answer?

MS. PSAKI:  The answer was: It exists in the National Archives, so they
would have access, and you’d have to go to them for access to archives
of their visitor logs from their period of time when the — President
Trump was there.

Q    Okay.  And then, just — you said a gun package, TBD on timing; it’s
not in the works yet.  In terms of what’s next after the relief package,
is the plan to still do a big Build Back Better bill next or a more
narrow infrastructure bill next?  Do we know what’s coming next?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re focused right now on getting the American Rescue Plan
passed.  But the President is committed to engaging with a range of
stakeholders.  Of course, he had the meeting last week with senators
about infrastructure.  It’s one of the areas where there’s opportunity
to work together. 

I think most people wouldn’t argue that our roads, our bridges, our
streets need to be rebuilt, but there are a lot of different needs and
policy objectives the President has.  So we haven’t yet determined what
the next priority forward would be, but he is engaging with his policy
team, as Zeke asked earlier — what he did today, what he did over the
weekend — and a lot of that is having those discussions internally and
with stakeholders about what it looks — what’s next.

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, thanks, Jen.  A couple of quick questions.  Both Senators Joe
Manchin and Kyrsten Sinema have both expressed some opposition to
increasing the minimum wage as it’s laid out currently in the proposal,
in the Senate.  And I wondered: Is President Biden open to, I guess,
lengthening the period of time over which the minimum wage could be
increased?  So, for example, you know, getting it to $15 by 2030.  Is he
open to potentially extending the timeline there to get more people on
board?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ll let the process play out through the Senate —
through the House first, then through the Senate, as they’re negotiating
what the final components will look like in a package. 

The President put an increase in the minimum wage in the initial package
because he thinks it’s important for American men and women, who are —
have a full-time job, working hard, to have a decent wage, and he thinks
it’s long past time to raise the minimum wage.  But we’ll let the
process see itself through, and I’m not going to negotiate what he’d be
open to and not from the podium.

Q    And just a couple other quick ones.  One, I just wanted to clarify
something.  Prime Minister Trudeau’s office, after their call — his call
with President Biden in January — he said that they had agreed to meet
in February.  And I just want to see if you could clarify: Do they plan
to meet in person, or was that just — you know, the phrasing was off and
they, kind of, (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  You can meet over video, as we all know.  I don’t have any
timeline of a meeting to convey or to confirm for you, though I would
anticipate for all of you that it will be a couple of months before the
President has an in-person or an — has an — invites a foreign leader to
meet in person here at the White House.

Q    And the last thing: Spring training for baseball starts this month,
and I wondered —

MS. PSAKI:  So my husband tells me.

Q    — has the White House or the Biden administration been in touch
with Major League Baseball to, you know, give recommendations about
safety protocols about whether it’s safe to have the season at this
point?

MS. PSAKI:  I — I’m happy to check with our COVID team and see if
they’ve had any conversations.  Obviously, this is not the first season
during the pandemic, but I will check and see if there’s any role we
have to play here.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  With the President’s — President Trump’s
impeachment behind us, do you believe an impediment has been removed, in
terms of passing the COVID relief act?  I mean, was that a distraction
for anyone on the Hill or in the White House?

MS. PSAKI:  It certainly wasn’t for us.  And members of Congress on the
Hill continue to do their job in having conversations at the committee
level.  It was an — obviously, an important week in our nation’s
history.  The President put out — we put out a statement from the
President on Saturday.  And we understand why there was a focus on it
from, of course, the media and also from many in the public.  But we
have said from the beginning that the President would remain laser
focused on getting the American Rescue Plan passed.  That’s exactly what
he did last week, and what he’ll continue to do this week.  And we are
pleased with the urgency we’ve seen from members of Congress as well. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, does the President still plan to address Congress this month
as he has said he expects to?  And do you have any more information for
us about the time?

MS. PSAKI:  We don’t know where the February 23rd date came from.  It’s
a great mystery.  I’ve not Nancy Drew-ed that one out yet, but it was
never planned to be in February and we don’t have a date for a joint
session at this point. 

Certainly, the President looks forward to addressing the public.  We
remain in touch with leaders in Congress about a timeline and a format
and what that would look like.  Obviously, it won’t look like it is
looked like in the past, that many of you have covered and I’ve
attended, where you all sit on the floor of Congress and the President
gives a speech, because of COVID.  But we’re not behind any timeline
because that date was never accurate. 

Q    And then one more on immigration.  There’s a federal judge in Texas
who could soon decide the fate of the DACA program for DREAMers.  If he
moves to kill that program before Congress addresses the issue, what is
the administration prepared to do to shield this population from
deportation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the — the DACA program is important to the President. 
It is a program that he has long been committed to protecting and
preserving and taking every step he can to do exactly that.  I’m not
going to get ahead of a judge’s ruling in Texas, but we will certainly
watch closely.  And if there’s more to say after that, we will — we will
share it. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, Mitch McConnell said — on the Republican opposition to COVID
relief, he said this is going to help unify their party.  He said, “I
don’t think many Republicans are going to be up for many things that are
coming out of this administration.”  Do you remember what Mitch
McConnell said in 2010 about the Biden adminis- — about the Obama
administration then?  He said, “The single most important thing we want
to achieve is for President Obama to be a one-term President.” 

So I guess my question is: What lessons were learned from then?  And
given McConnell doesn’t see any political incentive to work with
Democrats, can you work with someone who isn’t motivated to work with
you?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has known Senator McConnell for some
time, and he is speaking — spoken with him a number of times.  And he’s
certainly hopeful that they can find a way to work together in
addressing the challenges facing the American people. 

But, I don’t know if it’s about lessons for us, as much as — you know,
the country is looking —

Q    You’re in the White House.

MS. PSAKI:  Well — well, here’s the thing though: The country is looking
for action.  I mean, the country is looking for progress, for solutions
on COVID, on the economy.  The package that the President has proposed
has the support of almost three quarters of the public in most polls. 

So, I’m not sure what numbers Senator McConnell is looking at, but the
American people have been clear what they’re looking for.  And if they
make a decision — Republicans in Congress, Senator McConnell — to vote
against the will of their constituents, I would suggest you ask them why
that’s smart, politically, for them to do. 

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Yeah, good afternoon.   Owen Jensen, EWTN Global Catholic Network. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm. 

Q    So, regarding the American Rescue Plan, groups like — pro-life
groups, including the Susan B. Anthony List are very concerned that
millions of U.S. taxpayer dollars will go to the abortion industry, in
violation of the Hyde Amendment.  We know where President Biden stands
on Hyde Amendment, but that being said, can this administration right
now guarantee, if the American Rescue Plan is passed, that no taxpayer
dollars will go to the abortion industry?

MS. PSAKI:  Which component of the American Rescue Plan are you
referring to?

Q    I’ll pull it up right here.  “A $50 million funding increase for
the Title X program.”  “$750 million for global health activities and
billions in funding for community health centers without applying the
Hyde Amendment.”

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President’s view on the Hyde Amendment is well
known, as you have stated in your question.  He also believes that
community health centers are a key part of addressing the pandemic, of
ensuring that people in communities have access to vaccines, have access
to treatment and information about — about making sure they’re healthy
and their loved ones are healthy. 

So that remains a priority to the President.  He’s shared his view on
the Hyde Amendment.  I don’t think I have anything new for you.

Q    Okay.  To follow up on it though, can he guarantee Americans who
don’t want their tax dollars — pro-life Americans who don’t want their
tax dollars funding abortion, can he —

MS. PSAKI:  Well —

Q    Can the administration guarantee those tax dollars won’t be used
for abortions?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, Owen, as I’ve just noted, three quarters of
the public supports the components of the package, wants to see the
pandemic get under control, wants to see people put back to work,
vaccines in arms.  So I think that answers your question. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, we’re going to move on.  Go ahead, in the back.

Q    In a couple of — in a couple of days, the President will address
the Munich Security Conference.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    And I think one point the Europeans would like to better understand
is what he means with “foreign policy for the middle class.”  Does it
mean to uphold Donald Trump’s tariffs, like in the case of aluminum from
the UAE?  Is the Biden administration using the same reasoning as the
Trump administration?

MS. PSAKI:  I can assure you that the President — this President does
not have — is not looking to the last presidency as the model for his
foreign policy moving forward. 

President Biden has been working in the global arena for decades.  And
what he means by “foreign policy for the middle class” is ensuring that
our team working on economic issues, our team working on national
security issues, our teams thinking about how policies impact the
American people are talking and that we make decisions and make policies
through that prism. 

We are certainly reviewing a range of tariffs that had been put in place
by the past administration.  I don’t have any updates on that for you. 
But what the President is speaking to is the importance of contemplating
integrating our domestic and national security teams, and the
policymaking and the process that they go through, and his view that we
are stronger globally if we take care of our house here at home.  So
that is part of his objective as well. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  When President Biden and Governor Andrew Cuomo met
last week, did they speak about the delayed release of data on the
COVID-19 deaths in nursing homes in New York?

MS. PSAKI:  The focus of the meeting was on the President providing an
update on his plans to help get the pandemic under control, to discuss
with them the American Rescue Plan.  And in a large group meeting, have
a discussion about what the challenges were that were facing governors
and mayors.  You heard some of the mayors come out here.  So, no, that
was not a focus of their conversation or a topic.

Q    And then, another quick question.  A lot of people, including Dr.
Fauci, have said they felt side effects from the COVID vaccine.  Did the
President or Vice President feel any side effects?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think I have any updates on that for you.  They got
their second vaccine several weeks ago, and they did that in public. 
But I can check if there’s more of an update from any side effects weeks
ago.

Q    And as the print pooler,  I have a question from a colleague. 
(Inaudible.)  Is that okay?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure, go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  This question is from Thomas Burr with News Nation: The
President is flying to Michigan to tour the Pfizer plant and (inaudible)
the COVID vaccine.  What is the administration doing now, almost a month
into office, to increase vaccine availability?  And how many White House
staffers have been vaccinated?

MS. PSAKI:  We provided an update a couple of — maybe a week ago or so. 
And we’re — our focus is on being as transparent as possible with our
efforts to vaccinate senior staff and other staff around the White House
complex.  We have a limited footprint as well here because every staffer
is tested on a daily basis as well. 

I think we said the objective was to have hundreds vaccinated by the end
of February.  I can double check if that’s the latest update on that
particular front.  What was your — sorry, what was your other question?

Q    And then, what is the administration doing now to increase vaccine
availability?

MS. PSAKI:  To the American public?

Q    Yes, now almost a month into the administration.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re taking a couple of steps.  One is, we’re
increasing supply.  Obviously, the President took the step of purchasing
enough vaccines to ensure we have vaccines available to vaccinate every
American by the end of July. 

He’s also — we’ve also increased by 57 percent the vaccine supply that’s
going out to states.  We’ve also taken steps to increase the number of
vaccinators we have — people who can actually put those shots in arms. 
So that includes deploying members of the National Guard; taking steps
including ensuring that retired nurses and doctors can be a part of the
vaccination crew that is — vaccinator crew, I should say, that is
putting shots in arms.  So we’ve increased the number of vaccinators. 

And we’ve also increased the number of vaccination sites, partly by, you
know, putting a plan in place to have several hundred community health
centers where vaccinations can be distributed; working with states on
mass vaccination centers; working with pharmacies, as we announced
earlier — as I announced earlier in the briefing, I should say, to get
vaccines in the hands of pharmacies — which 90 percent of the public
lives within five miles of a pharmacy.

So there are a number of steps, but our focus has been on those three
components: increasing supply — vaccines; increasing vaccinators — the
people who can put those vaccines in arms; and increasing vaccination
locations so people know where to go.

Go ahead. 

Q    Sorry, just wanted a quick follow-up on the President’s appearance
before a joint session of Congress.  In his primetime address last
month, in January, reading from prepared remarks, he said: “Next month,
in my first appearance for a joint session, I will lay out my Build Back
Better plan.”

So it feels like he did say it was going to be in February.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I — what I was referring to is there was reporting on
February 23rd, and I don’t know where that date came from, which has
never been inaccurate \[sic\].  So —

Q    So it was never going to be in February?  It was —

MS. PSAKI:  It was ne- — the February 23rd wasn’t — just an inaccurate
date — no one’s fault; it just was.  And it created some confusion, so I
was just trying to clarify it.

Obviously, the President looks forward to speaking to a joint session. 
We just don’t have a date yet for when that will be, and obviously it
will look different because of COVID and because we want to be safe and
project the — that safety and our responsibility of projecting that to
the American public.

Q    So there’s no specific reason it was potentially delayed from what
the President himself thought last month?

MS. PSAKI:  There is not.  And he conveyed — you know, he is looking
forward to providing more details on a jobs package and, you know, next
steps in his agenda.  And he still is looking forward to doing that, and
we just don’t have a date yet to announce for all of you.

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, everybody.  Have a good day.
                                   END                     12:59 P.M.
EST
