---
date: '2025-11-10'
modified_time: 2025-11-10 18:34:16-05:00
published_time: 2025-11-10 18:13:33-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/11/veterans-day-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Veterans Day, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

The story of America is written with the courage, honor, and dedicated
service of our veterans.  Through their sacrifice, the fires of freedom
burn brightly, our Republic secured, and our way of life made possible. 
For nearly 250 years, their unyielding spirit has carried our Nation
through every trial and triumph, ensuring that liberty endures for all
time.  This Veterans Day, we show our gratitude and recommit to honor
their service, uphold their legacy, and give every veteran the loyalty,
respect, and support they have earned and so dearly deserve.

From the moment our Nation’s Founders raised the cause of independence,
they recognized that freedom rests upon those willing to defend it. 
During the midst of the American Revolution, the Continental Congress
enacted the first national veterans’ benefits law to care for wounded
and disabled veterans.  From that early act of foresight came a
fundamental promise:  a Nation devoted to liberty owes a debt to those
who secured freedom for our people.  Yet for too many decades,
politicians have failed to provide the benefits earned by the best among
us, leading to shameful outcomes on veteran healthcare, housing, and
employment.  Under my leadership, the Federal Government will no longer
betray these heroes.

During my first term, my Administration achieved historic reforms to the
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and expanded choice in healthcare
and economic opportunity for our veterans.  I signed into law landmark
legislation to increase accountability, remove those who failed our
veterans, and deliver faster, high-quality care.  Now, we are building
off these successes by continuing to improve the VA.  We have opened 16
new veteran health clinics throughout the country, made it easier for
veterans to pass on their benefits to their survivors, and ended DEI and
transgender policies so we can use taxpayer dollars on programs that
help veterans in need.  Just this year, we have already reduced the
backlog of veterans waiting for VA benefits by more than 37 percent,
after rising 24 percent during the previous administration — and we are
just getting started.

In May, I signed an Executive Order to build the National Center for
Warrior Independence, which will house up to 6,000 homeless veterans by
2028.  I also signed into law the One Big Beautiful Bill, making the
2017 Trump Tax Cut permanent and ending taxes on Social Security for
most seniors, relieving some of the financial burden for veterans on
fixed incomes.  Through these reforms and actions, we are renewing our
Nation’s commitment to all those who served.  

Our Nation remains great because of those who have served honorably in
uniform and committed their lives to defending our families, our
freedom, and American values.  Today, we extend our deepest gratitude to
our Soldiers, Sailors, Marines, Airmen, Coast Guardsmen, and Guardians
for their sacrifice, and we thank the families who share the burden of
their service.  Under my leadership, our Nation will always uphold the
legacy of our veterans by keeping America strong, proud, and free — and
as President, I will always have their backs.

In respectful recognition of the contributions our service members have
made to advance peace and freedom around the world, the Congress has
provided (5 U.S.C. 6103(a)) that November 11 of each year shall be set
aside as a legal public holiday to honor our Nation’s veterans.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim November 11, 2025, as Veterans Day.  I
encourage all Americans to reflect on the courage and sacrifice of our
veterans through public ceremonies and private thoughts and prayers of
gratitude.  I call upon Federal, State, and local officials to display
the flag of the United States and to participate in patriotic activities
in their communities.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
fiftieth.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP
