---
date: '2024-03-13'
modified_time: 2024-03-13 18:27:28-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-13 18:27:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/03/13/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-milwaukee-wi/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Milwaukee,\_WI"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Milwaukee, Wisconsin

3:02 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.  Hi, hi.  Okay.  Got a couple of things at the
top. 

All right.  Good afternoon, everyone.  We’re — we’re en route to
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where the President will announce $3.3 billion to
reconnect and rebuild communities in more than 40 states, including
those that were divided by transportation infrastructure decades ago and
have long been overlooked. 

These projects will increase access to healthcare, schools, jobs, and
will strengthen communities by covering highways with public spaces,
creating new transit routes, adding sidewalks, bridges, bike lanes, and
more. 

Today, the President will announce that $36 million of the funding will
go to Milwaukee Sixth Street “Complete Streets” project.  This project
will reconnect communities along more than two and a half miles of the
Sixth Street corridor and make the roadway and surrounding communities
safer, greener, and more welcoming. 

Many other communities will receive funding under this initiative,
including Atlanta, Georgia; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Portland,
Oregon; Toledo, Ohio; and Detroit, Michigan. 

Today’s announcement will take — take place at the Boys & Girls Club of
Greater Milwaukee, a community hub at the heart of the communities
disrupted by the 1960s freeway construction. 

Historic investments in transportation infrastructure, especially
highway construction, cut too many Americans off

from opportunity, dividing and dem- — demolishing communities and
perpetrating economic and racial injustices.

The President is committed to righting those wrongs and reconnecting
those communities.  It’s part of his broader vision he talked about last
week in his State of the Union to invest in all of America and make sure
we are leaving no community behind. 

With that, I am happy to take your questions. 

Q    Can I start — start with one about TikTok?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Start with what?

Q    Start with one about TikTok.  I know you said in the past the
President is going to sign any bill that Congress gives him.  But it
seems to me that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — not any bill that Congress gives.  That’d be —

Q    I’m sorry.  Well, on this issue, right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh — oh, okay.  (Laughs.)

Q    He will sign what Congress gives on this issue.

Is — is there any fear that banning an outlet like TikTok is something
an authoritarian government —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let’s be —

Q    — would do, like in China?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s be mindful.  You heard the National Security
Advisor, Jake Sullivan, talk about this.  We — this is not about banning
any — any platform. 

So, I just want to — let me just say a couple of things since it did
pass, I think, 352 to 65 out of the House.  It’s going to the Senate. 
So —

Q    The practical effect would be a ban, right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry?

Q    The practical effect would be a ban, basically.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, let me — let me just take this on for a second. 

So, we — we are glad to see the bill — this bill move forward.  We will
look at — we will look to the Senate to take swift action.  As we have
said — and this is something that National Security Advisor Jake
Sullivan said — this bill is important and we welcome the step in — and
ongoing efforts to address the threat posed by certain technology
services operating in the United States that put at risk Americans’
personal information and our — our broader national security, including
through the manipulation by foreign powers of Americans’ views and
beliefs. 

The — the National Security Advisor was very clear yesterday — Jake
Sullivan.  He said: Do we want private data that Americans have to be
here or in China?  Do we want companies to be owned here or in China? 
That was what he said.

So — and I want to be also very clear here: This bill would not ban apps
like TikTok, period.

What it would do is to ensure that ownership, as I just stated, of these
apps wouldn’t be in the hands of those who can exploit them or to do us
harm. 

So, it’s going to go through a process.  We hope the Senate takes action
and takes this up very quickly.  And we have said this before on every
legislation that’s worked in — in Congress that we have — we are
involved in: We provide technical support.  And that’s what we did
through — during the House process, and we’re going to certainly do that
during the Senate process. 

Q    So, just to be clear —

Q    Karine, are you okay with the bill as it stands?  Just to be clear.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We are going to provide technical support.  Obviously,
it’s going to go to the Senate.  So, the Senate is going to look at it. 
It’s going to do it — they’re going to do their process.  We’re going to
support it in a technical way, obviously. 

And, look, we want to make sure that this bill ensures the threats we
face and is on the strong — is on the strongest possible legal footing. 
That’s also very important. 

And so, I’m not going to get ahead of any of those discussions from
here.  But we want to see the Senate take swift action. 

Q    Karine, are you not concerned that —

Q    Should the Speaker bring it to the floor for a vote?

Q    Are you not concerned that doing this — since for the President to
be supporting this move could jeopardize the sort of fragile thaw in
relations with China?  You’ve worked really hard.  You’ve sent a bunch
of Cabinet members to China.  They’re going back again. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, but like you just said, they’re going back
again.  So — right?  We are going to continue our — our work with the —
you know, working with our relationship with China.  That does — that’s
not going to stop. 

But the President has always been clear.  The National Security Advisor,
Jake Sullivan, has always been clear — the National Security Advisor
Jake Sullivan has always been clear — right? — when it comes to our
national security, when it comes to data that’s coming from Americans,
we’re always going to make sure that we’re — we’re addressing those
threats that we face.  And so, that doesn’t stop that work. 

There — you know, and — you know, there’s going to be things with any
country that we’re going to agree with on, and there’s going to be
disagreements.  And that’s why we continue to have these diplomatic
relationships.  That’s important.

Q    On Haiti.  Karine, let’s start with the 48-hour deadline that
CARICOM set up for a transitional government.  What happens if they bust
the deadline?  And then, also, some of the criminal groups in Haiti
would like a seat on that transitional council.  Where does the White
House think they should sit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  On the first question, I know
you’re talking about the 48-hour.  Right?  And so, look, we will let the
Haitian people speak to their efforts and timelines.  The National
Security Advisor, again — Jake Sullivan — said this yesterday that
Haitians should be able to choose their leaders and determine their
future. 

So, we have been clear.  We remain committed to supporting Haitians —
Haitian — and their efforts to create the transitional presidential
council to restore security and to pave the way to free and fair
elections, which is something that we believe is incredibly important
here.

Look, in that — in that council, in that kind of proposal that they put
forward, there is — there is language in there — there is a declaration
— a CARICOM declaration that lays out who could join that council.  So,
I will leave it still — I will leave it there. 

Q    Karine, there’s been reporting that the President has serious
concerns about the Nippon-U.S. Steel deal.  Do you know his thoughts
about that deal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — I don’t have anything to share with
you on that. 

Q    And then a question on Poland.  Obviously, the President met with
President Duda yesterday.  What was his thoughts about his requests for
the NATO defense requirement to be raised from 2 percent to 3 percent? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  Obviously, it was an
important bilateral meeting that he had with the Poland leaders. 

And so, let me just step back.  At this — at the Vilnius summit last
summer, NATO Allies agree that spending more than 2 percent would be
required to address shortfalls and respond to changing security
dynamics. 

This year, for the first time since the Alliance cre- — creation, 19
NATO Allies are set to — to — to spend at least 2 percent of their GDP
on defense spending, which is a sixfold increase since 2014.  We expect
that number to increase before the Washington summit. 

And if — if you combine NATO’s European Allies’ collective GDP, they
will spend 2 percent of their collective GDP on defense.  This is a
major milestone and a clear demonstration that Allies recognize the need
to invest more in security following Putin’s reinvasion of — of Ukraine.

We are confident Allies will continue to dial up their defense
investment to meet challenge.  We will continue to encourage progress on
this front.  And so, I’ll — I’ll just leave it there.

Q    You said that you expect the number of NATO members who are re- —
reaching that 2 percent level to increase in time for this summit, which
is just two months away.  So, what’s the — you know, what — what’s your
target for how many NATO members —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have a target —

Q    — will have that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — for NATO members.  I think what I just laid out is
the increase that we have seen, which is important, especially as we’re
seeing the reinvasion of Ukraine by Russia, Mr. Putin’s aggression. 

So, I think it’s important that we are seeing — I mean, since 20- —
2014, we’ve seen an increase.  And I think that matters. 

I don’t have a target to lay out for you.  Obviously, we’re — we’re very
hopeful that we’ll see more before the summit, as you just stated, which
is going to be two months from now. 

Q    Did the President — was the President briefed on the Putin
interview and his comments about nuclear power — or, I’m sorry, nuclear
weapons and — and being ready to, you know, respond —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, our —

Q    How concerned is he about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the President certainly is aware.  I can say that,
look, we understand that Mr. Putin was res- — restating Russia’s nuclear
doctrine.  This was a question that he was asked.  Right? 

Nevertheless, Russia’s nuclear rhetoric has been reckless and
irresponsible throughout this conflict.  It’s — it is Russia that
brutally invaded Ukraine without provocation or justification.  And
we’ll continue to support Ukraine as they — they defend their people and
their sovereign territory from Russian aggression. 

And so, I’ll — again, I’ll just leave it there.

Q    On Gaza.  What’s the administration’s position on Israel
restricting access to Al-Aqsa Mosque during the holy month?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.  The last part.

Q    What is the administration’s position on the Israeli government
possibly restricting access to the Al Aqsa Mosque during this holy
month?  And then, does the President plan to meet with members of the
Arab community on the ground on this trip?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, are you talking about in — in Wisconsin or
in Michigan when you say “on the ground”?

Q    I could go with either.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Michigan is a — is going to be a political trip,
so I would refer you to the campaign to kind of just laid out what the
President is going to be doing in Wisconsin.

I’m not seeing those reports that you just stated, so I can’t really
speak to that.  So, I’m just going to leave them there.

Q    Is the President concerned at all that — about the prospect of
Aaron Rodgers joining the RFK Jr. ticket to carving votes away.  I mean,
he was a popular quarterback in Wisconsin —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — for a long time.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — I’ll say this.  I’ve got to be careful. 
We’re talking — you’re asking me a question about a upcoming election,
obviously 2024.  So, don’t want to speak to that.

Q    There are campaign events on this —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.

Q    — in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know, yeah.  I know, there are campaign events. 
You’re absolutely right.  They’re happening in Michigan, and the
campaign is — are ru- — is running those events.  And so, that
particular question is for the campaign to speak to.

Q    Follow-up on Russia.

Q    What did the President take about from the Robert Hur testimony
yesterday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a case closed.  You heard from my colleague
yesterday, Ian Sams, the — who is the spokesperson for White House
Counsel.  I just don’t have anything else to add.  The case is closed.

Q    On Russia, I will have a follow-up.  So, you said, like, Putin
just, like, repeated his nuclear posture. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Does that mean there is no need for the United States to adjust its
own assessment of threats?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we have not seen any re- — reasons to adjust our
own nuclear posture, to your question, Aur- — Aurelia, nor any
indication that Russia is preparing to use a nuclear weapon in Ukraine.

Q    And another Russia-related question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    A close ally of Aleksey Navalny was brutally assaulted in
Lithuania.  The Lithuanian authorities have accused Russia of being
behind this aggression.  Can you comment on this attack?  And do you
share this assessment that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    — Moscow might be responsible?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I would have to — I want to make sure that I have
the reporting correct.  So, I would have to just check in with our — our
team at the National Security Council.  I just want to be mindful here.

Q    Karine, yesterday, Josep Borrell from the EU said that Israel is
using hunger as a weapon of war in Gaza.  I know that you have worked to
increase humanitarian aid.  Do you agree that Israel is using hunger as
a weapon of war?  And what can be done to accelerate the work?  I know
you’re building this bridge.  But, like, you know, are there more
airdrops planned?  Are you providing assistance to the José Andrés
flotilla that’s going in?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we have said — we have been very clear that
it is important to increase the humanitarian aid going into Gaza.  We
have seen innocent Palestinian civilians, you know, needing important —
important essentials: food, water, and medical assistance.  And that is
something that we want to make sure that we can get as many — as much
assistance in, because that’s — there is a humanitarian crisis, period,
happening in Gaza.

And so, that’s why we’ve done the pier.  That’s why we’re doing the
airdrops.  That’s why we’re doing everything that we can to get more
trucks.  That’s why we’re working with Israel to make sure that we are
getting more humanitarian aid. 

We have said — the President have said that Israel needs to do more. 
And so —

Q    Why not condition the aid, then?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we are doing everything that we can to get this
hostage deal.  Right?  It is important that we get this hostage deal so
that, again, it would be accompanied by a temporary ceasefire.  Right? 
Wwe have talked about this for six weeks — so that we can get that in
humanitarian aid, so that we can make sure that we get those hostages
home. 

There are about six American hostages.  You heard the National Security
Advisor speak to this yesterday.  We want to get them home.

And so, we’re going to do everything we can to continue getting that —
getting that hostage deal.  And that is a priority.  24/7, you see this
administration working on this.  The President is focused on this. 

We believe by getting — by getting that done, the i- — the hope is to
get to a longer, more perna- — permanent ceasefire.  And so, that is the
work at hand, and we are doing everything that we can.  We are up- —
upping our efforts.  You’ve seen us announce almost every week, you
know, ways that we’re trying to get more humanitarian aid into — into
Gaza. 

You also have heard us not too long ago announce more humanitarian aid
funding — the $53 million that came out of USAID.  We’re taking every
step that we can to do that.  It is important — it is important that we
get those essential, essential needs to the — to the people in Gaza, to
the Palestinian people.

Q    And on —

Q    You said that —

Q    Can I —

Q    You said that — I’m sorry.  Go ahead.

Q    A Fulton County judge dismissed several charges against Donald
Trump in the election interference case in Georgia.  Any reaction to
that?  Is the White House concerned?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not commenting on an ongoing case.  I’m just not.

Q    I mean, the White House usually comments on election integrity and
protecting the vote —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not.  Donald Trump, as you know, is a — is a
current candidate.  I’m just not going to comment.

Q    Can I ask you one more about the trip? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.

Q    There — there’s been a lot of polling and other suggestions since
the State of the Union that he hasn’t really gotten a political bump
from it.  I think part of the reason why he’s going to these states is
to announce and to con- — continuations, basically, of some the
priorities he talked about in the speech.  Is there any fear that this
isn’t going to break through, especially in these critical states?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things there.  Look, the State of the
Union was successful.  More than 30 million Americans watched, which is
important — right? — that they got to see the President of the United
States talk about his vision and his future, obviously — how he sees the
— the future of this country and build — and how he’s going to build on
the successes that he’s had the last three years.  I think that’s
important. 

We’ve heard that.  We’ve seen people respond incredibly positive to it. 

The President going on a — you know, barnstorming the country, if you
will, going — going on trips after a State of the Union is not unusual,
right?  That is something that all presidents do.  He wants to take that
message that he delivered that’s — from that successful State of the
Union and take it directly to the American people.  That’s what he’s
doing. 

And he also has said he wants to continue to build on his success.  So,
that’s what th- — this announcement — this $3.3 billion to make sure —
to make sure that we’re reconnecting communities in 40 states — that’s
in 40 states.  That’s huge.  That’s huge when you think about how
disproportionately the communities that are af- — affected by these
types of infrastructure, you know, projects that were done decades ago —
they pr- — predominantly affect Black and brown communities, low-income
communities. 

So, this is really important.  This is something that we believe
Americans want to see.

As it relates to the polling.  I’m going to answer your question, but I
just want to preface it by saying that, you know, I’m going to be
careful.  I’m not going to speak to 2024.

Here’s what I will say, and looking backwards here: In 2022, we were
told that there was going to be a red wave.  And it was the President’s
policies that helped us, you know, be successful.  And there wasn’t a
red wave, right?  In 2023, we saw the same. 

Just about a month and a half ago or so, we saw New York — New York
Three.  We were — it’s a special election, the congressional election. 
We turned that from a red — red — a red district into a blue district. 
Why?  Because of the President’s policies and what he believes and what
he believes the majority of Americans care about — right? — whether it’s
fighting for our democracy; whether it’s women’s healthcare, fighting
for reproductive rights; whether it’s making sure that we’re coming —
coming — working to get a bipartisan deal on the border, which is part
of what the New York Three was all about — right? — getting that — that
bipartisan deal coming out of the Senate — and making sure that the
President showed leadership and actually met where majority of Americans
are. 

So, that’s kind of how we see things, right?  It’s like, people say,
“Hey, this is how it’s going turn out.”  And then, look, the President’s
policy continued to be popular, and Democrats have done well in the past
couple of years.  So, I’ll just leave it there.

Q    And a follow-up on that meeting —

Q    You referred this question about meeting with Muslim and Arab
groups —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.

Q    — in Michigan to the campaign.  But what the people in Michigan
have said very loudly to the campaign is, “We don’t want to talk to the
campaign.  We want to talk to the policy people.”  So, the White House
sent in policy people —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’m about to say, we did.  Thank you for saying
that.

Q    But, you know, President is the “Policymaker-in-Chief.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Is he — does he have any plans to — to meet with the community
there while he’s already in the state —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    — and engage.  You know, he has said a couple times now —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — you know, “let them speak” when pro-Palestinian —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, yeah.

Q    — disruptions have occurred at events.  So, is he —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I was trying to figure out when the question was
going to end.  (Laughs.)  Sorry.  So, a couple of things there. 

The President has had an opportunity, as you know, to meet with leaders
in the Muslim Amer- — Muslim American community, Arab — Arab American
community, Palestinian American community, obviously, and had a very
good back-and-forth engagement with them not too long ago. 

I think it is important when you think about the President sending his
White Hou- — White House officials — right? — senior — senior advisors,
senior aides to go — you know, to go to — to go to the communities to
hear directly from them.  They have h- — they have had multiple
conversations, multiple meetings, and we are engaging.  And that is
important as well.

I don’t have a — I don’t have a meeting for the — the President is going
to have with — with leaders of the community — another meeting,
obviously, because he’s already had one with leaders of the community. 
But I will say, it is important.  I think it is incredibly important
that White House leadership, White House senior aides have been sent out
there to meet with — with leaders of those communities to hear them — to
hear from them directly, hear — listen to their pain.  We understand
that this is an incredibly painful time for people. 

And as you just stated, when there are — when there are, you know,
disruptions or — or protests, the President always says, “Let them
speak.”  And he also — we also are very clear:  We — we think it’s
important for people to peacefully protest and make sure that their
voices are heard.  That’s why the President has sent White House
officials to listen and hear directly — directly from them.

Q    What a- — What about members of the Black community?  I mean,
tomorrow we’re going to Ven- — Serena Williams’s and Stevie Wonder’s
hometown.  Is he going to meet with any prominent members of those
communities?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  I will leave that —

Q    — communities?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will leave that to — to the campaign to speak to.

Q    And just one quick follow-up on NATO.  It sounds like y- — you said
the — the President supports increased defense spending.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    But would he specifically support the 3 percent threshold?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know —

Q    It was a proposal.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we certainly do not have any plans for changes to
the Defense Investment Pledge at this time.  What I was trying to say is
we have seen an increase of — of countries in — obviously, in NATO, you
know, meeting — meeting their obligation of that 2 percent.  And we
think that’s a good thing, especially if you look at, you know, the
increase since 2014.  So, that’s important.

Q    On the $3.3 billion in investments, can you give us a timeline? 
How long will it take for those communities to really see the effect of
those policies?  Are we talking months, years?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, honestly, Aurelia, it’s going to be different
for each community — right? — how quickly it gets started.  And it’s
going to be a process.  But I think what’s important here to note is
that this is incredibly important to reconnect communities — right? —
communities that have been divided by — by an interstate because of
happened — because of projects that were put in place decades ago. 

And it’s important.  And, again, I men- — as I mentioned, it’s
disproportionately affected Black communities.  It’s disproportionately
affected low-income communities, communities of color.

And let’s not forget what it takes away when you do that.  It takes away
healthcare — right? — hospitals.  It takes away jobs.  It takes away,
you know, schools.  That’s what happens.  And it — it creates an
unfortunate scenario for communities. 

Now, by doing this — by this $3.3 billion in 40 states, it’s going to
help reconnect those communities so that they can have — so that their
kids can feel safe — right? — so that they — their kids can have access
to — to schools and hospitals. 

And so, I think it’s an important project.  Obviously, you’ll hear more
from the President later today. 

As far as timeline, it’s going to be different for each community, so I
can’t speak to cities and states and how quickly they’re going to move
(inaudible).

Q    Just to clarify, you said the President has met recently with the
Arab and Muslim groups.  My understanding is that the one meeting that
he had took place in November.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he met —

Q    That is not recently.  Has there been a subsequent meeting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — okay. (Laughs.)

Q    I’m sorry.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, that’s your — everybody sees timelines
differently.  What I — the point that I’m trying to make, whether it was
in November or in December or in January, the point is the President has
ha- — did have a meeting with leaders of the different communities — the
Muslim Amer- — Muslim American, Arab American, and Palestinian
Americans.  And so, that — he did engage with them. 

It is important to note — I — I really want to reiterate this: It is
important to note it that White House officials at the senior — at the
highest levels in the White House have had long, extensive engagement
with the communities — right? — these communities to hear them out, to
listen to them.  And I think that’s important when the President does
that.  Right? 

I think, you know, as you all know, we speak for the President of the
United States when we — when — as — as me as a White House Press
Secretary, and obviously, as someone who are — who are a senior advisor
or senior aide for the President. 

So, that representation is important.  And guess what?  The President
hears what is being said from these meetings.  So, that’s incredibly
important.

Q    Karine, to follow up on that. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    That meeting was before voters started registering their opinions
in the primary election.  So, doesn’t he — shouldn’t he, like, have
another meeting with him?  That’s one. 

Two, he’s met with other groups.  How come this group is not getting a
meeting with him, specifically?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He met with this group.  What do you mean this group
not getting a meeting with him?  He did.  He has met with the group.

Q    Things have changed. 

Q    More regularly.

Q    I mean, the President’s own words have changed.  He’s using the
word “ceasefire” now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s been using that word, “ceasefire,” to be very
clear, since November.  Let’s be very clear about that.  So, just — just
to — as we talk about language.  

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on a second.

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It does not change the fact that his White House
official, senior aides, have had multiple engagement with those
communities.  That matters. 

And the President has met with leaders of those communities.  So, to say
that he hasn’t, he actually has.

Q    As regularly.  When he met with them, 30,000 people —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on a second.

Q    — had not been killed.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s — let’s not add that “as regularly.” 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He has done it, and his White House official aide\[s\]
have been doing it on his behest because the President wants to make
sure his policy — his policy people — right? — he wants to make sure
that the top — folks who are at the top level of the White House hear
directly — directly from the community.  That matters.  That matters. 

And I don’t want that to be discounted as we’re going back and forth
here.  It’s important.

Q    In this interview this weekend, the President was asked about red
lines.  And he said, “Well, another 30,000 people shouldn’t be killed,”
which seems to imply that there is some number that would be acceptable
short of thir- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I disagree to that.  Look, I’m not going to rehash
that.  What I can say is the National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan,
went back and forth with some of your colleagues in the briefing room
about that, so I would certainly refer you to that — to — to what Jake
Sullivan said yesterday. 

All right, guys. 

Q    One more. 

Q    Thank you.

Q    Has the President had any contact with the UK about Kate Middleton?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll say this. 

Q    Has he been — and has he been briefed on the photograph? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I have not — I’ll say this.  I have not spoken to
the President about Kate Middleton. 

I will say this.  We certainly wish her a speedy recovery.  She has
asked for privacy.  Her family has asked for privacy.  And we’re
certainly going to respect that. 

Thanks, guys.

Q    Thank you. 

3:27 P.M. EDT
