---
date: '2024-03-25'
modified_time: 2024-03-26 14:52:44-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-25 14:51:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/03/25/press-call-by-senior-advisor-to-the-president-anita-dunn-and-a-senior-administration-official-on-historic-action-to-make-healthcare-more-affordable-and-accessible/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Call by Senior Advisor to the President Anita Dunn and a Senior Administration\
  \ Official on Historic Action to Make Healthcare More Affordable and\_Accessible"
---
 
Via Teleconference

5:04 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for joining today’s call. This is
Kelly Scully from the White House Press team.  Thanks for joining
today’s call with Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the
President Anita Dunn to discuss the adminis- —

(Cross-talk.)

— to discuss the administration’s work to make healthcare more
affordable and accessible ahead of President Biden and Vice President
Harris’s trip to North Carolina tomorrow.

Remarks at the top will be on the record.  We will then transition to
the QA portion of the call, which will be on background and attributable
to a “senior administration official.”

For your awareness and not for reporting, joining us for the QA portion
of the call is \[senior administration official\]. 

As a reminder, this call and the factsheet I sent around earlier are
embargoed until tomorrow at 5:00 a.m.

And with that, I will turn it over to Anita to kick us off.

MS. DUNN:  Thank you, Kelly.  And thank you — excuse me — everyone who
has joined the call this afternoon.  (Coughs.)

PARTICIPANT:  (Inaudible.)

MS. DUNN:  I know.  Sorry.

Tomorrow, in Raleigh, North Carolina, President Biden and Vice President
Harris will deliver remarks laying out their vision to protect and
strengthen the Affordable Care Act, Medicaid, and Medicare.  They will
also discuss their plan to lower healthcare costs, including for
prescription drugs.  This stands in stark contrast to a budget proposed
by congressional Republicans just last week that would gut healthcare
coverage for millions while allowing Big Pharma to drive up prescription
drug costs.

The difference is simple: The President and Vice President have always
believed that healthcare is a right, not a privilege. 

Fourteen years ago last week, then-Vice President Biden stood by
President Obama’s side as President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act
into law.  And as the Vice President so memorably said at the time, it
was a big deal. 

After more than 50 attempts by Republicans to repeal it, including
attempts that had the strong support of the President’s predecessor, the
ACA stands stronger than ever thanks to the Biden-Harris administration.

In 2024, more than 21 million Americans, including over 1 million North
Carolinians, signed up for ACA healthcare coverage.  Forty states,
including D.C., have passed the Medicaid expansion.  Four of those
happened under this President’s watch. 

One year ago, thanks to Governor Roy Cooper’s leadership, North Carolina
passed Medicaid expansion, helping over 400,000 North Carolinians.  And
Governor Cooper will be joining the President and the Vice President
tomorrow. 

Americans are saving an average $800 a year on their premiums thanks to,
first, the ARP and then the IRA.

But the Affordable Care Act is still very much under attack by
Republican officials.  Just last week, the Republican Study Committee
that represents every member of the House Republican leadership and 80
percent of the House Republican Conference introduced a budget that
would gut the ACA, gut Medicaid, and end protec- — protection for
preexisting conditions.  

So, if they got their way, these Republican officials would want a
country where 45 million Americans, including 1.4 million North
Carolinians, lose their health insurance.  One hundred million Americans
with preexisting conditions would lose those protections, including 1.8
million people in North Carolina.  Young people would be kicked off
their parents’ coverage.  It would be harder for millions of seniors,
people with disabilities, and children to access healthcare. 

And prescription drug prices would skyrocket, because once you strip
Medicare’s authority to negotiate prescription drug costs, you repeal
the $35 insulin and the $2,000 out-of-pocket cap for healthcare costs. 
And needless to say, you also increase the federal deficit as well.

Well, President Biden has been clear: not on his watch.  Not only will
he protect the ACA, Medicaid, and Medicare, he will expand coverage and
lower healthcare costs.  He will make expanded Affordable Care Act tax
credits permanent.  These tax credits expire in 2025, and they’re going
to need to be renewed.  There’s a real risk of them being taken away by
the Republicans.  

President Biden also believes that you should have Medicaid-like
coverage to those people in the 10 states that have not (inaudible) the
ACA’s Medicaid expansion.  And some of those, as we know, are very large
states.

President Biden and Democrats beat Big Pharma.  Now Medicare can
negotiate lower drug prices for the first time in history.  He wants to
go further and faster: have Medicare negotiate lower prices of at least
50 drugs per year –- 500 drugs over the next decade.  This could save
taxpayers up to 200 billion additional dollars over the 10-year period,
in addition to the $160 billion that the current program would save. 

And then, finally, expand the $35-a-month cap on insulin and the $2,000
cap on out-of-pocket drug spending to everyone, not just seniors.

Vice President Harris has been leading our fight to defend reproductive
freedom, and she will drive a clear contrast on how President Biden’s
predecessor handpicked the three Supreme Court Justices who overturned
Roe v. Wade and that President Biden has sworn to restore Roe v. Wade as
the law of the land.  And if Congress sends him that bill, he will sign
it immediately.

He — she will talk about the fact that Republicans in Congress want a
national abortion ban — President Biden will veto that; that in the face
of relentless, politically driven attacks by Republican officials,
President Biden is fighting for access to contraception. 

And, of course, as you all know, tomorrow is the Supreme Court oral
argument on medi- — medical abortion.  So, that is going to be context
and background for the conversation tomorrow.

And that’s the split screen on healthcare you will see on clear
display.  President Biden, Vice President Harris, and Democrats want to
expand access, make it more — make healthcare more affordable for
everyone, and defend reproductive freedom.  Republicans want to gut
healthcare, raise prices, and rip away those basic re- — reproductive
freedoms even more than they have already been endangered.

So, that is the split screen.  That is the discussion tomorrow.  And
that is the two very different visions for moving this country forward,
as the President outlined in his State of the Union Address. 

So, thank you, Kelly.  And I’ll turn it back to you.

MODERATOR:  Thanks, Anita.  We will now transition to the QA portion of
the call, which will be on background and attributable to a “senior
administration official.”

If you have a question, use the “raise hand” feature at the bottom of
your screen. 

Let’s go to Ron Brownstein.

Q    Hi, guys.  I was wondering, as you noted a little, there are many
moving parts in this Republican Study Committee proposal: block granting
Medicaid, the premium support voucher idea for Medicare, repealing the
ACA, undoing the prescription drug negotiating authority.  I’m just
wondering: What — what do you see as the common thread in all of these
ideas? 

And could someone talk about what they would mean cumulatively?  When
you kind of put all of them together, if you did all of these things,
what would be the biggest changes people would see in the healthcare
system?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Happy — happy to walk through
that. 

I mean, fundamentally, what you see in the RSC budget is a set of
proposals that would take us backwards, raise Americans’ healthcare
costs, and leave millions more people without health insurance. 

So, you know, they want to completely repeal the President’s reforms to
lower prescription drug costs.  That means higher prescription drug
costs for seniors.  It means higher government spending and handouts to
Big Pharma, as Medicare can’t negotiate drug prices.

They want to convert Medicare into a premium support program, getting
rid of the core guarantee of the Medicare program and leaving seniors
facing, you know, higher premiums if they want to stay in the same kind
of coverage that they have today.

The cuts to Medicaid, CHIP, and the Affordable Care Act in this proposal
are devastating, taking $4.5 trillion out of this program over a
decade.  To do that, you would need to zero out the Affordable Care
Act’s marketplaces, you would need to zero out Medicaid expansion, and
then, after you’ve done that, you’d need to make further steep cuts to
the base Medicaid budget.

These are, you know, astonishing — astonishing cuts that would just
devastate a program — a set of programs that millions and millions of
people rely on.  It’s 45 million people who would just have their
coverage ripped away from them and tens of millions of more who could
lose benefits or lose coverage altogether as states, you know, try to
react to the, again, completely devastating cuts.

And they do all of this while — while fundamentally undermining and
eliminating federal protections for people with preexisting conditions. 
So, it’s taking us back to days of medical underwriting and — and
ensuring that, you know, insurance companies are once again in the
driver’s seat to charge higher prices to people who are sicker or older.

It is a — it is a completely different vision from the one the President
and the Vice President have laid out and will continue to lay out
tomorrow, where we — where we — instead of moving backwards, instead of
raising costs and throwing people off healthcare programs, we need to
build on our progress.  We need to lower prescription drug cros- — costs
even further, and we need to bring these reforms to more people.  We
need to, you know, continue to build on the Affordable Care Act to
deliver health insurance, and we need to close the Medicaid coverage gap
once and for all.

I think the — you know, the contrast could not — could not be more
stark.  And, you know, as — as Anita said, it is — it is quite the split
screen when it comes to a healthcare vision.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Tami with CNN.

Q    Thank you for taking my call.  So, the administration has been
trying to sweeten the pot for a state — the 10 hold-out states to expand
Medicaid.  There were various efforts in Kansas, Georgia.  Mississippi
is still ongoing.  Has the — what has the administration been doing to
try to get this over the finish line in these Republican legislatures?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Thanks for that question.

As I’m sure you know, four states have expanded Medicaid since President
Biden took office — most recently, North Carolina, where just in the
last couple of months, nearly 400,000 people have gained Medicaid
expansion coverage. 

But, you know, we are clearly putting points on the board here and
getting more Medicaid expansion coverage to — to more people.  You know,
the four states that have expanded can deliver Medicaid expansion to
about a million people.  So, that’s obviously making a huge dent in this
— in this issue and delivering coverage to more folks.

The — as I’m sure this group is aware, the American Rescue Plan included
additional financial incentives for states that — that had been
hold-outs and choose to expand Medicaid.  And those new financial
incentives remain available for any state that wants to take them up and
bring lifesaving health- — healthcare coverage to hundreds of thousands
of their lowest-income residents.

We continue to be encouraged by conversations that advocates and
hospital systems and others across the — across the country are having
in their states about opportunities to — to, you know, address funding
gaps for their rural hospitals and bring Medicaid expansion coverage to
folks who need it.  And we will, you know, continue to work with any
state that wants to on how we can drive the ball forward on Medicaid
expansion in some of those hold-out 10 states.

MODERATOR:  Courtney with Bloomberg.

Q    Hi.  Can you hear me?

MODERATOR:  Yep.

Q    Thank you.  You mentioned that you’re planning this event tomorrow
to happen in the backgrou- — or have in the background the oral
arguments at the Supreme Court.  Can you talk about how you’re preparing
for any outcome from those arguments?  I understand that you’re
(inaudible) hesitant to talk about pending cases, but this is a topic
that’s really important to Americans that rely on medication abortion —
right now especially, given how limited abortion is in general across
the country.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Thanks for that question. 

You know, DOJ continues to defend the FDA’s actions on this, you know,
critical medication that is — is an important part of our healthcare
system before the Supreme Court.  And the President and Vice President
remain firmly committed to defending women’s ability to access
reproductive healthcare.

As you — as you heard from Anita, we’ll hear from the Vice President
tomorrow about our broader vision on reproductive health.  For, sort of,
particulars on the litigation and next steps, I would refer you to DOJ.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Jonathan with Huffington Post.

Jonathan?

We can’t hear you —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We can’t hear you.

MODERATOR:  — if you’re speaking.

Q    Is that better?  Can you hear me now?

MODERATOR:  Yep.

Q    Okay.  Sorry about that.  This is actually a question for \[senior
administration official\], I think.  There were some reports earlier
about Mark Robinson made some statements about the ACA, saying he
favored — he didn’t favor repeal and replace, just repeal, some other
things.  Is that likely to come up tomorrow?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So, we have — we have lost
\[senior administration official\], and we are, you know, having this
call from the — from the White House.

And so —

Q    Ah.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  — you know, I want to stay focused on
the — on, you know, the — the President’s agenda and the contrast with
Republicans in Contr- — in Congress. 

But, you know, more broadly, Republican elected officials have made
clear that they have a very different vision for healthcare in this
country.  And you can absolutely expect to hear from the President and
Vice President about the broader contrast.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Let’s go to Sarah.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for doing this.  I wanted to ask: One of the main
criticisms from Republicans of these plans has been that the main reason
for high enrollment is subsidies or the premium tax credits that you’re
looking to make permanent in the 2025 budget.  So, how is President
Biden going to respond to that criticism?  And, you know, what would it
do not to have those subsidies extended again in the next year’s budget?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  You know, candidly, I’m not sure
how it is a criticism that President Biden has made healthcare too
affordable for American families.  You know, we are incredibly proud of
the fact that 21.3 million people are enrolled in ACA coverage. 

And a big part of that is because we have made that coverage more
affordable for folks, and we are going to keep — keep standing up for
that affordability and ensure that Americans continue to see those low
premiums and can get access to healthcare they need at a price they can
afford.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Joyce.

Q    Yeah, hi.  Thanks for taking my question.  It sounds like tomorrow
is all about contrasting the Biden administration agenda with the — what
the Republicans are doing.  I’m just clarifying that — are there going
to be any new initiatives announced tomorrow?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I don’t have anything in particular to
preview beyond what is in the factsheet.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Amy with InsideHealthPolicy. 

Q    Yeah.  Hi.  I want to know if — we’ve heard about the — keeping the
a- — the enhanced subsidies and a couple other policies.  But I’m
curious — I’m not hearing public option or turning — changing it from —
changing the benchmark from silver to gold and things like that.  I’m
just curious if those policies that were from a couple years ago are
still in play.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Thanks for that question, Amy. 
The President’s budget for FY ‘25 laid out a clear set of commitments in
healthcare.  It includes extending the enhanced subsidies for Affordable
Care Act coverage; closing the Medicaid coverage gap; making a series of
other changes to make it easier for kids, in particular, to get and keep
health insurance; taking on — taking on junk facility fees; and
continuing to lower drug prices, of course.

And so, that — that’s the — that’s the agenda that the President’s
budget, you know, clearly laid out and that the President and Vice
President will be — will be talking about.  Those are obviously not the
only ideas in health policy that are important to American families and
can lower — can lower healthcare costs. 

But — but that is the — that is the agenda that the White House has
articulated and that you’ll hear from the President and Vice President
about tomorrow.

MODERATOR:  Okay.  Seeing no additional questions, we can wrap the
call. 

As a reminder, this call and the factsheet I sent over are embargoed
until tomorrow at 5:00 a.m. 

If you have additional questions, you can follow up with me directly. 

Thank you, everyone.

5:23 P.M. EDT
