---
date: '2024-03-19'
published_time: 2024-03-19 15:45:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/03/19/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-reno-nv/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Reno,\_NV"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Reno, Nevada

12:01 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Welcome to our three-state trip in two days.
Exciting.

All right. This afternoon, in Las Vegas, the President will double down
on his plan to lower housing costs for American families. Under his
leadership, we have already taken action to lower housing costs and
increase the housing supply by reducing mortgage insurance premiums,
expanding rental assistance, and building tens of thousands of
affordable housing units.

While on the ground, the President will meet directly with everyday
Americans, everyday people who have been able to secure affordable
housing as a result of these investments.

In this state alone, the President’s American Rescue Plan, which every
Republican in Congress voted against, provided $1 billion dollars to
boost affordable housing, lower — lower housing costs, and keep hone- —
homeowners and renters in their homes.

Still, the President knows that more must be done to help American
families who are still struggling with the cost of housing. That’s why
he’s calling on Congress to pass his housing plan, which some of — some
experts are calling the most consequential housing plan in more than 50
years.

The President’s plan would build on the efforts we have already taken to
lower — lower housing costs by providing a $10,000 tax credit for
first-time homebuyers, cracking down on corporate actions that rip off
renters, and building and renovating more than 2 million homes.

Republicans in Congress should pass the President’s plan to lower
housing costs rather than try to cut taxes for the wealthy and large
corporations. And you’ll hear that from the President later today.

With that, Seung Min.

Q Does the White House have a reaction to the spending deal that the
congressional leaders reached? And is the White House satisfied with how
that package approaches DHS funding, in particular?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we put out a statement this morning. You probably
were not able to see it —

Q Probably in flight, yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, in flight — in flight.

So, this agreement on the six remaining funding bills, including DHS —
this agreement abides by the Fiscal Responsibility Act and provides the
remaining agencies with funding through the rest of the fiscal year.

The House and Senate appropriations committees are in the process of
finalizing the text for Congress to review and pass as soon as possible
to keep the government open, and the President will sign it immediately.

Congress must also pass the bipartisan national security supplemental.
As you know, it passed overwhelmingly in the Senate. We want to see the
— the — we want to see the Speaker put that on the floor and — this is —
and — and also the border sec- — border agreement, which also came out
on the Senate — obviously, wasn’t passed out of the Senate because of
politics — politics was put — put in the way of even moving forward the
border agreement — but to provide reforms and funding needed to secure
the border.

And so, we want to see those two — the border — border agreement
negotiations go through the process. And we want to see the national
security supplemental that was passed by 70-29 out of the Senate go to
the floor of — of the House so that we know — we know for a fact that we
would see overwhelming support from the House. We want to see that
movement as soon as possible.

Q And does the administration have any more specifics on when that
meeting with the Israeli officials will take place with the
administration —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So —

Q — when, where, who?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, so, we’re working on scheduling and preparations.
It will likely be early next week, is what we’re anticipating. But
obviously, we’ll let you know more when we have more to share.

Just to give you a little bit of what Jake said yesterday. So, ye- — so,
the President asked Prime Minister to send senior interagency team r- —
composed of military, intelligence, and humanitarian officials to
Washington in the upcoming days, as I said, probably early next week.

As far as who on our side, it’ll be senior members from the
administration acro- — across the administration will participate.

Q Karine, can you give us an update about the peace talks going on in
Qatar today? And also a comment on — the U.N. Human Rights Agency said
that because famine is coming closer or already there in Gaza, that
would be a war crime by Israel. Does the United States view that as
well?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, what I can say is this, as it relates to the
report that we all — all of you has been reporting on. So, we certainly
are deeply concerned about the report yesterday indicating, as you just
stated in your question, about the imminent famine in Gaza. And so, as
the report makes clear, despite ongoing and tireless efforts, including
by this administration, the amount of aid reaching people in Gaza and
particularly those most need — need remains insufficient.

So, we have been clear that there is more that needs to be done and that
this report is a stark and devastating reminder of this.

Everyone needs to do more. Israel needs to provide sustained and un- —
unimpeded access for assistance to enter both Northern and Southern
Gaza. Donors, the international community also need to make sure that
the right type of assistance is getting to the most vulnerable.

Obviously, this is why we’ve been working towards the hostage deal to
make sure that — not only that we get a temporary ceasefire to get those
hostages home — let’s not forget, there are also American hostages that
are being held by Hamas — but also to get that all-important, needed aid
to the — to the Palestinian people in Gaza.

So, we’re continuing to do that work. I know that Jake spoke to this as
well when he was at the — at the podium yesterday. So, we’re going to
continue to push forward and do everything that we can to get that
hostage deal so that we can get more humanitarian aid and, obviously,
get hostages home.

And we’re — we’re up — as you know, we’re increasing our humanitarian
efforts into Gaza with the pier, with the airdrops. And, also, as you
know, we also announced more funding — more humanitarian funding over
the past week or so. So, that is — that is our — and we see that as an
imperative, and we’re going to continue to do that work.

Q And — and specifically on the allegation that Israel is using hunger
as a weapon, which would be considered a war crime?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I — obviously, I can’t speak to that. What I can
speak to is the efforts that we are making to make sure that we’re
getting humanitarian aid into — into Gaza. We’ve had conversations, as
I’ve stated in — earlier, with the Israeli government to — for them also
to do more in getting that humanitarian aid, getting the trucks in —
right? — getting — and doing more, keeping — keeping those — keeping —
keeping that going.

And so, that’s what I can speak to at this time.

Q Karine, Hong — Hong Kong passed its controversial new security law —
Hong Kong.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, Hong Kong. Okay.

Q An- — and I was wondering if you guys had any reaction or if you were
at all concerned about the impact on American businesses that were
operating there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I — I saw that reporting. I haven’t had a chance to
talk to our team yet so — so I can give you a full- — full-throated
answer. So, I’m going to have to go back. But I saw that this morning. I
just haven’t had a chance to have the conversation.

Q One other one on Ukraine. There have been a series of Ukrainian
attacks on Russian energy facilities that are processing oil. Is that a
concern that the U.S. has, that it could potentially lead to higher
global oil prices? And is that something that you’ve conveyed to the
Ukrainians?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, the President has done everything that he can
to deal with — to deal with oil. Obviously, lowing down — lowering — the
actions that he took led to lowering gas prices. So, we’re — we’re
always monitoring. We’re always watching. I don’t have anything specific
on — on what could potentially happen in that particular incident. But,
obviously, this is something that we monitor and keep —

Q Karine, on Ukraine. There’s been some talk among Republicans about
possibly making aid to them a loan. What is the White House’s thoughts
on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look — and I just said this moments ago: The House
needs to pass the bipartisan national security supplemental. That’s what
we need to see. We saw it come out of the Senate — again, I just said
this earlier — 70 to 29. It is imperative that gets done.

Ukraine needs — needs the assistance. We have to continue our commitment
to the brave people of Ukraine as they’re fighting and doing everything
that they can to fight for their democracy. So, we got to — the Speaker
has to bring it to the floor. He has to put politics aside. We know what
happens when you don’t — when we don’t stop a dictator, when we don’t
address tyranny.

And so, that’s what we’re going to continue to call for. And we’re going
to stay steadfast on that.

Q In a — in a new book, former Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer
expresses his concern about the direction of the Supreme Court. A new
article in The Atlantic also calls for Justice Sonia Sotomayor to
retire. Where does the White House stand, kind of, in a post-Dobbs world
on Supreme Court reform? And has the White House considered asking
Justice Sotomayor to retire?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, that’s a personal decision for her to make. That
is something that — (laughs) — that she has to make. It’s not something
that we make — we — we lean in on or get involved in. So, I’m not even
going to address that — that question.

As it relates to the Supreme Court, look, we saw  
what happened with Dobbs — the Dobbs decision. We saw, with that
decision, it led to Republicans introducing three national — national
abortion bans. And that has caused — because of the Dobb’s decision,
because of the overturning of Roe v. Wade, it’s caused chaos.

You’ve heard us talk about IVF, how now there’s legislation — we saw
legislation in Alabama to take away the right for a family to make a
decision — right? — for — you know, for a couple or for an individual to
make a decision on when to start a family. And that’s because of the
chaos that — overturning Roe v. Wade.

And so, the Supreme Court made that decision. It was very clear what the
last President said. He wanted to put — put together a Supreme Court
that would do that, that would overturn Roe v. Wade. And so, we’ve seen
their action. We’ve seen it with affirmative action, what they’ve been
able to do there.

And so, I think that speaks — their actions speak for themselves. I’m
just not going to go beyond that.

Q Karine, Chef José Andrés was pretty critical of the President’s
efforts to get humanitarian aid and specifically food on the ground in
Gaza. This is a person who obviously works to feed people all over the
world, and he said the efforts from the White House weren’t enough, the
maritime direction wasn’t the best way to go.

Who is the White House working with on the ground to get that sense of
what the best way forward is to feed people in Gaza?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, as you know, there are organizations on the
ground — right? — that — that we work with and that we know are — are
helping and assisting getting more aid to — to Palestinians in —
Palestinian citizens in Gaza. So, that is obviously a way that — that we
have seen that process go.

Look, we have upped our — we’ve upped what we’ve been trying to do in
getting more aid — more humanitarian aid into Gaza. We believe a mar- —
the maritime — the pier is one way to do that. The airdrops is another
way to do that. We are doing everything that we can to get that hostage
deal.

We understand what’s happening in Gaza. There’s a humanitarian crisis
that innocent Palestinians are dealing with, and so, obviously, we take
— we’re very concerned about that. And we’re going to do everything that
we can to continue those efforts.

We know we need to up our efforts. And so, that’s why you’ve heard us
almost every week announcing new ways to do that.

We have to get this hostage deal. We are — we are doing — working 24/7,
leaning in, and trying to make sure that we get that — get that hostage
deal, so that we have a temporary ceasefire so that we can — we can get
that all-important aid into — into Gaza. So, that’s been a — very much a
big focus, as well as getting American — American hostages and hostages,
obviously, back home to their friends and families.

Q Did you guys see the statement from the chef? Do you have a specific
reaction?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I did not see the statement.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I can speak to is our efforts here. And we’ve been
pretty consistent. You know, we’ve been talking about ways that we’re
trying to make sure that we get that aid in. We understand what the
crisis that’s going on in — in Gaza. We see it, you know, and — and we
want to do everything that we can to get that aid in.

And so, you’ve heard from USAID. You’ve heard from the State Department.
Sec- — Secre- — Secretary Blinken right now is in the region, which is
important — having important, critical diplomatic conversation. That’s
going to include humanitarian aid.

And so, the President and his team has been really, really focused on
that — that approach as well: getting humanitarian aid into Gaza.

Q We’re heading to a couple of border states. In Arizona and in Texas,
they’re considering laws that would essentially make officers able to
arrest undocumented immigrants they suspect crossed to the state
illegally. Is there more that the White House can do to prevent these
states from essentially setting up their own immigration enforcement
laws?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, I’ve — I’ve mentioned this multiple times
already. We got to get that border supp- — that border deal — that
border security deal done. We need to provide DHS with more funding,
more — with more resources to actually deal with the challenges at the
border.

And so, that has been our focus. Let’s not forget, this se- — this —
this border security deal was a bipartisan deal that came out of the
Senate — Republicans, Democrats. It took us months to get the — to get
us there.

The President directed his — his team to work with them. And — and we
were able to get something done that was supported by the Border Patrol
union, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. This is something that you don’t
see in this type of political discourse. Right? And we were able to get
that done.

Now, Republicans blocked it because of politics, because of the former
President. And if we want to be where a majority of Americans are —
wanting to deal with the immigration system, wanting to deal with the
challenges of the border — we got to get this done.

And so that’s our answer there: We want to move forward. We think that
the Senate and the House need to — need to get that done. We have — we
have a deal. We have a negotiation that took months to get done — months
to get done that will actually address this issue or start the process.

It — if it is put into law, it would be the toughest and the fairest
immigration border security deal that we have seen in years. And so,
that’s what the President has been — continued to — to speak to, and
that’s what we want to see.

Q Going back to the loan question. I mean, obviously, I know the White
House’s preference is for that supplemental to pass the House. But is
the loan option something that the administration has researched,
whether it’s OMB or elsewhere, whether it’s even possible or workable in
the way that some Republicans have been discussing it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, rather than go back to basics, we’re — we don’t —
we want to see — we want to see —

(A reporter picks up a binder tab and returns it to Ms. Jean-Pierre.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Is that mine? Oh, my gosh. Thank you so much. My tab.
(Laughter.)

We want see the bipartisan — the bipartisan nat- –national — national
security supplemental. We — we don’t want to go back to basics. That’s
not what we want to see, and time is running out.

We’ve talked about this over and over again. You’ve heard from Jake.
You’ve heard from my colleagues at NSC. You know, we see that Ukraine —
because of the inaction of Congress over the last couple of months,
Ukraine is actually losing ground in the battlefield. And it is, you
know, due to our inaction.

And so, they’re fighting for their sovereignty. They’re fighting for
their democracy. And we know what it means if we don’t get involved
here, if we don’t stop a dictator. You know, they’re fighting against a
tyrant. And so, that is the best way to deal with what — to give Ukraine
what they need is to get that national supplemental passed.

And we know — we know for a fact that there are multiple Republican
congressional members in the House who have said that they would vote
for it if it goes to the floor. We know where Democrats are on this. So,
overwhelming support. The Speaker has to put it to the floor and not put
— and not get — let politics get in the way.

Q Karine, former President Barack Obama was at 10 Downing Street
yesterday. Did he give the White House a heads-up on that meeting? And
do you know what he discussed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, yes, we were aware in advance of the meeting, and
President Biden’s — Pre- — pardon me, Presid- — President Obama’s team
reached out to the White House ahead of the meeting.

But as we — and I think it’s been reported that this was an informal
courtesy call conducted by a private citizen in his personal capacity.
It’s — it’s not our — it’s not our conversation to speak to. We leave it
to the pres- — the — President Obama and his personal office to speak
to. But yes, obviously, we were given a heads up.

Q When was the last time President Biden and President Obama spoke?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have a call to read out to all of you. But as
you know, they’re close; they’re like family. They speak regularly. And
just don’t have anything — don’t have anything else to share.

All right —

Q Karine, the admin- — the administration is announcing that it is soft-
— is softening fuel economy standards, which will slow the — slow the
transition to electric vehicles. Is there any concern in the White House
that that will make it harder for President Biden to achieve his overall
climate goals?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, we don’t have any concerns. Look, the President is
really proud of the historic piece of legislation that he was able to
get done as it relates to electric vehicles. Obviously, the Inflation
Reduction Act is a part of that. The bipartisan infrastructure
legislation is a part of that. And so, we’re — we’re going to stay
really focused on — on the goal ahead. But no, we don’t have  
concerns.

Q But is the — the need to, sort of, be less stringent with the fuel
economy standards an acknowledgement that the infrastructure just isn’t
there yet and that the demand just isn’t there yet for EVs?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, the Infla- — the Inflation Reduction Act
was so critical and important because it was the — it was the most
comprehensive piece of legislation — now, law, obviously — to deal with
climate change. And the Pre- — the President is certainly focused on
that. It is a — he called it, when he walked in, part of one of the four
crises that we had to deal with not just as a cou- — a country but as a
— the world — right? — which is the climate change crisis.

So, look, we know with these types of things it takes — it takes time.
And we understand that, but we’re still going to stay committed to our
goals.

Q The White House (inaudible) said the President would sign legislation
to force ByteDance to sell TikTok. But has the President spoken with
senators to ask them to vote for the bill? And is the White House
encouraging the Senate to move on this quickly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we’ve encour- — we — we welcome the bill. We’ve
said that. We’ve said that before — it — while it was going through the
House, when it came out of the House. This is a divestment. This is not
about banning TikTok. That’s how we see this bill, how — that’s how it’s
written.

And so, obviously, we have provided technical support for — for this
legislation. It’s in the Senate now. The Senate is — is taking a look at
it.

I don’t have any calls to read out that the President has had with any
members of the Senate or Congress or congressional members on this
particular piece of legislation. But, look, we welcome it. We think it’s
important to this — this legislation — this is a divestment bill, not a
ban. And so, I’ll just leave it there.

All right.

Q I think when you first spoke to the TikTok legislation at the
briefing, you mentioned the legal issues that the White House had raised
and were working out with the sponsors. Have those technical issues,
legal issues been fixed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I — I don’t have an update for you on that.
Obviously, we think that’s important, right? And we’re providing those
technical assistance, as I just mentioned. I just don’t have an update
on where they are in that process.

But it’s in the Senate. The Senate is looking at it. We welcome the
bill. We think it’s important to deal — to deal with the — to — and I
think this is something that the National Security Advisor said — right?
— just last week, which is we — it — it is incredibly important to know
where data lives — where privacy data — where American data lives. Does
it live here or does it live in China? Right? When we talk about
ownership, is ownership here or is ownership in China?

And we want to make sure that — that we’re able to protect — it’s about
national security, right? — protect that data. And so, that’s what
you’re seeing.

It’s a divestment; it’s not a ban. And so, we are providing technical
support.

Now, it’s in the Senate. And so, we’ll let it — we’ll let that process
move forward.

Don’t have anything else to share.

Okay. Thanks, everybody.

Q Thank you.

12:22 P.M. EDT
