---
date: '2024-03-14'
published_time: 2024-03-14 17:15:48-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/03/14/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-5/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL  
Via Teleconference

11:50 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks again for bearing with us this
morning.  Kirby has no toppers, so we’ll go straight into your
questions. 

Our first question will go to Aamer with the AP.

Q    Hey, thank you very much.  Two quick news-of-the-day questions, and
then I just had one also — a short one that’s like things sort of
emerging into next week. 

But on the news of the day, does the President agree with Leader Schumer
that Netanyahu has lost his way and that it’s time to hold new elections
in Israel?

And secondly, on the TikTok development, does the White House view this
emerging Steve Mnuchin effort as a possible solution to the national
security issues with the platform?

And then finally, there’s this bipartisan group of senators that wrote a
letter to leadership this week, and it’s waving red flags on the Afghan
SIV issue with the March 22nd government funding deadline.  What is the
administration doing to make sure this gets done?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Look, we know that Leader Schumer feels strongly about
this.  I’ll certainly let him speak to it and to his comments. 

We’re going to stay focused on making sure that Israel has what it needs
to defend itself while doing everything that they can to avoid civilian
casualties.  And of course, we’re still focused — laser-focused on
trying to get a temporary ceasefire in place so that we can get the
hostages out and get more aid in.  That’s where our head is right now. 

I don’t have any information on the Mnuchin effort you’re speaking to,
Aamer.  I don’t have any context on that.  We’re still focused on
continuing to work, providing some technical support and assistance to
Congress as this bill, which just passed the House, moves on to the
Senate.  There’s an ongoing legislative process for that.  We obviously
want to see the Senate take it up swiftly.  And we’re focused on making
sure we’re providing them the context and the information we believe is
important so that this bill can actually do and address the national
security concerns that we have with respect to TikTok.

But I’ll tell you what I’ll do, since I didn’t have anything on yet for
the Mnuchin effort you spoke to, but I will take that question, and
we’ll have the team take a look and see if we can get you something a
little bit more cogent than what I just gave you. 

And, look, on Afghan SIVs, I think, as you know, we project that all
7,000 remaining Afghan SIV numbers are going to be exhausted by August
of this year, so the end of the summer, at the current rates that
they’re being issued.  So that’s why we requested from Congress an
increase of 20,000 SIVs, which would provide a visa for all individuals
with a demonstrated eligibility for the program.  And so we’re going to
continue to urge Congress to move forward on that.

Even though our war in Afghanistan ended, our commitment to Afghans and
our commitment to those who helped us in that war has not ended.  And we
absolutely feel fully committed, and morally so, to do everything we can
to get those folks a pathway out of Afghanistan.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Steve with
Reuters.

Q    Hey, John.  Welcome back.  Since you mentioned the hostage deal,
give us an update on where things stand with that.  Are there any active
negotiations going on right now?  Getting any movement from Hamas on
that front?

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, Steve.  I wish I had some tangible progress to speak
to.  I don’t.  But I can clearly state that discussions and
conversations are ongoing.  We are a part of those discussions and those
conversations.  And we’re still hopeful that we will be able to get
there.  But I don’t have an update for you.

Q    And secondly, the U.S. is imposing sanctions on several individuals
related to settlement activity in the West Bank.  Why were these people
specifically chosen for the sanctions?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, these three individuals and two entities were
sanctioned because they own or control — I’m sorry, sanctioned three
individuals and two associated entities that are owned or controlled by
those individuals.  That’s what this was about.

These individuals have engaged in repeated violence against Palestinians
and, in some cases, Israelis too, in the West Bank.  And as we made
clear before, extremist settler violence that we’ve seen increase
sharply since the attacks on the 7th of October threatens peace,
security, and stability of the West Bank. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Karen with the
Washington Post.

Q    Hi.  On the attack — the IDF attack on the UNRWA facility in Rafah
yesterday, I wonder how concerned you are about Israel openly targeting
either Hamas or police in Rafah at a U.N. facility that is key to
resolving the aid issues that you’ve outlined in the south and whether
you have any more information on this person who was targeted.

Separately, there’s a report that the Israelis — that the United States
is aware of plans that Israel has to relocate people in the south in
order to proceed with their Rafah offensive.  I know Jake said yesterday
that the United States had not seen any plans.  And I wonder if, in
fact, you’ve seen anything.

And finally — sorry, I have one more.  There was another report
yesterday that the United States this year has held talks on two
occasions, with Iran and Oman, over both the Houthi strikes and the
nuclear situation, and I wonder if you could comment on that.  Thank
you. 

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Karen.  Lots there. 

So, on the strike at an UNRWA distribution facility, we’re very
concerned about that strike that apparently killed and wounded
civilians.  What I can tell you is that we are in touch with our Israeli
counterparts.  We’re trying to gather some more information about
exactly what happened. 

Obviously, we offer our deepest condolences to all those who were
affected by it.  And we have called for a swift investigation by the
Israelis into exactly what happened.  And as I said, we are and we’ll
stay in touch with them to get more information, but we want to see a
swift and thorough investigation as to exactly what happened here. 

And I would just reiterate: Again, we certainly understand, respect, and
support Israel’s right to defend itself and to go after Hamas leaders,
but we’ve also been clear that they have to do this in a way that
protects innocent civilian lives and humanitarian aid workers who are on
the ground to protect those innocent civilian lives.  We want to see
them do everything they can to differentiate between civilians and
Hamas. 

And again, I don’t have anything more — or more information about the
high-value target that they said that they were going after.  The
Israelis can speak to that.  Again, they certainly have a right and
responsibility to go after Hamas leaders, but they also have an
obligation, as we have said many, many times, to protect innocent
civilian life and particularly to protect those who are trying to
provide lifesaving humanitarian assistance to those more than a million
individuals who are trying to seek refuge down in Rafah. 

And that brings me to your second question.  We’ve seen the reports that
they have plans to relocate people out of Rafah into what they’re
referring to as sort of humanitarian islands inside Gaza.  We haven’t
seen those plans; I’ve seen press reporting of it.  We can’t confirm
that that is, in fact, a plan that they have.  We’ve not seen that.  But
again, our position has not changed.  We do not want to see large-scale
operations in Rafah that don’t — unless there is a credible, legitimate,
executable plan to provide for the safety and security of the civilians
that are there. 

On Iran, I can’t confirm the reports that you’re referring to.  What I
can say, just in general, is that we have many channels for
communicating with Iran and for passing messages to Iran.  Again, I will
comment on those, except to say that all of these discussions are
focused on raising the full range of threats that are emanating from
Iran and the need for Iran to cease its escalation across the board in
the region and the support that they are providing to various groups
that are doing everything they can to undermine peace and security.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Molly with ABC.

Q    Hi, Admiral.  Thank you so much.  ABC News spoke with a senior
Israeli official who said that the U.S. is slow-walking supplies of
ammunitions into Israel and that the pressure is enough that it’s not
putting them under threat but it is putting them on notice.  Does the
administration have any response to this?

MR. KIRBY:  I would just tell you we continue to provide Israel with the
tools, the capabilities, the weapons systems that they need to defend
themselves.  And the President has spoken to this.  He spoke — he’s
spoken about it numerous times in just recent days.  They have a right
and responsibility to defend themselves.  We’re continuing to provide
them that critical support.  In fact, as I think you know, we surged air
defenses to them in the wake of the October 7th attack.  And I’ll just
leave it at that.

Q    Can you speak at all to the speed at which we’re providing them
though?  Has it slowed down?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get into the timeline for every individual
system that’s being provided.  We continue to support Israel with their
self-defense needs.  That’s not going to change.  And we have been very,
very direct about that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Jordan with
Bloomberg.  Jordan, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    I have a few questions on the statement the President made on U.S.
Steel.  Were the Japanese given a heads-up that the President would be
releasing a statement opposing the deal? 

And how does the President plan to ease any tensions with Tokyo,
especially given the upcoming state dinner? 

And thirdly, wondering if you can clarify if the statement means that
the President wants a Nippon Steel transaction to die or does he think
it can be changed.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I don’t have any diplomatic conversations to speak to
with respect to your first question. 

We have an incredibly close partnership, friendship, and alliance with
Japan.  And the President is very much looking forward to Prime Minister
Kishida’s visit and to discussing the broad range of issues in our
bilateral relationship, whether they be diplomatic, economic, or even in
the security front.  There’s an awful lot to talk about, an awful lot to
explore. 

The alliance with Japan is stronger than it’s ever been, and it’s a real
keystone to peace and security in the Indo-Pacific.  So we’re looking
forward to that visit, and we believe it’s going to be a very, very
productive one at that. 

And, I’m sorry, you had your third question, which I did not write down
and therefore did not remember.

Q    No problem.  Can you clarify whether the President wants the Nippon
Steel purchase of U.S. Steel to die, or does he believe it can be
changed to satisfy the conditions you laid out in his statement?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I’m not going go beyond what he said in his
statement.  I mean, as he said, he has the back of American steel
workers, and he’s committed to iconic American steel companies remaining
in American hands.  And I think I’ll just leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Danny with AFP.

Q    Thanks, Admiral.  A couple of things from the other side of the
Atlantic.  The first one is about an ally of Navalny, who was apparently
attacked in Lithuania.  Lithuania has blamed Russian secret services for
that.  Just wondering if you have any — if you’ve got any read on that
or any details. 

And the second question is just about the Netherlands, where the
far-right leader, Geert Wilders, says he’s not going to stand for prime
minister anymore.  Just wondering if there’s any reaction to that
far-right figure dropping out of the picture.  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, on the second question, I’m certainly not going to
speak to domestic political issues in the Netherlands.  We’ll let that
individual speak for himself and for his decision-making. 

On your first question: Yeah, we are very, very concerned about this
attack on Leonid Volkov.  As you all know, he has been a longtime
associate — or was a longtime associate of Mr.  Navalny, and certainly
has been outspoken in his criticism of the Kremlin.  Just terrible,
terrible, brutal reports coming out about the attack on him by an
individual wielding a hammer.  Just incredible violence.  We certain
wish him the best for a speedy recovery. 

While we can’t — don’t have much more detail on who did it and the
motivation behind it, or any additional context with respect to the
actual act itself, it is, I think, a reminder — and it should serve to
all of us as a reminder — of the very real threats that civil society
members in Russia face on a daily basis.  It certainly underscores the
danger and the peril that they face just for the simple act of speaking
out in opposition.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nick Schifrin with
PBS.  Nick, you should be able to — oh, there you go. 

Q    Thanks, Sam.  Thanks, John.  Questions.  First, a clarification on
the previous question that Steve asked about the sanctions.  John, can
you just confirm one basic fact that this is the first time an actual
outpost has been sanctioned rather than just people?  Just wanted to
clarify that.

And then, Gaza humanitarian.  What have you seen in the last day or so
in terms of Israel’s opening up an additional gate in the north?  How
significant is that?  Are you seeing enough trucks that you’ve been
hoping to see? 

And do you believe there’s any progress being made on a crucial question
that Israel doesn’t seem to have the answer for, at least not publicly,
which is how trucks are going to be secured?  Are you working with
Israel on that?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  So just to be clear — and if I wasn’t, I apologize — the
outposts themselves are not what’s being sanctioned.  The individuals
and the entities that those individuals own are what’s being sanctioned,
not the outposts themselves. 

On Gaza: You’re right, the Israelis did open up a new crossing; they
call it the 96th Gate, which is geographically closer to northern Gaza. 
As you know, Kerem Shalom is way down at the south there.  And that’s
something that we’ve been pushing for.  There have been — and we would
call — we would call it minimal amounts of aid getting through the 96th
Gate so far.  And, you know, today we saw some slow-rolling of movement
overnight.  So, nothing actually got in overnight.  

But at other crossings, there’s been some improvement.  Too early to
tell if we’ve been able to commit to the improving flow — I’m sorry, if
the Israelis have committed to improving the flow of assistance. 

But again, just in the aggregate, Nick, not enough is getting in. 

Q    Sorry, can you just clarify why nothing got in overnight?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I think we’re seeing just, I guess, not as much
effort being applied by the Israeli side to increase that flow. 

And I want to go back on my original answer to you.  The outposts are,
in fact, being sanctioned because they are owned by sanctioned
individuals.  I was incorrect on that.  So the outposts were designated,
but they were designated due to their ownership or control by designated
individuals. 

I apologize for the error, and I’m grateful for the opportunity to clean
it up.

Q    Got it.  So the entity referred to, that is the outpost itself?

MR. KIRBY:  Yes.

Q    Got it.  Okay, thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Apologize for the confusion. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Serena with Scripps
News.

Q    Oh, thank you, guys, for doing this.  I was wondering, Admiral, if
you could give us an update.  Israel reportedly set a deadline with
Hezbollah to come to a diplomatic agreement for tomorrow.  And
Hezbollah’s leader has said they’re going to continue fighting.  Is
there any update you can give us on what’s happening in the north and
concerns over the conflict spreading wider?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any update on this deadline that you’re talking
about.  We can take that and come back after the gaggle is over. 

But we have continued to see exchanges or blows from both sides up
there.  And as I think you know, Amos Hochstein has been engaged
diplomatically with leaders on both sides to see what we can do to keep
it from escalating.  I would say that we haven’t seen a dramatic
escalation of the violence up there or something that leads us to
believe that a quote, unquote, “second front” is about to open up.  But
it’s not something we’re taking for granted.  And as I said, we’re
actively engaged diplomatically with leaders from both sides here to
avoid that outcome. 

But as for the deadline and where that sits, and whether we have an
assessment of that, I’ll have to take that and come back to you.

Q    And, Admiral, can I ask a second question?  On Haiti, just, can you
give us an update on the situation and what you’re watching for?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, watching it very, very, very closely.  It remains a
challenging environment.  The violence has been increasing, not
decreasing, as well as the instability.  And of course, the Haitian
people are the ones that are suffering as a result.  So that’s why we
felt positive about the outcomes of the meeting in Jamaica, which was
led by dozens of Haitian stakeholders, all designed to create an
inclusive, transitional presidential council. 

And I think — one point I’d like to make: It was a meeting facilitated
by CARICOM and certainly supported by lots of our international partners
— Brazil, Canada, France, Mexico, even the United Nations.  And of
course, we were involved. 

It was a Haitian-led meeting, and it was — and the decisions and the
outcomes were derived at by Haitians.  And so we think that’s very, very
positive.  And it’s an important message to make sure we continue to
reiterate. 

In addition to us participating in that, I think you saw that Secretary
Blinken announced an additional $100 million for support for the
Multinational Security Support Mission and an additional $33 million for
humanitarian assistance. 

So we’re going to keep working really, really hard with our
international partners to move this idea of a Multinational Security
Support Mission forward, which would be led by Kenya.  And we’re doing
everything we can to try to accelerate that deployment in support of the
Haitian National Police. 

So there’s still a lot of work to do.  The situation on the ground is
still not safe, not tenable for the Haitian people.  We recognize that,
our international partners recognize that, and Haitian leaders recognize
that. 

So there’s been some good progress on the diplomatic front.  Certainly
good progress from the United States on the economic support front.  But
we have a lot more work to do to get this Multinational Security Support
Mission up and running and on the ground to assist the Haitian National
Police.

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  Our next question will go to Gordon with
the Wall Street Journal.

Q    Hey, John.  I wanted to follow up on Nick’s questions a little bit
about the aid inside. 

One is: Are there other specific gates that you guys are proposing the
Israelis open to get aid in?  But then, kind of on this practical issue
of vehicles and trucks inside Gaza that can distribute the aid, can you
update us on efforts to essentially get more trucks inside Gaza to
distribute the aid?  And then anything you can add more about the
security of those trucks once they get in there?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, so — I mean, there are other crossings into Gaza that
we are talking to the Israelis about opening and using.  Again, we were
glad to see that the 96th Gate opened up.  We’d like to see it get used
a little bit more than it has been. 

We have seen an increase in trucks that are, in general, being applied
to the crossings and, you know, just across the board, but not enough. 
So there’s been a general increase, not at the 96th Gate, but if you
look at Rafah and Kerem Shalom.  But it just hasn’t been enough. 

The airdrops, as you know, have continued.  They are helping to
supplement, but they’re not going to be as good as trucks can be.  And
it’s hard to — one of the reasons why it’s so important to get this
temporary ceasefire in place is because it’s hard for truck drivers and
for the aid organizations that are supporting the truck drivers to get
the material from the crossings to where they need to go for
distribution because of the combat, because of the violence.  And that
is why we are working so hard on this temporary ceasefire, because with
a stoppage in the fighting, it’ll make it a lot easier for these trucks
to get where they need to go. 

Q    But just to clarify real quick, I visited Rafah recently and saw
all these trucks, but my understanding is those trucks that are all
lined up — the thousands of trucks — are not the same as the ones that
would go into Gaza because they would do, like, transfers of stuff.  But
you’re saying you — your understanding is you’re helping to obtain more
trucks for inside Gaza to do the distribution?

MR. KIRBY:  No, I’m not aware of any effort to do that.  And that’s not
what I meant to convey.  Certainly, it’s always been the case that — in
some cases, for some of the aid and, depending on where it’s going,
there’s transfers from the trucks that go in across to other trucks that
can move it inside Gaza. 

But I’m not aware of any effort that we’re undertaking to provide
physical vehicles — additional physical vehicles inside Gaza.  I’ll go
back and check on this to make sure I’m not wrong, but I don’t think
that we’ve got an active effort to actually man- — or to procure or to
provide additional distribution trucks inside — for use inside Gaza. 

When I talked about the increase of trucks, I was talking about the
trucks making the crossings.  And there has been an increase in the last
week or so in general — not, as I said, through the 96th Gate.  But in
general, there’s been an increase, but it’s not enough.  I mean, it’s
just several hundred, and it’s just not enough.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Michael with
McClatchy.

Q    Hi there.  Thanks for doing this.  There’s a vote underway in the
Senate to confirm Dennis Hankins as ambassador to Haiti.  I just wanted
your reaction to that vote.  It’s been about three years since the last
ambassador was there. 

And then secondly, John, you obviously spoke to your efforts to expedite
the MSS.  But in the interim, what are you providing, if you can provide
any details, to the HNP for them to sustain the fight against these
gangs until the MSS can be deployed?  Are you providing ammunition? 
What other assistance are you providing?

MR. KIRBY:  On your first question, obviously, we certainly urge a swift
confirmation for Mr. <s>Jenkins</s> \[Hankins\] as our ambassador to
Haiti.  This is a critical time to make sure that we have an ambassador
in place, and we certainly urgently need him in place.  And again, we’re
working with our partners on Capitol Hill to get him confirmed as soon
as possible.  We certainly hope that that vote proceeds swiftly and in
the affirmative. 

On your second question about the HNP, I know we are continuing to talk
to Haitian leaders about their needs and about the HNP’s needs.  I don’t
have any announcements to make or anything to preview for you, but we’re
mindful that the HNP is doing critical work and has come under attack. 
And we’re in close discussion with our Haitian counterparts and
international partners about the HNP’s readiness and sustainability. 

Quite frankly, that is another reason why this MSS mission is so
important, because it would really be, as it says, a security support
mission supporting the HNP.  It is the main muscle movement that we’re
looking hopefully to get in place soon to do exactly that — to bolster
and support the HNP’s efforts.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Kelly O with NBC.

Q    Hey there.  I wanted to go back to the first question, if I could,
that Aamer asked.   Was there any advance notice from Senator Schumer
about his remarks?  Or did the White House in any way approve what he
said?  I know they’re co-equal branches of government, but was there any
coordination there regarding his comments about Prime Minister
Netanyahu?

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, Kelly.  He did give our team advance notice.  And I
apologize to Aamer if I did not answer that question.  But we did have
advance notice that he was going to deliver those remarks. 

And again, we fully respect his right to make those remarks and to
decide for himself what he’s going to say on the Senate floor.  We
obviously feel strongly about this.  We understand and respect that. 
This wasn’t about approval or disapproval or editing in any way.  But it
was — but he did give us a heads-up that he was going to do it. 

Q    And if I may, just for time — my colleague Gabe Gutierrez is in the
Dominican Republic, and I know there’s been some reporting that Haitian
refugees might be processed through Guantanamo.  I wonder if you could
comment on that.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I’ve seen that.  What I can tell you on that, Kelly,
is that — if you can just give me a second, because I had a feeling this
question may come up. 

There’s a Department of Homeland Security task force called Task Force
Southeast.  And that task force continually watches and monitors migrant
flow rates and all the different conditions under which migrants do flow
in that particular part of the world, down in the Caribbean.  And
particularly, they watch closely maritime migration trends, people that
are trying to flee to safety by boat. 

So we’re always monitoring that.  We adjust — they adjust their assets
to meet the challenges that come with maritime migration.  And in doing
that, they’re always looking at different options to try to address the
challenges that maritime migration might incur. 

So it’s our policy to return non-citizens who do not have a fear of
persecution or torture or legal basis to enter the United States.  That
won’t change.  Those that are interdicted at sea will be subject to
immediate repatriation pursuant to, again, longstanding policy and
procedure. 

There has been — in the past, one processing location for maritime
migrants has been the Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay.  It has been used
in the past for that exact purpose, for repatriation processing.  It
certainly remains an option to look at for, again, that eventuality. 
But I don’t have anything firm and I don’t have any concrete plans here
to speak to.

I think it’s important for people to remember the context here — that
maritime migration remains a challenge in the Caribbean.  We have to
monitor it.  We have to assess the flow. We have to do the proper
repatriation processes.  And, again, Guantanamo Bay has been used in the
past for that.  And so we’ll certainly keep the options open as we
continue to look at that. 

I would tell you though — the last thing I’ll say, and I promise I’ll
shut up — is that we’re not seeing a heavy flow of Haitian migrants,
certainly by sea — actually, by any means right now.  We’re just not
seeing a heavy flow of that. 

But because the situation is not getting better, because we know it’s
dangerous and unstable for the Haitian people, it would be irresponsible
if DHS and the interagency wasn’t taking a look at what we might do
should that flow dramatically increase and how we would properly handle
individuals that might be seeking to flee.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will — sorry, our next
question will go to Nadia.  Nadia, you should be able to unmute
yourself.

Q    Yeah, I did.  I did.  Hi.  Hi, Sam.  Hi, John.  The Israeli Defense
Minister said that for those who doubt that we go into Rafah, I will
tell you, you will see soon.  So how serious do you take his statement?

And second, on building the pier in Gaza, will the Israelis be involved
in building or controlling or distribution?

And also, an NGO like World Central Kitchen has managed to deliver
750,000 meals a day to people in Gaza.  And the U.S. government hopes
that they will provide 2 million meals a day in two months.  So where do
you see the disparity here?

And finally, if you allow me, on TikTok: There was some leaked tapes of
pro-Israeli group pushing to ban TikTok because it has unfiltered videos
of Palestinian children and women killed in Gaza.  And they believe this
is — it’s reaching youth worldwide, especially in the United States.  So
are you aware of this?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware of the last thing you said.  As I want to just
stress, our national security concerns about TikTok have to do with its
ownership by a Chinese company.  It is not about First Amendment,
freedom of speech, or the content itself.  It’s about divestiture.  It’s
about the ownership of apps like TikTok. 

Let me go back to your top here.  On Rafah, I won’t speak for the
Israeli military and what their plans are.  They have said repeatedly
and consistently that they want to conduct operations in Rafah to go
after remaining Hamas leaders and Hamas military units.  They have every
right and responsibility to protect their people against those threats,
and we recognize that. 

That said, nothing has changed about our concerns that we would not
support such an operation unless or until they can properly account for
the safety and security of the more than 1 million people that are
seeking refuge in Rafah, that sought refuge in Rafah as a result of
operations in Khan Younis and, weeks before that, in Gaza City.  They
have that obligation, and we’re going to continue to talk to them about
that.  That’s still critical to us. 

On the temporary pier in Gaza, there is a lot of work being done right
now, largely by the Department of Defense and some of our allies and
partners, to move not only the infrastructure itself, the temporary pier
and its components, but also to get humanitarian assistance and ships
with humanitarian assistance moving in the right direction so that we
can use that pier as quickly as possible. 

But there’s an awful lot of work that has to be done to get all the
pieces in place and to begin the construction of this temporary pier. 
And we are still working with allies and partners about all the
particulars and the modalities of how exactly the operational component
of it will — actually, that sounds like gobbledygook.  We’re still
working with allies and partners about how we will safely operate and
use the pier to support the people in Gaza in terms of how the material
will flow to the pier, how the material will flow from the pier, and we
can make sure it gets to the people that are most in need and get there
in a safe and secure way. 

That’s a much better, more English way of putting it. 

But we’re still working our way through that. 

And I did not — your third question about meals per month.  Can you
repeat that?  Because I don’t think I quite understood it.

Q    Yeah, sure.  My understanding is an NGO, like World Central
Kitchen, has been able to deliver 750,000 meals daily to Gaza, and
they’re building something similar to a pier.  And my question to you,
John, is: Your plan is to deliver, as the Secretary said yesterday, 2
million meals a day in two months.  So how come an NGO with little
resources are able to deliver it now, and the U.S. government needs two
more months to deliver 2 million, which is, you know, not far away from
almost like 750,000 (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I can’t speak to the reports by the NGO.  Certainly,
they can speak to their capacity and their capability.  I’m in no
position to judge one way or the other.

We welcome the contributions of everybody and anyone that is willing to
get food, water, medicine to people in need in Gaza.  So we commend
their efforts.  I’ll let them speak to their capacity.  All I can do is
speak to our capacity and what we’re trying to get done.  You’ve heard
the Secretary talk about that.  And we’ll see where it goes. 

And obviously, as we have since the beginning here, we will continue to
push and prod to get more humanitarian assistance in as much as
possible.  It’s why we started doing airdrops — not to replace the
trucks, but to supplement the trucks.  It’s why we’re talking about a
temporary pier to supplant — not to supplant, but to support efforts by
other partners, including NGOs, to get humanitarian assistance in.

Look, more is more.  And right now, more is better.  And so, again, we
applaud the efforts of everyone who’s trying to get more in to the
people of Gaza, and that includes our own efforts as well.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Yuna with Israel
Channel 12.   Yuna, you should be able to unmute yourself.  There you
go.

Q    Hi.  Thank you, John.  Thank you for doing this.  Following up also
on Rafah, you’ve said before that the U.S. hasn’t seen any programs or
anything that would suggest that there is something that would allow
moving the civilian population, the evacuation.  Has that changed?  Has
the U.S. government seen any plans of that sort?  Has that changed the
U.S. perspective on this?

MR. KIRBY:  No and no. 

Q    Have you asked?  Was there a refusal to show these kind of plans? 
I’m kind of wondering where it stands.

MR. KIRBY:  No, I know of no refusal to show any plans.  As I said
earlier in the gaggle, we’ve seen the press reporting that the Israelis
have — that the IDF spokesman said that they’ve got a plan to move — or
they’re working on a plan to move Gazans into what they call
humanitarian islands.  I can’t speak to those plans.  I’m not disputing
their reporting; I’m just saying we’ve not seen such plans. 

Q    And another question, if I may, about the Schumer speech.  You said
that President Biden was informed and updated.  And after that — and
because this is such a rare speech, after all — is there some sort of a
conversation or call being planned between President Biden and Netanyahu
or someone else within the administration after the speech or regarding
the war in Gaza and in general?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, in general, I mean, we’ve been in touch with our
Israeli counterparts dang near every single day at various different
levels, including through our embassy in Jerusalem, with Ambassador
Lew.  So there’s been constant, daily conversations with our Israeli
counterparts at various levels, up to and including the President, of
course. 

I don’t have a call with Netanyahu to announce or preview for you
today.  They have spoken at various intervals since October 7th.  And
you can count on the fact that they will speak again.  No doubt about
it.  I just don’t have one to announce right now. 

But we will constantly stay in touch with them, as we should, as we
must.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Neria with Israel
Channel 12 — 13.  Excuse me.  Israel Channel 13.

Q    Hey.  Thank you, Sam.  Thank you, Admiral, for doing this.  I was
wondering: Some may see Chuck Schumer’s speech today as an intervention
in Israeli domestic politics.  What do you have to say about that?

MR. KIRBY:  I think we’ll let people speak for themselves and how they
want to see it.  And as I said, Leader Schumer feels strongly —
obviously strongly enough to make the comments that he did.  I think
we’re going to let him speak to his thought process there. 

But again, our focus is on making sure that Israel has what it needs to
defend itself, that everything is being done to avoid civilian
casualties, that more aid gets in, that hostages get out.  We’re still
having these conversations about a hostage deal.  That’s what we’re
focused on.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’ll next go to Nathan with KAN.

Q    Thanks so much.  Again, going back to the Schumer speech: Just in
general, does the administration have any policy regarding the need for
elections in Israel?  This relates also to the national intelligence
assessment presented this week that spoke about Netanyahu’s political
viability.  Is it the U.S.’s view that it is time for political change
in Israel?

MR. KIRBY:  That’s going to be up to the Israeli people.  And the issue
of elections is, in the parliamentary process, up to the Israeli
government, a government elected by the Israeli people.

Q    Would it be a wise move for Israel to move towards elections after
the war is over?

MR. KIRBY:  That is up to the Israeli people.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  I think we have time for one more question. 
We’ll go to Patsy with VOA.

Q    Thank you, Sam.  Hi, John.  I have a question on Ukraine and
Yemen. 

But just to follow up on Haiti, can you confirm Prime Minister Henry is
being housed at a U.S. military base in Puerto Rico?  And does the
administration believe there’s a role for him in Haiti post his
resignation?

MR. KIRBY:  I know he’s in Puerto Rico, Patsy.  I don’t know where he
is.  He’d have to speak to his specific whereabouts.  But he’s still in
Puerto Rico. 

And again, we applaud him for doing the right thing and putting the
Haitian people first and being willing to — being willing to step aside.

Q    Can we get your reaction to reports of Speaker Johnson planning to
send a Ukraine aid package to the Senate but making it a loan or
Lend-Lease program?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get ahead of a legislative process that
hasn’t executed yet.  We believe that the supplemental passed by the
Senate will answer very well.  Our strong desire to continue to support
Ukraine will answer well Ukrainian defense needs, as well as Israeli
defense needs and other concerns to our national security around the
world. 

So we continue to urge Speaker Johnson to take that bill up, put it on
the floor, get it voted on, and get it moving forward.  And we know
there’s strong bipartisan support for it if it can be made available to
a vote.

Q    And on Houthis, can you confirm their claims that they have this
new hypersonic missile in their arsenal and how might this impact U.S.
operations in the Red Sea?

And if I can just sneak in an Afghanistan question.  Senator Rubio has
introduced a bill asking the U.S. to hold off contribution to the U.N.
for aid to Afghanistan until they can confirm that the money won’t go to
the Taliban or other terrorist groups.  Does the administration support
this bill? Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Look, on the hypersonic thing, those reports are
inaccurate.  There’s absolutely no indication that the Houthis have
access to a hypersonic weapon.  So I can walk you off of that. 

And, I’m sorry, can you repeat the last question?

Q    Oh, yes.  So, Senator Rubio has introduced a bill asking the U.S.
to hold off contribution to the U.N. on aid for Afghanistan until they
can confirm that the money won’t go to the Taliban or other terrorist
groups.  Do you guys support this bill?

MR. KIRBY:  I won’t get ahead, again, of a bill that’s still in its
early stages.  I would just tell you that, you know, we haven’t
recognized the Taliban as the government in Afghanistan.  If they want
such recognition, if they want legitimacy, they got to meet their
commitments, particularly to women and girls and to human rights in
Afghanistan.  And we are not providing direct support to them
diplomatically, economically, or in any other way. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And thanks, everyone, for joining us.  Sorry we
were a little late.  As always, if we weren’t able to get to your
question, please reach out to the NSC press distro and we’ll try to get
back to you as soon as we can.  Thanks.

12:38 P.M. EDT
