---
date: '2024-03-12'
modified_time: 2024-03-12 15:57:47-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-12 15:57:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/03/12/on-the-record-press-call-with-omb-director-shalanda-young-and-council-of-economic-advisers-chair-jared-bernstein-on-the-presidents-budget/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Call with OMB Director Shalanda Young and Council of Economic\
  \ Advisers Chair Jared Bernstein on the President\u2019s\_Budget"
---
 
Via Teleconference  
(March 11, 2024)

10:04 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Good morning, everyone.  Thanks so much for joining us. 
This will be an on-the-record press call about the President’s fiscal
year 2025 budget. 

We’re joined today by OMB Director Shalanda Young and Chair of the
Council of Economic Advisers Jared Bernstein.

They’ll each make some brief comments at the top and then we’ll take
some questions. 

As a reminder, this call and the materials we provided prior to the call
are embargoed until noon, Eastern Time, today.

And with that, I’ll turn it over to Director Young.

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Thanks, Shelby.   I’m not sure they’re brief, but I’ll
do my best.  

But thanks to all of you for joining.

This year’s budget comes at a time when it’s clear that the President’s
economic strategy of building the economy from the middle out and bottom
up is working.  The economy has added about 15 million jobs.  The
unemployment rate has remained under 4 percent for over 2 years in a row
— a 50-year record –while inflation has fallen by two thirds.

Under his leadership, the administration is working to bring down costs
for the American people, including prescription drug costs, health
insurance premiums, utility bills, and costs for everyday goods and
services — all while taking on hidden junk fees that some banks,
airlines, and other big corporations charge.

At the same time, he has also restored U.S. leadership on the world
stage while keeping Americans safe and promoting democracy at home and
abroad.

The budget details the President’s vision to protect and build on this
progress and deliver on the agenda laid out in his State of the Union by
lowering costs for families; growing the economy from the middle out and
bottom up by investing in all of America to make sure the middle class
has a fair shot and we leave no one behind; reducing the deficit by
about $3 trillion, including by making our tax code fairer and cutting
wasteful subsidies; and protecting and strengthening Social Security and
Medicare.

Let me say a few words about each of these.

First, the budget continues the administration’s work of lowering costs
for families.  The President has made lowering costs for hardworking
families his top economic priority.  Under his leadership, we have seen
significant progress bringing down inflation.

But families need more breathing room, and that’s why the budget
includes proposals to bring down the costs of everyday necessities.  It
lowers healthcare costs, drug prices, and expands access to prescription
drugs.

It cuts taxes for families with children and American workers and lowers
childcare costs for hardworking families.

It increases affordable housing supply to reduce housing costs, expands
access to homeownership and affordable rent, and reduces down payments
for first-time and first-generation homebuyers with the new Mortgage
Relief Credit.

And it reduces the cost of college and lifts the burden of student debt.

Second, the budget invests in America and the American people to grow
the economy from the middle out and bottom up.  The budget invests in
all of America to make sure the middle class has a fair shot and we
leave no one behind.

It does this by expanding and protecting access to healthcare;
supporting America’s workforce and boosting manufacturing; confronting
the climate crisis while spurring clean energy innovation; providing
national paid leave; advancing cancer research; making our communities
safer; and more.

Third, the budget reduces the deficit by about $3 trillion by making our
tax code fairer.

Congressional Republicans want to increase the deficit by $3 trillion,
including by attempting to repeal the parts of the Inflation Reduction
Act that take on special interests like Big Pharma and wealthy tax
cheats, all while supporting giveaways to big corporations and the
richest Americans at the expense of America’s seniors.

In contrast, the President’s budget ensures that billionaires pay a
minimum 25 percent rate, makes large corporations pay their fair share,
cracks down on corporate profit shifting, and cuts taxes for tens of
millions of low- and middle-income families.  The budget also cuts
wasteful spending on special interests and cracks down on fraud.

President Biden will fight to stop Republican plans to add trillions to
the deficit with giveaways to Big Pharma and tax cuts skewed to big
corporations and the wealthy, while ensuring people making under
$400,000 will not pay a single penny more in taxes.

And fourth, the budget protects and strengthens Social Security and
Medicare.

Social Security and Medicare are more than government programs; they’re
a promise — a rock-solid guarantee that generations of Americans have
counted on that after a life of hard work, you will be able to retire
with dignity and security.

The budget honors the President’s ironclad commitment to reject
Republican efforts to cut both programs and embraces reforms that would
protect and strengthen these programs, including by extending the
solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund indefinitely.

The President’s vision of progress, opportunity, and fairness is in
stark contrast to congressional Republicans who have repeatedly fought
to slash critical programs the American people count on and increase the
deficit by trillions of dollars with giveaways to Big Pharma, the
wealthy, and big corporations.

With that, let me turn it over to Chair Bernstein to talk about the
budget’s economic outlook and forecast.

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Well, thank you. 

Good morning and thanks for joining us.

As nerdy as it sounds, we always find budget release day to be exciting
and gratifying.

For one, it’s the culmination of the work of hundreds of smart,
dedicated people — both here in the EOP and across the agencies — all of
whom have put in long hours to produce this document.

Second, it is the most comprehensive and detailed statement of our
administration’s values — a highly granular exposition of the
administration’s view of the roles and responsibilities of government.

Third and closest to our hearts at CEA, the budget must implement the
President’s vision within the existing economic context.  And it’s that
context I’ll briefly discuss this morning, along with a few points of
the administration’s new economic forecast that’s also out today.

In his State of the Union Address, the President took us through some
remarkable aspects of the current economic expansion, reminding us how
far we’ve come since he took office.

The quick passage of the American Rescue Plan got shots in arms and
checks in pockets, prevented massive evictions and business losses,
supported state budgets, cut child poverty nearly in half — and, in so
doing, ensured that the job market got quickly back to full employment.

Importantly, the U.S. job market did not just get back to full
employment; it has stayed there.  And even more importantly, given the
President’s emphasis on creating more breathing room for families
through his cost-cutting agenda — an agenda that is well represented in
this new budget — this maintenance of tight labor markets has occurred
amidst significant disinflation.

As you know, many economists told us this couldn’t be done, that to get
this much disinflation we’d need to give up many points of unemployment
and growth.

President Biden never believed that we could achieve disinflation on the
— that we could only achieve disinflation on the backs of working
Americans.  And as we speak, inflation is down two thirds off of its
peak.

Virtually every forecast we’ve seen expects this trend to continue, and
that holds for our forecast as well, about which I’ll now say a few
words.

The economic forecast in the budget, in table S9, is the work of the
Council of Economic Advisers, Office of Management and Budget, and the
Treasury.  Let me take a moment to thank the dozens of folks here who
contributed their deep expertise to this endeavor, with spe- — special
mention to Steve Braun, CEA’s lead forecaster, who presides over our
forecast.

Our team faces a unique challenge in that we must finalize our forecast
well before we release it.  In this case, it was finalized in early
November ’23 — 2023.  This can sometimes render our near-term
predictions stale relative to more up-to-date market forecasts.

However, our new forecast looks pretty good in this regard, as our
near-term optimism about transitioning to steady, stable growth was
broadly warranted.

On an annual basis, looking Q4 over Q4, we expected real GDP to grow 2.6
percent last year, when the actual was 3.1 percent — meaning the
expansion was even stronger than we expected.  This is above-trend
growth, which means it is helping to generate the ongoing strength jon-
— job creation, along with real wage and income gains.

On inflation, things also turned out a bit better than we expected.  We
thought the CPI would be up 3.4 percent last year, but the actual came
in at 3.2 percent — down sharply from north

of 7 percent in 2020 Q4.   
  
On 2023 unemployment and interest rates, we came in very close to the
actual results.  For ’24, our estimates line up well with the most
recent blue-chip consensus.   
  
Over the longer term, our forecast is largely unchanged from prior
budgets with terminal growth and unemployment rates of 2.2 and 3.8
percent, respectively.   
  
As we discuss in today’s release, our terminal growth rate is higher
than some other forecasters because we include pro-growth effects of our
policies, including investments from human and physical capital, along
with affordable childcare, which research shows has the potential to
significantly increase caregivers labor supply.  
  
 With that, we’ll take your questions.

  
OPERATOR:  All right.  We’ll go to the first caller in queue.  Caller,
your line is unmuted.   
  
Q    Hey, guys.  It’s Justin Sink from Bloomberg.  Thanks for doing
this.  A couple quick ones.  The first was just a gut check that your
budget abides by the debt ceiling agreement caps.  It looks like it
does, but I just wanted to make sure that was true.   
  
The second was if you could talk at all about how it foresees, you know,
additional emergency spending, you know, in terms of Israel and Ukraine
going forward after this year.   
  
And then, finally, Jared, on the economic assumptions, I know that
they’ve turned out a lot better than you predicted, and you were
criticized for rosy expectations last year.  But I was wondering, on
unemployment specifically, if you could talk through why it seems
realistic to have, you know, unemployment never rise higher than 4
percent in the next decade. 

Thanks, everyone.  
  
DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Hi.  This is Director Young.  Let me start with FRA. 
You’re absolutely right, someone who spent a large chunk of their year
last year helping negotiate that on behalf of the President after the
debt ceiling was held hostage for that deal, we absolutely do comply
with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which you — as you know, CBO says
would save a trillion dollars in deficit over the 10-year period.   
  
As far as emergency spending, Ukraine, Israel, and border security, you
know, the — the unfortunate pieces is — is we had to reinclude, re-ask
for the President’s supplemental again in this budget because Congress
has not passed the President’s supplemental.   
  
It is very frustrating.  We have been asking for support for Ukraine
since September, if you can remember; after October 7th, asked for
support for Israel; and just like Ukraine, our border security.  We have
been asking for — not just in September, but the President has asked
over four times for more border security funding to be given (inaudible)
during one of his requests and mostly turned down.   
  
So, this budget repeats the President’s supplemental ask for Congress. 
Certainly, our hope had been that Congress would have acted by now.  But
since they haven’t, there was a need to ask again, frankly.  
  
 CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  On the terminal unemployment rate, I — I think your
question was, why does — why do we have 3.8 percent as a terminal
unemployment rate?  The — that begins in ‘28 and persists for the rest
of the forecast window.  That’s standard forecast practice, to put your
full employn- — full employment unemployment rate in — in the out years
of the budget.   
  
And so, the question really becomes — if I understand you correctly, and
feel free to correct me if I don’t — the question really becomes: Why do
you have 3.8 percent as your unemployment rate at — at full employment? 
This is the unemployment rate that we judge to be consistent with steady
and stable growth, stable prices, stable interest rates.  And, in fact,
if you look at the budget, you’ll see that is how those relationships
play out.   
  
We can easily defend that as a — as a full employment unemployment rate
or sometimes called the “natural rate of unemployment.”  We can easily
defend — defend that as the unemployment rate that’s consistent with —
with stable growth and — and stable prices.   
  
If you look at the current — probably the best way to make that point is
to look at the current dynamics where you see current — the current
economy where you see unemployment that’s been below 4 percent — so in
the 3.8 neighborhood — been below 4 percent for 25 months in a row and
inflation certainly not rising, in fact, inflation coming down quite
sharply.   
  
So, that looks to us like a reasonable unemployment rate, one that’s
very consistent with the President’s values with a tight labor market
generating fair real-wage gains for working families.  
  
OPERATOR:  All right.  We’ll go to the next caller in queue.  Caller,
your line is unmuted.

  
Q    Hi, this is Josh Boak with AP.  Shalanda, Jared, thanks for doing
this.

Voters are going to hear from congressional Republicans that their
budget plan would balance over a decade and that growth would be 3
percent.  What’s the difference in your math compared to theirs?  And do
you — why do you think your math is more trustworthy?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  I would say that difference is — is reality.  We — we
think we have a realistic growth forecast.  We defend it extensively in
the budget.  We explain how we got to where we are, and probably a good
thing to do would be to talk to outside economists who will generally
validate those expectations and that — ask them what they think of — of
the Republican ones.   
  
We — we haven’t had — you know, we haven’t had a period — a sustained
period of — of growth is, you know, 3 percent growth in — in this
country in a long time.  That’s more the kind of growth rate you’d
typically see in developing economies.  We’re obviously a — you know, a
highly developed economy, and, you know, capacity growth is widely
understood to be around 2 percent.   
  
So, you know, you can write down whatever you want to get whatever
result you want.  But if it doesn’t match good, hard economic reality,
it’s — it’s not useful.

  
DIRECTOR YOUNG:  If I could add on — Jared is absolutely correct.  The
other thing I’d really like folks to focus on is: Congressional
Republicans also don’t tell you what they cut, who they harm.   
  
This President’s budget lays out in great detail every program that he
would fund, how he plans on fulfilling his promise of growing the
economy from the middle out and the bottom up, through childcare,
through universal pre-k, through free community college, through
apprenticeships.  Everything is detailed in the discretionary budget,
mandatory proposals, tax proposals. 

And congressional Republicans give us their top lines, which have rosy
economic projections that don’t fit reality.  They also don’t tell you
they’re going to cut the National Institutes of Health.  They’re going
to cut border security.  They’re going to cut childcare.  They’re going
to cut Head Start.  That’s the only way you can do it.   
  
And we have to acknowledge that the President is transparent, details
every way he’s going to — to show he values the American people.   
  
Congressional Republicans hide behind high-level talking points about
balancing.  Well, who are you hurting in the meantime?  What are you
cutting?  And we’re — we’re going to tell the American people what those
programs are.  
  
OPERATOR:  All right.  We’ll go the next caller in queue.  Caller, your
line is unmuted.

  
Q    Hi, folks.  It’s Jim Tankersley of the New York Times.  A couple
of, sort of, technical questions here.  The first is about interest
rates.  It looks like you have changed your forecast upwards for
long-term rates on — on T-bills and — and have more debt service because
of that.  And I — and I’m just curious why.  Is that an expectation that
the Fed is going to keep rates higher for longer, or what’s — what’s
going on with that?

And secondly, I — I’m just curious if you can give us a gross number on
the tax proposals in here.  What — what is the gross tax increase over
the 10-year window?  Thanks.

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Thanks.  On the interest rate.  Yeah, if you go back
to our midsession review — which is our most recent previous forecast
for this one — the — the 10-year Treasury note — the terminal forecast —
or, I mean, in the forecast rate in the last budget year, which was ‘33
— in the — 2033 — in that — in that mid-session review — 3.4 percent —
our terminal rate, which we hit in 2029 in this forecast, is 3.7.  So,
that’s a 30-basis-point increase in the 10-year rate. 

And that’s not based on any any- — anything from the Federal Reserve.  
That — you know, first of all, as you know, we don’t comment on Federal
Reserve monetary policy.  But anything in the higher-for-longer space is
— is a much more near-term proposition. 

What we’re looking at is — is higher — forecasts for higher Treasury
rates that reflects blue-chip market forecasts forward rates.  Our
forecast tends to look at where — in the case of the long-term rate, we
tend to look at where the forward rates are, where the markets are, and
where the consensus forecasts are.  So, we’re just linked up with them. 

Over — I think over to you for the other question.

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Yeah.  So, Jim, on tax policy.  Half of our tax
increase would come from rates going up for corporations.  The other
half are on the top 1 and 2 percent of this country.  So that — you
know, that is similar or the same in many respects to last year’s
budget. 

And that is consistent with what the President talks about.  We can do
all of our investments by asking those in the top 1 and 2 percent to pay
more into the system.

OPERATOR:  All right, we’ll go to the next caller in queue.  Caller,
your line is unmuted.

Q    Hi, this is Tami Luhby with CNN.  Thank you for holding this call. 
I had two questions. 

One is: Does the budget also contain the President’s proposal to extend
the number of drugs to 50 for — under Medicare negotiations? 

And also, can you explain a little bit more about the Medicare solvency
proposals and whether they are the same as last year?  Or are there any
new proposals?

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Yeah, we are not specific about the — the number of
prescription drugs, but we are expanding beyond the 10 in the Inflation
Reduction Act. 

On our Medicare proposal, it is the same.  But the reason we are able to
say — and Medicare and Medicaid is able to say — that there is a
permanent solvency fix is because we look at over 75 years of effects of
our policy in the budget versus 25 years.  Also, slightly better
economic assumptions underpin that. 

So, I know we speak about it in a different way.  But the policy is the
same.  But we were able to look at a longer timeframe of how our
policies would impact Medicare, which is why you hear us speak about it
in a longer-term fashion.

OPERATOR:  All right, we’ll go to the next caller in queue.  Caller,
your line is unmuted.

Q    Hi.  Hans here — thanks — with Axios.  Well, not thanks for being
at Axios; although, I am grateful for being at Axios.  But that wasn’t
the intent of my question. 

Can we still get a gross number for total tax increases, to kind of
follow up on Tankersley, just so we don’t make any sort of mistakes
there? 

And then, am I — just another technical question, and apologies to the —
the real budget reporters out there.  Is the topline number for 2025
$7.- — $7.266 trillion, and is the topline for deficit in the first year
$1.781.  And I’m going off of F4.  Thank you.

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Can you repeat the second question?

Q    I just want to know topline numbers for total outlays, if I’m — if
I’m — if I should be looking at F4.  So, is the President proposing a
$7.- — quotes a $7.3 trillion budget for next year, with deficits that
are close to $1- — in the first year, $1.8.  I’m just looking at F4.

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Yeah, F4 is the correct table to look at outlays in the
budget.  Also the Greenbook, which is going to come out later today from
Treasury, will have the most details on our tax scores.

OPERATOR:  All right, we’ll go the next caller in queue.  Caller, your
line is unmuted. 

Q    Jonathan Nicholson with HuffPost.  A few, hopefully really — real
quick questions.  The lowest depths of — that I see you guys get down to
$1.5 trillion.  In the past, $1 trillion has been, sort of, seen as sort
of like a tripwire.  Like, we should worry about the deficit.  So, how
do you respond to the fact that that seems to be the lowest you guys
get?

B, the Republican budget — the House Budget Committee resolution has
about a $3 trillion feedback effect to reduce their 10-year deficit. 
Can you give us what your equivalent is there that — Jared, you
mentioned that there is some feedback effect included in this. 

And then, finally, today, former President Trump talked about the need,
again, for tariffs against China and that there is, quote, “a lot of
room for cutting,” unquote, in entitlements.  So, I was wondering if you
guys had any reactions to that.  Thank you.

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  There’s a lot there, and I’m not sure I picked up on
all of it. 

I don’t remember saying anything about any “feedback effect.”  So, I’m
not quite sure what you’re referring to.  I don’t think I use that
word. 

Let me see.  In terms of — I think you said something about cutting
entitlements.  I mean, the President — I mean, Shalanda — Director Young
can say more about this than — than me, but the President is
unequivocally clear in his opposition to any cuts in Social Security and
Medicare. 

What else did you want?  Oh, one thing I wanted to mention about — about
deficits and — and Director Young can follow up — is that especially
when you’re getting to the out years — I mean, when you’re getting a few
years out, as you do in the numbers you just cited, it’s important to
look at the deficit as a share of the economy.  Because the GDP, of
course, is growing significantly over these years.  And so, we have a
deficit that goes down considerably as a share of GDP.  And you can see
that in — in Table S1. 

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  And as long as we’re talking about share of GDP,
another indicator we look at closely with regard to our fiscal path is
real net interest as a share of GDP.  We are well below t- — 2 percent,
which most economists look at as a goal — goalpost on where sustainable
debt lies.  So, Jared is absolutely correct.  The deficit as the share
to GDP goes down around 5 percent, and our real net interest is well
below 2 percent as a share of GDP.

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Yeah, let me just underscore that point.  This also
gets back to the — the question that Jim asked. 

We do — we think in the — in the spirit of, again, a realistic take of
where we think interest rates are headed — where CBO does and other
prominent forecasters, we match them pretty closely with our — with our
interest rate forecasts.  And even with the assumption of higher rates,
we still hit real net interest as a percent of the economy that is
servicing our debt relative to the size of the economy — is well within
historical range.  And so, then, we consider that to be a positive
indicator of — of fiscal responsibility.

OPERATOR:  All right.  We’ll go to the next caller in queue.  Caller,
your line is unmuted.

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much.  This is Carmen Paun from Politico.  It
looks like there will be a — the request has a cut in the amount
dedicated to global health from $10.9 billion last year to about $10
billion this year.  And I was wondering if you have any more details
about what will be cut.

And the second question is relating to the fight on fentanyl.  Do you
have a sort of, like, topline number across a different department,
like, how much you’re requesting this year to fight fentanyl?  Thank
you.

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  So, on global health, State Department typically det- —
has the details.  Each department will put out their individual
congressional justifications.  And I’m not going to get ahead of those
details.

What I will say is the President is able to invest in and keep the
progress going over the last three years, even while complying with the
F- — the Fiscal Responsibility Act, one major reason we — we pay for our
investments.  And this budget is both fiscally responsible but also
showcases continued investments in places like global health.

And $10 billion, I’m not sure where you’re seeing that number, but that
is, I’m sure, an increase over previous years.

What was your second question?  Oh, on fentanyl. 

I talked about this earlier.  The major increase in fentanyl is in the
border security package the President has put forth and Congress still
has not passed.  I thank the Senate for doing its work, but we — we
continue to look for a path on funding border security that the
President has asked for.

One of the major pillars of that is putting in this NII equipment, which
everyone knows is a way of finding fentanyl in vehicles that cross land
ports of entry. 

I’ve done this for a long time.  That used to be bipartisan.  So, I
continue to remain perplexed as to why we cannot get Congress to take
the President up on passing his request to do more of these machines to
keep fentanyl out of this country.

OPERATOR:  All right.  We’ll go to the next caller in queue.  Caller,
your line is unmuted.

Q    Hi.  This is Richard Rubin at the Wall Street Journal.  You talked
about the budget being a statement of priorities, but there are several
areas where you don’t specify.  “Shoring up Social Security” is sort of
general language, extending the child tax credit only goes through \`25,
and then the tax cut that expired that you want extended, you don’t
specify how you would pay for them.

Can you explain sort of why you’re not detailing plans in those areas? 
Thank you.

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  On Social Security, the budget is very clear, like the
President was on Thursday, what he stands for and what his principles
are with regard to Social Security.  You heard it from him, but it bears
repeating, and you will see those — these words in the budget. 

The Pres- — one, no benefit cuts.  This President will not entertain
proposals to cut any benefits from hardworking Americans who have paid
into their system their entire working lives.  Two, we must extend the
solvency by asking high-income Americans to pay their fair share. 

If you make a million dollars in this country, you are done paying your
Social Security taxes sometime in February.  Is that fair?  And we don’t
think so.

And, three, we must improve the financial security for seniors and
people with disabilities.  And, finally, we have to ensure that
Americans have access to benefits they’ve earned.

The budget is very clear: We have asked for increases to the Social
Security Administration — this will be our fourth time.  We’re asking
for a 9 percent increase this year.

One way to undermine Social Security benefits is not to fund the agency
and people needed to provide access to those benefits.  And it’s
unconscionable that the Social Security Administration is being starved
of resources.  And we call on Congress to take up the President’s
proposal to increase this agency.

MODERATOR:  I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR:  All right.  We’ll go the next caller in queue, then.  Caller,
your line is unmuted.

Q    Oh, I think — it’s Richard Rubin at the Wall Street Journal again. 
I’m unmuted.  So, can you answer my other questions about the child
credit and the extensions at the DJ?  Thanks.

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Yeah.  Sorry about that.

The child tax credit is extended to 2025.  That is an acknowledgment
that — we talked about the — the 2017 tax changes earlier today.  Those
things are connected. 

We’re going to have a robust tax debate at the end of 2025, in fiscal
year \`26, because individual tax rates lapsed from the 2017 law. 
You’ve heard the President will not raise taxes on those families making
under $400,000.  But he also will insist that the wealthiest tax cuts
not be extended and not be given new.  But we have to have that fulsome
debate.

Child Tax Credit, we — will be a part of that debate.  So, seeing Child
Tax Credit does not mean we don’t want to see that credit extended in
perpetuity.  We absolutely do.  But we also know, in this country, we’re
going to have a robust tax debate in 2- — at the end of 2025, and Child
Tax Credit will be a part of that.

MODERATOR:  And we can still take one more.

OPERATOR:  All right.  Caller, your line is unmuted.

Q    Hey, good morning.  It’s Ron Brownstein from The Atlantic.  Jared,
way back when, in the opening statements, you talked about the impact of
administration’s agenda on long-term growth.  I’m wondering if you could
give us any sense of what you think the impact of everything you passed
and proposed would be on growth and also how it would affect, in your
view, near and long-term trends in inflation-adjusted wages.

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Sure.  Ron, the way we quantitatively talk about that,
of course, is the economic assumptions that you see in Table S9.  So,
for example, we have a long-term growth rate for GDP of 2.2 percent.  If
you look at other forecasters who don’t include the growth effects of
our policy interventions, they come in lower that — than that.  Numbers
around the 1.8, 2 percent range.

So, specifically, and I — as I just alluded to briefly in my opening
comments, things like affordable childcare.  We’re very confident that
if more caregivers could afford to pay for childcare, implementing
proposals in this budget to keep that expenditure down, as a share of
income, in the 7 percent range, that would increase labor force. 

And higher labor force is a — is very much a — higher labor force is
very much a pro-growth development.  It’s also, to get to the other part
of your question, helpful in dampening inflationary pressures.  We’ve
seen that even in — in today’s disinflation.

Secondly, if you look at our investment agenda, this also — you know,
the — the economic way to talk about it is to say it improves the
economy’s supply side.  But I think, more practically, in terms of
building up that longer-term potential growth rate, when we stand up
domestic semiconductor production; when we stand up domestic electric
vehicle, electric batteries; when we improve the nation’s infrastructure
in ways that, in the previous administration, were a joke, in this
administration are happening — all of those are pro-growth,
pro-productivity, pro-supply side.

They not only boost the economy’s capacity, as our numbers show, but
they also help put downward pressure on inflation.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you all, again, for joining.

Reminder that this call was on the record and embargoed until noon, as
are the materials that we provided to you prior to the call.

If you all have any other questions, feel free to follow up with our
team.

Thanks.

10:41 A.M. EDT
