---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-11 17:35:15-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 17:35:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/03/11/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-olivia-dalton-en-route-manchester-nh/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton En Route Manchester,\_\
  NH"
---
 
En Route Manchester, New Hampshire  
Air Force One

12:22 P.M. EDT

MS. DALTON:  Hey, good afternoon.  You’re going to need to bear with me
because we do have a couple of things at the top today. 

Good morning.  I have a few items here.  As the President says, a budget
is a statement of values.  And his budget released today makes a few of
his values very clear. 

His budget invests in all of America to make sure everyone has a fair
shot and we leave no one behind.  It lowers costs for families for
housing, prescription drugs, healthcare, childcare, utilities, and
college.  It lowers the deficit by $3 trillion dollars on top of the $1
trillion in deficit reduction he has signed into law already by making
the wealthy and big corporations pay their fair share.  And it protects
and strengthens Social Security and Medicare, securing the Medicare
Trust Fund indefinitely. 

Congressional Republicans have made their values clear in the meantime. 
They have repeatedly fought to slash critical programs that the American
people rely on.  Their plans would increase the deficit by $3 trillion
with even more tax cuts for the rich and big corporations.  They want to
repeal the President’s progress in taking on Big Pharma, wealthy tax
cheats, and big corporations. 

While President Biden is fighting for the middle class and working
families, congressional Republicans are fighting for the rich and
special interests.  Their records reflect that and so do their plans for
the future, which is a great segue for the fact that we’re on our way to
New Hampshire today, where the President will discuss his
administration’s historic work to lower healthcare costs. 

Through the Inflation Reduction Act that every single Republican in
Congress voted against, President Biden took on Big Pharma and won,
giving Medicare the power to negotiate lower drug prices for families. 
He capped insulin prices at $35 for people on Medicare.  He capped total
out-of-pocket costs at $2,000 for people on Medicare.  And he’s driven
Affordable Care Act coverage to record highs with the uninsured rate at
a record low and reforms that are saving millions of people an average
of $800 per person per year. 

Today, the President will call on Congress to act to lower healthcare
costs for even more Americans.  He’ll call on Congress to apply the
$2,000 cap on prescription drug costs and $35 insulin to everyone, not
just people on Medicare.  He’ll call for allowing Medicare to negotiate
prices for at least 50 drugs per year.  And he’ll make permanent
improvements to ACA coverage that are set to expire in the fall of
2025. 

That’s a very different vision than what Republican elected officials
have laid out.  They have locked arms with Big Pharma to stop Medicare
from negotiating lower drug prices.  They continue to talk about
repealing the ACA.  They continue to talk about supporting changes to
Medicare that would cut benefits and throw people off the program. 

As President Biden made clear in his State of the Union, if any
Republican elected official tries to repeal the ACA or cut Social
Security or Medicare, he will stop them.  The President won’t stop
fighting for results in the face of these attacks from Republican
elected officials and as Big Pharma spends hundreds of millions of
dollars lobbying to try to stop the administration from lowering costs. 

That’s what you’re going to hear from the President today. 

And finally, I do want to echo the President’s deep gratitude and
recognition for Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia Fudge,
who will be departing the administration later this month. 

As you will read in the President’s statement, no one understands the
importance of fair housing market and access to quality and affordable
hous- — housing better than Secretary Fudge. 

So, I wanted to briefly highlight a few key accomplishments from her
tenure.  Under her leadership, HUD removed barriers to homeownership,
resulting in more than 1.5 million new FHA homeowners and the highest
rate of first-time homebuyers in 20 years. 

At her direction, the Department worked closely with partners at the
federal, state, and local level to increase the housing supply,
particularly the supply of affordable homes, while allocating historic
resources to address homelessness. 

And with Secretary Fudge at the helm, HUD strictly enforced fair housing
laws and took a stance against racial bias and discrimination in the
appraisal market. 

We are so grateful for Secretary Fudge for her years of public service
as mayor, as a member of Congress, and as a Cabinet Secretary — and, of
course, as a trusted advisor to the President.  We wish her nothing but
the best in her next chapter. 

And while Secretary Fudge may be leaving the Department, this
administration’s work to lower housing costs and create more affordable
housing will continue. 

As you heard during the President’s State of the Union Address last week
and detailed in his budget proposal to Congress, President Biden laid
out his plan to lower housing costs for working families nationwide by
building and renovating more than 2 million homes, cracking down on big
landlords who use antitrust laws to price fi- — fix and drive up rents,
and providing a $10,000 tax credit for first-time homebuyers and people
who sell their starter homes. 

And, with that, I’ll take some of your questions.

Q    Why is she leaving?  And does she know when her last day is?

MS. DALTON:  I’ll refer you to HUD on any of those particulars.  But as
I said, she has led a historic tenure over the last three years and
we’re — we wish her nothing but the best.

Q    So, she let the President know what her last day is going to be?

MS. DALTON:  She did.  She informed the President, and he wishes her
absolutely nothing but the best.  In fact, this morning, you might have
heard him shout her out at the National League — League of Cities
speech.  We wish her nothing but the best in the future.

Q    Do you have a plan for replacing her?  I mean, it’s kind of late in
a fourth year of a fourth term.  What — or, excuse me, first term.  Will
he nominate a replacement?

MS. DALTON:  Certainly, he’ll nominate a replacement.  But I don’t have
anything on that front to share with you today.

Q    Does the President intend to watch the hearing tomorrow — the House
Judiciary hearing on the Hur report?

MS. DALTON:  I have nothing to preview in terms of the President’s plan
tomorrow.

Q    Does the White House intend to have a Ramadan event this year,
given the Muslim community’s stance on the war and (inaudible)?

MS. DALTON:  That’s a great question.  Obviously, the President will
issue an — a statement and — and — as he usually does, to mark the
occasion of Ramadan.  I don’t have anything to preview in the way of
events.  But certainly, this is a holy time of year.  The President will
extend his typical well wishes to the Muslim community here and around
the world.

Q    On Israel, can you say, when is the last time the President talked
to Prime Minister Netanyahu?  And are they planning to talk in the next
couple of days?

MS. DALTON:  I believe the last time they spoke was mid-February.  So,
just a couple of weeks ago.  They’ve spoken more than a dozen times
since the October 7th attacks.  And our teams are in touch on a daily
basis in addition to that. 

Of course, we don’t typically preview calls between heads of state, and
so I won’t do that here.  But, of course, our teams have been in regular
touch, and so have they.

Q    Just how —  how does the President characterize his relationship
right now with Prime Minister Netanyahu, given the exchange of some,
kind of, testy comments that they’ve had in the last few days?

MS. DALTON:  I think we’ve been clear and consistent in saying the
President has a — has held a decades-long constructive, productive
relationship with President Netanyahu. They’re — that — that length of
that relationship, the — the relationship that they’ve had allows them
to be direct and honest at time where that’s needed.  But there’s no
change here in the strength of the two leaders’ relationship.

Q    He said the other day that going into Rafah would be a — a red
line.  And then, I believe the Prime Minister said, “Well, we’re doing
that anyway.”  What is his — what are his thoughts about the Prime
Minister obviously not caring that much about what the President said?

MS. DALTON:  Well, look, I — you know, the President was clear this
weekend in his view that Israel has a right to self-defense, to protect
itself in the face of an existential threat that’s posed by Hamas.  He’s
also said that he believes Israel needs to do that in a manner
consistent with the laws of war and pay greater attention to the level
of humanitarian suf- — suffering and the unacceptably high level of
civilian casualties that we’re seeing.

The President has also, you know, I think, iterated in that — in that
interview that our view is that no military operation should take place
in Rafah if there is not a credible and implementable plan to take care
of the safety and security needs of the more than a million civilians
who are sheltering there.  And we’ve seen no such plan.

So, the President was very clear in his remarks.  I don’t think it is
productive for me to add speculation there one way or the other.  You
know, I think he’s been very clear about what our overall position is. 
And we’re not going to get into, sort of, hypotheticals or
back-and-forth.

Q    When do —

Q    Does “red line” mean anything if —

MS. DALTON:  Sorry, I didn’t hear that.

Q    I mean, all — the things about protecting civilian life and — and
et cetera.  The President has been saying that since, like, days after
October 7th.  So, what is does a “red line” mean differently than what
it’s — what he’s been saying?

MS. DALTON:  Again, I don’t think that it’s productive to assign a red
line, sort of, terminology to what is a very complex set of policies. 
So, I’m just going to leave it there.  I think the President was very
clear about what his overall approach and view of the situation is and
what needs to happen.

Q    Do you have a sense of how what — of whether the White House can do
anything to fundamentally change how Israel is prosecuting this
conflict?  There seems to be back-and-forth and continued defiance.  But
does the President have push or pull with Bibi or any sense that what
the President wants will actually happen or be taken into account?

MS. DALTON:  Look, I’m not going — I just said a moment ago that the
President — you know, he’s had a dozen calls with the — with Prime
Minister Netanyahu since October 7th.  They last spoke a couple of weeks
ago.  Our teams are in daily touch. 

And certainly, we remain deeply and — and urgently engaged in the
situation in the region to achieve our goals, which are, as the
President laid out this weekend, to achieve a temporary ceasefire that
allows the basis for a more durable — a durable peace; to alleviate the
humanitarian suffering that we are seeing; to get our hostages home; and
to make sure that this doesn’t bleed into a wider conflict.

All the while, we need to make sure that Israel continues to have what
it needs to defend itself against a very real existential threat. 

So, th- — there are a lot of issues here.  The President is working on
them very urgently.  I don’t think it’s productive for me to — to speak
about private conversations in any more detail than he’s — he talked
about over the weekend. 

But certainly, you’ve seen the actions that we’ve taken in — in recent
weeks with the expansion of humanitarian aid deliveries to Gaza through
land, water, air corridors.  You’ve seen the President be very vocal and
forthright about what we think about the situation on the ground and
what needs to happen from here. 

But I’m — beyond that — beyond what the President said this weekend, I’m
just not going to expand.

Q    To sort of follow up on that.  Do you — is there any consideration
being given or any advocacy for tying U.S. aid to Israel to their
response to this — responsiveness to what President Biden is asking?

MS. DALTON:  You know, the President has addressed th- — this himself
before.  And I think you’ve heard him say, and I’ll reiterate here, that
he thinks that there are other approaches, which we have taken and are
taking, that are more effective in obtaining our goals.

Q    How does President Biden — or how does the United States — we’ve
asked — we’re going to build this port in Gaza to bring in aid. 
President Biden said on Friday that the Israelis would be in charge of
protecting that port.  How can we guarantee that that’s not just going
to — going to become another front for fighting instead of a place to
get that aid into Gaza?

MS. DALTON:  Look, I — you know, again, I think — I would refer you to
the DOD on to any of these sort of operational questions around the
establishment of this pier.  It’s a process that’s going to take several
weeks.  It will be complicated.  But I — I think it’s best left to DOD
to discuss the manner in which they’ll construct that and provide for
safe shipments of humanitarian aid through the pier.

Q    And then, in his interview with Jonathan Capehart, President Biden
apologized for calling Laken Riley’s killer an “illegal.”  Does — does
he feel like he needs to apologize to illegal immigrants for calling
them what they are — or using the term “illegal”? 

MS. DALTON:  Well, first of all, I want to be really clear about
something.  The President absolutely did not apologize.  There was no
apology anywhere in that conversation.  He did not apologize. 

He used a different word. 

I think, what’s — what’s — what we should be really clear about is the
facts.  So, in addition to the fact that, you know, the President did
not apologize, I want to make another thing clear.  The President spoke
directly to this in the State of the Union Address not four nights ago,
when he spoke passionately about knowing what it means to lose a child
and extended his deep grief and condolences to Laken Riley’s family in —
in front of the entire country in the — in the House Chamber.

And beyond that, I think it’s unconscionable that there are some people
who are playing politics with this young woman’s tragic murder — and
particularly at a time when, let’s not forget, House Republicans are
standing in the way of a bipartisan border security agreement that is
the toughest bill we have ever seen in history.  And they’re doing so
because Donald Trump feels that the American people’s safety is less
important than his personal politics.  That’s the fact.

Q    Can I —

Q    President Biden said that —

Q    Can I pivot to the budget real quick?  I know that bu- — budgets
are a statement of value and all of that stuff.  But is there a sense of
what, if anything, in this budget is politically achievable in an
election year in which, even as you pointed out, Biden is trying to draw
contrast between what he wants and what Republicans want?  Is there
anything he can tell the American people about what the priorities are
or, you know, if anything actually will come of it?

MS. DALTON:  Well, I think the President believes there’s no reason —
there’s no reason to assume we can’t get this done.  This is a statement
of his values, a statement of his priorities, and — and a doubling down
on an incredibly expansive set of popular proposals that he has pursued
to date.

Lowering healthcare costs — we continue to hear from Americans all
across the country about how important it is that they have a little bit
more breathing room on their healthcare pre- — premiums, how
transformational it is to have insulin capped at $35 a month, to have
seniors be able to have their insulin — or their prescription drugs
capped at $2,000 a year.

Today, we’re in New Hampshire talking about an expansion of what has
been already an historically popular set of proposals from this
president. 

So, look, we’re going to work across the aisle in good faith to try and
get these things done for the American people.  We think that the
President’s agenda is incredibly popular, and we encourage Republicans
to join us.

Q    On — on the issue of the speech today and — and most of his
speeches have been about drug costs, the economy, inflation, things like
that.  But on the other hand, he talks about this election being about
the last guy tried to basically end democracy, wanted to stay in power
despite losing.  Is there kind of a disconnect between such a big issue
like that and drug costs and — and gas prices, things like that?

MS. DALTON:  This is a both/and.  You know, the President — he took a —
in his State of the Union speech, he focused on three things, right?  He
talked about defending democracy here and around the world.  He talked
about defending freedom here in the United States, from reproductive
healthcare, to making sure that politicians aren’t choosing what books
our — our kids can read. 

And then he talked, really, about an expansion of his economic agenda. 
Building the — rebuilding the economy from the bottom up and the middle
out is how we have achieved 15 million new jobs in the first three years
of this administration, not to mention the strongest post-pandemic
recovery of any major economy in the world.

And he talked about a series of new proposals, like the one we’re going
to talk about in New Hampshire today, to double down on that and take it
even further.

But, you know, the President, as you may know, has also given a series
of speeches on the threats we face to our democracy.  He’s talked about
this not being unique to the United States — certainly the threats to
the democ- — democracy in Ukraine and Israel and other places in the
world, front and center.

And you’ll continue to hear from him on both (inaudible) the need that
we have to continue making economic progress on behalf of the American
people.

Q    Can I ask you: On the trip to New Hampshire today, President Biden
didn’t — thanks.  Sorry.  He didn’t go — he didn’t primary in New
Hampshire, but he still did very well there.  Why is it so important for
him to go back and to campaign now?

MS. DALTON:  Well, this isn’t a — an official speech that he’ll give in
his official capacity.  The President frequently travels all across the
country talking in — coast to coast, red and blue states and purple
states — about his agenda and how he’s delivering to the American
people.

I think you’ve heard me say before, he thinks communicating with people
out in their communities is one of the most important things that he
does as Commander-in-Chief. 

And I would add at this moment that we are incredibly proud to have a
New Hampshire delegation that has been at the forefront, really leading
the charge on some of these healthcare proposals that have saved
Americans money and made their prescription drug costs and healthcare
more affordable.

Q    Can you give us a sense of what the President wants to do in his
meeting tomorrow with the Polish leader?

MS. DALTON:  I don’t have any preview to share with you that — on that
today, but I’m sure that my NSC colleagues will be doing some of that a
little bit later this afternoon.

Q    And one other reaction question.  President Trump — former
President Trump over the weekend talked about a 10 percent tariff and
wanting to have his tax cuts extended.  Does the President have a
reaction to those policy pronouncements?

MS. DALTON:  I’m not sure I’m familiar with the — those particular
comments.  And given that you’re speaking to the 2024 candidate, I
probably should punt to the campaign on that one.

Q    And on you.  I understand this is your last gaggle today.  Can you
say what your last day is at the White House?

MS. DALTON:  Wednesday is my last day, and it has been a huge honor to
work with all of you.  You know, I’ve been in this town a long time — 20
years — and it has not jaded me a bit.  I’m very proud of that. 

And I think, you know, for me — I’m trying not to get emotional — but
participating in this tradition of the White House press briefing, the
White House gaggles, I still believe this is one of the most powerful
expressions of how the world’s greatest democracy views its commitment
to the American people and to a free press. 

And it’s been an enormous honor to be part of that — a bit part of that
for this administration and this President.  And maybe that’s a great
place to leave it.

Q    Congratulations.

Q    Can you share anything on where you’ll go next?

MS. DALTON:  I don’t have anything to share with you now, but I’ll keep
you posted.  Thanks.

Q    Congratulations.  (Applause.)

12:40 P.M. EDT
