---
date: '2024-03-12'
modified_time: 2024-03-12 18:57:18-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-12 18:57:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/03/12/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-12/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
1:46 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone. 

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Happy Tuesday.  A couple things at the top
before we go to our guest.

So, I wanted to recognize tomorrow is Olivia Dalton’s last day at the
White House.

Q    Nooo —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nooo —

Olivia started working for President Biden nearly 20 years ago, and has
served as a trusted advisor, working — working in his Senate office, in
the Obama-Biden administration, on the President’s transition team, and
at the USUN before joining us at the White House.

Olivia is smart, she’s strategic, and a natural leader. She’s someone
you can rely on to get things done.  She’s also a great colleague and a
friend.

Olivia, we are so proud of you.  Everyone in this building is going to
miss you, especially the press team.

We’re so excited for your next journey, and we can’t wait to see all the
amazing things you’ll get to do in your next chapter.

So, thank you.  Thank you for your service.  I know, again, we’re all
going to miss you.  (Applause.)

All right.  And come back and say goodbye to Olivia today or tomorrow if
you have a — if you have a moment.

As you know, the President will travel to Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
tomorrow.  This is part of a busy travel schedule where the President is
hitting the road, talking to Americans, and presenting his vision for
the future, which he laid out in the State of the Union Address just
last week.

In Milwaukee, the President will share how this administration’s
investments are rebuilding our communities and creating good-paying
jobs.

As the President said in his State of the Union, his policies have
attracted $650 billion in private-sector investments in clean energy,
advanced manufacturing, which creates tens of thousands of jobs here in
America.

Because of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, 46,000 new projects are —
have been announced in communities throughout the country.

As the President noted, some Republicans voted against these bills but
are still cheering when investments are announced in own districts and
also states.

Ultimately, these investments are critical for all Americans.  And we
are looking forward to highlighting some of those investments tomorrow
in Milwaukee.

And finally — finally, a word about the passing of David Mixner.

David was a trailblazer in the fight for LGBTQ+ rights.  His moral
clarity never wavered, which is why he became such an invaluable
confidant for so many, including presidential hopefuls, elected of- —
elected leaders, and the voices of the movement for LGBTQ+ equality.

Perhaps most importantly, he was deeply dedicated to mentoring the next
generation of LGQ- — LGBTQ+ leaders fighting to create a better world. 
Those of us doing this work today, including myself, owe him a debt of
gratitude.

And now, truly finally, I’m going to turn things over to our National
Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, who is here today to talk about the
leaders of Poland — the meeting that the President is going to have — be
having in a couple of hours and also the dus- — discuss the situation in
Ukraine.

Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, thank you, Karine.  And first, I just want to say
that it has been an absolute honor and privilege to work with Olivia, to
have her as a teammate, to be in the foxhole with her these past few
years.  We’re going to miss you terribly.

So, I didn’t realize actually that you were being announced as your last
day today.  Now I’m going to do very badly at the podium because I’m sad
about that, but — (laughter).

I beg your indulgence because I have a number of things I want to say at
the outset before I open it up for your questions.  But I promise I will
get to your questions.

And before I turn to Poland and Ukraine, I want to start with Haiti and
the situation there.  I want to underscore that we remain focused on the
challenging situation in Haiti and we welcome the outcome of the meeting
in Jamaica yesterday, which was led by dozens of Haitian stakeholders
and was designed and, in fact, took steps towards creating an inclusive,
broad, transitional presidential council.

We’re grateful for the leadership of CARICOM, to other international
partners, and we can- — commend Prime Minister Henry for putting his
country and Haitians first, agreeing to step down once this council is
established.

And as you saw, Secretary Blinken, who was there playing a critical role
in that meeting in Jamaica — he announced yesterday additional support
for the Multinational Security Support Mission to Haiti as well as
additional humanitarian assistance.  And we urge others to do what they
can to enable this Kenya-led mission to deploy in support of the Haitian
national police.

We know there is a lot of work ahead, but these are positive steps to
pave the way for the Haitian people to elect their leaders, stabilize
their country, and determine their future.

Now, turning to today’s events.  As you all know, President Biden looks
forward to welcoming President Duda and Prime Minister Tusk of Poland
for a joint meeting at the White House this afternoon. 

President Biden has twice traveled to Warsaw for historic visits in 2022
and 2023.  And today, he has the opportunity to repay the hospitality of
the Polish people and the leaders of Poland.  The leaders will celebrate
the 25th anniversary of Poland joining the NATO Alliance, which is more
united, determined, dynamic, and larger than ever — now 32 nations
strong after Sweden joined the Alliance last week.

This afternoon, the leaders will reaffirm their ironclad commitment to
the NATO Alliance and to our collective self-defense under Article 5,
and they will coordinate in advance of the upcoming NATO summit, which
will be hosted by President Biden here in Washington this summer.

They will also discuss our shared support for Ukraine in the face of
Russia’s brutal war of aggression.  As you know, Poland has provided
significant security assistance to Ukraine.  It’s also played a critical
support and logistics role for the U.S. and our allies and partners in a
historic and unprecedented effort to supply Ukraine with the tools that
it needs to defend Ukraine against this Russian imperial war of
conquest.

The Polish people have also generously opened their doors to about 1
million Ukrainian refugees. 

Poland’s leadership has also demonstrated that once again, in a very
live and almost technicolor way, that Putin’s illegal invasion has
produced the exact opposite effect of what Putin intended. 
Today, Poland is spending nearly 4 percent of its GDP on defense —
double the NATO commitment — and is serving as an anchor in a vibrant,
vital Alliance, just when Putin thought he would divide and weaken the
NATO Alliance.

Our bilateral relationship is also growing even stronger.  Today, the
President will share with Poland’s leaders that the United States plans
to move forward with a new $2 billion Foreign Military Financing direct
loan to Poland using previously appropriated congressional funds, and
we’ll offer to sell Poland 96 Apache helicopters.

These and other initiatives will equip Poland with cutting-edge
capability to defend itself while also strengthening NATO
interoperability and contributing to American jobs.

The leaders will also discuss the strong U.S.-Polish energy security
partnership, the robust economic relationship between our countries, and
the enduring importance of democratic values.

I also want to provide an update about Ukraine.

For two years, with the support from a coalition of more than 50
partners led by the United States, the people of Ukraine have remained
unflinching against an adversary bent on their destruction.  They’ve
retaken more than half the territory that Russia occupied at the start
of the conflict.  They repulsed Russia’s attempts to take large — large
swaths of Ukrainian territory now two winters in a row.  They’ve
severely degraded Russia’s Black Sea Fleet.  But they need our continued
support, and they need it urgently.   
  
Ukrainian troops have fought bravely, are fighting bravely throughout
this war, but they are now forced to ration their ammunition under
pressure on multiple fronts.  And we’re already seeing the effects on
the battlefield.  
  
When Russian troops advance and its guns fire, Ukraine does not have
enough ammunition to fire back.  That’s costing terrain.  It’s costing
lives.  And it’s costing us, the United States and the NATO Alliance,
strategically.

So, today, on behalf of President Biden, I’m announcing an emergency
package of security assistance of 300 million dollars’ worth of weapons
and equipment to address some of Ukraine’s pressing needs.  This is
possible because of unanticipated cost-savings in contracts that DOD
negotiated to replace equipment we’ve already sent to Ukraine through
previous drawdowns.

When we sent Ukraine weapons last year, we negotiated contracts to
replenish those weapons in U.S. stockpiles.  We budgeted the full amount
of appropriated funds for those contracts.  It turns out we negotiated
well.  Those contracts came in under budget, so we have a modest amount
of funding available.

And to put a fine point on it: We’re able to use these cost-savings to
make this modest amount of new security assistance available right now
without impacting U.S. military readiness.

And the President has directed his team to use these cost-savings.  This
emergency package that we’re announcing contains a large tranche of
artillery rounds and GMLRS for the HIMARS.  It is assistance that
Ukraine desperately needs to hold the line against Russian attacks and
to push back against the continuing Russian onslaught in the east and in
other parts of Ukraine.  

This ammunition will keep Ukraine’s guns firing for a period but only a
short period.  It is nowhere near enough to meet Ukraine’s battlefield
needs, and it will not prevent Ukraine from running out of ammunition in
the weeks to come.

It goes without saying, this package does not displace and should not
delay the critical need to pass the bipartisan national security bill. 

As you all know, we’ve said repeatedly –- here in the briefing room and
President Biden said it to the entire nation in the State of the Union
last week –- that we cannot provide ongoing assistance to Ukraine
without significantly impacting our military readiness absent
congressional action.

That remains the case, despite this modest amount of cost-savings that
we are putting to use on an urgent basis.  Congress must act.

The House of Representatives must pass the bipartisan national security
supplemental as soon as possible.  We all know that if it came up for a
vote, it would pass on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis, just as it
did in the Senate.

And there is no other way around this.  The House has got to pass the
supplemental as soon as possible to allow us to continue the flow of
vital security to assista- — vital security assistance to Ukraine, to
replenish the U.S. military’s munition stocks, to invest in our
industrial base, and to support jobs in 40 states across the United
States.   
  
The world is watching.  The clock is ticking.  And we need to see action
as rapidly as possible, even as we do everything in our power to get
Ukraine what it needs in its hour of need, and that is another step that
we took at the President’s direction today.  
  
With that, I’d be happy to take your questions.  
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    First, on Israel.  If Israel moves forward with the Rafah operation
without having contingencies in place to ensure what you guys believe is
adequate safety for civilians, would the White House set any sort of
conditionality on further aid?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I’ve read these reports.  They’re based on uninformed
speculation by anonymous officials.  I’m not going to comment on
hypotheticals.   
  
The President has been very clear about our position on Rafah.  And our
position is that a military operation in Rafah that does not protect
civilians, that cuts off the main arteries of humanitarian assistance,
and that places enormous pressure on the Israel-Egypt border is not
something that he can support.   
  
We are talking to the Israelis about that.  We are working through it. 
And I’m not going to stand at this podium and entertain hypotheticals on
it.   
  
Yeah.

  
Q    Jake, just on that question, on that issue.  The President did say
over the weekend that if Israel forces were to go into Rafah that that
would be a crossing of a red line.  I’m just wondering, what would the
Biden administration do if that did come to fruition and Israeli forces
did go into

Rafah?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I would just note, having been around a little while,
that I know all of you are obsessed with this concept of the red
line.   
  
The President didn’t make any declarations or pronouncements or
announcements.  The red line came up in a question.  He was responding
to that question.  I think he gave a full answer to it.  I think it’s
worth going back and reading his full answer to that question.   
  
And he answered it completely.  So, I’ve got nothing to add to what he
said.   
  
And again, as I said to the earlier question, I’m not going to get into
hypotheticals.  We’ve made clear our concerns about an operation in
Rafah, we’ve made clear our concerns about the fact that an operation
would put an enormous number of civilians at risk, and we have not seen
a credible plan to protect those civilians.   
  
That is the position the United States has set forward.  We’ve been
clear about it.  We’ve been principled about it.  We’re engaged with the
Israeli government about our concerns.  And again, I’m not going to
entertain hypotheticals.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    But the question he was asked, Jake, though, was “Do you have a red
line?  For instance, would — invasion of Rafah, which you have urged him
not to do, would that be a red line?”  And he answered definitively,
“It’s a red line.”  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I think you stopped conveniently after a single
sentence, and it may not have exactly been that sentence —  
  
Q    “But I’m never going to leave Israel.  The defense of Israel is
still critical.”  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  And keep going.  And if you read the full answer — and
I’m just going to leave it at his answer, because I think he put it in
his words the way he wants to communicate this issue and the way that
he’s talking to the Israelis as well.   
  
And again, I just want to point out that the whole issue of the red line
as you all define it is something that you guys like; it’s almost become
a bit of a national security parlor game.   
  
For the President, he’s really focused on the substance, on the policy,
on his concern about the protection of civilians and about Israel being
able to sustain a campaign in a way that ultimately leads to an outcome
in which the people of Israel are secure, Hamas is crushed, and there is
a long-term solution to stability and peace in the region.   
  
He believes there is a path to do that, and that path does not lie in
smashing into Rafah, where there are 1.3 million people, in the absence
of a credible plan to deal with the population there.   
  
And again, as thing- — as things stand today, we have not seen what that
plan is.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  On Poland, you mentioned energy conversation.  Do
you expect that the U.S. will make progress or even maybe secure the
second nuclear plant contract during these talks?   
  
And the President, yesterday, said that he didn’t believe that
additional Polish troop- — or additional U.S. troops were needed in
Poland.  That was a request that the Poles were bringing to this
meeting.  Could you talk through why he doesn’t believe that that’s
necessary considering the, sort of, geopolitical climate?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, just take a step back and look at the incredible
array of assets the United States currently has deployed in Poland,
including a permanent combat headquarters, including elements of
brigades, including the largest complement of U.S. forces on the ground
in Poland at any time.  And that’s in response to exactly that elevated
threat that we see on the basis of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and its
bellicose statements about NATO Allies, including Poland.   
  
So, we are looking at an enhanced, effective U.S. presence and a broader
NATO presence in Poland and in the countries neighboring Poland.  And at
any time the President determines that additional capabilities are
needed anywhere across the Alliance, he’s determined — or he’s
demonstrated the capacity to flow forces rapidly, as we did in the days
leading up to the invasion, and that could be land, air, or sea.   
  
So, the President looks forward to the conversation with President and
the Prime Minister today.  He believes that we are postured well, that
our deterrence and defense capacity, both in terms of boots on the
ground and in terms of the plans that we have in place to defend Poland
should it come to that, are strong.  And he has also sent a very clear
message, which he is backing up with our force posture, that every inch
of NATO territory will be protected.   
  
Q    On the —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  With respect to the — the question of additional nuclear
plants, we’ve had very constructive conversations with Polish
counterparts.  I don’t have anything to announce from the podium today. 
But we do look to an ongoing, deepening, and broadening civil nuclear
cooperation with Poland.  
  
Q    And very quickly on TikTok.  The President said yesterday that he
would sign the House bill if it passed.  Earlier, you guys had said you
were broadly supportive but had some concerns.  Can you outline what
those concerns are?  And are you confident that the House bill, which
seems like it’s teeing up for a vote, would stand up in court and — and
be able to force the sale of — of TikTok to a U.S. (inaudible)?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first, I just want to be clear about what this bill
is all about because a lot of people are going around throwing around
the words “ban TikTok,” “TikTok ban.”  And the ultimate objective of the
bill is about a question of ownership.  Do we want TikTok, as a
platform, to be owned by an American company or owned by China?  Do we
want the data from TikTok — children’s data, adults’ data — to be going
— to be staying here in America or going to China?  
  
That is the fundamental question at issue here.  And the President is
clear where he stands on that fundamental issue.  Then the — in terms of
how that gets implemented precisely, that’s something that we have
continued to stay in touch with the Congress on.  And obviously, as
you’ve seen, there’s been an overwhelming bipartisan vote in the
committee.  Now it will come to the floor, and we’ll see what happens in
the House.  And I’m not going to get ahead of that.   
  
Yeah.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  So, in response to what the President said about the
red line, Prime Minister Netanyahu — he ultimately sounded like he vowed
to defy what the President said.  He said he would press ahead with an
invasion of Rafah.  So, is the President losing influence with
Netanyahu?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, let’s just take a step back.  You’ve got the
President, who from the very first day that this crisis began — and
let’s remember it began with a horrific, vicious, brutal assault by
Hamas on the people of Israel killing 1,200 people, raping and
pillaging, and causing the most death since the Holocaust for the Jewish
people.   
  
And the President stood up and said Israel would never be alone.  He
went as the first-ever American president in wartime to Israel to say,
“I have Israel’s back.”  And he has had Israel’s back.  He has backed up
those words with deeds all the way through, and not just in terms of
providing for Israel’s security against Hamas and Hezbollah but a
broader constellation of steps in terms of military deterrence to keep
this war from spinning out in ways that Israel could not handle.   
  
So, that’s where the President comes into this.  He also is going to
speak out when he has concerns about the level of protection for
innocent civilians in Gaza, the level and access to humanitarian
assistance for innocent civilians in Gaza, and he’s going to make his
views known.   
  
Now, President — excuse me, Prime Minister Netanyahu is the leader of a
sovereign country.  He can make determinations about what he’s going to
do, and let’s actually see what happens.   
  
At the end of the day, the President has laid out his views about Rafah,
he’s has been clear about them, and that’s not just true publicly but
privately we’ve communicated with the Israeli government on this.  We
intend to continue to communicate directly with the Israeli government
at every lev- — level, including between the President and the Prime
Minister.  And we will see where things go from here.   
  
So, we believe that the President has the capacity to engage his Israeli
counterparts in an effective way.  And Rafah is one element of that. 
There are other elements as well.  And so far, from our perspective, the
real issue is what happens on the ground, not so much what happens in
the — in the back-and-forth of words.  
  
Q    Why is it being communicated in the public sphere?  It — the
records show that they haven’t spoken on the phone for nearly a month. 
Why is that?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first of all, we talk to the Israeli government
nearly every day.  I had the Israeli ambassador in my office less than
two hours ago.  So, there are plenty of channels of communication where
we take direction from the President, they take direction from the Prime
Minister, and we’re able to communicate.  
  
 Second, whenever the President feels he needs to directly speak to the
Prime Minister, he speaks with him.  And, you know, undoubtedly, he will
speak with him again.   
  
 And then, third, if you’d prefer not to have public communication on
this issue, I’d be happy not to take any more questions on Israel and
Hamas.  (Laughter.)  So, that would be just fine.  The President, I’m
sure, would be happy to do that too.  
  
Yeah.   
  
Q    Two quick ones for you, Jake.  Are there any plans for the
President to speak to the family of Itay Chen?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t have any plans to announce right now.   
  
Q    And, on Haiti —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  But I would just like to say, on that front, the
President has met with Ruby Chen, Itay’s father.  He’s met with Itay’s
brother.  He’s had the opportunity to sit with them here at the White
House.  I’ve had the opportunity to meet with Ruby and other members of
Itay’s family six times.  
  
This hits hard for us, this news.  It hits hard for the President.  It
hits hard for me.  It hits hard for a wide number of people who you guys
have never heard of in the U.S.  government who are working tirelessly
for Itay’s release. 

And I can’t imagine what the family is going through.  And I know that
the President, who — he and the First Lady put out a statement on it
today.  That won’t be the end of it for him, because this is something
that he is invested personally in, trying to bring all of those who are
held hostage in Gaza home and — and elsewhere around the world.

And the fact that we now have news that Itay was killed on October 7th,
it’s just a — it hits hard.

Q    And in that realm, given that now another hostage — believed
hostage is now confirmed dead, what does that say about the fate of the
others?  Does this give any more hope, less hope that others will be
found alive?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, we’ve been straight with you from the start that we
haven’t been able to tell you the condition of the hostages, whether
they are still alive, whether they’re in decent health, whether their
injuries are, you know, causing grave concern.

All we can do is work every day to try to generate a deal that gets all
of the hostages home and, for us, especially the American hostages
home.  We are working at that around the clock.  The President calls me
every single day asking me for an update on those efforts.  And they
continue as we speak today, and we’re not going to rest until we get
everyone home. 

And I will just reiterate what we’ve said all along.  You know, we can’t
know until we get confirmation, either by having someone safely out or
getting the terrible news that we got about Itay, what exactly the
situation is.  And we will be straight with the American people every
step of the way.

Q    On Haiti real quick —

Q    Thanks, Jake.  One, can you respond to calls from Senator Sanders
as well as some Democrats about stopping providing weapons to Israel to
— until some of the restrictions for the — for humanitarian aid to get
into Gaza?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first, we share the goal of getting more
humanitarian aid into Gaza.  The President made that a central theme of
his speech — the State of the Union last week.  We are taking steps
ourselves, including this temporary pier and the airdrops that are
ongoing.  We just had our seventh airdrop today.  We’re also working
with the Israelis to increase the throughput of humanitarian assistance
by ground, both through Kerem Shalom and through a new crossing where we
had the first trucks get in last night.  And we need to see more where
that came from. 

Second, we’ve made clear all along that our policy to date has not
involved the kinds of steps that you’re talking about.  And we also have
said we’re — we’re not going to engage in hypotheticals about what comes
down the line, and the reports that kind of describe what the President
is thinking on this are uninformed speculation.

Q    One of things that they — they say is that the restrictions are a
violation of the Humanitarian Aid Corridor Act.  Do you agree with that
assessment that it is a violation of the Humanitarian Aid Corridor Act? 
And have you had a discussion with the Ambassador or any other officials
about that — about that potentially being a violation of that act?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, we believe that we are complying with U.S. law
in every act that we have taken throughout this war.  And we will
obviously continue to do so.

Second, the President actually signed a national security memorandum —
National Security Memorandum 20 — which speaks to both compliance with
international humanitarian law in the conduct of military operations and
the need not to unduly or arbitrarily restrict humanitarian assistance
from going in. 

So, it’s something that’s very much a priority of his.  We’ll stay
focused on that.  And we will make sure that everything we do complies
with our law but also complies with the policy that the President has
set out and the priority he places on the provision of humanitarian
assistance. 

Yeah.

Q    Jake, does the package that you’re announcing today for Ukraine
include ATACMS?

And, on Israel, can you give us an ups- — an update on the hostage talks
and — and the potential for a temporary ceasefire before Ramadan?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I’ve got no announcements for you on ATACMS today.

When it comes to the issue of the hostage talks, one of the things that
I have found somewhat absent from the coverage is that what we are
talking about in the first phase is women, elderly, and wounded
civilians.  Those who would like to see a ceasefire in Gaza — a
ceasefire is on the table today for six weeks to be built on into
something more enduring if Hamas would simply release women, wounded,
and elderly. 

And the fact that they will not do so says a lot to me about Hamas’s
regard for innocent Palestinian civilians — the fact that they are
holding on to those folks and refusing to release them and refusing to
step up and say that we could get this ceasefire in place, which not
only would bring calm to the fighting but also would create an enormous
opportunity to flow humanitarian assistance in in much greater
quantities.  Because a significant part of the problem on the
humanitarian assistance front, as you know, has not just been getting
trucks into Gaza but getting trucks around Gaza because it is difficult
to move them in light of all of the — in light of all of the fighting.

Now, we’ve also encouraged Israel to stay at the table, stay engaged,
because we believe that there still is scope for this deal to get done. 

Notwithstanding the fact that we have entered the Ramadan period, Bill
Burns was just out in the region actively pushing on this in Qatar and
Egypt.  Secretary Blinken is deeply engaged in this.  I am.  Brett
McGurk is.  And the President himself has been making phone calls to
regional leader trying to move this along. 

So, we will stay at it.  We are determined to try to generate a
ceasefire for at least six weeks with the hostages coming out and then
try to build on that into something more enduring.  But I can’t make any
predictions about where this will lie. 

I will just say that as we press particularly on our friends in Israel
to do their part to help deliver this ceasefire, it is incumbent on
voices around the world to press Hamas to step up to do their part to
release innocent women, wounded, and elderly hostages as a first step,
and then we can move from there. 

Yeah.

Q    Thank you, Jake.  Is it the position of the United States
government that Hungary, a NATO Ally, is a dictatorship?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I know why you’re asking the question.  I’m not going to
speak on behalf of the Biden campaign.  You should direct those
questions to the campaign. 

What I will say, as the Biden administration, is that we have made no
bones about our deep concerns about Hungary’s assault on democratic
institutions, including the judiciary; Hungary’s corruption; and other
erosion of democracy in Hungary from the leadership there.  That is
something we have been deeply concerned about, that we have directly
engaged them on, and that people at this podium have stood and spoken
about and will continue to do so.  
      
     Yeah.

Q    But it’s not the position, officially, that Hungary is a
dictatorship?  We have heard your concern voiced before.  I know you
don’t want to comment on the campaign, but, typically, a foreign policy
statement of that magnitude would be made with, you know, some
coordination.  It wouldn’t happen at the footnote of a campaign email. 
So, without talking about this campaign specifically, is it the position
of the U.S. officially that Hungary under Orbán is a dictatorship?

  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Again, it seems like the question you’re asking is really
about the campaign.  So, I think you should —  
  
Q    But why won’t you —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  — direct it to the campaign.   
  
Q    — answer what the official position is?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I just — I literally just stated what our position is.   
  
Thanks.  
  
Q    Jake —  
  
Q    I don’t think you did.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  As I said before, our position is that Hungary has
engaged in an assault on democratic institutions, and that remains a
source of grave concern to us.  And I take it from your question it may
be of grave concern to you as well.  
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.  One on Gaza, and then a quick one on Haiti. 
There’s actually a breaking report from the region that says that Hamas
reportedly agreed to a modified U.S. initiative for a ceasefire deal and
gradual return of internally displaced persons in the Gaza Strip, citing
a Hamas official.  Have you heard anything about that?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I have not.  So, if there is an offer from Hamas to start
releasing prisoners as part of the — a ceasefire deal, that would be
welcome news.  It’s not something I have heard yet.  But as I said
before, we’ve been encouraging both sides to move on this, and we’ve
been encouraging the world to put some pressure on Hamas.  And,
obviously, I’ll look into that report.  
  
Q    And then, quick- — quickly on Haiti.  Did the U.S. wait too long in
its support of Prime Minister Henry, given that he had been accused of
being involved in the plot to assassinate President Moïse?  And how can
the U.S. avoid getting dragged further into this conflict?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  You know, ultimately, decisions about Haiti should be
made by the Haitian people.  That’s why we supported a conference in
Jamaica that was led by Haitian stakeholders, not led by the United
States, not dictated by us.   
  
It’s not for us to make the call on who leads Haiti.  It’s for the
Haitian people to make that call.  And we’ve been proud to support the
effort that was undertaken yesterday.  We hope it will move forward. 
And seeing what Prime Minister Henry did — not because of a U.S. diktat,
a decision he made — is something we support because we think it does
take into account the best interests of Haiti and the Haitian people.  
  
Yeah.  
  
(Cross-talk.)

Q    On Lebanon.  So, we have seen, lately, a new level of escalation on
the border between Israel and Lebanon.  And also, there was a missile
felled by mistake in a Christian areas by a plane passing by — Israeli
plane — and escalation has taken different approach now.  What are you
doing to accelerate — not to get — let this conflict get out of hand and
we see an expansion in the region, also innocent people maybe will —
will suffer from that?

  
MR. SULLIVAN:  This is something we’ve been focused on since the start
of the conflict.  And we would like to see an end to the cross-border
attacks between Hezbollah and Israel.  But, of course, let’s recall how
this all started.  It started with Hezbollah firing on Israel in
solidarity with Hamas.  So, one way to move forward here, of course,
would be for Hezbollah to stop firing on Israel.   
  
Secondly, we need to work on a long-term solution to this, consistent
with past agreements and consistent with the principle that the people
who have been displaced from their homes can return to them and that
there not be a future enduring security threat on that border.  That’s
what we’re working towards with both sides.   
  
We’re trying to do that as effectively as we can, as quietly as we can. 
Because we believe that this requires delicate diplomacy in both
Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, and Beirut.  That is the work that is ongoing as we
speak.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    Can I follow — Jake, can I follow up on the — on the Hungary
thing?  I know you want to talk about the — dismiss it to the campaign,
but the President of the United States said that Orbán, a NATO Ally, is
quote, “looking for dictatorship.”   
  
The Foreign Minister of Hungary then summoned the U.S. ambassador to
answer for it and says that these were lies and an insult.  Does this —
are you walking back the President’s statement?  Does the President
regret that statement?  Or does he stand by that statement?  And what do
you say to a — to the Hungary — Hungarian Foreign Minister who says that
the President is lying?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Of course the President stands by his statement, and I’m
not walking back his statement.  And all I’m saying is that our position
is totally consistent with everything you just said and is documented
and is the exact opposite of a lie.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Yeah, I wanted to pivot back to Haiti.  There are reports that
Kenya is, you know, thinking about taking back its stabilizing force or
not sending 1,000 police officers.  I wonder what the United States
plans to do to address the power vacuum in Haiti, and is there a
contingency plan for if Kenya does, in fact, step back?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we’ve had good constructive conversations with the
Kenyans.  I’m not going to speak on their behalf.  But we continue to
support their effort to plan for and operationalize this mission and add
additional partners.  And, in fact, in the last several days, additional
partners have stepped forward to say they also are prepared to
participate in this.   
  
So, we’ve remained hopeful that this mission can go forward and can go
forward effectively.  But, of course, at the end of the day, the
question you’re posing is probably best directed to Nairobi rather than
to this podium.  But I will tell you that the level of partnership,
engagement, and the depth of it that we’ve had with Kenya so far has
been exemplary.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  On Ukraine.  How long do you think this latest aid
shipment is going to last?  Are we talking weeks, months?  Do you have
any idea how long —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Absolutely not months.  Weeks.  Maybe even just a couple
of weeks.  It’s not going to be for a long time.  And that’s why we so
urgently need them to act on the supplemental.  
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Jake, in regards to today’s meeting that the President is having
today with his Polish counterparts.  On Friday, Poland’s Foreign
Minister said that NATO military personnel are already present in
Ukraine.  Can you clarify that?  Can you quantify that, please?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m sorry, who said that?

  
Q    Poland’s Foreign Minister.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I didn’t see that remark, so I’m not sure what he’s
referring to.  The U.S. will not have boots on the ground in Ukraine. 
We don’t intend to do so.  We don’t plan to do so.  And I’m not sure
what he’s referring to.  
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Thanks, Jake.  With Itay Chen now determined to have died on
October 7th, how many Americans or dual citizens are now believed to
have been — be held hostage currently in Gaza?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  We believe that that number is five.  It was six.  We
believe it is now five.  
  
Q    Thanks.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    On — back on the Ukrainian aid.  Can you say when the weapons and
equipment will get there?  How quick of a turnaround this will be?  And
does the White House anticipate more cost-savings like this that could
result in another package in the near future?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, as my friends at DOD like to remind me, we can’t
plan on cost-savings.  So, we can’t plan on any future drawdowns being
available on the basis of cost-savings.  So, we’re not anticipating
that.  It’s not built into what we’re looking for.   
  
Of course, we didn’t plan this one.  We got it — we got it, in part, for
example, because, you know, we had budgeted around for $155 at 130
bucks, and we managed to negotiate a contract at $93, and there are
other examples like that.   
  
So, it is not part of our current planning that there will be another
opportunity beyond this one to get this kind of cost-savings.   
  
And we can move this stuff fast.  We have proven that over time.  We
have built a logistical pipeline and backbone to be able to do that. 

I can’t give you a precise estimate for operational reasons, but it’s
going to move very quickly.

Yeah.

Q    Jake, you have a long foreign policy experience.  If you look back,
do you think that bear hugging Netanyahu and his extremist government —
including an openly racist member like Ben-Gvir — supplying them with
lethal weapons that killed 70 percent of women and children, excluding
the defensive weapons, was it successful? 

And do you believe that American national security now is at risk, as we
hear some testimony yesterday at Congress, because of the war — because
of the war — how it was conducted?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, what I didn’t hear at all in your question was
anything about Hamas, who conducted a grievous attack on October 7th
that —

Q    You’re not a spokesperson for —

MR. SULLIVAN — that —

Q    — Hamas, with due respect.

MR. SULLIVAN — killed —

Q    I’m asking you here.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah, but — but —

Q    I would ask the question if I’m there, but I’m asking you here, as
the National Security Advisor.

MR. SULLIVAN:  But — but what — what has been the purpose of our policy
since October 7th?  A fundamental part of our policy since October 7th
has been to help Israel defend itself against a group that authored the
worst massacre of the Jewish people since the Holocaust and had its
leaders go out after that and say, “We’re going to do October 7th again
and again and again until Israel no longer exists.” 

And, from our perspective, Israel had a right and an obligation to take
action against Hamas.  And Hamas created a set of burdens on Israel’s
military operations that are nearly unprecedented by hiding among the
civilian population.  And that made it more difficult for Israel to
conduct its military operations. 

It did not take away Israel’s responsibility to take every possible step
to protect innocent people.  And far too many innocent people, including
women and children, died.  And the President spoke to this I thought
quite powerfully on Thursday night, and we are very mindful of it.  And
every one of those deaths is a tragedy.  And we have said Israel has to
do more when it comes to the protection of civilians.  And we’ve spoken
today at some length about Rafah. 

But I do feel it is important to continue to ensure that this
conversation, this story, is complete, that all elements of it are
brought into the picture and not just some.  And that does mean paying
attention to the suffering of innocent people, not just their
vulnerability to the military actions of Israel but also their
vulnerability to a lack of food, water, medicine, shelter. 

And these are things that we work on around the clock.  These are things
I personally stay awake at night about.  So, I care about this very
much.  But I also care about making sure that our partner and ally,
Israel, is not facing in the future the kind of threat that it faced on
October 7th. 

And — and our country and any country in this circumstance would take
action against terrorists doing this kind of thing.  And the President
has said from the beginning of this conflict both that we need to
support Israel in its efforts to go after Hamas and that Israel needs to
do so in a way that protects innocent civilians.  And he has spoken out
about his concerns about the protection of innocent civilians with
sincerity and authority.  And I think you saw that on full display in
the State of the Union. 

Yeah, April.

Q    Hello, Jake.  Back on Haiti, real quick.  Can you quantify and
qualify the support and humanitarian aid you were just talking about at
the top?  And also, realistically, with all of the movement that’s going
on — the Blinken involvement with the Caribbean leaders, et cetera, and
African leaders — what realistically do you expect for Haiti by the end
of the year?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I hate to make predictions about what’s going to happen
in the United States by the end of the year. 

Q    Well, what do you hope for?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, it’s very difficult for me to make predictions about
what’s going to happen in Haiti. 

Q    But what is — what is the United States hoping for with Haiti by
(inaudible)?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Let — let me start with the easier question, which is the
quantifying of — of assistance.  It’s $300 million now, a sum total for
the multinational security support mission; $33 million dollars in a new
additional announcement on humanitarian assistance. 

And — and then, what we are driving toward is a transitional council
that can pave the way to elections and the restoration of calm on the
streets of Haiti, and then a new government that can come in alongside
this multinational security support mission, enable security, and then
build from there.  That is what we are driving towards.

Can I confidently predict that will happen?  I cannot.  Do we have to
contingency plan against other scenarios?  We do and we are. 

But that is what we are working towards.  I think what happened in
Jamaica yesterday is a good step towards that.  And we just have to keep
working on it. 

And I’ll — I’ll let you guys go.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    One more on Poland.

Q    A follow-up on Haiti.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much, Jake. 

Okay, Aamer. 

Q    Thanks.  I just wanted to ask first about the Hur report.  Pre- —
the President a few weeks ago now was pretty indignant and saying the
Special Counsel inappropriately raised the death of his son in the
interview.  The transcript has come out.  It seems a little more space
in there for that.  Does the President regret the outward anger that he
displayed towards the Special Counsel about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just a couple things.  My colleague addressed
earlier the transcript, so certainly would refer you to him.  And that’s
my colleague at the — at White House Counsel’s Office. 

As it relates to — I know some of you are — want to ask about the
hearing that’s currently going on.  It was going on when I walked out
here.  My colleague at the White House Counsel’s Office is g- — is
planning to take questions.  He’s going to gaggle right after the
hearing wraps up today.  So, I know that he is going to continue to be
responsive, so he will be able to take your questions. 

But we want to wait until the hearing is completed.  And once that’s
wrapped up, he’ll be — he’ll be right at the Sticks doing a gaggle.

Q    Is the President —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I believe at the Sticks, maybe not.  He might — but he
is going to do a gaggle.

Q    Is the President monitoring the hearing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is obviously meeting — as he does every
day, meet with his senior — senior advisors, senior staff — is preparing
for tomorrow’s trip.  As you know, he’s going to be going to Milwaukee,
Wisconsin. 

I cannot speak to what the President is keeping track of or watching. 
Obviously, he’ll — he’ll get updates on it as — or — or get updates
himself as — as the day goes by. 

But he’s focused on the American people and tomorrow’s trip, obviously.

Q    And if I could ask you something —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — unrelated.  Annual inflation ticked up to 3.2 percent in
February.  How concerned is the White House, given the President has
been saying that Federal Reserve should be cutting rates because of
lower inflation?   
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  So, let me just answer
your first question first, which is, look, the President in the State of
the Union was very clear.  We have more work to do to lower — lower
costs for hardworking families.  And so, that is something that we’re
going to do — and, obviously, also middle class.  And that — that work
continues.   
      
But just a couple of things.  As you know, we’ve talked about this — and
I think it’s important to — to note this: Inflation is down two thirds,
and we have the lowest annual core inflation since May 2021.  Prices
fell over the last year for gas, milk, eggs, chicken, appliances, and
also used cars.  Wages are rising faster than prices over the last year
since the pandemic.  And forecasts broadly expect progress on inflation
to continue over the rest of the year.   
  
And so, that is important to note.  And like I said, there’s more work
to do.  We’re going to continue to — continue to take on Big Pharma, to
— to lower prescription drugs and healthcare costs.  We’re going to
crack down on price gouging.   
  
You hear talk about jug- — junk fees.  The President talked about that
last week.  And so, also lowering housing costs, which is something that
the President, obviously, spoke about very recently.   
  
Look, I also want to — as you asked me about the second question, the
Federal Reserve, I just want to be really clear.  Unlike previous
presidents, the President does very much believe on the importance of
the Fed being independent.  And as you are asking me a specific thing
that the President said last week, he was simply commenting on a widely
accepted market view that — he was not saying what the federal policy
should be.  But it was regarding the interest rates, obviously a widely
market view.   
  
So, I just want to be super, super mindful, because we do very much
respect the independence of the Fed.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  What’s been the President’s reaction so far to the
Robert Hur testimony?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share on that.  Like I said,
my colleague from the White House Counsel is going to do a gaggle once
the — once the hearing wraps up.  I don’t — I don’t — I’m not going to
speak to the President’s reaction.   
  
Q    And the President has said that he would sign into law the bill
that could have TikTok banned.  If the President is so concerned about
the national security risks around TikTok, why is he posting on the
platform?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this.  Jake Sullivan, our National
Security Advisor, just spoke to the — more broadly why this bill is — is
important, why we welcome this bill.  Obvi- — it’s going to the
process.  And so — and we’re offering tech- — technical support.  So,
I’ll just leave that piece there.   
  
As it relates to the campaign, I would have to — and their strategy as
it relates to TikTok, I’m just going to leave it to them.   
  
Q    So, there are a lot of people in businesses that rely on TikTok for
their financial livelihood.  What is the White House’s message to those
folks if TikTok were to be banned —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look —  
  
Q    — which is a possibility if that goes through?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Our National Security Advisor laid out in a very, very
clear terms why this bill is important about ownership ca- — who — if
it’s imp- — about ownership here in this country or elsewhere, in — in
particular, China.  Right?  He spoke about that.   
  
Where do we want that ownership?  Where do we want that data of
Americans to be: here or in China?  Like, that is basically what the
National Security Advisor laid out.  And so, that is the — the
underlying — the importance of that bill.  It’s a bipartisan bill.  It
is something that we welcome.  We’re obviously, again, going to s- —
offer technical support.   
  
I’m just not going to add anything more to that.  But it is important
bill that we welcome here at the White House.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The President said yesterday that he had no plans
to address the Israeli parliament at this moment.  Does that indicate
that it’s something that he or the White House is planning for in the
future?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He also said that he wasn’t going to speak to
conversations about that particular question that he was getting about a
meeting.  I don’t have anything else to share.   
  
Obviously, and Jake said this — Jake Sullivan said this himself, he is —
they — he is in constant communication with — with his Israeli
counterparts, NSC, the State Department.  They are in constant
communication.  So, I just don’t have anything else to share beyond that
— beyond what Jake shared.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Does the White House ever digitally alter photos of the President,
Vice President — (laughter) — First Lady, or Second Gentleman before
they’re released?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Digitally altered?  Not that I know of.  I would say
no.  Why would we digitally alter photos?   
  
Q    I mean, it —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Are you talking about — are you — are you comparing us
to the — what’s going on in the UK?

  
Q    I’m doing due diligence to ensure — (laughter) — that the leader of
another —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, wh- —  
  
Q    — country wouldn’t alter photos —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wh- — why does the monarch —  
      
Q    — of themselves before released.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — have to do anything with us?  No, that is not
something that we do here.   
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    That’s why I asked.

Why isn’t he taking questions today alongside the two Polish leaders?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know what, and I’ve said this before, if you’re
asking about the two-plus-two or, in this case — I don’t know what we’d
call it.  A three-plus- —  
  
Q    A one-plus-two.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  One-plus-two.  I don’t know.  But I think it is — I
think — (laughs) — (inaudible) — but I think it’s — look, I actually
think it’s important that we have the two leaders of Poland here.  I
think it shows unity, and I think it — I think that’s important to
show.   
  
And also, obviously, it’s a part of the — part of the meeting is — is
celebrating the 25 years of Poland being part of NATO.  And you heard
Jake lay out the importance of this meeting, especially as it relates to
Ukraine and other — other important agenda items that — that the — that
both the U.S. and Poland are engaging on.   
  
Obviously, you’re — you’ll — you’ll see them shortly.  But look, every —
every meeting is different.  Every engagement that we have with foreign
leaders are different.  This one does not have a — let’s just call it a
two-plus-two; I’m not sure what else to call it ri- — at this time off
the top of my head.  But you’ll obviously — you’ll hear from bo- — all
the leaders today when they’re — when we have the bilateral.  
  
 Q    So, no desire to, perhaps, celebrate their unity and raise
solidarity or concerns about press freedoms in Poland than — (laughter)
— having them take questions today —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, we —  
  
Q    — in a country that celebrates press freedom?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As — as you know, as you just stated, in your last
part of your question to me, press freedom is something that’s
important.  That’s why we exercise in this back-and-forth that we do
almost every day.  It is important to have that.  Your — the press is
going to have a moment to see the leaders.  And I’ll just leave it
there.

  
Go ahead.  
  
 Q    Thank you, Karine.  The President said yesterday that he was
hoping executive action on the border would happen by itself, that
Congress would legislate it.  Can you just confirm for us that this
indicates that he’s no longer considering executive action on the
border?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the President has been very clear, and I’ve been
very clear anytime I’ve \[been\] asked about executive actions here, we
— the bottom line — the bottom line is: In order to have — actually have
change — extensive change, real change, comprehensive change — that
Senate bill that was — that was negotiated between Republicans and Sen-
— obviously, Democrats in the Senate would have been the best way to
go.   
  
It would have been the toughest, fairest piece of — piece of legislation
— law, if you will — if it had been — if it had been moved and the
President was able to sign it into law.  And that’s what’s important. 

The President is trying to make it very clear: No executive action would
a- — would have that effect — the effect that this bipartisan
negotiation would have had.  And he’s going to be optimistic.  He wants
to see it moved. 

And let’s not forget the reason why it was stopped, the reason that it
didn’t go forward, is because Republicans were told in Congress to
reject it by the former President.  That’s what happened.  They chose
politics instead of a majority of the American people. 

I do want to lay out here a couple of things.  It would have meant more
resources to secure the border: Border Patrol agents, immigration
judges, asylum officers, and law enforcement personnel to combat
fentanyl.  That’s what would have been.  That is what’s in that
bipartisan negotiation, and so much more. 

And they rejected it.  Republicans rejected it because of politics. 

But the President stands behind the majority of Americans who want to
see change happen at the border, who wants to see our immigration system
that’s been broken for decades fixed.

Q    I understand his — his preference to legislate.  But the reason I’m
asking is we’ve had conflicting answers over the span of a few weeks on
whether —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t think we’ve had conflicting —

Q    From the President —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, we haven’t

Q    — on whether executive action was something he could do.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We haven’t.

Q    He — he first said that he had done everything he could with the
stroke of a pen.  Then, he said that there was more he could do but that
you would prefer the Congress legislate this.  And, you know, things
were under consideration, potentially, for executive orders that would
make changes to, you know, the border, who can who come across. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — so —

Q    And then, yesterday, it seemed like he said, “No, nothing is
coming.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  So, I — I disagree.  I think there are a couple
of parts here.  You’re asking me if there’s executive actions that we
can take, and what we’re saying is there are no executive actions that
would have done the work or would have actually been able to deal with
the issue that’s happening at the border and starting to really fix the
immigration system than the bipartisan bill that came out of the Senate
that — well, negotiation that came out of the Senate.  And we are saying
that that’s the best way to go. 

We are always looking at options.  We have said this.  We’re always
looking at ac- — options — executive actions, right? — to see how to
move forward. 

But we believe — fundamentally, we believe — and it is proven by what is
in that negotiation — that the way to move forward is to actually move
forward with what could have been a — the toughest, fairest law that
we’ve had in some time. 

So, we’re continuing to call for that.  We always say —

Q    So, executive act- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We always —

Q    — orders aren’t off the table?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — we always say that —

Q    I understand — I understand what you — what you’re saying about the
bill.  I do.  But yes or no: Is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re not — I’m — what I’m saying to you is that we
always look at all our options.  That’s what I’m saying to you.  But we
are saying also — is the only way to move forward to actually deal with
this issue, the challenges that we’re seeing, that Republicans rejected
because of the last President — because of Donald Trump — is that
negotiation bill, that bipartisan negotiation bill.  That is the way to
move forward here. 

Are we always looking at options?  Yes.  But we haven’t made a decision
on that.  That’s the bottom line.  We have not made a decision on that. 

But we want to see this bipartisan Senate negotiation proposal move
forward that Republicans are rejecting because of Donald Trump.  They
are putting politics — politics ahead of what works for the American
people, what the American people actually want to see.

Q    And very quickly on a different subject.  Why was the President in
that interview using the Gaza Ministry of Health, which is run by Hamas
— their numbers on the death toll in Gaza?  It — they — there was a
30,000 figure that he cited on MSNBC.  The last time he cited Hamas
numbers, officials here dismissed it as a reference to publicly
available data.  But I would assume that the U.S. has its own assessment
of what the death toll is.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve been very clear here.  We — there are public
available data that you all have — you all also are taking a look at
that we are citing as well.  That’s what we’re talking about.  That’s
what the President —

Q    We should use that number, too, then?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You could use whatever you want.  I’m just saying that
—

Q    I’m asking you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — what we — we have said — we’ve been really clear:
There are publicly available data that showed, sadly, how many — how
many deaths that we have seen in Gaza. 

And the President has been very clear.  There’s too much.  It’s tragic. 
It’s tragic what we’re seeing.  And the President’s going to keep —
continue to speak to that.

Go ahead, Gabe.

Q    Hi, Karine.  Quickly on SB4, the law in Texas that would allow
local police to arrest migrants.  Today, the Supreme Court extended the
order blocking that until at least next week.  Is the administration
coming up with any contingency plans if that were to be able to go into
effect?  Or what’s the latest on that from the White House’s
perspective?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to be super careful here and don’t want
to go beyond the Department of Justice.  And so, I’m just going to be
super, super mindful.

I don’t have anything else beyond that.  I don’t have a contingency plan
to announce at this time.  So, just want to be super mindful there. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I wanted to first ask you about a Politico report
that described a toxic culture, including verbal harassment, by a former
aide at the White House advance team.  The story said that things have
gotten so bad that the White House Counsel’s Office had opened an
investigation.  Just wondering what you can tell us about that and also
whether the President was aware of any of these issues.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things. 

As to your — to your question about investigation.  Going to be really
careful here.  I’m not going to comment on a personnel — personnel
matters one way or — or the other, on the investigation part.

On the top — on the top of your question, I’ll say this.  So, the
President is deeply proud of his advance team, its leadership, and Ryan
Montoya — who is a stand-up, dedicated group — a stand-up, dedicated
group whose expertise, camaraderie, and professionalism have been
critical to his 242 domestic and 31 international trips — flawlessly
executing events in unprecedented environments, ranging from multiple
active warzones outside of American control to a once-in-a-century
pandemic. 

So, he’s grateful to everyone who has served and is serving on it — on
an unmatched team that represents the diversity of the country as they
have fought every day to help him bring his message to the American
people and to the entire world. 

So, you know, I’ll just leave it there from — for now.  I’ll just leave
it there.

Q    And can you say whether the President has been made aware of any
potential issues?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is aware.  I mean, I just laid out how —
how the President feels about his team and everyone who has worked for
him — everybody who has worked for him.

Q    Okay.  And, I guess, a follow-up to Ed’s question.  On a serious
note.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    I mean, I’m just asking this seriously.  I’m curious.  Does the
President have any thoughts on the controversy surrounding Kate
Middleton?  Is it something that he’s been following?  Do you know if he
is worried about her?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I think when we originally heard about the — her
health situation.  Obviously, we offer — offer her a speedy recovery.  I
don’t have anything else to add beyond that.  We — you know, we ho- —
offer her a speedy recovery. 

And I’m just going to leave it there.  I don’t have anything else to
share.  I have not spoken to the President about — about this.  But
that’s something that I can for surely say.

MS. DALTON:  Karine, you’ve got to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

MS. DALTON:  — wrap it up.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you give a preview of the President’s trip
that he’s taking this week to the Midwest — to Michigan and Wisconsin?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I shared a preview at the top.  This is part of
the President’s busy travel that he is un- — obviously, he is
undertaking as we just laid out his State of the Union.  So, it’s not
unusual.  Presidents go out there after giving a successful speech.

And he’s going to talk directly to the American people.  He’s going to
share how his administration investments are rebuilding our communities
and creating good-paying jobs.  And, as you know, in the State of the
Union, his policies have attracted $650 billion in private sector
investment in clean energy, advanced manufacturing, which creates tens
of thousands of jobs here in America.  Let’s not forget the 46,000
projects that are ongoing that’s coming out of the bipartisan
infrastructure legislation. 

So, he’s very — very much looking forward to going — being out in
Milwaukee, speaking directly to the — the American people, talking about
his investment in America and how he’s delivering on the needs that the
Americans have, especially as we talk about an economy — building
economy from the mo- — the bottom up, middle out.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll take one more.

Q    This is — just one last thing, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, April.

Q    This — this related to — to relate to that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — we just got pulled.  So, go ahead. 

Q    Marcia Fudge —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m being pulled.  Go ahead.

Q    Marcia Fudge is leaving —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — as HUD secretary.  The President really was excited and exuberant
that she accepted his nomination to be HUD Secretary.  What does he feel
about her leaving in this moment?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, we — the — we announced that the
Secretary is going to be leaving at the end of the month and is going to
spend some more time with her family.  Obviously, the department could
speak more to that. 

She has been a tr- — tremendously important.  Her work at — at HUD has
been important as we talk about the President’s economy, the President’s
housing policy he just announced a couple of days ago on how he’s going
to move forward to make sure that — to make sure that we deal with one
of the issues that matter to the American people — right? — housing,
lowering costs.  What else can the federal government do to — to make
that happen?

And so, look, her role has been instrumental.  The President could not
have been able to deliver in a way that he has on the economy without
her.  And the last three years, the ambitious housing agenda that we’ve
been able to deliver, including that you — you’ve heard him talk about
in the State of the Union would not have been ha- — would not have been
able to happen without her leadership. 

So, we are sad to see her go.  And we are very much appreciative of the
work that she’s done as Secretary over the last three years.

Q    Are you anticipating them to still continue to talk about issues of
housing and economy?  I mean, she goes beyond that.  She was a former
congressperson.  Now that she’s no — well, at the end of the month, she
will no longer be HUD Secretary.  Do you believe that she will be a
consultant — I guess, as the White House says, for those who are not
Cabinet members, a “kitchen cabinet” member now?  Is she now falling
into that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, look, I can’t speak to what she’s going to be
doing next.  I can’t speak to that.  She would have to speak to — to
herself — obviously, for that for herself. 

Obviously, her — you know, her — her advice, her leadership has been
incredibly important to the President.  You know, will that continue? 
Potentially, possibly.  They have a relationship, obviously. 

And so, I just don’t have anything to share about what it’s going to
look like next for her.  But she is leaving to spend more time with her
family. 

As you know, those types of decisions are incredibly personal and
difficult to make.  I’m sure that was not easy for her to make that
decision.  But we have been truly honored to have her part of this team
for the last three years.  We’ve had a ambitious, ambitious housing
agenda that she has led and has made Americans’ lives just a little bit
better. 

And so, obviously, there’s more work to be done, as the President stated
in the State of the Union just last week.  And so, we are — very much
have complete confidence in the leadership at HUD to continue those
efforts. 

Thanks, everybody.  Bye, everybody. 

2:47 P.M. EDT
