---
date: '2022-06-02'
modified_time: 2022-06-02 22:14:38-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-02 21:34:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/02/remarks-by-president-biden-on-gun-violence-in-america/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Gun Violence in\_America"
---
 
Cross Hall

7:32 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:    On Memorial Day this past Monday, Jill and I visited
Arlington National Cemetery.

As we entered those hallowed grounds, we saw rows and rows of crosses
among the rows of headstones, with other emblems of belief, honoring
those who paid the ultimate price on battlefields around the world.

The day before, we visited Uvalde — Uvalde, Texas.  In front of Robb
Elementary School, we stood before 21 crosses for 19 third and fourth
graders and two teachers.  On each cross, a name.  And nearby, a photo
of each victim that Jill and I reached out to touch.  Innocent victims,
murdered in a classroom that had been turned into a killing field.

Standing there in that small town, like so many other communities across
America, I couldn’t help but think there are too many other schools, too
many other everyday places that have become killing fields, battlefields
here in America.

  
We stood at such a place just 12 days before, across from a grocery
store in Buffalo, New York, memorializing 10 fellow Americans — a
spouse, a parent, a grandparent, a sibling — gone forever.

At both places, we spent hours with hundreds of family members who were
broken and whose lives will never be the same.  And they had one message
for all of us: Do something.  Just do something.  For God’s sake, do
something.

After Columbine, after Sandy Hook, after Charleston, after Orlando,
after Las Vegas, after Parkland, nothing has been done.

This time, that can’t be true.  This time, we must actually do
something.

The issue we face is one of conscience and common sense.

For so many of you at home, I want to be very clear: This is not about
taking away anyone’s guns.  It’s about vili- — not about vilifying gum
\[sic\] — gun owners.  In fact, we believe we should be treating
responsible gun owners as an example of how every gun owner should
behave.  I respect the culture and the tradition and the concerns of
lawful gun owners. 

At the same time, the Second Amendment, like all other rights, is not
absolute.  It was Jus- — it was Justice Scalia who wrote, and I quote,
“Like most rights, the right…” — Second Amendment — the rights granted
by the Second Amendment are “not unlimited.”  Not unlimited.  It never
has been. 

There have always been limitations on what weapons you can own in
America.  For example, machine guns have been federally regulated for
nearly 90 years.  And this is still a free country.

This isn’t about taking away anyone’s rights.  It’s about protecting
children.  It’s about protecting families.  It’s about protecting whole
communities.  It’s about protecting our freedoms to go to school, to a
grocery store, and to a church without being shot and killed.

According to new data just released by the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, guns are the number one killer of children in the United
States of America.  The number one killer.  More than car accidents. 
More than cancer.

Over the last two decades, more school-aged children have died from guns
than on-duty police officers and active-duty military combined.  Think
about that: more kids than on-duty cops killed by guns, more kids than
soldiers killed by guns.

For God’s sake, how much more carnage are we willing to accept?  How
many more innocent American lives must be taken before we say “enough”? 
Enough.

I know that we can’t prevent every tragedy.  But here’s what I believe
we have to do.  Here’s what the overwhelming majority of the American
people believe we must do.  Here’s what the families in Buffalo and
Uvalde, in Texas, told us we must do.

We need to ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines.  And if we
can’t ban assault weapons, then we should raise the age to purchase them
from 18 to 21.  Strengthen background checks.  Enact safe storage laws
and red-flag laws.  Repeal the immunity that protects gun manufacturers
from liability.  Address the mental health crisis deepening the trauma
of gun violence and as a consequence of that violence.

These are rational, commonsense measures.  And here’s what it all
means.  It all means this: We should reinstate the assault weapons ban
and high-capacity magazines that we passed in 1994 with bipartisan
support in Congress and the support of law enforcement.  Nine categories
of semi-automatic weapons were included in that ban, like AK-47s and
AR-15s.

And in the 10 years it was law, mass shootings went down.  But after
Republicans let the law expire in 2004 and those weapons were allowed to
be sold again, mass shootings tripled.  Those are the facts.

A few years ago, the family of the inventor of the AR-15 said he would
have been horrified to know that its design was being used to slaughter
children and other innocent lives instead of being used as a military
weapon on the battlefields, as it was designed — that’s what it was
designed for.

Enough.  Enough. 

We should limit how many rounds a weapon can hold.  Why in God’s name
should an ordinary citizen be able to purchase an assault weapon that
holds 30-round magazines that let mass shooters fire hundreds of bullets
in a matter of minutes?

The damage was so devastating in Uvalde, parents had to do DNA swabs to
identify the remains of their children — 9- and 10-year-old children. 

Enough.

We should expand background checks to be- — keep guns out of the hands
of felons, fugitives, and those under restraining orders. 

Stronger background checks are something that the vast majority of
Americans, including the majority of gun owners, agree on.

I also believe we should have safe storage laws and personal liability
for not locking up your gun.

The shooter in Sandy Hook came from a home full of guns that were too
easy to access.  That’s how he got the weapons — the weapon he used to
kill his mother and then murder 26 people, including 20 first graders.

If you own a weapon, you have a responsibility to secure it — every
responsible gun owner agrees — to make sure no one else can have access
to it, to lock it up, to have trigger locks.  And if you don’t and
something bad happens, you should be held responsible.

We should also have national red-flag laws so that a parent, a teacher,
a counselor can flag for a court that a child, a student, a patient is
exhibiting violent tendencies, threatening classmates, or experiencing
suicidal thoughts that makes them a danger to themselves or to others.

Nineteen states and the District of Columbia have red-flag laws.  The
Delaware law is named after my son, Attorney General Beau Biden.

Fort Hood, Texas, 2009 — 13 dead and more than 30 injured.

Marjorie Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, 2018 — 17
dead, 17 injured.

In both places, countless others suffering with invisible wounds. 

Red-flag laws could have stopped both these shooters.

In Uvalde, the shooter was 17 when he asked his sister to buy him an
assault weapon, knowing he’d be denied because he was too young to
purchase one himself.  She refused. 

But as soon as he turned 18, he purchased two assault weapons for
himself.  Because in Texas, you can be 18 years old and buy an assault
weapon even though you can’t buy a pistol in Texas until you’re 21.  
  
If we can’t ban assault weapons, as we should, we must at least raise
the age to be able to purchase one to 21.

Look, I know some folks will say, “18-year-olds can serve in the
military and fire those weapons.”  But that’s with training and
supervision by the best-trained experts in the world.  Don’t tell me
raising the age won’t make a difference. 

Enough.

We should repeal the liability shield that often protects gun
manufacturers from being sued for the death and destruction caused by
their weapons.  They’re the only industry in this country that has that
kind of immunity.

Imagine — imagine if the tobacco industry had been immune from being
sued — where we’d be today.  The gun industry’s special protections are
outrageous.  It must end.

And let there be no mistake about the psychological trauma that gun
violence leaves behind.

Imagine being that little girl — that brave little girl in Uvalde who
smeared the blood off her murdered friend’s body onto her own face to
lie still among the corpses in her classroom and pretend she was dead in
order to stay alive.  Imagine — imagine what it would it be like for her
to walk down the hallway of any school again.

Imagine what it’s like for children who experience this kind of trauma
every day in school, in the streets, in communities all across America. 

Imagine what it is like for so many parents to hug their children
goodbye in the morning, not sure whether they’ll come back home.

Unfortunately, too many people don’t have to imagine that at all.

Even before the pandemic, young people were already hurting.  There’s a
serious youth mental health crisis in this country, and we have to do
something about it. 

That’s why mental health is at the heart of my Unity Agenda that I laid
out in the State of the Union Address this year. 

We must provide more school counselors, more school nurses, more mental
health services for students and for teachers, more people volunteering
as mentors to help young people succeed, more privacy protection and
resources to keep kids safe from the harms of social media.

This Unity Agenda won’t fully heal the wounded souls, but it will help. 
It matters.

  
I just told you what I’d do.  The question now is: What will the
Congress do?

The House of Representatives has already passed key measures we need. 
Expanding background checks to cover nearly all gun sales, including at
gun shows and online sales.  Getting rid of the loophole that allows a
gun sale to go through after three business days even if the background
check has not been completed.

And the House is planning even more action next week.  Safe storage
requirements.  The banning of high-cama- — -capacity magazines.  Raising
the age to buy an assault weapon to 21.  Federal red-flag law. 
Codifying my ban on ghost guns that don’t have serial numbers and can’t
be traced.  And tougher laws to prevent gun trafficking and straw
purchases.

This time, we have to take the time to do something.  And this time,
it’s time for the Senate to do something.  
  
But, as we know, in order to do any- — get anything done in the Senate,
we need a minimum of 10 Republican senators.

I support the bipartisan efforts that include a small group of Democrats
and Republican senators trying to find a way.  But my God, the fact that
the majority of the Senate Republicans don’t want any of these proposals
even to be debated or come up for a vote, I find unconscionable.

We can’t fail the American people again.  
  
Since Uvalde, just over a week ago, there have been 20 other mass
shootings in America, each with four or more people killed or injured,
including yesterday at a hospital in Tulsa, Oklahoma.

A shooter deliberately targeted a surgeon using an assault weapon he
bought just a few hours before his rampage that left the surgeon,
another doctor, a receptionist, and a patient dead, and many more
injured.

That doesn’t count the carnage we see every single day that doesn’t make
the headlines.

I’ve been in this fight for a long time.  I know how hard it is, but
I’ll never give up.  And if Congress fails, I believe this time a
majority of the American people won’t give up either.  I believe the
majority of you will act to turn your outrage into making this issue
central to your vote.

Enough.  Enough.  Enough.

Over the next 17 days, the families in Uvalde will continue burying
their dead.

It will take that long in part because it’s a town where everyone knows
everyone, and day by day they will honor each one they lost.

Jill and I met with the owner and staff of the funeral home that is
being strong — strong, strong, strong — to take care of their own.

And the people of Uvalde mourn.  As they do over the next 17 days, what
will we be doing as a nation?

Jill and I met with the sister of the teacher who was murdered and whose
husband died of a heart attack two days later, leaving behind four
beautiful, orphaned children — and all now orphaned.

The sister asked us: What could she say?  What could she tell her nieces
and nephews?

It was one of the most heartbreaking moments that I can remember.  All I
could think to say was — I told her to hold them tight.  Hold them
tight.

After visiting the school, we attended mass at Sacred Heart Catholic
Church with Father Eddie.

In the pews, families and friends held each other tightly.  As
Archbishop Gustavo spoke, he asked the children in attendance to come up
on the altar and sit on the altar with him as he spoke.

There wasn’t enough room, so a mom and her young son sat next to Jill
and me in the first pew.  And as we left the church, a grandmother who
had just lost her granddaughter passed me a handwritten letter.

It read, quote, “Erase the invisible line that is dividing our nation. 
Come up with a solution and fix what’s broken and make the changes that
are necessary to prevent this from happening again.”  End of quote.

My fellow Americans, enough.  Enough.  It’s time for each of us to do
our part.  It’s time to act.  
  
For the children we’ve lost, for the children we can save, for the
nation we love, let’s hear the call and the cry.  Let’s meet the
moment.  Let us finally do something.

God bless the families who are hurting.  God bless you all.

From a hymn based on the 91st Psalm sung in my church:  
  
*May He raise you up on eagle’s wings  
and bear you on the breath of dawn  
make you to shine like the sun  
and hold you in the palm of His hand.*

That’s my prayer for all of you.  God bless you.  
  
7:49 P.M. EDT
