---
date: '2022-06-28'
published_time: 2022-06-28 14:51:59-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/28/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-pedro-sanchez-of-the-kingdom-of-spain-before-bilateral-meeting-madrid-spain/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Pedro S\xE1nchez of the Kingdom\
  \ of Spain Before Bilateral Meeting | Madrid,\_Spain"
---
 
Palace of Moncloa  
Madrid, Spain

5:23 P.M. CEST

PRESIDENT SÁNCHEZ:  Good afternoon, and welcome to Madrid.  I would like
to — to start by thanking President Biden for coming to Spain to
participate in the Madrid NATO Summit.  I’m also very, very glad to
welcome you in the Moncloa Palace in your first visit as President of
the United States.

(Speaks Spanish.)  (As interpreted.)  Spain and the U.S. are allies.  We
are strategic partners.  We are friends.  We are linked together by
strong historical bonds and strong partnership in many topics.

Moreover, we share that desire to promote the principles of freedom,
democracy, human rights, gender equality, and the state of law.  And
after over 20 years since the declaration that was signed by the
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and the then-Foreign Affairs
Minister of Spain Josep Piqué in 2001, there’s obviously been numerous
changes that have affected transatlantic relations and relations between
Spain and the U.S. 

And that is, dear Mr. President, why I’m so happy to announce this new
joint declaration between the U.S. and Spain, which will help to
strengthen the relations between Spain and the U.S.

In this declaration, we are doing a lot of different things.  First of
all, we are reinforcing our support for a rules-based international
order.  And it’s very important to say that today here in Madrid as a
consequence of the holding of the NATO Summit here because Putin’s
invasion of Ukraine is a clear violation of international law, a direct
attack on our shared values, and it demonstrates the need to redouble
our efforts to support that rules-based international order. 

And one of the main consequences of Putin’s war has actually been the
revitalization of the transatlantic Alliance.  When Europe’s security
was at stake, what every Ally has done, including Spain, has been to
respond decisively, reinforcing our eastern flank while recognizing the
threats that come from the southern flank and, therefore, the importance
for the Alliance to develop everything that’s been called the “Alliance
360 strategy.” 

And Spain has practically, dear Mr. President, doubled its military
presence in Latvia with the recent deployment this very week of an
anti-air defense system in the Lielvarde Air Force Base.  The Spanish
contingent in Latvia is now 592. 

And we’re also taking part in the Baltic air police patrols.  Our Navy
ships are maintaining their presence in the Alliance’s permanent
forces. 

And so, in total, Spain is participating with its deployments in five
NATO missions with a total of 1,471 forces deployed.

And in this context in which we’re dealing, I think, with the biggest
challenge to peace in Europe since the end of the Cold War, today the
U.S. and Spain have committed to strengthen our cooperation in the areas
of defense and security. 

Specifically, we have spoken about the U.S.’s interest in increasing its
presence in Rota’s Navy Base in order to strengthen the Alliance’s
collective security. 

And on the other hand, and as is set down in the joint declaration, we
have agreed to strengthen the bonds between us in the areas of justice,
cybersecurity, energy security — and, by the way, I’m very grateful to
the U.S. government and the whole of the U.S. for all that LPG that we
are receiving in Spain — and also the management of immigration flows,
everything that has to do with climate change, technology, and digital
transformation. 

So, in this update of this joint declaration that was signed back in
2001, we are expanding and reinforcing our bilateral relations.  And
we’re also, of course, aware of the importance of the trade relations
between our economies.  And in our respective national recovery plans,
we see an excellent opportunity for U.S. companies in Spain and Spanish
companies in the U.S. 

And in that context, I would like to thank President Biden for his role
in redefining the transatlantic trade relations, which, over the last
year, have been able to resolve past differences and embark on a much
more positive track — forgetting that past and looking towards the
future with hope.

We also agree on the importance of promoting a positive agenda in Latin
America, a region which — in the most part, a region with shared
values.  And together, we will be able to better defend a rules-based
international order.

Together, we’ve also discussed the increasing challenges of a very
important region for Spain and Europe, which is the Sahel; also the role
of China in the current geopolitical context, which will be discussed in
the NATO Summit. 

So, we will continue to work together in multilateral fora, like the
U.N. and the G20, in order to promote a coordinated response to all the
global challenges we have, including climate emergency, food security,
or the architecture of global health after the COVID-19 pandemic.

So, overall, this visit, dear Mr. President, has been a significant
turning point in the bilateral relations between our two countries.

(Speaks English.)  Allow me to finish by thanking you for your
leadership.  We are pleased to have the U.S. back on the side of
multilateralism.  The Madrid NATO Summit will start tomorrow and the
decisions that we will take will reinforce our transatlantic bond.  You
can count on Spain as a solid ally and friend.

Thank you very much, Mr. President.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, thank you, Pedro.  You can count on us as well. 
And, you know, thank you for welcoming me today here and for hosting the
NATO Summit in Madrid.  And we have a — we had a very warm and personal
discussion upstairs.  And one of the things I look forward to is having
an hour together before we begin the whole conference.

You know, we’re marking 40 years — 40 years since Spain joined NATO in
becoming an indispensable Ally.  And today, we’re standing together to
defend our shared security — and I emphasize shared security; strengthen
our transatlantic alliance; and meet the challenge we face today and in
the future.  That’s one of the things we’re going to be talking about in
this meeting this week.

And as President Sánchez and I want to talk to you — thank you for
Spain’s hospitality for U.S. service members and their families
stationed here in Spain.

Mr. President, you’re hosting a truly historic summit and the key moment
in our Alliance when Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine was —
shattered peace in Europe and shattered every norm since World War Two
that’s has been in place.  And I want to thank you personally — you —
for your leadership.

Transatlantic unity has been and will continue to be the greatest
strength in our response to Russia — transatlantic security.  We’re
standing as one to support Ukraine and to enhance our own deterrence and
defense capabilities.

And as I said before the war started: If Putin attacked Ukraine, United
States would enhance our force posture Europe and respond to the reality
of a new European security environment.

Earlier this year, we — we surged additional U.S. forces to Europe to
bolster our Alliance in response to Russia’s aggressive actions.  And
for months, we’ve been consulting closely on additional steps the United
States will take alongside our Allies, who are also stepping up and
strengthening our selective and collective security. 

Together, the new commitments will constitute an impressive display of
Allied unity and resolve and NATO’s 360-degree approach to our
security. 

I’m looking forward to discussing all of this during the summit.  But,
Mr. President, you and I discussed today: We’re going to work on an
agreement to increase the number of U.S. naval destroyers stationed at
Spain’s Rota Naval Base, which will also enhance the bilateral defensive
relationship between Spain and the United States.  We expect that to
occur much sooner than later. 

And I welcome the steps that Spain has taken in solidarity with our
Allies that we’re facing heightened threats on their borders, including
sending additional capabilities you referenced to Latvia.  Thank you,
Mr. President. 

And I’ll be laying out additional steps the United States is going to
take with our NATO colleagues as our — in our summit tomorrow. 

But the bottom line is this: Together, the Alliance is threatening
\[sic\] its posture — is dealing with the threats and strengthening our
posture against the threats from the east and challenges from the
south.  NATO is focused on all directions and domains: land, air, and
sea. 

And, Mr. President, we also discussed how the United States and Spain
and other Allies are keeping needed weapons and equipment flowing to
Ukraine so they — they’re — they’re standing up in ways that I don’t
think anyone anticipated, showing enormous bravery, enormous resolve. 
And we’re continuing to tighten sanctions on Russia as well.

We’re providing assistance to the government and the people of Ukraine
as they respond to this unprovoked assault on their lives and their
democracies.  Sometimes, I think Putin’s objective is just to literally
change the entire culture, wipe out the culture of Ukraine — the kinds
of actions he’s taking.

And I want to particularly thank you, Mr. President, and the people of
Spain for the support you’ve shown in welcoming more than 140,000
Ukrainian citizens refuge here in Spain. That’s remarkable and a
testament to your people.  And it’s a testament to the spirit and
resolve of not only the Spanish people, but of your leadership and to
stand up for what is right at a moment of crisis. 

Our shared democratic values, together with our long history of
friendship, make Spain and the United States strong partners on all the
issues that we face together.  In the Western Hemisphere, Spain and the
United States are working together with other countries in the Latin and
Caribbean areas to reinforce democratic institutions, strengthen the
rule of law, spread economic prosperity, and advanced transformative
approaches to manage migration. 

We’re looking to do more together in Africa as well to promote stability
and economic growth.  And we reaffirmed our joint commitment today to
continue to work together on the biggest challenges that affect the
people all around the world, from COVID-19 to climate change. 

And we’re releasing a Joint Declaration that reaffirms our shared
values, reflects the full breadth of our cooperation.  And we have asked
our teams to follow up on the substance of the Joint Declaration so they
become known to everyone. 

And so, thank you, again, Pedro, for your friendship and your close
partnership.  And we had a good discussion today, and I’m looking
forward to continue good discussions for the remainder of this
conference.  But thank you for your hospitality. 

5:35 P.M. CEST
