---
date: '2022-06-11'
modified_time: 2022-06-11 20:55:16-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-11 21:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/11/remarks-by-president-biden-in-a-briefing-on-the-new-mexico-wildfires/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in a Briefing on the New Mexico\_Wildfires"
---
 
New Mexico State Regional Training Installation Facility  
Santa Fe, New Mexico

3:18 P.M. MDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Governor, thank you very much.  Before I begin,
we’re on National Guard property.  I just want to say that the National
Guard, obviously, is controlled by the governor, except when
federalized.  And I have federalized you a number of times nationwide to
fight fires, to fight every disaster we’ve had.  And my son was a major
in the National Guard.  And I think the people don’t quite understand
the extent — the extent of the work you do and the risk you take for
us.   
  
And secondly, there’s an expression where I come from: “God made man,
then he made some firefighters.”  You’re all crazy — (laughter) — but I
love you.  I grew up in a neighborhood called Claymont, Delaware, when
we moved from Scranton when coal died.  And, you know, my parents
weren’t in the coal mines — they were in sales — but the economy
shriveled and we moved down to this little steel town.  And I went to a
little Catholic school across from the fire department — a fire
station.  And everybody I grew up with — you either became a cop, a
firefighter, or a priest.  I wasn’t qualified for any of them, so here I
am.  (Laughter.)  
  
I — but, you know, just so you know, I’ve done too many  
individual and mass funerals for firefighters and hotshots and — and,
you’re an incredible group of people.  I mean, a truly incredible group
of people.   
  
Anybody — and the — and the overwhelming human instinct is you run away
from a fire, not into it.  And the only thing that protects firefighters
is more firefighters — the only thing.  More firefighters.   
  
And I just wanted to say that at the outset because I — you have my
indebted gratitude.  And my fire department saved my life literally, not
figuratively.  My house got struck by lightning and it mostly burned
down.  It had to be rebuilt.   
  
Saved — the thick — the smoke was so thick, Gov.  It was literally that
thick.  And you couldn’t see through the windows or out the windows. 
And the floors were collapsing, and these guys went in and did two
things: Most importantly, they got my wife out — I was in Washington
when it happened — and saved our cat.  But equally important, almost —
not equally, but important — I have a ‘67 Corvette they got out. 
(Laughter.)  
  
And so, anyway.  But my point is: You’re incredible.  And so, Governor,
thank you.  And Senators Heinrich and Luján, thank you very much for all
you do.  And Teresa Leger Fernández and — you know, Herrell, and — and,
you know, Stansbury, and all members of the House doing a great job.   
  
And — but maybe the proudest thing I’ve done is I appointed the first
Native American to be a Cabinet member.  (Applause.)  But she’s only
been in New Mexico 35 generations.  You’re a newcomer.  (Laughter.)  A
newcomer.   
  
But, look, a special thanks again to the firefighters — over 4,000 of
you.  Over 4,000 of you are putting your lives on the line.   
  
And we’re about to receive a briefing about the largest, most
destructive wildfire in America so far this year and the largest
wildfire in New Mexico’s history.   
  
I just flew over some of the damage.  And Air Force One is so damn big
we couldn’t go in, but we flew the perimeter of the — of the fire.  And
it’s an astounding amount of territory.   
  
And the impact on families that have been there for so long are so
consequential.  And in this — in a way — you know, there’s, you know,
nearly 700,000 acres.  And a new fire just started — have just started. 
Thousands of people displaced.  Ranchers wiped out.  Schools shuttered. 
And wilderness — it looks like a moonscape.  You could see parts of it
where I — I was able to see.   
  
And I’m thinking about what you’re thinking, and that is our
responsibility.  It’s not a gift.  We have a responsibility to help this
state recover, to help the families who have been here for centuries,
and the beautiful northern New Mexico villages who can’t go home and
whose livelihoods have been fundamentally changed.  
  
Governor, let me be clear: We will be here for you in response and
recovery for as long as it takes.  As long as it takes.  (Applause.)   
  
And I learned something about this Governor: When she asks something, I
just say, “Yes.”  (Laughter.)  But I don’t think there’s —  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  Can you get the legislator to do that?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that’s — (laughter) — that’s what we’re trying. 
You know, I’ve publicly gone on record of supporting it — of supporting
it.  That is 100 percent –anyway.   
  
There — I hope we’re able to get that done.  I know that Ben Ray is
working like hell in the House to get passage.  But we’re going to — I
have a little more trouble in the United States Senate.  We have 50
Democratic senators, which means we have 51 presidents.   
  
And so, it’s — you know, we got to get a consensus and we can’t — not a
consensus, in some cases, if they insist on it being a — requiring
cloture, and we need 60 votes.  So, it — it remains to be seen.   
  
And so — but, you know, when you asked for major disaster declaration,
Governor, I immediately responded, providing millions of dollars in
housing assistance and cash grants and funding for emergency responders
— not because they’re doing any favor; it’s an obligation.  I think we
have a responsibility, as a government, as a — to deal with the
communities who are put in — in such jeopardy.   
  
And today, I’m announcing the federal government is covering 100 percent
of the cost of — (applause) — of debris removal and emergency protective
measures for the next critical months that are — in this recovery.   
  
And then there’s going to be a strong bridge until we — that we pass the
— the Hermit’s Peak Fire Assistance Act, introduced by Senator Luján and
Senator Heinrich and your — and Senator Fernández, as well as Stansbury,
to fully compensate — fully compensate survivors for their total
loss.   
  
We’re also — (applause) — we’re also providing funding and loans for
small businesses, farmers, and ranchers.  And we need to be sure this
doesn’t happen again.  We know the circumstances of Hermit’s Park and
<s>Calfe</s> \[Calf\] Canyon Fires are unique, starting with the
prescribed burn.  
  
Every year, the Forest Service, to put this in perspective — they do a
pretty damn good job — conduct 4,500 prescribed burns.  99.8 percent go
as planned.  And — but this time, tragically, it did not.  And that’s
why the Forest Service has just put a complete pause on prescribed burns
in our — in the Forest Service lands.  And it’s conducting an intensive
90-day review, which will make public the — all the detail of that
review.  And this needs to happen.  And I’ll be briefed on the results,
and we’ll brief the world on the results — the country on the
results.   
  
And for folks at home, there are hundreds of fire — of federal personnel
on the ground trying to help you get through this.  I think, if you take
a look, the most important thing you can do is register with FEMA, which
allows you to get assistance you deserve and you need quickly.  And
there’s a FEMA mobile app that allows you to quickly register for
assistance.  And it’s available in Spanish as well.   
  
And our Director of FEMA, who I think has done an incredible job — how
many folks you have here now roughly?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Just under 400.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Just under 400 here.  And it’s — (applause) — I don’t —
we — if you don’t have phone — phone service yet, you have Disaster
Recovers — Recovery Centers in Mora and Las Vegas where you can register
as well.   
  
And we also have a team on the ground to help you register.  And FEMA is
calling every person who is denied assistance — anybody denied
assistance to ensure they get the help they need and in the language
they speak.   
  
A lot of, you know — you know, you got to know how to know.  You got to
know what you need to know to be able to get something done.  I can walk
into the Library of Congress — one of the great libraries in the world —
if you don’t know how to work the card catalog, it’s not very much use
to you.  I mean, it.  You got to know how to know.   
  
And so we’ve learned, in our administration, that it’s not just enough
to provide the help but let people know how they can access the help,
and when they can’t, how they can go about to fix that.   
  
And so eligible residents can sign up for a state program that provides
benefits to buy groceries and — and hot meals as well.  
  
For the longer term, but beginning right now, we have to help with the
combined impacts of drought and wildfires and — which threaten your
vital watershed.  And it’s hard to explain to people back east when I
talk about this, because we’ve gone to — we’ve spent some time, the FEMA
Director and I, in other parts of the country — in Northern California,
Oregon, up in Idaho — to explain what we’re talking about — the scope
and size and the consequence — and how the watershed is not — not —
literally but in (inaudible) evaporating in many places.  Find yourself
in a position where it has vital, vital im- –impact.  
  
And through the Bipartisan Infrastructure, we are already investing
hundreds of millions of dollars in the state — of your drought relief
and wildfire mitigation and water infrastructure.  
  
And as the monsoon season approaches, we’ve authorized another $22
million to protect critical water infrastructure from post-fire flooding
— (applause) — post-fire flooding and debris flows.  And — and the work
starts today.  It starts today.  Not — not next week, not next month. 
Today.   
  
The bottom line is, Gov — to the people of New Mexico: We’ll do whatever
it takes, as long as it takes, to follow your leadership and what —
telling us what you need.  And I promise you, I — and I — and we kind of
joke.  They say the “Governor is on the phone.”  I say, “Just tell her
yes.”  And then I start the conversation.  Y’all think I’m kidding.  I’m
not kidding.  (Laughter.)  
  
So, I’m going to stop here.  And I guess we’re going to get — start the
briefing, if we could.  And — but I guess, David, I’m talking to you
first.  You’re Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management, so I’m going to yield to you.  Okay?

3:29 P.M. MDT 
