---
date: '2022-06-30'
modified_time: 2022-07-02 13:42:39-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-30 23:16:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/30/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-dnc-finance-reception-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a DNC Finance\_Reception"
---
 
Private Residence

San Francisco, California

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Let me thank Carol and Shelby and Reid for just —
for so long being such dear friends and for all that you have done to
support me personally and the Democratic Party.  It’s extraordinary. 

And there are people in this room — I look at you — who have been on the
journey with me since the very, very beginning of my career.  And so
it’s so wonderful to be home, and I thank you all, always, for showing
up and doing so much.

You’re probably wondering what Carol is talking about when she’s talking
about the tomatoes — (laughter) — so I will tell you.

So, of course, with all of you, I started here in San Francisco.  We all
have friendships that go back decades, based here.  And then I become a
senator; you all sent me to D.C.  And then — so I’m in the Senate, and
this is 20- — this is the beginning — January — around January 2020,
early 2020. 

And Carol has, during COVID, been living in their place in Virginia. 
And they grow these beautiful garden tomatoes.  And as many of you know,
I like to cook.  (Laughter.)  And so Carol says, “I’m going to be…” — “I
got to go and see the kids at Georgetown.  I’m going to — I’ve got all
these tomatoes; I’m going to bring you the tomatoes.”

So Carol shows up at the apartment that Doug and I have in — had in D.C.
with, I mean, boxes and bags full of tomatoes.  (Laughter.)  Full of
tomatoes.  And I had all these plans for these.  I was going to make
marinara; I was going to make this and this.  I had all these plans for
all these tomatoes.

And then later that day, I get this call that I need to do a Zoom with
Joe Biden, who asked me to join the ticket.  (Laughter and applause.) 
And I got all these tomatoes!  (Laughter.)  And so — and I get the
call.  I said, “Yes, of course,” as you all know.  And within, I think,
not even an hour, a parade of people show up at the apartment with
binders — a parade of binders.  They take over, like a SWAT team, our
little apartment.  (Laughter.) 

And I’m like, I just (inaudible) — “You got to move to Delaware tomorrow
— blah, blah, blah.”  And so I sent them all out after this meeting with
the tomatoes.  (Laughter.) 

That’s the story of the tomatoes and Carol Bonnie and our friendship.

MS. BONNIE:  (Inaudible) tomatoes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Oh, they were beautiful (inaudible).  I’m so
sorry I wasn’t able to do anything with them.

We are built for this — this moment.  I’m going to repeat something you
all have heard me say a thousand times when I paraphrase Coretta Scott
King, who said: The fight for civil rights — which is the fight for
justice, which is the fight for liberty, which is the fight for
equality, which is the fight for fairness — the fight for civil rights
must be fought and won with each generation.

Two points.  One, it’s the nature of it all that whatever gains we make,
they will not be permanent — which is the irony of it, I suppose, which
is: The success of that — right? –demonstrates the strength we have to
lift people up.  But in the strength of that, of those rights, there is
also a fragility, meaning we cannot take it for granted that it was this
without our vigilance in the fight.

And I think the second point that she’s making then: It’s the nature of
it, so it’s the nature of it.  So do not despair.  Do not be
overwhelmed.  Do not give up.

So I was sharing earlier, and I’ll share with the friends here, when and
how I learned about the Supreme Court’s decision in Dobbs.

So as many of you know, as Carol said, I’ve spent the vast majority of
my career doing a number of things, but particularly fighting for the
safety and the wellbeing of women and girls and children.

And so when — so, on that day, when the decision came down, I was
actually on Air Force Two.  On the plane, I had Dick Durbin, the Chair
of the Senate Judiciary Committee.  He and I worked together on so many
things.  He’s a great champion for so many issues.  And he was traveling
with me to his home state of Illinois.  And we were going to Aurora,
Illinois, to meet Lauren Underwood, who is a member of Congress — really
outstanding leader — because Lauren and I and Dick — but Lauren and I,
when I was in the Senate — she on the House side, me on the Senate side
— pushed for what we call the Momnibus, which was a package of bills
that are designed to support mothers.

And as you all know, I take as a point of great pride that as Vice
President, and as our administration having a commitment to this issue,
we have elevated the issue of maternal health to the front stage of the
White House.

So I was traveling to Aurora, Illinois, to go with Dick, our partner in
this, to meet Lauren to talk about a roadmap that we were unveiling in
furtherance of our work, which includes, for example, we are now pushing
the states to extend the Medicaid coverage for postpartum care for women
from 2 months to 12 months.  (Applause.)  We are (inaudible).  Seems
like a no-brainer, right?  (Inaudible) only 2 months, and it should be
12 months.  (Inaudible.)

So I’m in my cabin doing the work, and my team comes in — knock, knock,
knock — and so then, I just — I know instinctively — I looked at CNN:
The Court rendered this decision.

So the irony of it all: that we’re on our way to do an event on maternal
health — because, by the way, so many of these people who have been in
power for so long have not done this work that is about supporting a
woman who has given birth and all that she requires and needs to have a
healthy life and a healthy child and, before that, a healthy pregnancy.

And a decision comes down.  And we all knew when the leaked decision
came out that it was very likely.  But I think — I’ll speak for all of
us in saying that when it actually came down, the decision, it was like
a body blow.

And so we have to fight, knowing that there’s no other choice and
knowing that we actually have within our toolbox — we have levers that
include one of the reasons that we’re here today to support the DNC,
which is to impact elections, because elections matter.

MS. BONNIE:  A lot.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Think about it.  Think about how elections matter.  In 2020, people
around the country stood in line for hours in the midst of a pandemic. 
We had a greater turnout than we’ve ever seen.

And what ended up happening?  Well, maternal health is on the forefront
of the agenda.  We instituted an extension of the Child Tax Credit,
which was — for the first year, has meant a reduction of child poverty
in America by somewhere around 40 percent. 

We passed an infrastructure law.  That means that we will actually be
able to do something that I’ve been traveling around the country talking
about, which is remove lead pipes from communities where the children in
those communities are drinking toxic water, which is having a direct
impact on their ability to learn, much less their physical health.

Because that happened, that we passed that infrastructure law, we are
also about to lay down Internet and high-speed Internet, ensuring that
all communities not only have access but that are — that they are able
to afford access to high-speed Internet, an issue that was absolutely
highlighted during the pandemic as directly related to the education of
the future of America, our children — not to mention what it is required
to do in terms of supporting the infrastructure of a small business; not
to mention what it is able to do to give people in rural areas, people
who live far from a hospital access to their doctor or their healthcare
provider through telemedicine.

These things happened.  Because people stood, because you did what you
did, we were able to put over $5 billion into minority-serving
institutions and HBCUs, which means investing in those universities that
are investing in communities that need the support. 

Because we did so many of these things, including what everyone in this
room demanded — which is to refocus and redirect America’s relationship
with our friends and neighbors around the world — President Joe Biden
was able to, together with so many of us in the administration, make
clear America’s leadership in the context of NATO and the EU on the
issue of Ukraine.

Elections matter.  Elections matter.

So when we look at where we are today with these extraordinary events
that have occurred — not to mention Uvalde; not to mention Buffalo,
where Doug and I went to the last funeral, which was the funeral of an
86-year-old grandmother who was just grocery shopping — what we are
looking at — and then — but, thankfully, thanks to Chris Murphy and
others in the Senate, legislation was passed that’s going to make a
difference on that issue.

But elections matter. 

And so we are facing big challenges right now.  And there are things
that we can do, including in the next 131 days: Do as Jaime said and
focus on the federal races, and that means the Senate.  Focus on state
races.  Or — and then the House, of course, holding on to our majority
there.  State races.  Governors matter.  Where is she?  There. 
(Laughter and applause.)

Eleni Kounalakis.  Governor Newsom.  What California is doing, in terms
of — you know, with that hefty budget surplus — (laughter) — making
California a place that is welcoming and supportive of people around the
country who need abortion care.  (Applause.)  Yes. 

Secretary of States.  Attorneys General.  All those positions matter. 
Local races matter.  DAs — especially in the states that are
criminalizing healthcare providers and potentially women. 

So, elections matter.  And right now it is within our ability to do
something about it.

You know, some people will say, “Okay, well, you know, is that it?”  No,
absolutely not.

I was very, very proud of our President and our administration when the
President said today that the filibuster is not going to get in the way
of preventing us from pushing for legislation to codify, meaning to put
into law, Roe v. Wade.  That is very important. 

We need to take executive — (applause) — we need to take executive
action in terms of what we need to do, a lot of it on interstate
commerce theories, but ensuring that women have freedom of travel and
also have the ability to have access to abortion medication.

So there are things that we will do from the executive branch, knowing
that the Court has acted.  And now, the other two branches of government
need to act in turn — Congress and the executive branch.

But elections matter, because if we have the numbers in Congress, then
issues like this, issues like voting rights, issues like the Equality
Act, we can get passed. 

I asked my team to do a — I often think of conflict in the context of a
Venn diagram.  Don’t ask me why; I just do.  And so I asked them, “Chart
it out for me on a Venn diagram which states are attacking choice,
voting rights, and LGBTQ.”  It’s fascinating.

MS. BONNIE:  I want to see that Venn diagram (inaudible). 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  I’ll share it with you.  (Laughter.)

And so on the issue, for example — okay? — because, again, the hypocrisy
must be pointed out of an ideological perspective.  On the issue of, for
example, attacks on voting rights and attacks on choice, there are 11
states. 

So, hypocrisy — “Why do you say hypocrisy?”  Because those same people
who are — who are proposing and passing legislation to restrict a
woman’s right to choose are saying — and applauding the Dobbs decision —
are saying, “Because this is fantastic because the states can decide,
and the voters of the states will then decide.”

“Oh, is that right?  You who also are restricting voting rights in your
state.”  Where is that leading?

So it’s really, I think, interesting to think of it from that
perspective, which is where this is coming from, literally, and to turn
it into another point, which is our strength.  And look what then we
have in common. 

And remember that our greatest movements that have produced progress in
this country have been fueled by coalitions — people who seemingly have
nothing in common who have everything in common.

So I’m looking at my voting rights folks.  I’m looking at my LGBTQ
activists.  I’m looking at my pro-choice folks.  And I’m looking at all
of them in one room, and I’m seeing a whole lot of power.  Right?

So let’s roll up our sleeves.  This is not a time to throw up our
hands.  Let us roll up our sleeves.  And that’s why I say we were built
for this.  Because the bottom line, as far as I’m concerned, is this:
When you know what you stand for, then you know what you fight for.

In that way, the simplicity of it all is actually in our favor.  We know
what we stand for, therefore we know what we’re fighting for.  Do not
despair. 

We got a lot of work to do.  So, thank you all.  (Applause.) 

                         END 
