---
date: '2022-06-21'
published_time: 2022-06-21 17:38:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/21/remarks-by-president-biden-on-covid-19-vaccines-for-children-under-five/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on COVID-\u206019 Vaccines for Children Under\_\
  Five"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

3:55 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  Thanks.

As you can tell, I didn’t want to leave the clinic.  Those children were
wonderful.

Thank you, Arseme \[sic\] — Arsema, and — for that introduction.  And
Jill and I were honored to visit your clinic today.  We met with your
fellow nurses and staff who are stepping up each and every day.  And we
met with families of young children.  And there were about, I guess, 17,
18 families there waiting for their vaccine shots or have just gotten
their vaccine shots, and, finally, COVID-19 vaccinations for children
over five years of age.  Finally, some peace of mind.  You know, this is
— or, shall I say, under five years.  We have them for over five years. 
But over five months to — six months to five years.

And a historic — this is a very historic milestone, a monumental step
forward.  The United States is now the first country in the world to
offer safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines for children as young as six
months old.  In the first time in our fight against this pandemic,
nearly every American can now have access to lifesaving vaccines.  And
we’re ready.

My administration, with the help of the CDC, has been planning and
preparing this moment — for this moment for a long time.  Since I took
office, we’ve been committed to making sure every parent has the
opportunity to protect their children from COVID-19.  We’ve secured
enough doses and we’re launching a comprehensive effort with states,
local health departments, pediatricians, family doctors, pharmacies,
rural health clinics, community health centers, and other trusted
messengers and partners to get the word out to get — help to get shots
in arms.

Parents will soon be able to start scheduling an appointment and
addressing vaccines at pediatricians’ offices, children’s hospitals.

Our largest pharmacies — partners and — that are Walgreens, CVS, and
Walmart — are already scheduling appointments for later this week.

And starting today, you can go to Vaccines.gov and find information and
appointments near you.  More and more locations will be ramping up, and
more vaccines are delivered to providers in your areas every day. 

These vaccines are safe and effective, and are approved after extensive
scientific review by the Food and Drug Administration — the FDA — and
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — the CDC. 

But I know some parents might have questions.  I encourage you to talk
to the doctor — after you make a plan to get your child vaccinated — for
your children older than five years of age.

For everyone else: Get your shots.  Get your boosters. 

And let’s be clear: Elected officials shouldn’t get in the way and make
it more difficult for parents who want their children to be vaccinated,
who want to protect them and those around them.  This is no time for
politics.  It’s about parents being able to do everything they can to
keep their children safe.

Together, we’ve come a long way in our fight against COVID with
vaccines, treatments, and other tools that are widely available.

More than 220 million Americans are fully vaccinated.  More than 100
million Americans are boosted.  Daily deaths due to COVID-19 are down 90
percent.  And now, vaccinations are available for nearly every
American.  And we’ll remain vigilant. 

We will make sure that this is not only a good day but it’s good from
this point on — proof that there is nothing beyond our capacity when we
work together as the United States of America.

I want to thank you again, Arsema.  And may God bless you, our
healthcare workers across the country and continue — who continue to
step up and help put this pandemic behind us.

And, Doc, did you want to say anything?  You don’t have to.

DR. JHA:  I’m happy to, sir. 

THE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Okay.

DR. JHA:  Or just — whatever you like. 

THE PRESIDENT:  All right.

Q    Mr. President —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    Quick question on the Chevron CEO’s complaint today.  He said that
your administration has largely criticized the oil and gas industry and
at times vilified it, and that the administration needs to take a change
in approach in order to make progress on reducing energy prices and to
increase supply.  Do you have a reaction to that, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  He’s mildly sensitive.  I didn’t know they’d get their
feelings hurt that quickly. 

Look, we need more refining capacity.  This idea that they don’t have
oil to drill and to bring up is simply not true.  This piece of the
Republicans talking about, “Biden shut down fields” — wrong.  There are
9,000 of them, okay?

So they — we ought to be able to work something out whereby they’re able
to increase refining capacity and still not give up on transitioning to
renewable energy.  They’re both within the realm of possibility.

Q    Mr. President, if you were to decide to go for a federal gas tax
holiday, do you believe Congress would support that?  And how would you
feel about the fact that those funds are used for something that is a
big priority for you — repair of roads and infrastructure and all of
that?  Is that work the —

THE PRESIDENT:  We have a giant infrastructure bill we passed — giant —
1.2 — $1.2 trillion.

Q    So you’d be worth — it would be worth it for you to —

THE PRESIDENT:  Sure.  It’s not like — you know, it’s not like before. 
Look, it will have some impact, but it’s not going to be impact on major
road construction and major repairs.

Q    Sounds like you may have made a decision?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, let me put this way: I’m in the process.  I’ll
have a decision before the week is out.  But you asked me an explicit
question about whether or not — how would I feel; is it going to, in
fact, make it difficult to maintain our roads.  The answer is: We have
plenty of capacity to do that.

Q    Mr. President, are you going to talk to President Xi before you
make any decision on the China tariffs?  Do you want to have an
engagement with him before you do something — anything on that?

THE PRESIDENT:  I plan on having a conversation with President Xi.  We
haven’t set a time yet.

Q    Mr. President, any changes on your planned trip to Israel, given
what’s happened with the parliament?

THE PRESIDENT:  No.

Q    Thank you.  I think you spoke with Larry Summers recently.  And he
just said that in order to defeat inflation, we will have to accept
higher unemployment.  What would be your answer to that?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, there’s other — there’s other economists who don’t
think that’s the case.  And we’re in the process of working through all
of this.

Q    Have you received a briefing on the guns legislation?  The senators
say that they’ve gotten to a legislative text point.

THE PRESIDENT:  Very brief — briefly before I walked into the room to
make sure I say: Let them announce it, and then I’ll speak to it.

Q    Are you satisfied?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll let them announce it.  And then I’ll speak to it.

Q    Mr. President, are you accounting — I know you’re looking for more
money from Congress for this vaccine campaign and for COVID funding
going into the fall.  How much of the supply of vaccines for these small
children is there?  And how many of the nation’s kids will you be able
to get vaccinated before you need more money from Congress?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we’ll get through at least this year.  We do need
more money.  But we don’t just need more money for vaccines for
children, eventually; we need more money to plan for the second
pandemic. 

There’s going to be another pandemic.  We have to think ahead.  And
that’s not something the last outfit did very well.  That’s something
we’ve been doing fairly well.  That’s why we need the money. 

Thank you all very much.

Q    Ahead of your trip, sir: Prime Minister Boris Johnson said recently
there is “Ukraine fatigue.”  There are some leaders who are calling for
negotiations with Putin.  Are you afraid that there is a fracture within
this alliance that you’ve said has been united so far?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I’m not afraid.  But what I do think is there — at
some point, this is going to be a bit of a waiting game: what the
Russians can sustain and what Europe is going to be prepared to
sustain. 

And I think we have to — that’s one of the things we’re going to be
speaking at — in Spain about.

Thank you all so very, very much.

Q    Thank you, sir.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 

4:03 P.M. EDT
