---
date: '2022-06-10'
modified_time: 2022-06-10 18:48:35-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-10 19:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/10/remarks-by-president-biden-at-endorsement-event-for-the-los-angeles-declaration-on-migration-and-protection/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Endorsement Event for the Los Angeles Declaration\
  \ on Migration and\_Protection"
---
 
Los Angeles Convention Center  
Los Angeles, California

1:44 P.M. PDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, hello, everyone.  My problem is I’m getting to
like these people too much.  (Laughter.)  We’re going to get one another
in trouble, I’m afraid.

Today, the leaders on this stage are joining together to make what — and
is almo- — it’s an overused phrase in international relations and public
life: to make a historic commitment.  Because it is a historic
commitment we’re about to make.  Twenty countries coming together to
launch the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection.

With this declaration, we’re transforming our approach to managing
migration in the Americas.  Each of us — each of us is signing up to
commitments that recognizes the challenges we all share and the
responsibility that impacts on all of our nations.  And that — that will
take all of our nations — and this is — I’ve learned by significant
experience — it’s going to take all of our nations working together in
partnership to address this migration issue.

In the past few years, the global economic crisis triggered by COVID-19
pandemic, and now made worse by Russia’s war in Ukraine and the
political turmoil from auto- — from aut- — excuse me, autota- — auta- —
autocracies, regimes in our region, has led to record levels of
migration, not just to the United States.  Colombia has hosted millions
of refugees from Venezuela.  Right now, migrants make up as much as 10
percent of the population of Costa Rica.  

And no nation should bear this responsibility alone, in my view — our
view.  The economic futures depend on one another.  Each of our futures
depend on one another.  And our security is linked in ways that I don’t
think most people in my country fully understand, and maybe not in your
countries as well.  

Our common humanity demands that we care for our neighbors by working
together.  

The Los Angeles Declaration is built around four core pillars: 

First, stability and assistance: making sure the communities that are
welcoming refugees can afford to care for them, to educate them in their
education, medical care, shelter, and job opportunities.  

Second, increasing pathways for legal migration throughout the region as
well as protections for refugees.  

Third, working together to implement more humane and coordinated border
management systems.  

And finally, making sure we are working together to respond to
emergencies. 

You know, we know that safe, orderly, and legal migration is good for
all our economies.  But we need to halt the dangerous and unlawful ways
people are migrating — and the dangerous ways.    

Unlawful migration is not acceptable, and we’ll secure our borders,
including through innovative, coordinated actions with our regional
partners.  

Working these efforts simultaneously, though — humane policies that
secure borders and support people — representing ground-breaking,
integrated new approaches.  It addresses the needs of vulnerable
migrants and the needs of countries hosting those migrants.  That’s why
it has the support of the United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees
and the International Organization for Migration.  And that’s why so
many nations — again, 20, representing the entire migration route from
Chile to Canada — were eager to sign up to be part of this shared
solution and have stepped up with their own major commitments.  

I particularly want to thank President Chaves of Costa Rica and
President Lasso — who you’ll hear from in a minute — of Ecuador for your
new commitments to support and protect migrants in your countries so you
have the chance to stay and begin to rebuild your lives where they are.
 

And like many others, countries and the United States are stepping up
with significant commitments as well.  To help our partners in the
region continue to welcome refugees and migrants, we’re providing
economic support.  

For example, more than $300 million in new funding for the humanitarian
assistance for countries in the region so when migrants arrive on their
doorstep, they can provide a place to stay, make sure migrants can see a
doctor, find opportunities to work so they don’t have to undertake the
dangerous journey north. 

And we’re going to provide millions more, including through the World
Bank, to support countries and communities that are carrying the
greatest responsibility for migrants.  For example, Colombia received
$800 million last year — not enough, but $800 million, that — that will
help respond to the influx of refugees from Venezuela.  And there’s more
we’ll do, working with the World Bank and the Inter-American Development
Bank. 

We’re also expanding opportunities for people to come to the United
States lawfully.  In the next two years, we’ll resettle 20,000 refugees
from the region.  In addition, we recently resumed the Cuban Family
Reunification Program — Parole Program.  We’re resuming increasing
access to the Haitian Family Reunification Parole Program, with a goal
of admitting 20,000 per year per country.  

And on this jobs front, our Department of Agriculture is launching the
pilot program, funded by the American Rescue Plan, to help American
farmers bring in seasonal agricultural workers from northern Central
America, countries under the H-2A visa program to improve conditions for
all workers.  The program was designed in cooperation with the United
Farm Workers and through the close consultation with farmers,
farmworkers, unions, and other stakeholders.  

We’re also dedicated to an additional 11,500 H-2B non-agricultural
temporary work visas to open opportunities for workers from Haiti and
northern — north Central American countries.  

Mexico, Guatemala, Canada, and Spain are also making commitments today
to expand labor pathways to their countries as well.   

And in addition to securing our border and bringing order to the asylum
processing in the United States, the Department of Homeland Security is
leading a first-of-its-kind campaign to disrupt human smuggling in the
region.  

If you prey on desperate and vulnerable migrants for profit, we are
coming for you.  We are coming after you.  

In the first two months of our anti-smuggling campaign, the United
States has worked with our partner nations to raid stash houses, impound
vehicles used smuggling operation — for use for smuggling operations,
and we made more than 1,800 arrests.  And as we speak, Mexico and the
United States are conducting what is known as “mirror patrols” — joint
operations to interdict criminals attempting to illegally move drugs and
migrants across our borders. 

This is just a start.  There’s — much more work remains, to state the
obvious.  Every country needs to work together to maintain a humane and
orderly immigration process, to invest in securing the borders, screen
and registering migrants who enter their countries, and repatriating
those that do not qualify to remain.  

I hope more countries will see the potential for joining the Los Angeles
Declaration.  And I want to thank all of my fellow leaders on this stage
for committing to this historic new vision for our region.  

And now I’d like to invite President Lasso of Ecuador to say a few
words.  And thank you all very, very much for your patience.(Applause.) 

1:52 P.M. PDT 
