---
date: '2022-06-13'
published_time: 2022-06-13 16:29:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/13/remarks-by-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-at-signing-of-h-r-3525-the-commission-to-study-the-potential-creation-of-a-national-museum-of-asian-pacific-american-history-and-culture/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Vice President Harris at Signing of H.R. 3525,\
  \ the \u201CCommission To Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of Asian\
  \ Pacific American History and Culture\_Act\u201D"
---
 
East Room

2:21 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  Please have a
seat.  Good afternoon, everyone.  
  
President Biden, Speaker Pelosi, members of Congress, and my fellow
Americans: It is an honor to be gathered with you today and to be joined
by so many former colleagues from the Congressional Asian Pacific
American Caucus.  In particular, Congresswoman Grace Meng, you did so
much to make this day possible.  Thank you for that.  (Applause.)   
  
So when my mother was 19 years old, she came to the United States from
India to become a breast cancer researcher.  Growing up, my mother made
sure that my sister Maya and I learned of the important, glorious
history of Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders in
America.  Because that, of course, is part of the history of America.  
  
To teach this history is to help all of us as Americans understand where
we come from.  And to teach this history is to help us understand who we
are.   
  
The National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture will
teach and tell the story of our country.  This is a story about heroes
who shaped our nation for the better, from the South Asian Americans who
helped transform farming up and down the Pacific coast, to the Japanese
Americans who defended our freedom during World War Two, to the Chinese
American garment workers who marched through the streets of New York
City 40 years ago to win better pay and benefits for all workers.  
  
This is also a story about some of our country’s darkest moments: the
Chinese Exclusion Act, the internment of Japanese Americans, the murder
of Vincent Chin, discrimination against South Asian Americans after
9/11, and today’s epidemic of hate, which is fueling violent acts
against many communities including the AA and NHPI community.  
  
Because, you see, this is also American history, and we must teach it as
it really happened so that we can learn from our best moments and learn
from our darkest moments, and in particular, then, to ensure they are
never repeated, our darkest moments.   
  
By equipping people with knowledge and historical context, then we can
fight ignorance, dispel misinformation, and work toward a future where
all people can live without fear and a future where all people — all
people can help write the next chapter of American history.  
  
With that, it is my great honor to introduce the President of the United
States, Joe Biden.  (Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Good afternoon, folks.  And thank you,
Kamala.  I think I should just stop right there — (laughter) — because
if anybody can talk about this, Kamala can, like so many of you in the
audience.   
  
You know, it’s good to see you as well, Doug.  Must be hard following
this act all the time.  Right?  (Laughter.)  You do it well.   
  
Today, I’m honored to sign into law something that’s long overdue, and —
the National Museum of Asian and Pacific American History and Culture
here in Washington, D.C.  You can clap for that because of this lady
here.  (Applause.)   
  
And I want to thank the many members of Congress who made this possible,
especially Grace.  Grace, stand up.  (Applause.)  No, and she started
early.  She’s not new to this.  I think it was — the first time you
introduced it was 2015.  Is that right?  Yeah.  Well, you’re only seven
years ahead of everybody else.   
  
All kidding aside — and Judy as well is here and Doris Matsui and
Speaker Pelosi.  And senators who couldn’t be here today because they’re
not in session right now, but they — including Mazie Hirono and Tammy
Duckworth and — and Chuck Schumer — all members of the Congressional
Pacific — Asian Pacific American Caucus.   
  
While this bill was being — been working its way through the Congress
the past decade, its story behind it goes back centuries.   
  
Throughout our history, beyond what the Vice President pointed out,
Asian American, Native Hawaiians, Pacific Islanders have literally
shaped the history and the contours of this country.   
  
As I said last month at Asian History — Asian American History Month
reception in the Rose Garden we had, there’s no single Asian American,
Native Hawaiian, or Pacific Islander identity.  The diversity of the
cultures is significant.  And the breadth of achievement is equally as
broad and significant.   
  
The enrichment of our country has been — our communities — not just the
country, but down to individual communities — the impact that the
community has had.   
  
All of it has been defined by who you are and who we are as a nation. 
And it’s defined us.  And all of it is an embodiment of so many of you
here today.  Leaders in civil rights like Karen <s>Nagasaki</s>
\[Narasaki\] and — and Karen Korematsu.  Where — where are you?  Where
are the Karens?  There you go.  (Applause.)  
  
And military men like four-star general Tony Taguba.   (Applause.) 
Stand up, will you?  Come on.  He’s the only one I can say “stand up” to
because I’m still the Commander-in-Chief.  (Laughter.)  I’m serious —
you’ve made a hell of a contribution.   
  
In the arts and sciences, like the father of Erika Mo- — (laughter) —
Moritsugu.  Where — where is that guy?  There you go.  Dad, stand up. 
(Applause.)  Now, I was asked by your daughter not to do that. 
(Laughter.)  But how can I not do that?  She’s the one who advises me on
all these things.    
  
And too many business and public service people to mention, and so many,
so many more.   
  
And many of you in the audience — we should go through all the
contributions you’ve all made.   
  
And it’s about time for a national museum to capture the courage, the
character, and the imagination.  And maybe, from my perspective, looking
from a little bit from a distance, is the dreams and the heart and the
soul of the generations of our fellow Americans who came before you and
all of you.  That’s what this law is going to do.  That’s what it’s
going to do.  It going to create a commission that will examine how to
make the museum a reality, including whether it should be part of the
Smithsonian.   
  
Now, we did this with the la- — we did this with other museums as well. 
This is the process.  And the fact of the matter is it’s similar to the
process that the African American History and Culture Museum, the Latino
History and Culture Museum, and the National Women’s History Museum. 
Some of you are in both these museums, by the way, you know. 
(Laughter.)  
  
And it comes at a critical time — all kidding aside.  It comes at a
critical time.  
  
This year marks one year since the murder of six Asian American women in
Atlanta — a symbol of the anti-Asian hate in America today.   
  
This year commemorates the 80th anniversary of the incarceration of
120,000 American citizens who were Japanese Americans during World War
Two, which included — if you excuse my reference to two friends — it
included a dear friend who, as a child — the late Norm Mineta — who went
on to serve — he was in those camps when he was a child — went on to
serve in the United States Army and in Congress and the Cabinet — a
commemoration at a time where there are those who seek to whitewash the
history in our schools, what took place.   
  
And I think — excuse again, in Senate language, a point of personal
privilege — I want to thank my dear friend who’s not here, the late
Senator Danny Inouye, who taught me so much about so many things.  A
Japanese American who tried to join — from Hawaii, but a Japanese
American — who tried to join the military when the war broke out, who
had to fight to enlist in the United States military out of high
school.   
  
Danny would recall what his father told him.  And I remember Danny
telling me — I had to go back and check this today — but I remember
Danny telling me about this years ago.  He said, “America has been…” 
This is what his dad said.   
“America has been good to us, Danny.  It has given us — given me two
jobs.  It has given you and your sisters and brothers an education.  We
all love this country.  Whatever you do, do not dishonor your country. 
Remember, never dishonor your family.  And if you must give your life,
do it with honor.”  End of quote.  
  
Danny served in the famed 442nd Regimental Combat Team during World War
Two.  And, I might add, he earned the Medal of Freedom and he also went
on to do so much more.   
  
I was going to tell a story about he and Bob Dole, but I’m going to take
too much time.  (Laughter.)  For the 50th anniversary of D-Day, when we
— they both got shot and mortally woun- — badly wounded on mountaintops
— I was with them both — on mountaintops in Italy, on the west coast,
that were literally, as the crow flies, less than two miles from one
another.  The same time, same day.  Anyway.  
  
Today, it’s clear that the battle for the soul of America continues. 
That’s why a museum like this is going to matter so much.  Museums of
this magnitude and consequence are going to inspire and educate.  More
than anything else, it’s going to help people see themselves in the
story of America — a story that makes us a better America and it’s made
us a better America.  
  
And that’s why it was so important to me that this administration looks
like America — the people representing them looks like America —
starting with a Vice President, including Cabinet members and the staff
at every single level.   
  
It’s important to sign this bill with all of you here and — who — and
from every walk of life.  You represent every aspect of American life,
many of whom will likely be celebrated in this museum as well.  
  
Let me close with this: Maya Lin, born in Ohio and the daughter of
Chinese immigrants and the architect of the Vietnam Memorial on the Mall
and recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, said, “It’s not a
matter of finding an idea but allowing the idea to find you.”   
  
This mus- — this museum is going to help the idea find so many American
souls — so many people from around the world who will one day walk in
this museum and better understand the idea of America, the only nation —
the only nation, in my view, that can be defined in one single word:
possibilities.  Possibilities.  
  
Much earlier, my ancestors came, but your ancestors came.  What did they
come for?  Because they believed there was possibilities here unlike any
other nation in the world.  Possibilities.  And you’ve all proven it.  
  
And now I’m going to ask Speaker Pelosi, Grace, Judy, and the other
members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus to join me on
stage while I sign this bill into law.   
  
And I look forward, one day, to visiting the National Museum of Asian
Pacific American History and Culture with all of you.  (Applause.)  
  
(Walks to the signing desk.)  
  
Now, I don’t know why they do this, but they only give me one pen. 
(Laughter.)  I used to stand in absolute awe and watch Barack Obama sign
with seven, eight, nine different pens “Barack Obama.”  (Laughter.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I’m in awe.  (Laughter.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m going to give this pen to Grace, and all of you will
get a pen.  
  
(The bill is signed.)  (Applause.)  
  
2:35 P.M. EDT
