---
date: '2022-06-01'
modified_time: 2022-06-01 14:48:58-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-01 13:41:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-global-water-security-white-house-action-plan-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks\_by\_the Vice\_President\_at the Global Water\_Security\_White\_House\
  \ Action Plan\_Event"
---
 
*Indian Treaty Room  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building*

12:03 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you all.  Thank you, Sonia.  And
this whole — what a powerful group of American leaders.  I’m honored to
be with all of you this morning and in this fight.  So thank you, each
one of you, for the work that you are doing.  
  
I was remembering and talking with my team about how even when I was in
the Senate, you know, we would talk about this issue in some of the
committee hearings when we were reviewing nominees, and the connection
between this issue and national security.  And people laughed it off. 
“Oh, is that a serious issue?  Is that — is there really a connection
there?”  And it’s only been a few short years, where people are —
because of the — the extreme nature of it and the rapidity of the — of
the time that has passed, in terms of the escalation of the issue, that
people are finally understanding what you all have been working on for
years and years and years.  So, thank you for that, and to everyone
here.  
  
So, as many of you know, I am a daughter of California.  And as a
result, many things have probably flowed from that — pardon the pun —
but one of them has been: I have been, my entire life, acutely aware of
the reality of water scarcity.  
  
I remember I was, I think, 12 — in middle school, about that age — 13 —
when we experienced an extreme drought in California.  And I remember
watching in the Oakland Hills, northern California, the landscape
turning from green to brown.  And everyone — from my mother, our
teachers, the radio DJs — KDIA “Lucky 13” — (laughs) — saying how
important it was to conserve water.   
  
And we understood that each of us had a personal responsibility, no
matter our age, to take the matter seriously and to understand that with
the extreme nature of the harm that results from drought, we each have a
personal responsibility that may include and require some sacrifice. 
And I remember how unsettling it was to imagine how our access to a
resource so basic and essential as water, how that could become so
uncertain and we could not take it for granted.  
  
It is a reality that more and more people in our nation are, however,
experiencing and understanding this issue every day.  
  
As our planet warms and weather patterns change, extreme drought is
becoming increasingly common.  
  
At this moment, about 90 million Americans are living under drought
conditions.  And the start of summer is still weeks away.   
  
Across the West, we have seen the terrible cost of the climate crisis. 
And I have visited many of the places where we have seen the wildfires,
where families have lost their homes and their loved ones, where entire
communities have been wiped out.   
  
I have met with and talked with the firefighters.  My brother-in-law is
a firefighter in California.  And many of them who work 24-hour shifts
in some of the most dangerous conditions that you can imagine to keep us
safe.  
  
Farmers and agricultural workers who lost their livelihoods because the
rains just simply did not come.  And communities who have felt firsthand
how the economic impact of water scarcity ripples out, driving up prices
and driving a real sense of urgency about what also results in terms of
lack of opportunity.  
  
And that’s not all.  Our nation also faces water insecurity challenges
beyond those driven by climate change.   
  
For decades, of course, our country has chronically underinvested in
water infrastructure, depriving many communities of reliable access to
safe drinking water.  
  
Take the issue, which many of us worked on together, of lead pipes. 
Lead is a poison.  For adults, drinking water contaminated with lead —
it can lead to an increase in blood pressure and a decrease in kidney
function.  For children, it can stunt growth, slow down learning, and
cause irreparable damage to the brain.  
  
And yet, today, as many as 10 million households get their water through
lead pipes and service lines in America, as do up to 400,000 schools and
childcare facilities.  As a result, our country today — in this country,
more than half of children under the age of six are at risk of lead
exposure.  Obviously, this is unconscionable and utterly
unacceptable.     
  
Every person in our nation deserves access to clean water, and every
community in our nation deserves water security.  
  
As a United States senator, I introduced legislation to advance smart
water policy, to invest in efficiency and recycling technology, and to
take on the problem of lead pipes.     
  
Over the past year, I have met with many world leaders to discuss these
issues — from the King of Jordan to the Prime Minister of Vietnam, to
the President of Israel.  
  
Our administration recognizes the urgency of water security, which is
why our President, Joe Biden, invested over $63 billion in our nation’s
water infrastructure through the bipartisan infrastructure law to put us
on a path to remove every lead pipe in our country within the next 10
years and to fund water efficiency, water reuse, and groundwater storage
projects — hopefully emphasizing underwater storage projects — in
communities across our nation.   
  
In addition, our administration has made drought resilience a priority. 
Today, we are releasing the one-year report of the first ever Drought
Resilience Interagency Working Group.  It will help chart our nation’s
path forward to a more sustainable future.   
  
Since we took office, our administration has made important progress in
protecting water security here at home.  We also recognize how important
it is to extend that work beyond our nation’s borders.   
  
Today, billions of people around the world do not have access to clean,
safe water.  And in the coming years, climate change, population growth,
urbanization, and environmental degradation will only drive that number
higher.  
  
By 2030, almost half of the world’s population will struggle to meet
their water needs.  Think about that.  Almost half of the world’s
population will struggle to meet their needs — to have access to water. 
And it will, of course, have then a profound impact on America’s
interests around the globe.   
  
Water insecurity makes our world less stable.  When water is scarce, it
becomes more difficult for communities to produce food, as these experts
have talked about, more difficult to protect public health and to drive
economic growth.  This, in turn, as has been discussed, can lead to mass
migration, which can put significant pressure on neighboring
communities.   
  
Water insecurity also makes our world less safe.  Disputes between
countries or communities over limited water resources can, predictably
and by extension, over time provoke armed conflict.  
  
So let’s get in front of this.  Let’s take it seriously.  Let’s
understand the various ramifications of this issue.  And let’s also deal
with the reality that within the variety of issues that are presented,
there is the issue of equity — because finally we know that water
insecurity makes our world less equitable. 

Think about it this way: In many countries, the responsibility for
collecting water disproportionately falls on women and girls. 
Worldwide, women and girls spend 200 million hours a day — 200 million
hours a day — gathering water.

That is 200 million hours that could have been spent — we often, around
this place, talk about opportunity costs; let’s have that discussion.

It is 200 million hours a day that could be spent by those women and
girls in school, at work, or at home with loved ones.  And unless we
take action to make water more accessible for communities around the
world, that number will only grow in the coming years.   
  
So it comes down to this: Many of our most fundamental national security
interests depend on water security.  And that is why, today, we are
releasing our Action Plan on Global Water Security.

This Action Plan will cement America’s role of leadership on water
security issues.  And it will do so first by fully committing our nation
to the collective fight to provide access to safe water, hygiene, and
sanitation services in every community in every country.

Second, by sharing our world-leading water data, which we are collecting
on the ground, literally, and through satellite technology — collecting
that data and sharing it, and technical expertise that comes with that,
with the international community to help manage and preserve global
water resources. 

And third, by using our nation’s considerable diplomatic resources — the
great leader of USAID; we have so many leaders — to elevate water
security as an international priority.    
  
This action plan will help our country prevent conflict and advance
cooperation among nations, increase equity and economic growth, and make
our world more inclusive and resilient.   
  
The past two and a half years during the pandemic have demonstrated that
our world is more interconnected and interdependent than ever before. 
Water scarcity is a global problem, and it must be met with a global
solution.  
  
So, today, we make clear: The United States will be a leader in the
solution.  
  
Thank you all for your partnership in this fight.  Together, I know we
will create a future in which every person and every community has
access to our world’s most precious resource.

Thank you all.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

END                12:15 P.M. EDT  
