---
date: '2022-06-09'
modified_time: 2022-06-09 23:49:46-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-09 19:09:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/09/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-opening-plenary-session-of-the-ninth-summit-of-the-americas/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Opening Plenary Session of the Ninth Summit\
  \ of the\_Americas"
---
 
Los Angeles Convention Center  
Los Angeles, California

2:37 P.M. PDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  Please — please, sit
down.  Well, welcome again to the ninth Summit of the Americas.  A lot
of hard work has gone into this summit, and a lot of strong and
constructive diplomacy so far, I believe. 

We brought together diverse voices and stakeholders and
<s>development</s> \[developed\] an ambition agenda and — agenda for
action to address the issues that matter most to the future of our
region.  They’re not all the same concerns, in some — one sense.  In
another sense, they’re all incredibly intertwined.

I’m incredibly honored to be hosting all of you here in Los Angeles.

My administration and the proposals that we’re eager to discuss with you
were — we wanted to begin to talk about today — proposals that I think
are a far cry from what we saw from our previous American
administration.  But equally important, we — the Vice President and I —
we want to listen, hear all of you — what you think we should we be
doing.

The next few days, we have an opportunity to find ways we can do better
for all of our people by working together.  And I emphasize “together.” 
Together.  That’s what our people expect of us.  And it’s our duty to
show them the power of democracies to deliver when democracies work
together.

The United States stands ready to work in partnership with all of you —
governments, institutions, civil societies, young leaders of tomorrow. 
And I invite my fellow heads of state and heads of government of the
Americas to join me in adopting concrete hemispheric commitments that
are going to advance our efforts to build a more sustainable, resilient,
and equitable future. 

With our Action Plan on Health and Resilience, we’re going to help our
region recover from COVID-19, while strengthening health systems,
improving our ability to respond to future health emergencies by
investing in health workers. 

The new Americas Health Corps will train 500,000 public health and
medical professionals in the region over the next five years.  The
United States is going to fund this together with the Pan American
Health Organization so when the next pandemic hits, which it will, we’ll
be ready and trained healthcare workers to administer the vaccines and
the needed care, which we don’t have now.  And it won’t cost your
countries anything.

Through our efforts to strengthen the clean energy economy in the
Americas, we’re committing to just — not just an energy transition but
to make communities that have been historically marginalized are able to
share equally in the gains, with equitable access to both good-paying
jobs we’ll create and the affordable clean energy that will be made
available.

I’m going to continue to work, just as I did when I was Vice President
with Barack Obama, to promote trade and investment in clean energy,
including using the United States International Development Finance
Corporation, to help countries that need assistance to access financing
and to help the region reach ambitious renewable energy goals by 2030.

By adopting the Inter-American Action Plan on Democratic Governance, we
will — we’re going to commit our nations to making real the promise of
the Inter-American Democratic Charter.  And sometimes we forget what it
says.  It says: inclusive democratic governance, transparency and
accountability, protections for human rights of all people, respect for
the rule of law. 

And on all these issues and more, the United States is making critical
commitments to demonstrate our enduring investment in our shared future
— and to address our shared concerns, because they are shared.

Last night, I announced the Americas Partnership \[for\] Economic
Prosperity plan to drive equitable economic recovery and invest in
working families throughout the hemisphere. 

Today, I rolled out a new partnership and collaboration with the
Caribbean countries to address climate change.  I just spent a little
time with the Caribbean leaders.  We have to go back and do a lot more
and hear directly about their concerns and discuss all the ways we can
move together, as they pointed out to me just an hour ago, with a sense
of urgency — not years, not months, but soon.  Soon.

We’re making good on our commitment to vaccinate the Americas against
COVID-19, building more than — going to be more than 65 million doses
that we’ve already donated to the region.

Over the next few days, we’re also announcing more than $645 million in
new lifesaving assistance to address food insecurity in the region and
increase the ability to respond to disasters, as well as historic
refugee and migration flows.

Each one of our countries has been impacted by unprecedented migration,
and I believe it’s our shared responsibility to meet this challenge. 
And I emphasize “shared.”

Tomorrow, a number us will join — a number of us will join in announcing
the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection.  This will
bring our nations together around a transformative new approach to
invest in the region solutions that enhance stability, to increase
opportunities for safe and orderly migration, to crack down on the
criminals and human traffickers who prey on desperate people, and
coordinate specific, concrete actions to secure our borders and resolve
the shared challenges.

And tomorrow, I’ll be speaking more to this and laying out our
commitments. 

The bottom line is this: The Western Hemisphere is home for all of us. 
Back in 2013, when I was Vice President to Barack Obama, he asked me to
lead our engagement with the region.  And I said we should be talking
about the hemisphere and I made a speech back then, saying the
hemisphere — we should look at it as a “middle-class, secure,
democratic” hemisphere — from Chile — “from Canada to Chile and
everywhere in between.”

Over the past decade, our region has changed.  The challenges we faced
have changed.  And so, our policies and our solutions have to change as
well.

But I want to be very clear: My fundamental view and my approach to the
hemisphere has not changed.  I still believe what I said then, and I
hope that you do too.  There is no reason why the Western Hemisphere
can’t be the most forward-looking, most democratic, most prosperous,
most peaceful, secure region in the world.  We have unlimited
potential.  We have enormous resources and a democratic spirit that
stands for freedom and opportunity for everybody.

And no matter what else is happening in the world, the Americas will
always be a priority for the United States of America.

So, thank you again for being part of this summit.  We have a busy few
days and incredible opportunities ahead of us.  So, let’s get to work.

And I’m now supposed to hush up and sit down, and we’re going to have a
conversation.  Is that right?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes, Mr. President.  (Laughter and applause.) 

(The plenary session begins.)

(The plenary session concludes.)

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll be very brief.  I want to thank you again for
participating in the summit.

I think we’re off to a strong start.  I heard a lot of important ideas
raised.  And notwithstanding some of the disagreements relating to
participation, on the substantive matters what I heard was almost unity
— uniformity: rational migration policy, doing something about the need
to provide access to recovery and funding, a situation where we
concluded that we must work on the environment and climate change, and
so many other things.

And there’s no reason why the Western Hemisphere can’t be the most
forward-looking, most democratic, most open and peaceful secure region
in the world.

We can lead the world and — with the potential that exists in our people
and our values.  And so, the way we achieve that vision, I think, is by
working together.  And that’s what we’re doing these last couple of
days.  It’s going to take a challenge that’s — impacts on all of us —
and to unlock the opportunities and the benefits that are available. 

But notwithstanding the disagreements, think back to what we heard
today.  We heard almost total agreement on the substantive things that
we should be doing. 

So, let’s get down to real specifics in the next couple days as to what
those substantive things are, how they’re implemented, who implements
them, how we agree on them, what differences we have on them, so we get
down to as — as the expression in English goes, “to brass tacks.” 
There’s probably a better Spanish or other phrase for it than mine.  But
get down to really what’s at stake so we can solve some serious
problems.

Thank you all, and enjoy the rest of the day.  (Applause.)

3:47 P.M. PDT
