---
date: '2022-06-25'
modified_time: 2022-06-25 11:11:43-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-25 11:11:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/25/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-s-2938-the-bipartisan-safer-communities-act/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Signing of S.2938, the Bipartisan Safer Communities\_\
  Act"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

8:36 A.M. EDT  
  
    THE PRESIDENT:  Good morning, folks.  Yesterday, I spoke about the
Supreme Court’s shocking decision striking down Roe v. Wade.  We’ve had
a lot of discussion about that in our whole household.  We think it’s a
— anyway.

Jill and I know how painful and devastating a decision is for so many
Americans — and I mean so many Americans.  The decision is implemented
by states.  My administration is going to focus on how they administer
it and whether or not they violate other laws, like deciding to not
allow people across state lines to get public health services.  And
we’re going to take actions to protect women’s rights and reproductive
health.

This morning, though, I’m here — we’re here to — on a critical issue:
gun violence. 

You know, I’m about to sign into law a bipartisan safety legi- — gun
safety legislation.  And time is of the essence.  Lives will be saved. 

When we return from Europe, Jill and I will be hosting an event in the
White House on July 11th to mark this historic achievement with members
who voted for these families and the families who, in fact, were
victimized by the gun shooting that we’ve seen this so — so incredible
to see so much of it of late.

And advocates have worked really hard to do something about it.  I’ve
been at this work for a long, long time, and I know how hard it is, and
I know what it takes to get it done.  It was there — I was there 30
years ago, the last time this nation passed meaningful gun safety laws. 
And I’m here today for the most significant law to be passed since then,
since — for the last 30 years.

I’d like to thank the leaders and members of the House and Senate for
working together to get this done.  I especially want to thank the
families that Jill and I — many of whom we sat with for hours on end
across the country.  So many we’ve gotten to know who lost their souls
and — to an epidemic of gun violence.  They lost their child, their
husband, their wife.  Nothing is going to fill that void in their
hearts, but they led the way so other families will not have the
experience and the pain and trauma that they had to live through.

From Columbine to Sandy Hook, to Charleston, Orlando, Las Vegas,
Parkland, El Paso, Atlanta, Buffalo, Uvalde, and for the shootings that
happen every day in the streets that are mass shootings — and we don’t
even hear about them, the number of people killed every day in the
streets — their message to us was: “Do something.”  How many times we
heard that?  “Just do something.”  For God’s sake, just do something.

Well, today, we did.  While this bill doesn’t do everything I want, it
does include actions I’ve long called for that are going to save lives. 
It funds crisis intervention, including red-flag laws.  It keeps guns
out of the hands of people who are a danger to themselves and to
others.  And it finally closes what is known as the “boyfriend
loophole.”  So if you assault your boyfriend or girlfriend, you can’t
buy a gun or own a gun. 

It requires young people ages 18 to 21 to undergo enhanced background
checks.  It includes the first-ever federal law that makes gun
trafficking and straw purchases distinct federal crimes for the first
time.  It clarifies who needs to register as a federally licensed gun
dealer, and run background checks before selling a single weapon.

You know, this is — also provides historic funding to address the youth
mental health crisis in this country, especially — especially the trauma
experienced by the survivors of this gun violence.

Look, you know, it invests in antiviolence programs that work — that
work directly with the people who are most likely to commit these crimes
or become victims of gun crimes.  Today, we say more than “enough.”  We
say more than “enough.”  It’s time — when it seems impossible to get
anything done in Washington, we are doing something consequential.  If
we can reach compromise on guns, we ought to be able to reach compromise
in other critical issues, from veterans’ healthcare to cutting-edge
American innovation, and so much more.

I know there’s much more work to do, and I’m never going to give up. 
But this is a monumental day.  God bless us with the strength to
continue to work to get the work that’s left undone done, and the lives
lost that can’t be saved that obviously are gone but will be an
inspiration for us to do more.

I’m now going to sign this bill into law. 

(The bill is signed.)

God willing, it’s going to save a lot of lives.  Thank you all so very
much.

Q    Mr. President, will you take a couple questions?

THE FIRST LADY:  Congratulations.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thanks.

I have a helicopter waiting for me to take off.  We’re going to have
plenty of time to talk about a lot of this.

Q    Do you think the Supreme Court is broken, in your view?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think the Supreme Court has made some terrible
decisions.  Thank you.

8:42 A.M. EDT
