---
date: '2022-06-24'
modified_time: 2022-06-25 14:53:32-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-24 14:58:59-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/24/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-supreme-court-decision-to-overturn-roe-v-wade/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Supreme Court Decision to Overturn Roe\
  \ v.\_Wade"
---
 
Cross Hall

12:37 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Today is a — it’s not hyperbole to suggest a very solemn
moment.  Today, the Supreme Court of the United States expressly took
away a constitutional right from the American people that it had already
recognized.

They didn’t limit it.  They simply took it away.  That’s never been done
to a right so important to so many Americans.

But they did it.  And it’s a sad day for the Court and for the country.

Fifty years ago, Roe v. Wade was decided and has been the law of the
land since then.

This landmark case protected a woman’s right to choose, her right to
make intensely personal decisions with her doctor, free from the inter-
— from interference of politics.

It reaffirmed basic principles of equality — that women have the power
to control their own destiny.  And it reinforced the fundamental right
of privacy — the right of each of us to choose how to live our lives.

Now, with Roe gone, let’s be very clear: The health and life of women in
this nation are now at risk.

As Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, as
Vice President and now as President of the United States, I’ve studied
this case carefully.  I’ve overseen more Supreme Court confirmations
than anyone today, where this case was always discussed.

I believe Roe v. Wade was the correct decision as a matter of
constitutional law, an application of the fundamental right to privacy
and liberty in matters of family and personal autonomy.

It was a decision on a complex matter that drew a careful balance
between a woman’s right to choose earlier in her pregnancy and the
state’s ability to regulate later in her pregnancy.  A decision with
broad national consensus that most Americans of faiths and backgrounds
found acceptable and that had been the law of the land for most of the
lifetime of Americans today.

And it was a constitutional principle upheld by justices appointed by
Democrat and Republican Presidents alike. 

Roe v. Wade was a 7 to 2 decision written by a justice appointed by a
Republican President, Richard Nixon.  In the five decades that followed
Roe v. Wade, justices appointed by Republican Presidents — from
Eisenhower, Nixon, Reagan, George <s>W.</s> \[H.W.\] Bush — were among
the justices who voted to uphold the principles set forth in Roe v.
Wade.

It was three justices named by one President — Donald Trump — who were
the core of today’s decision to upend the scales of justice and
eliminate a fundamental right for women in this country.

Make no mistake: This decision is the culmination of a deliberate effort
over decades to upset the balance of our law.  It’s a realization of an
extreme ideology and a tragic error by the Supreme Court, in my view.

The Court has done what it has never done before: expressly take away a
constitutional right that is so fundamental to so many Americans that
had already been recognized.

The Court’s decision to do so will have real and immediate
consequences.  State laws banning abortion are automatically taking
effect today, jeopardizing the health of millions of women, some without
exceptions. 

So extreme that women could be punished for protecting their health.

So extreme that women and girls who are forced to bear their rapist’s
child — of the child of consequence. 

It’s a — it just — it just stuns me. 

So extreme that doctors will be criminalized for fulfilling their duty
to care.

Imagine having — a young woman having to ch- — carry the child of incest
— as a consequence of incest.  No option. 

Too often the case that poor women are going to be hit the hardest. 
It’s cruel.

In fact, the Court laid out state laws criminalizing abortion that go
back to the 1800s as rationale — the Court literally taking America back
150 years. 

This a sad day for the country, in my view, but it doesn’t mean the
fight is over.

Let me be very clear and unambiguous: The only way we can secure a
woman’s right to choose and the balance that existed is for Congress to
restore the protections of Roe v. Wade as federal law.

No executive action from the President can do that.  And if Congress, as
it appears, lacks the vote — votes to do that now, voters need to make
their voices heard.

This fall, we must elect more senators and representatives who will
codify a woman’s right to choose into federal law once again, elect more
state leaders to protect this right at the local level.

We need to restore the protections of Roe as law of the land.  We need
to elect officials who will do that.

This fall, Roe is on the ballot.  Personal freedoms are on the ballot. 
The right to privacy, liberty, equality, they’re all on the ballot. 

Until then, I will do all in my power to protect a woman’s right in
states where they will face the consequences of today’s decision.

While the Court’s decision casts a dark shadow over a large swath of the
land, many states in this country still recognize a woman’s right to
choose.

So if a woman lives in a state that restricts abortion, the Supreme
Court’s decision does not prevent her from traveling from her home state
to the state that allows it.  It does not prevent a doctor in that state
— in that state from treating her.

As the Attorney General has made clear, women must remain free to travel
safely to another state to seek the care they need.  And my
administration will defend that bedrock right. 

If any state or local official, high or low, tries to interfere with a
woman’s ex- — exercising her basic right to travel, I will do everything
in my power to fight that deeply un-American attack.

My administration will also protect a woman’s access to medications that
are approved by the Food and Drug Administration — the FDA — like
contraception, which is essential for preventative healthcare;
mifepristone, which the FDA approved 20 years ago to safely end early
pregnancies and is commonly used to treat miscarriages.

Some states are saying that they’ll try to ban or severely restrict
access to these medications. 

But extremist governors and state legislators who are looking to block
the mail or search a person’s medicine cabinet or control a woman’s
actions by tracking data on her apps she uses are wrong and extreme and
out of touch with the majority of Americans.

The American Medical Association and the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists wrote to me and Vice President Harris
stressing that these laws are not based on — are not based on evidence
and asking us to act to protect access to care.  They say by limiting
access to these medicines, maternal mortality will climb in America. 
That’s what they say.

Today, I’m directing the Department of Health and Human Services to take
steps to ensure that these critical medications are available to the
fullest extent possible and that politicians cannot interfere in the
decisions that should be made between a woman and her doctor.  And my
administration will remain vigilant as the implications of this decision
play out.

I’ve warned about how this decision risks the broader right to privacy
for everyone.  That’s because Roe recognized the fundamental right to
privacy that has served as the basis for so many more rights that we
have come to take — we’ve come to take for granted that are ingrained in
the fabric of this country: the right to make the best decisions for
your health; the right to use birth control — a married couple — in the
privacy of their bedroom, for God’s sake; the right to marry the person
you love. 

Now, Justice Thomas said as much today.  He explicitly called to
reconsider the right of marriage equality, the right of couples to make
their choices on contraception.  This is an extreme and dangerous path
the Court is now taking us on. 

Let me close with two points. 

First, I call on everyone, no matter how deeply they care about this
decision, to keep all protests peaceful.  Peaceful, peaceful, peaceful. 
No intimidation.  Violence is never acceptable.  Threats and
intimidation are not speech.  We must stand against violence in any form
regardless of your rationale.

Second, I know so many of us are frustrated and disillusioned that the
Court has taken something away that’s so fundamental.  I know so many
women are now going to face incredibly difficult situations.  I hear
you.  I support you.  I stand with you. 

The consequences and the consensus of the American people — core
principles of equality, liberty, dignity, and the stability of the rule
of law — demand that Roe should not have been overturned.

With this decision, the conservative majority of the Supreme Court shows
how extreme it is, how far removed they are from the majority of this
country.  They have made the United States an outlier among developed
nations in the world.  But this decision must not be the final word.

My administration will use all of its appropriate lawful powers.  But
Congress must act.  And with your vote, you can act.  You can have the
final word.  This is not over.

Thank you very much.  I’ll have more to say on this in weeks to come. 
Thank you.

12:49 P.M. EDT
