---
date: '2022-06-08'
modified_time: 2022-06-08 22:56:10-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-08 23:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/08/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-inaugural-ceremony-of-the-ninth-summit-of-the-americas/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Inaugural Ceremony of the Ninth Summit\
  \ of the\_Americas"
---
 
Microsoft Theater  
Los Angeles, California

6:00 P.M. PDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good evening.  Please be seated.  Welcome to Los
Angeles.  (Applause.)  And I probably should stop right here because
I’ve followed some difficult acts in the past.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  No fossil fuels!  No!  No fossil fuels!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)   
  
I followed some difficult acts, but never before have I followed such a
difficult act as I’ve seen the last 45 minutes up here.   
  
It’s an honor to host my fellow leaders from throughout the — our
hemisphere for the ninth Summit of the Americas at a moment when we need
more cooperation, common purpose, and transformative ideas that have
never been a greater need than today.  
  
I also want to welcome all the representatives from civil society, the
private sector, international institutions, and especially young people
from across the Americas who are participating in this summit. 
(Applause.)  
  
Democracy is a hallmark of our region.  Our Inter-American Democratic
Charter, which grew out of the third Summit of the Americas, captures
our unique commitment to democracy as a region.  It affirms the right of
people throughout the Americas to democracy and our obligation as
governments to promote and defend democracy.  
  
As we meet again today, in a moment when democracy is under assault
around the world, let us unite again and renew our conviction that
democracy is not only the defining feature of American histories, but
the essential ingredient to Americas’ futures.   
  
Folks — (applause) — to state the obvious, our region is large and
diverse.  We don’t always agree on everything, but because we’re
democracies, we work through our disagreements with mutual respect and
dialogue.   
  
At this summit, we have an opportunity for us to come together around
some bold ideas, ambitious actions, and to demonstrate to our people the
incredible power of democracies to deliver concrete benefits and make
life better for everyone.  Everyone.  
  
And no longer is this a question of what will we do — what will the
United States do for the Americas.  The question is what we accomplish
by working together as true partners with diverse capabilities but equal
and mutual respect, recognizing both our individual sovereignty and our
shared responsibilities.   
  
The COVID-19 pandemic hit our region particularly hard.  While we
account for just 12 percent of the global population, we experienced
more than 40 percent of reported global pandemic-related deaths.  It’s
an enormous tragedy that has left too many families grief-stricken.   
  
And the ensuing economic crisis, triggered by the pandemic, ravaged
economies throughout the hemisphere, wiping out much of the hard-earned
progress we had made.   
  
Twenty-two million more people fell into poverty in just the first year
of the pandemic.  
  
Inequity continues to rise.   
  
Global <s>inflammatory</s> \[inflationary\] pressures — were made worse
by Putin’s brutal and unprovoked war against Ukraine — are making it
harder for families to make ends meet.   
  
And all of these factors are contributing to vastly increased migration
flows throughout our hemisphere with too many people feeling there is no
option available to them to provide for themselves and their families.  
  
These challenges affect all of us.  All of our nations have a
responsibility to step up and ease the pressure people are feeling
today.  
  
In the months leading up to this summit, countries have made meaningful
and concrete commitments to address these challenges.  And the United
States is attempting to do our part as well.  
  
Yesterday, we launched our Cities Forward initiative, recognizing the
key roles of mayors and local governments — the role they play in
delivering for the people where they live.  And we’ll host the inaugural
Cities Summit of the Americas in Denver in 2023.   
  
Earlier today, we announced a new America\[s\] Health Corps with
<s>50,000</s> \[500,000\] public health and medical professionals being
trained in the region over the next five years to help strengthen our
health systems throughout the hemisphere.   
  
In the next few days, we’ll be rolling out another new initiative
created in cooperation with many of your countries.  It includes the
U.S.-Caribbean partnership to address the climate crisis, which the Vice
President Harris will lead for our country, and a collaboration among
the United States — (applause) — the United States, Argentina, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, and Mexico — the hemisphere’s largest exporters of food —
to increase food production for export, as well as increase fertilizer
production for transportation — and transportation.  
  
Our leaders, all of us, as we discuss ways to better target more than a
half a billion dollars of — the United States is devoting to increasing
security for our citizens, working with partners to disrupt
transnational criminal organizations, go after drug traffickers and
illicit firearms, advancing anticorruption efforts, and strengthening
the rule of law.  
  
And tonight, I’m announcing a new economic partnership that builds on
all the work we have done with the region and will guide our engagement
going forward.  We’re calling it “Americas Partnership for Economic
Prosperity,” and it’s grounded on the same core values that my
administration is bringing to our own strong economic recovery and to
bolster long-term economic competitiveness in the United States.  
  
First, the <s>American</s> \[Americas\] Partnership will help economies
grow from the bottom up and the middle out, not the top down.  What’s
true — (applause) — what’s true in the United States is true in every
country: Trickle-down economics does not work.  (Applause.)  
  
But when we invest in strengthening workers and the middle class, the
poor have a ladder up, and those at the top do just fine.  That’s how we
can increase opportunity and decrease persistent inequity.   
  
We need to break the cycle where marginalized communities are hit the
hardest by disasters and have the fewest resources to recover from
crises and prepare for the next one.  
  
Together, we have to invest in making sure our trade is sustainable and
responsible and creating supply chains that are more resilient, more
secure, and more sustainable.  
  
By working with close friends who share our values, we can make sure
that we are not left vulnerable to unexpected shocks while generating
economic opportunity for the people in our region.   
  
Second, the Americas Partnership will foster innovation and help
governments to deliver for their own people.  People everywhere expect
their government to help give them just a little bit of breathing room,
provide opportunities for work that pays a decent wage, educate children
so they can rise as high as their talents can take them, make
communities more secure so families feel safe in their homes and
individuals know their rights will be respected.   
  
That means directing investment to help governments deliver on those
responsibilities, including modernize — modernizing multilateral
development banks to better address the challenges of today and of the
future.   
  
For example, many countries in our region have prospered — have profited
over — prospered overall, making it harder for them to secure
development lending.  But they struggle with deep inequity.  I’m
proposing a fundamental reforms to the Inter- –Inter-American
Development Bank Group.  And the United States is ready to put our new
capital in the bank’s private sector lending arm — the IDB investment —
(applause) — to help <s>capitalize</s> \[catalyze\] in the critical flow
of private capital into the region, especially to those startup, digital
connectivity, renewable energy, and health.  
  
Third, the <s>American</s> \[Americas\] Partnership will tackle the
climate crisis head on, with the same mentality we’re bringing to the
work in the United States.   
  
When I hear “climate,” I think jobs — good-paying, high-quality jobs
that will help speed our transition — (applause) — to a green economy of
the future and unleash sustainable growth; jobs in developing and
deploying clean energy; jobs in decarbonizing the economy; jobs in
protecting biodiversity of our hemisphere; jobs that will provide
dignity of being able to feed your family, give your children a better
life, and envision a future of possibilities.  
  
That’s what this is all about: responding to basic human desires that we
share for dignity, for safety, and for security.  And when those basics
are absent in one place, that’s when people make the desperate decision
to seek them elsewhere.  
  
So, on Friday, we’ll also come together to la- — to launch the Los
Angeles Declaration, a ground-breaking, integrated new approach to
managing migration and sharing responsibility across the hemisphere.  
  
The declaration represents a mutual commitment to invest in regional
solutions that enhance stability, increase opportunities for safe and
orderly migration through the region, and crack down on criminal and
human trafficking who prey on desperate people.  (Applause.)  
  
Safe and orderly migration is good for all of our economies, including
the United States.  It can be a catalyst for sustainable growth.   
  
But unlawful migration is not acceptable.  And we will enforce our
borders, including through innovative, coordinated action with our
regional partners.  
  
We’ve come a long way together since the United States hosted the first
Summit of the Americas 28 years ago.  But the “Spirit of Miami,” as it
was known — the sense of hope and new possibilities that defined that
first summit — remains key to facing the challenges of today and
unlocking the incredible potential that exists in this hemisphere — in
the Americas.  
  
There is no reason why the Western Hemisphere shouldn’t be secure,
prosperous, and democratic, from Canada’s northernmost reaches to the
southern tips of Chile.   
  
We have all the tools we need right here in our own hemisphere.  Our
people are dynamic and innovative.  Our nations are committed to working
in partnership.  And our region is forever knit together by the close
bonds of family and enduring friendship.  
  
We see it here in Los Angeles, as you heard earlier, a city that has
been shaped from its earliest days and strengthened over the decades by
the rich and diverse con- — contributions from people of all our
nations.   
  
It’s written in the murals, the markets, the thoroughfares that
crisscross the city, bearing witness to the history, struggle, and the
indomitable spirit of the people of the Americas.  
  
This city is testament to the connections that bind us and our capacity
to achieve great things together.  
  
So tonight, let’s enjoy a wonderful celebration.  Let us leave here
renewed with purpose and a renewed partnership.  And tomorrow, let’s get
to work building the future this region deserves.   
  
Thank you all.  And again, welcome, welcome, welcome. (Applause.)  
  
6:13 P.M. PDT
