---
date: '2022-06-16'
modified_time: 2022-06-16 12:11:17-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-16 12:11:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-press-call-on-improving-maternal-health-outcomes/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Press Call on Improving Maternal Health\_\
  Outcomes"
---
 
*Via Teleconference*

10:11 A.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Gene Sperling.  Thank you, and for your
extraordinary longstanding service to our country, including the work
that you have been doing to ensure the — the speedy and effective and
meaningful implementation of the ARP.  So, thank you for that.

I do believe our nation is facing a maternal mortality crisis, given the
extent of the work that we as an administration have been doing with our
partners.  And — and it is evidenced by the fact that women in our
nation are dying from pregnancy-related causes at a higher rate than any
other developed nation — dying before, during, and after childbirth.

Black women are three times more likely to be affected by this and to
die from childbirth-related causes.  Native women, twice as likely. 
Rural women, one and a half times likely.

So, our administration has taken historic action to elevate this issue
and protect the women of our nation. It’s that simple.

Last year, we hosted the first-ever White House Maternal Health Day of
Action.  And this year, I was pleased to bring together members of our
Cabinet to focus on the issue of maternal health, which followed, as
Gene mentioned, a Call to Action to states to extend Medicaid coverage
for postpartum women from 2 months — from a mere 2 months — to 12
months. 

And notably, the ARP gives — and gives the states the authority to do
this.  So, again, the connection between this initiative and the details
of the ARP and its implementation have made all the difference.  And it
matters because, of course, Medicaid covers approximately 40 percent of
all births nationwide, and one third of pregnancy-related deaths occur
between one and a half months and one year postpartum.

Throughout my career, as Gene has said, I do believe that one of the
greatest priorities for us in public policy must be the health, safety,
and wellbeing of women, including maternal health.  And so, today, we
are proud to announce that the Centers for Medicaid and Medicaid Service
— and Medicare Services will expand coverage and approve the expansion
of coverage in the states of Maine, Minnesota, in <s>New York</s> \[New
Mexico\], and in Washington, D.C.

What this means is that 235,000 women will now have access to 12 months
of critical postpartum coverage across 14 states and D.C.  This means
that 12 months of pelvic exams, vaccinations, postpartum depression
screening, and regular checkups will be available to those women.

And I think I said New Mexico and I cer- — I — New York — and I
certainly meant New Mexico — (laughs) — so I’ll go back to that.   
  
But what it also means is that the states now, under the leadership of
extraordinary leaders — like Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham, under the
leadership of Lieutenant Governor Peggy Flanagan — can take the step
forward and do what we know the women of America need and deserve, which
is to have assistance and to have some recognition about what the
realities of this are and what their needs are.  
This is only the beginning.  Our administration will continue to fight
until every state has expanded Medicaid coverage.  And to be clear, this
is about prioritizing the right all women in our nation should have to
full reproductive healthcare.

That is what this is about.  It is about understanding how all women in
our nation, regardless of their income, regardless of where they live,
should have access to full reproductive healthcare.

So, together, of course, we are going to continue to work with our
partners at the state level, at the local level, our community-based and
nonprofit folks to ensure that every woman, every mother has the
healthcare she needs to thrive.

And with that, I’ll turn it back over to the team.  And — and thank you
all.  
  
END                 10:15 A.M. EDT      
