---
date: '2022-06-29'
modified_time: 2022-06-29 11:29:41-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-29 11:29:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/06/29/remarks-by-president-biden-president-yoon-suk-yeol-of-the-republic-of-korea-and-prime-minister-kishida-fumio-of-japan-before-trilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden, President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea,\
  \ and Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan Before Trilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
2:38 P.M. CEST

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, it’s great to be here again with President Yoon
following our detailed and productive conversations in Seoul last month
and also to be joined by Prime Minister Kishida, who I visited in Tokyo
last month and spent the last few days in Germany with, at the G7.

And this is an opportunity to further coordinate our trilateral efforts,
specifically with regard to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.

Our trilateral cooperation, in my view, is essential to achieving our
shared objective, including a complete denuclearization of the Korean
Peninsula and a free and open Indo-Pacific.

I look forward to additional dialogues in this format as we continue to
strengthen our trilateral — our trilateral engagement.  And we remain
deeply concerned at the DPRK’s continued escalatory ballistic missiles
and tests and potential for — to conduct a nuclear test.

I’m particularly pleased that this meeting is taking place on the
margins of this historic NATO Summit and that, for the first time, it
includes Indo-Pacific partners of Australia and Japan, New Zealand, and
the Korean Republic, and — excuse me, the Republic of Korea.  And
attendance of all four of these leaders highlights the global resolve to
hold Russia accountable for its brutal and unprovoked war in Ukraine and
our shared determination to defend the rules-based international order.

And with that, I’d like to turn to President Yoon.  And the floor is
yours, sir.

PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  In conjunction with the NATO Summit,
I find it deeply meaningful that we — as leaders of the Republic of
Korea, the United States, and Japan — came together.

I extend my sincere appreciation to President Biden for hosting this
summit, and I am delighted to meet Prime Minister Kishida once again.

The DPRK’s nuclear and missile threats continue to evolve, and the
global landscape is facing increased uncertainties, thereby rendering
our trilateral partnership all the more significant. 

In almost five years, the ROK-U.S.-Japan Summit is reconvening,
indicating the three nations’ commitment to enhancing their cooperation
in order to tackle regional and global issues. 

I hope that our meeting today will position ROK-U.S.-Japan partnership
as yet another central pillar for global peace and stability. 

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  I am deeply concerned over
the possibility of further provocation by North Korea, including nuclear
testing. 

As confirmed on the occasion of President Biden’s visit to Japan and to
the ROK, the deterrence capabilities of the Japan-U.S. and U.S.-ROK
alliances need to be upgraded as part of the essential effort to
strengthen the trilateral partnership between Japan, the U.S., and ROK.

From such perspective and for other reasons, this trilateral summit is
being organized at a timely juncture.  Through this meeting, I hope that
trilateral cooperation regarding our response to North Korea will be
solidified. 

I very much welcome the prompt response by the Japan-U.S. and U.S.-ROK
alliances against ballistic missiles launched by North Korea, and the
agreement reached at the recent trilateral ministerial meeting between
defense ministers to conduct trilateral missile warning and ballistic
missile search and tracking exercises is welcomed.

In the case a nuclear test is performed, I hope that response can be
taken at the trilateral level, including joint exercises. 

In order to strengthen the deterrence and response capabilities of our
alliance with the U.S., Japan will fundamentally reinforce our defense
capabilities. 

And, Joe, President Yoon, I am deeply grateful for your support towards
the immediate solution of the abduction issue, and I ask you for your
continued understanding and cooperation. 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, gentlemen, thank you very much.  We’ll let the
press out, which ought to be interesting watching.

2:42 P.M. CEST
