---
tags: blog
date: '2021-03-12'
modified_time: 2021-03-12 14:28:03-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/03/12/the-white-house-gender-policy-council-a-message-from-the-co-chairs/
published_time: 2021-03-12 14:28:02-05:00
title: "The White\_House Gender Policy Council: A Message from the\_Co-Chairs"
---
 
By Jennifer Klein and Julissa Reynoso, Co-Chairs of the Gender Policy
Council

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Earlier this week, on International Women’s Day, President Biden issued
an Executive Order establishing the White House Gender Policy Council—a
body that will instill, advance, and oversee this Administration’s
commitment to a government-wide approach to gender equity and equality.

We are thrilled to serve as the co-chairs of this Council at a critical
moment. There is so much work to do to address the systemic barriers
that have held women and girls back here in the United States and
globally. Because the truth is—those barriers have stood for far too
long.

The COVID-19 pandemic and ensuing economic downturn have shown us in the
grimmest ways how crises can exacerbate inequality. Women and girls—and
particularly women and girls of color—are bearing the brunt of this
pandemic in visible and invisible ways. Women make up an outsized share
of our frontline workers, face historic levels of unemployment, and are
disproportionately shouldering the increased caregiving responsibilities
created by the pandemic. Women’s participation in the workforce has
dropped to the lowest level in more than 30 years. This threatens their
economic futures and hinders our potential as a nation. We’re ready to
lead a whole-of-government approach to gender policy that meets this
moment.

We’ve already begun working with colleagues at the White House to
address women’s economic security, caregiving, pay equity, and
education. We are taking on gender-based violence, wherever it occurs.
And globally, we are engaged with the United Nations and the G-7 to
rejoin allies from around the world to advance gender equality. Soon,
the Gender Policy Council will begin to convene key external groups and
stakeholders—policymakers and political leaders, advocates for gender
justice and social justice, academics and experts, and leaders in
philanthropy and the private sector.

We also look forward to working across the entire federal government
with the Cabinet and other members of the Council. The President has
nominated and appointed a diverse Cabinet that includes a record number
of women in senior roles—including Janet Yellen, the first woman
Treasury Secretary; Avril Haines, the first woman head of intelligence;
Interior Secretary Deb Haaland, the first Native American and Native
American woman Cabinet secretary; and Cecilia Rouse, the first Black
woman to chair the Council of Economic Advisors. Alongside a diverse and
representative staff at every level, these leaders will help chart a
path to address gender inequality.

In the months ahead, each member of the Council will appoint a senior
member of their respective teams to execute on an agency-wide plan for
addressing gender equity and equality. This person will focus on how
policies disproportionately create or maintain barriers for women and
girls, particularly women and girls of color. As Co-Chairs, we will
submit a government-wide strategy for advancing gender equity and gender
equality to the President, compiling key recommendations from all
federal agencies and policy councils. Each year, we will measure our
progress against clear goals and hold ourselves accountable for meeting
them.

The task in front of us is enormous. It is also essential in the face of
the current crisis. A government-wide approach to gender policy means
that every agency and every policy team is at the table, and that every
issue is approached with gender equity in mind. We’ll work closely with
the Office on Violence Against Women at the Department of Justice to end
gender-based violence against women, girls, and LGBTQ+ people; with the
Department of Health and Human Services to ensure access to
comprehensive health care; and with the Department of Labor and National
Economic Council to increase economic women’s security, decrease wage
and wealth gaps, and address the caregiving needs of Americans. We’ll
work with the National Security Council to advance gender equality
globally, recognizing the needs and roles of women and girls in conflict
prevention, peacebuilding, humanitarian crises, and development
assistance. We’ll work with the Department of Education to combat
systemic bias, and ensure that all young people—including girls and
LGBTQ+ youth—can be guaranteed education free from sexual violence; and
with the Domestic Policy Council to ensure an integrated strategy for
racial justice and gender equity that considers the unique barriers
faced by Black women and girls, Indigenous women and girls, and other
women and girls of color. And this is just the start—we’re building a
big table because the moment calls for it.

Stay tuned this month, as we commemorate the leadership and legacy of
trail-blazing, barrier-breaking women and girls during Women’s History
Month, and work to advance equal rights and opportunities for all as our
Council begins its vital work.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Jennifer Klein is Co-Chair and Executive Director of the Gender Policy
Council.*

*Julissa Reynoso is Co-Chair of the Gender Policy Council and Chief of
Staff to First Lady Jill Biden.*
