---
tags: blog
date: '2021-03-29'
modified_time: 2021-03-29 21:15:03-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/03/29/approaching-policy-with-equity-in-mind/
published_time: 2021-03-29 10:06:45-04:00
title: "Approaching Policy with Equity in\_Mind"
---
 
By Kalisha Dessources Figures and Catherine E. Lhamon

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The converging crises our nation faces today have exposed and
exacerbated inequities that have long been with us. As we work to
overcome those crises and build back better, we have an opportunity
before us to pursue bold and necessary change to advance equity and
opportunity for all. That change must be driven by policies that weave
together racial justice, gender equity, and other dimensions of equity
to ensure that they lift up every single community and leave no one
behind.

Together, the [White House Gender Policy
Council](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/08/executive-order-on-establishment-of-the-white-house-gender-policy-council/)
and the [Domestic Policy Council](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/dpc/) work
every day to implement [the comprehensive approach to advancing equity
for
all](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/)
that President Biden and Vice President Harris have prioritized since
day one. From health, to economic security, to education and
safety—equity is essential to building a stronger country for us all.

**Equity is essential to health outcomes and health care.**  As one
example, our country is facing a maternal health crisis—and Black and
Indigenous women and their families are bearing the brunt.  Recent data
show that Black women are [2.5 times more
likely](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/pressroom/nchs_press_releases/2020/202001_MMR.htm),
and Indigenous women are 2.3 times more likely, to die from pregnancy
complications than non-Hispanic white women. The Centers for Disease
Control reports that two out of three of these deaths are preventable.
At the same time, women of color continue to face disproportionate
barriers to accessing health care; they are more likely to lose coverage
during a pregnancy, and less likely to have access to mental health
screenings, treatment, and support before, during, and after pregnancy.

**Equity is essential to economic security for women and families.** We
know, for example, that reliable access to child care is critical to
helping parents secure and maintain good jobs and build economic
stability. But even before the pandemic, more than [three in five
Hispanic
families](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/early-childhood/reports/2018/12/06/461643/americas-child-care-deserts-2018/)
lived in child care deserts, with limited to no access to licensed child
care. Part of the reason for this is that our nation has failed to
adequately invest in and value our care infrastructure—the
under-compensated caregivers and early childhood educators who bring
greater security and peace of mind to so many families—who themselves
are disproportionately Latina women and other women of color. Latina
women on average earn 55 cents for every dollar that non-Hispanic white
men earn. This totals tens of thousands of dollars in diminished
earnings in a year, and more than a million dollars over the course of a
lifetime.

**Equity is essential to the safety of women and girls.** Across
communities, Black, Indigenous and other women and girls of color face
high rates of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
harassment and stalking, whether at home, at work, or in the community.
Asian American women suffer twice as many incidents of harassment and
violence as Asian American men, exemplifying how racism, sexism, and
gender-based violence converge to inflict harm. Native American women
are subjected to sexual violence and domestic violence at rates higher
than any other population in the United States, and the vast majority
report being victimized by a non-native individual. Equity also requires
supporting the work of culturally specific community-based organizations
to ensure different pathways to safety and more holistic approaches to
prevention and healing for survivors from historically marginalized
communities.

In addition to approaching policy with both racial and gender equity in
mind, considering other factors that create barriers for safety and
well-being is important, too. While Black girls are suspended from
school at higher rates than girls of any other race or ethnicity, LGBTQ+
students, especially those who are transgender or who have disabilities,
are also [more
likely](https://www.glsen.org/news/lgbtq-students-face-unfair-school-discipline-pushing-many-out-school)
than their non-LGBTQ+ peers to receive detention, suspensions, and
expulsions from school,
[often](https://www.glsen.org/news/lgbtq-students-face-unfair-school-discipline-pushing-many-out-school)
as a result of discrimination and harassment. And harmful school
discipline policies are further compounded for LGBTQ+ students of color
and with disabilities.

For all of these reasons, we need to infuse our laws, norms, and
policies with a strong focus on equity— and that’s exactly what the
Biden-Harris Administration is doing. We’re more than ready for the
urgency of this work; here are some of the steps this Administration has
already taken:

1.  The President’s $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan will not only be
    instrumental to vaccinating America, safely reopening our schools,
    and delivering economic relief checks into the pockets of 85 percent
    of the American people—it is also projected to dramatically reduce
    poverty and racial and gender wealth gaps. It contains the largest
    investment in child care since World War II, which will especially
    benefit the women of color disproportionately employed in our
    caregiving workforce. It makes the largest single federal investment
    in history for Native programs. It provides crucial support to small
    businesses in industries that have been hit the hardest by COVID-19,
    many of which are concentrated among entrepreneurs of color. Its
    creation of a new public health job corps will mobilize 100,000
    community health workers to provide culturally competent care,
    maximizing better health outcomes across America, and specifically
    benefitting communities of color and women and girls. All told, it
    is projected to cut poverty in the Black community by 38 percent, in
    the Hispanic community by 43 percent, and in AAPI communities by 23
    percent—and it will cut child poverty in half.
2.  President Biden’s [Executive Order directing federal agencies to
    fully implement all federal laws that prevent
    discrimination](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-preventing-and-combating-discrimination-on-basis-of-gender-identity-or-sexual-orientation/)
    on the basis of sex, to include sexual orientation and gender
    identity, is one of the most consequential policy actions for LGBTQ+
    Americans ever signed by a U.S. President. This is a critical step
    in protecting so many Black, Indigenous, and women and girls of
    color, including Black transgender women and girls, for example, who
    face unconscionably high levels of workplace discrimination,
    homelessness, and often deadly episodes of violence.
3.  In addition to these early and transformative actions, our teams
    have set up the infrastructure to ensure that whole-of-government
    approaches to equity are deeply integrated throughout the federal
    government—keeping in mind the specific barriers that Black,
    Indigenous, and other women and girls of color face every step of
    the way. We and our colleagues across the federal government have
    rolled up our sleeves—and will keep them rolled up—to eradicate
    hate, ensure equitable federal procurement, provide data to the
    public, promulgate regulations that promote fairness, and generally
    ensure that equity guides all of our work and results in equitable
    outcomes for the American people.

This Administration is committed to ensuring that we all—regardless of
race, gender, or any other factor —have access to equal opportunity and
equitable outcomes. Our joint work, laser-focused on equity, will move
us closer to that goal.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Kalisha Dessources Figures is Special Assistant to the President for
Gender Policy.*

*Catherine E. Lhamon is Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy
Director of the Domestic Policy Council for Racial Justice and Equity.*
