---
date: '2023-06-15'
modified_time: 2023-06-15 09:27:23-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-15 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/15/president-biden-recognizes-actions-by-private-sector-ticketing-and-travel-companies-to-eliminate-hidden-junk-fees-and-provide-millions-of-customers-with-transparent-pricing/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Recognizes Actions by Private Sector Ticketing and Travel\
  \ Companies to Eliminate Hidden Junk Fees and Provide Millions of Customers with\
  \ Transparent\_Pricing"
---
 
*Companies Agree to Provide Millions of Consumers with the Full Price Up
Front, Eliminating Hidden Costs and Saving Families Money*

Today, four months after he called out junk fees in his State of the
Union and nine months after he first called for action to crack down on
hidden fees to lower costs for consumers, President Biden is convening a
meeting of private sector companies who have committed to end surprise
fees by fully disclosing fees to consumers upfront. Together, these
companies service millions of consumers each year, all of whom will
receive a better shopping experience without surprise fees imposed at
check-out.  
  
Junk fees — hidden, surprise fees that companies sneak onto customer
bills — [are a pervasive
problem](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2022/10/26/the-presidents-initiative-on-junk-fees-and-related-pricing-practices/) in
industries across the economy. That’s why the President has been calling
on [federal
agencies](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/26/readout-of-the-third-meeting-of-the-white-house-competition-council/),
Congress, and private companies to take action to address these fees and
provide consumers with honest, transparent pricing. A [large body of
research](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2022/10/26/the-presidents-initiative-on-junk-fees-and-related-pricing-practices/) has
shown that fees charged at the back-end of the buying process, along
with other types of junk fees, make it harder to comparison shop, impede
competition, and lead to consumers paying more.  
  
Today, the President is announcing actions by several companies in
answer to that call. President Biden will be joined by representatives
from Live Nation, SeatGeek, xBk, Airbnb, the Pablo Center at the
Confluence, TickPick, DICE, and the Newport Festivals Foundation —
companies large and small that currently provide all-in pricing or are
announcing a new commitment to do so in the coming months.  
  
**In total, the companies that are making new commitments today will
improve the purchasing experience for tens of millions of customers
annually. **These commitments are in response to the President’s call to
action on junk fees in his State of the Union. For example, shortly
after the State of the Union, Live Nation expressed interest to the
Administration in announcing a commitment to offer all-in upfront
pricing through its Ticketmaster platform. Today, Live Nation is
committing to roll out an upfront all-in pricing experience in September
showing just one clear, total price for more than 30 million fans who
attend shows at the more than 200 Live Nation-owned venues and festivals
across the country. Ticketmaster will also add a feature to give
consumers the option to receive all-in upfront pricing for all other
tickets sold on the platform.

**Additional commitments include:**

-   SeatGeek, a ticketing platform that serves both the primary and
    secondary market, will roll-out product features over the course of
    the summer to make it easier for its millions of customers to shop
    on the basis of all-in price.  
     
-   xBk, a Des Moines, Iowa-based venue and board member for the
    National Independent Venue Association, will introduce all-in
    pricing for over 15,000 tickets sold to over 100 events hosted at
    the venue.

**These actions follow those that have been taken by other companies
since the President first called for a crackdown on hidden fees in
September:**

-   Last December, Airbnb introduced a new total price display tool that
    allows US consumers to see all fees before taxes. Since then, more
    than 8 million visitors have taken advantage of the tool to view
    fee-inclusive pricing.  
     
-   The Pablo Center at the Confluence from Eau Claire, Wisconsin will
    discuss the all-in pricing it implemented this April for the 90,000
    tickets it sells each year for events at its venue. Since
    implementing this policy, the Pablo Center reports that it has
    experienced a 15% uptick in ticket sales, illustrating how venues
    can provide consumers with a transparent purchasing experience
    without hurting their business.

**In addition, the President will be joined by representatives from
companies that have long featured all-in pricing as part of their
business models:**

-   TickPick, a ticketing platform, has been displaying up-front, all-in
    pricing since its inception in 2011 for the more than 17 million
    users and 10 million tickets it sells per year.  
     
-   DICE, a global independent music ticketing company, has been
    displaying upfront, all-in pricing since it was founded in 2014 for
    the more than 34 million fans attending over 40,000 events every
    year.  
     
-   Newport Festivals Foundation, host of the long running Newport Folk
    Festival and Newport Jazz Festival, and has been displaying all-in
    pricing for the all 65,000 fans that attend their events each year
    since 2017.

**The Administration has also taken a number of administrative actions
to address junk fees in every sector of the economy, including:**

-   The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) increased
    supervision of bank reliance on junk fees and issued guidance on
    illegal bounce check and overdraft fees, helping drive [more than $5
    billion in annual savings to
    consumers](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data-research/research-reports/data-spotlight-overdraft-nsf-revenue-in-q4-2022-down-nearly-50-versus-pre-pandemic-levels/).
    Since the CFPB increased attention to these fees, 15 of the 20
    biggest banks have committed to ending bounced check fees entirely.
    In addition, earlier this year the CFPB proposed a rule that is
    projected to [cut credit card late
    fees](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/01/fact-sheet-president-biden-highlights-new-progress-on-his-competition-agenda/) by
    75%, from $30 to $8, saving Americans up to $9 billion a year.  
     
-   The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) [released an advanced notice of
    proposed
    rulemaking](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2022/10/federal-trade-commission-explores-rule-cracking-down-junk-fees) on
    junk fees across the economy, as well as a [proposed a new
    rule](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2023/03/federal-trade-commission-proposes-rule-provision-making-it-easier-consumers-click-cancel-recurring) called
    “Click to Cancel,” which would require companies to make it as easy
    to cancel a subscription as it is to sign up.  
     
-   The Department of Transportation (DOT) has proposed a rule that
    would require airlines to disclose all of their fees, from baggage
    fees to wireless internet to seat changing fees, up front when
    you’re first comparing prices. In addition, last month
    DOT [announced they will propose a
    rule](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/dot-propose-requirements-airlines-cover-expenses-and-compensate-stranded-passengers) later
    this year mandating airlines cover expenses and compensate stranded
    passengers they are at fault for a flight cancellation or delay. DOT
    also published
    a [dashboard](https://www.transportation.gov/airconsumer/airline-customer-service-dashboard) of
    airline policies for when flights are delayed or cancelled due to
    issues under the airlines’ control,** **leading 9 airlines to change
    policies to guarantee coverage of hotels and 10 airlines to
    guarantee coverage of meals, none of which was guaranteed before.  
     
-   The Federal Communications Commission
    (FCC) [released](https://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-requires-broadband-providers-display-labels-help-consumers) new
    rules that will go into effect next year to require broadband
    providers to use “nutrition labels”—similar to those used for food
    products—to convey key information to consumers about internet
    service options in an accessible format. The information featured
    will include prices, speeds, data allowances, and any additional
    fees charged. In addition, earlier this year the FCC [proposed a new
    rule](https://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-proposes-pricing-transparency-requirement-cable-and-satellite) that
    would require cable provides to show all in pricing for cable and
    satellite services.

Today’s voluntary actions demonstrate that companies both big and small
recognize the importance of providing consumers with honest, up-front
all-in pricing, rather than tricking them with surprise fees at the end
of checkout. It is also just a first step towards addressing junk fees
in the economy. The President continues to call on Congress to pass
legislation that mandates up-front all-in pricing for all ticket
sellers, bans surprise “resort fees,” eliminates early termination fees
charged by cable, internet, and cellphone companies, and bans family
seating fees.

\###
