---
date: '2023-06-16'
modified_time: 2023-06-16 14:37:41-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-16 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/16/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-28/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Guion S. Bluford Jr., Member, Advisory Board of the National Air and
    Space Museum
-   Michael X. Garrett, Member, American Battle Monuments Commission
-   Olivia Mae M. Asuncion, Member, Architectural and Transportation
    Barriers Compliance Access Board
-   Abba Cohen, Member, Commission for the Preservation of America’s
    Heritage Abroad
-   Joseph Douek, Member, Commission for the Preservation of America’s
    Heritage Abroad
-   Yair D. Robinson, Member, Commission for the Preservation of
    America’s Heritage Abroad
-   Meghan Kristine Hays, Member, Tahoe Regional Planning Agency
-   Scott R. Calisti, Commissioner, Department of Air Force, U.S.
    AbilityOne Commission

**<u>Advisory Board of the National Air and Space Museum</u>**

The Smithsonian’s Advisory Boards provide advice, expertise, and
assistance to the Institution’s leadership on the widely diverse
programs and operations of the Smithsonian. Advisory Board members help
ensure the success of the individual museums and centers. The National
Air and Space Museum’s Advisory Board includes the current
administrators of NASA and the FAA; the chiefs of staff of the U.S.
Army, Navy, and Air Force; the commandants of the U.S. Marines and Coast
Guard; and the chief of space operations of the U.S. Space Force along
with three citizen members appointed by the President.

**Guion S. Bluford Jr., Member**

Dr. Guion “Guy” S. Bluford, Jr. (Colonel, USAF, Ret.) is a NASA
Astronaut, aerospace engineer, military officer, and senior engineering
executive. He is the first African American astronaut to fly in space
and the first African American astronaut to return to space a second,
third, and fourth time. Bluford has logged over 5,200 hours in high
performance jet aircraft and has flown over 688 hours in space. He is
the first African American to be awarded the Air Force Command Pilot
Astronaut Wings. He has both a masters and doctorate degree in aerospace
engineering with extensive government and industry management
engineering experience. Bluford has served on the American Institute of
Aeronautics and Astronautics Board, the Aerospace Corporation Board of
Trustees, the National Research Council’s Aeronautics and Space
Engineering Board, and the Space Foundation Board. He was the Founder
and President of the Aerospace Technology Group of Cleveland, Ohio. He
was inducted into the International Space Hall of Fame in 1997, the U.S.
Astronaut Hall of Fame in 2010, and the National Aviation Hall of Fame
in 2019.

**<u>American Battle Monuments Commission</u>**

Established by Congress in 1923, the American Battle Monuments
Commission is a federal agency charged with guarding America’s overseas
commemorative cemeteries and memorials that honor the service,
achievements, and sacrifices of U.S. Armed Forces. American Battle
Monuments Commission oversees 26 permanent American military cemeteries
and 32 federal memorials, monuments, and markers located across 17
foreign countries and the United States.

**Michael X. Garrett, Member**

General Michael Xavier Garrett, born in Cleveland, Ohio and raised on
military installations across the world, has spent his entire life in
and around the U.S. Army. He is the proud son of Lola Garrett, a U.S.
Army spouse and life-long public servant, and Command Sergeant Major
Edward Garrett, a Vietnam War combat veteran and Silver Star recipient.
Garrett, an alumnus of both the Department of Defense High School in
Baumholder, Germany, and Xavier University in Cincinnati, began his own
Army journey in 1984. He served his formative years in the elite
75<sup>th</sup> Ranger Regiment, and over a decade was assigned to and
wore the scrolls of the Regiment’s headquarters and each of its three
Ranger battalions.

Garrett went on to command his own formations in the 82<sup>nd</sup>
Airborne and 25<sup>th</sup> Infantry Divisions, served multiple combat
tours in the Middle East, and ultimately led 750,000 combat and support
personnel within the Army’s largest organization: Forces Command. After
38 years of active service, he retired as an Army four-star general, and
continues to build connections with U.S. service members and their
families, patriotic communities across America, and Soldier-friendly
universities and businesses. Upon retirement, he was inducted by his own
son as a Distinguished Member of the 75<sup>th</sup> Ranger Regiment,
and is the recipient of the Ellis Island Honors Society Medal of Honor
along with honorary degrees from Methodist and Xavier University.

**<u>Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access
Board</u>**

The Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board is
an independent federal agency that promotes equality for people with
disabilities through leadership in accessible design and the development
of accessibility guidelines and standards. The Board develops and
maintains design criteria for the built environment, transit vehicles,
telecommunications equipment, medical diagnostic equipment, and
information technology. It also provides technical assistance and
training on these requirements and accessible design and continues to
enforce accessibility standards that cover federally funded facilities.

**Olivia Mae M. Asuncion, Member**

Olivia Mae M. Asuncion, AIA, has oriented her career path towards
building accessible communities and advocating for inclusive design as a
licensed architect and design researcher from Oakland, California. She
started her professional career helping Bay Area non-profit
organizations with their construction, project, and property management
needs, including the Ed Roberts Campus, a universally designed building
in Berkeley that hosts several disability organizations. Her
architecture experience includes the design and construction of public
safety buildings, public sector office and community spaces, and K-12
educational facilities. Asuncion is also passionate about improving
architecture through environmental design research. Her notable projects
include: a study assessing the efficacy and accessibility of existing
evacuation protocols and building safety codes for people with
disabilities; collaboration with University of Oregon faculty on the
post-occupancy evaluation of the Ed Roberts Campus; and a Fulbright
Program project studying the accessibility of elementary schools in the
Philippines. In addition, she has lectured on the importance of
inclusivity and accessibility in the built environment to university
students and design professionals. Asuncion is also an active member of
and has served as a Young Architect leader for the American Institute of
Architects. She received her Bachelor of Arts degree in Architecture
from the University of California at Berkeley and her Master of
Architecture degree from the University of Oregon.

**<u>Commission for the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad</u>**

The U.S. Commission for the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
was established in 1985 to ensure that sites important to populations
impacted by Nazism, communism, and the Cold War would be preserved for
future generations. The Commission’s mission is to identify, protect,
and preserve cemeteries, monuments, and historic buildings in Eastern
and Central Europe that are associated with U.S. heritage. The work
recognizes that the population of the United States is mostly comprised
of immigrants and their descendants, and that the United States has an
interest in the preservation of sites in other countries related to the
heritage of these Americans.

**Abba Cohen, Member**

Rabbi Abba Cohen has been involved in Jewish public life for close to 40
years. Since 1989, he has overseen the federal activities of Agudath
Israel of America and is currently the group’s Vice President for
Government Affairs and Washington Director. He previously served in the
Middle East and Latin American Affairs Departments of the
Anti-Defamation League. Much of Cohen’s international activities are
focused on combatting antisemitism, protecting the security and
religious and civil rights of Jewish and other communities, as well as
on restoring, preserving, and returning properties stolen and desecrated
during the Holocaust. In this work, he has cooperated extensively with
federal agencies, as well as with embassies and international
organizations. Cohen is a graduate of the Johns Hopkins University, the
Columbia University School of International Affairs, and the Georgetown
University Law Center, and was ordained at the Ner Israel Rabbinical
College.

**Joseph Douek, Member**

Joseph Douek is a businessman and philanthropist with over 25 years of
experience. He currently serves as the Chairman and CEO of Viceroy
Equities, an investment and hedge fund management firm based in
Brooklyn. Among other initiatives, Viceroy Equities has invested in
Opportunity Zones, with the goal of spurring development in several
areas throughout Brooklyn. Douek was appointed to the City Planning
Commission in 2012 by the Brooklyn Borough President to represent
Brooklyn, and was reappointed in 2017. Douek got his start selling
wholesale photography supplies, and went on to become the owner and CEO
of Willoughby’s, New York’s oldest photography retailer. Douek has also
served on the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors for the New
York City Economic Development Corporation, as well as the Board of
Directors for the NYC Industrial Development Agency. Douek has served on
the Board of Trustees for several non-profit entities, including the
Brooklyn Public Library and the Jewish Children’s Museum. He lives in
Brooklyn, New York.

**Yair D. Robinson, Member**

As far back as he can remember, Yair Robinson has been committed to
making a positive difference in the world. Active in social action
causes since he was a teen growing up on Cape Cod, where his father was
the rabbi of the local synagogue and his mother the president of
Hadassah, Robinson Oberlin College and then received rabbinic ordination
from the Hebrew Union College in 2003. He served Shir Ami in Newtown,
Pennsylvania for six years before moving to Wilmington, Delaware, where
he has been the Senior Rabbi of Congregation Beth Emeth since 2009. In
addition to his pulpit work, preaching, teaching, and providing pastoral
care, he has worked with many local organizations, including serving on
the boards of Rotary Club of Wilmington, The Anti-Defamation League of
Philadelphia, The Ninth Ward Interfaith Coalition, The Siegel JCC and
Jewish Family Services, Planned Parenthood of Delaware and Clergy for
Choice, and the ACLU of Delaware, always striving for a sacred, just,
and loving community. He is married to Dr. Marisa Robinson and they have
one son, Elishai, who graduates from Mount Pleasant High School in
Wilmington in 2025.

**<u>Tahoe Regional Planning Agency</u>**

Established in 1969, the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency (TRPA) was the
nation’s first bi-state regional environmental planning agency. Their
mission is to lead the cooperative effort to preserve, restore, and
enhance the unique natural and human environment of the Lake Tahoe
Region, while improving local communities, and people’s interactions
with our irreplaceable environment. TRPA protects and restores Lake
Tahoe’s environment while revitalizing and enhancing our communities.
TRPA is charged with regional planning, development and redevelopment
oversight, regulatory enforcement, and implementation of environmental
protection and restoration programs for the Lake Tahoe Region.

**Meghan Kristine Hays, Member**

Meghan Hays worked for President Biden for nearly a decade in various
strategic communications positions. Hays served as a Special Assistant
to the President and Director of Message Planning in the White House
where she played a key role in the President’s strategic messaging for
domestic and international engagements. Hays also served as a Deputy
Communications Director on the Biden Campaign in 2020. After leaving the
White House, Hays served as an advisory board member to SustainabiliD, a
climate tech and sustainability firm. Hays also worked in senior
communications positions at MGM Resorts International and in the White
House for then-Vice President Biden. She is currently the Chief of Staff
to the General Counsel and Global Head of Communications and  
 Government Affairs at AIG. Hays is a native of Sacramento, CA and
graduated from the University of California Davis.

**<u>U.S. AbilityOne Commission</u>**

The U.S. AbilityOne Commission is the independent federal agency that
oversees the AbilityOne Program, whose mission is to tap America’s
underutilized workforce of individuals who are blind or have significant
disabilities to deliver high quality, mission-essential products and
services to federal agencies in quality employment opportunities.
AbilityOne is one of the largest sources of jobs in the country for
people who are blind or have significant disabilities, an underserved
population that has historically experienced the lowest employment rate
of any segment of U.S. society. Approximately 40,000 AbilityOne
employees, including over 2,500 veterans, work at approximately 450
nonprofit agencies from Guam to Maine. The Commission administers the
Program with the assistance of two central nonprofit agencies – National
Industries for the Blind and SourceAmerica – in accordance with the
Javits-Wagner-O’Day Act. The U.S. AbilityOne Commission is the operating
name for the agency, whose statutory name is the Committee for Purchase
From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. The Commission consists
of 15 Presidential appointees: 11 represent federal agencies and four
are private citizens representing people who are blind or have
significant disabilities.

**Scott R. Calisti, Commissioner, Department of Air Force**

Scott Calisti, a member of the Senior Executive Service, is the
Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting) for Headquarters U.S.
Air Force at the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia. He assists the Deputy
Assistant Secretary in carrying out responsibilities for all aspects of
contracting related to the acquisition of weapon systems, logistics
support, materiel, and services for the Department of the Air Force. In
this role, he oversees the training, organizing, and equipping of a
workforce of some 8,000 contracting professionals.

In his previous assignment, Calisti served as the Director for Contract
Policy in the office of the Principal Director, Defense Pricing and
Contracting, within the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment. In this capacity, he led the development of
new, innovative acquisition policy. Also, he was appointed as the Office
of the Secretary of Defense’s AbilityOne Representative (ABOR),
supporting the Office of Management and Budget implementation of the
ABOR program across all Federal agencies. He joined civil service in
2014 after completing over 26 years on active duty in multiple
assignments including Headquarters Air Force, Joint Staff, and the
completion of six command tours before retiring in September 2013.
Calisti earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Rutgers University and
a Master of Administrative Management degree from Central Michigan
University. He also earned a Masters of National Security and Resource
Strategy from the National Defense University, Eisenhower School.
Calisti has been a member of the Senior Executive Service since
2020.****

\###
