---
date: '2023-06-26'
modified_time: 2023-06-26 17:24:50-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-26 16:01:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/26/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-steadfast-in-support-of-puerto-ricos-renewal/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Steadfast in Support of Puerto\
  \ Rico\u2019s\_Renewal"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to supporting Puerto Rico’s
recovery and renewal. In
[2021](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/20/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-supports-puerto-ricos-recovery-and-renewal-in-its-first-year-in-office/),
President Biden unlocked billions of dollars in disaster funding and
enacted historic expansions of economic and healthcare assistance
programs for Puerto Rico. Since then, the Biden-Harris Administration
has built on these unprecedented investments to ensure Puerto Rico has a
strong foundation for sustained growth.

President Biden’s Investing in America agenda – including historic
legislation such as the American Rescue Plan (ARP), Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law (BIL), CHIPS and Science Act, and Inflation Reduction
Act (IRA) – is [delivering
results](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Puerto-Rico-Fact-Sheet-042523.pdf)
and bringing good jobs to the island. Puerto Rico is now a more
attractive place for companies to invest, expand, and drive U.S.
competitiveness. For example, Biosimilar Solutions Inc. is investing
$200 million in Aguadilla to establish world-class facilities dedicated
to research, development, and manufacturing of biosimilar therapies.

Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding has already provided $1.1 billion
for dozens of infrastructure projects across Puerto Rico. That includes
approximately $596.1 million for transportation – roads, bridges, public
transit, ports, and airports – and $185 million for clean water. The
Puerto Rico government also invested its ARP State and Local Fiscal
Recovery Funds in important projects, including $223 million for water
infrastructure, $100 million for road repairs, and $279 million to
repair school buildings damaged by the 2020 earthquakes. And as of May
13, 2023, more than 600, 097 households are receiving affordable
high-speed internet. Finally, under the Inflation Reduction Act, new
possibilities for offshore wind are opening up along the coasts of
Puerto Rico, allowing the Department of the Interior to explore wind
lease sales in prime areas.

**Hosted the Puerto Rico Economic Dialogue to Advance
Whole-of-Government Commitments to Puerto Rico**

In April 2022, President Biden named Deputy Secretary of Commerce Don
Graves to serve as the Administration’s Puerto Rico Economic Growth
Coordinator. As part of that commitment, White House Domestic Policy
Advisor Susan Rice, White House Senior Advisor Julie Rodriguez, and
Deputy Secretary Graves hosted Governor Pedro Pierluisi and members of
his cabinet at the White House for the inaugural [Puerto Rico Economic
Dialogue](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/06/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-hosts-economic-dialogue-with-the-government-of-puerto-rico-to-jointly-advance-economic-development-in-2023/)
in December 2022. This historic meeting brought together Puerto Rico’s
leadership and the [White House Working Group on Puerto
Rico](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/20/readout-of-the-first-meeting-of-the-white-house-working-group-on-puerto-rico/)
to endorse a slate of actions that the federal and territorial
governments will jointly implement over the course of 2023, centered
on: 1) workforce development, 2) infrastructure, energy and resilience,
3) building a diversified economy, and 4) improving governance and
data. 

To advance these actions, Deputy Secretary Graves [traveled to Puerto
Rico in February
2023](https://www.commerce.gov/news/blog/2023/02/us-commerce-deputy-secretary-don-graves-meets-members-multiple-sectors-and#:~:text=From%20February%206%2D9%2C%20U.S.,discuss%20the%20outcome%20of%20December's)
to meet with government, civic, academic, community, and private sector
leaders. During this visit, Deputy Secretary Graves, White House
American Rescue Plan Coordinator Gene Sperling, and Department of the
Treasury officials jointly announced Puerto Rico’s approval for up to
$109 million in State Small Business Credit Initiative funds, allowing
the Puerto Rico Economic Development Bank to make loans and provide
collateral for small and medium sized enterprises. Deputy Secretary
Graves also announced a nearly $3 million award from the National
Telecommunications and Information Administration’s Connecting Minority
Communities program to Universidad del Sagrado Corazón to bridge the
digital divide at institutions of higher education.

**Delivered Unprecedented Relief and Made Lasting Investments for Puerto
Rico’s Families, Workers, Municipalities, and Businesses**

Puerto Rico’s territorial and 79 municipal governments received $4
billion in American Rescue Plan (ARP) State and Local Fiscal Recovery
Funds to respond to the public health and economic impacts of the
pandemic. These historic investments included over $600 million to
reward workers with bonus pay and $143 million to help local governments
maintain essential services and keep police and firefighters on the job.
In addition, beginning in July 2022, public school teachers on the
island
[started](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/us-department-education-announces-215-million-american-rescue-plan-funds-support-students-puerto-rico-boost-teacher-pay-ahead-academic-school-year)
receiving a $1,000 monthly salary increase that was partly made possible
through ARP.  
  
To support Puerto Rico’s families, President Biden’s ARP broadened tax
benefits at an unprecedented scale by expanding the Child Tax Credit
(CTC) in Puerto Rico to all families with at least one child,
permanently bringing CTC benefits into parity with the mainland. In
2022, the Department of the Treasury and White House ARP Coordinator
Gene Sperling engaged in extensive outreach to ensure as many families
as possible in Puerto Rico received the CTC. As a result, over 250,000
families in Puerto Rico received the credit, a more than six-fold
increase since before the passage of ARP, dramatically cutting child
poverty. The average annual benefit was $4,700 per family, with more
than $1.2 billion disbursed to families in Puerto Rico.  
  
The ARP Emergency Rental Assistance Program delivered $250 million in
rent and utility assistance through December 2022, providing 244,000
payments to households in Puerto Rico facing the threat of eviction.
Additionally, thousands of homeowners are getting help through ARP’s
Homeowner Assistance Fund, and ARP funds have also helped 750 childcare
programs stay open.

To boost workers and small businesses across the island, ARP
significantly expanded Puerto Rico’s version of the Earned Income Tax
Credit (EITC), quadrupling benefits for workers through the first-ever
federal investment in Puerto Rico’s EITC since the credit was
established nearly 50 years ago. In addition, ARP invested in job
training and economic development through an Economic Development
Administration [Good Jobs
Challenge](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/american-rescue-plan/good-jobs-challenge/awardees/UnidosUS)
grant, awarded to UnidosUS to train Puerto Ricans for quality jobs in
the growing construction and aerospace industries. Lastly, the
Biden-Harris Administration delivered over $30 million in ARP funds to
protect the earned pension benefits of 2,600 workers and retirees
covered by the Gastronomical Workers Union Local 610 and Metropolitan
Hotel Association Pension Fund based out of San Juan.  
  
To stimulate economic activity, the Small Business Administration (SBA)
expanded their network of business assistance programs by funding two
[Women’s Business
Centers](https://www.sba.gov/local-assistance/resource-partners/womens-business-centers)
serving female founders, investing $1 million in a [Community
Navigator](https://www.sba.gov/local-assistance/community-navigators)
pilot program for economic recovery, and licensing two [Small Business
Investment
Companies](https://www.sba.gov/funding-programs/investment-capital) to
promote startup investment capital in Puerto Rico. SBA also provided
over $6 billion in low-interest loans, economic relief, and grants to
small businesses in Puerto Rico during the COVID-19 pandemic. And in
April 2023, the Department of the Treasury’s Community Development
Financial Institutions Fund awarded $226 million to 69 credit unions and
one loan fund in Puerto Rico through the [Equitable Recovery
Program](https://www.cdfifund.gov/programs-training/programs/erp). 

**Expanded Access to Federal Resources for Rural Communities**

The Department of Agriculture announced the expansion of the Rural
Partners Network (RPN) to Puerto Rico in November 2022. Only 10 states
and Puerto Rico benefit from this all-of-government program to help
rural communities access federal resources to create jobs, build
infrastructure, and support local economic development projects. RPN
includes [16 communities](https://www.rural.gov/community-networks/pr):
Mayagüez, Maricao, Guanica, Utuado, Jayuya, Ciales, Orocovis, Villalba,
Ponce, Adjuntas, Barranquitas, Coamo, Fajardo, Ceiba, Naguabo, and El
Yunque National Forest. These communities are receiving full-time,
permanent federal staff to help address challenges from rebuilding
deteriorated infrastructure to improving housing conditions and
providing services to a growing senior population.

**Prioritized the Wellbeing of Puerto Rico’s Children and Families**

With the support of the Department of Health and Human Services’
Administration for Children and Families, the Puerto Rico Department of
the Family (PRDoF) and the University of Puerto Rico signed a memorandum
of understanding (MOU) in March 2023 that outlines a 5-year plan to
provide $2.5 million in annual scholarships for 214 undergraduate and
graduate students pursuing a degree in social work, beginning in fall
2023. The MOU will also help PRDoF retain qualified social workers and
attract talent by using Title IV-E funds to pay tuitions and increase
staff salaries. In addition, ARP’s expansion of the Higher Education
Emergency Relief Fund allowed 97 Puerto Rico colleges and universities
to provide financial assistance to over 213,000 students in 2021 alone.

President Biden has called on Congress to pass legislation to transition
Puerto Rico from the current capped NAP federal nutrition block grant,
which is insufficient to meet the island’s needs, to the SNAP program
used by other states. To prepare for a transition, the Department of
Agriculture held 4 state exchange visits in 2022 for Puerto Rico
officials to learn about SNAP operations; contracted for translation of
handbooks, guides, and relevant SNAP materials into Spanish; and
supported Puerto Rico’s efforts to give NAP participants access to job
training and support services similar to what is required under SNAP.
The work to support the transition continues throughout 2023.

**Protected Communities from Environmental, Health and Geological
Threats**

The Biden-Harris Administration continues to advance sustainable
economic development in Puerto Rico while protecting communities from
environmental and health threats. During his [Journey to
Justice](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-administrator-regan-announces-initial-actions-protect-communities-following-puerto)
tour in July 2022, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator
Michael Regan heard firsthand from environmentally vulnerable
communities across Puerto Rico. He pledged that EPA would take action to
address the disproportionate impacts of pollution in Salinas, Guayama,
the Caño Martin Peña, and the San Juan Bay Estuary System; challenges
with access to clean drinking water in rural communities; and landfill
and solid waste management issues.

To deliver these results, EPA has already announced more than $185
million in Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) funding to provide clean
and safe water across Puerto Rico. For the first time, small rural
communities not served by the Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority
will have a chance to receive federal funding for their local drinking
water systems. EPA also announced a [$1.6 million
investment](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-award-over-16-million-address-contaminated-sites-puerto-rico)
to begin the process of cleaning up and redeveloping brownfield sites in
the municipalities of Aibonito, Aguas Buenas, Corozal, and Las Piedras,
in addition to millions of dollars in BIL funds for the clean-up of
superfund sites, including the Pesticides Warehouse III, Corozal Well,
and Cidra Groundwater Contamination sites. In November 2022, EPA
announced the San the Juan Bay Estuary Partnership will receive more
than $4.5 million over five years for a management and restoration
project focused on communities with environmental justice concerns.  And
in April 2023, EPA selected the Inter-American University of Puerto Rico
to serve as an [Environmental Justice Thriving Communities Technical
Assistance
Center](https://www.epa.gov/environmentaljustice/environmental-justice-thriving-communities-technical-assistance-centers),
receiving at least $10 million to help communities across Puerto Rico
access federal funds.

In February 2023, the Department of the Interior’s U.S. Geological
Survey (USGS) [announced more than $1
million](https://www.usgs.gov/news/national-news-release/bipartisan-infrastructure-law-helps-scientists-map-geology-puerto-rico)
to conduct the first-ever high-resolution airborne magnetic and
radiometric surveys over Puerto Rico and surrounding waters. The
resulting data will be used by USGS, the University of Puerto Rico at
Mayagüez, and other groups to improve knowledge of geologic hazards,
such as earthquakes and landslides. This funding builds on the ongoing
resiliency work that Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland amplified
during her [visit to Puerto
Rico](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/secretary-haaland-visit-highlights-climate-resilience-investments-us-territories)
in November 2022.

**Invested in Major Public Infrastructure Projects**

The Biden-Harris Administration is investing unprecedented resources to
rebuild America’s infrastructure. To this end, the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (Army Corps) established in April 2023 the [“Task Force Virgin
Islands Puerto
Rico,”](https://www.saj.usace.army.mil/Media/News-Stories/Article/3407168/usace-creates-project-task-force-vipr-for-virgin-islands-puerto-rico/)
whose dedicated staff and resources will provide oversight, leadership,
and management for the execution of important projects, including the
Caño Martín Peña and the Rio Puerto Nuevo projects. This year, the Army
Corps is launching phase one of a $163 million Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law investment to dredge over two miles of the Caño Martin Peña, plant
35 acres of mangroves, and build recreational amenities. The Puerto Rico
government invested an additional $130 million in American Rescue Plan
funds for the project, which will benefit over 26,000 residents settled
along the tidal channel, significantly improving health, safety, and
opportunity by reducing residents’ frequent contact with polluted
floodwaters.  In June 2023, the Army Corps awarded a dredging contract
to improve commercial navigation in San Juan Harbor, which was funded in
part through an over $45.5 million Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
investment.  And in December 2022, the Army Corps broke ground on the
first of a series of contracts for the Rio Puerto Nuevo Flood Damage
Reduction Project. When completed, this $2.7 billion project will reduce
severe flood risk for thousands of homes, commercial, and public
buildings in San Juan.

The Biden-Harris Administration is also expanding Puerto Rico’s
transportation infrastructure. Since September 2022, the Department of
Transportation (DOT) has awarded several new grants, including $90
million for roadway improvements and a new expressway on Interstate PR-2
in Mayaguez; nearly $1.6 million for a planning study to reconnect
communities in Santurce, San Juan, divided by the Baldorioty de Castro
Expressway; and a $220,000 Safe Streets for All grant to develop an
action plan to prevent accidents in San Juan. In April 2023, DOT
selected the municipality of Isabela to receive a [Thriving
Communities](https://www.transportation.gov/grants/thriving-communities)
grant for technical assistance to deliver transportation investments.

**Put Hurricane Fiona Disaster Response Funds to Work**

In 2022, Hurricane Fiona made landfall just two days ahead of the
five-year anniversary of Hurricane Maria, devastating the southern
region of Puerto Rico. Immediately, the Biden-Harris Administration
mobilized to support recovery efforts. On October 3, President Biden
visited the city of Ponce to
[reaffirm](https://www.c-span.org/video/?523380-1/president-biden-speaks-puerto-rico-hurricane-response)
the federal government’s unwavering support, declaring: “I want the
people of Puerto Rico to know I’m committed, my entire Administration is
committed to standing with you every step of the way as long as it
takes.”

In response to the Hurricane Fiona disaster declaration, the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) approved more than $891 million in
emergency funds for Puerto Rico, including more than $636 million in
grants to support nearly 740,000 households. In addition, FEMA’s Public
Assistance funding to reimburse communities for emergency work and
permanent repairs topped over $146 million. FEMA opened 43 Disaster
Recovery Centers in affected areas, meeting with more than 169,000
disaster survivors to help them access federal recovery programs, while
Disaster Survivor Assistance teams visited nearly 51,000 homes and made
over 35,000 calls to offer guidance, help with applications for federal
assistance, and ensure those who were eligible for help received it.
These outreach efforts resulted in $10 million in additional assistance
for impacted households.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) allocated $166
million for Hurricane Fiona recovery and the February 2022 floods and
landslides. HUD also worked with the Puerto Rico Public Housing
Authority to rehouse displaced families and clean flooded units. HUD’s
field office in San Juan offered affected municipalities assistance to
assess and address post-Fiona priority needs, immediately announced a
90-day moratorium on foreclosures, and provided resources for homeowner
relief. Additionally, HUD quickly granted regulatory flexibilities to
enable municipal governments to replace flooded affordable housing units
with new construction and fund essential services such as food, water,
and emergency shelter. The Small Business Administration (SBA) also
stepped in to support Puerto Rico’s critical small business ecosystem,
approving more than $106 million in disaster loans for 3,527 small
businesses, homeowners, renters, and nonprofits.

Hurricane Fiona damaged various transmission, distribution, and
generation components of Puerto Rico’s power system, resulting in
additional demands on an already fragile grid. To counter this threat to
life, health, and safety, FEMA, the Department of Energy, EPA, and Army
Corps of Engineers established the Puerto Rico Power System
Stabilization Task Force in October 2022 to support the Puerto Rico
government’s efforts to stabilize the grid, perform required
maintenance, and meet customer demand. The Task Force is in the process
of contracting 350MW of temporary power generation to provide additional
capacity for the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority to continue
long-term recovery work from Hurricane Irma, Hurricane Maria, and the
2020 earthquakes. The Palo Seco Power Plant was selected as the first
site to come online with temporary power generation units of
approximately 150MW. An additional 200MW of temporary generation at
other facilities is planned to be operational by the peak of the 2023
hurricane season. These actions will support ongoing repairs to the
existing power system, a prerequisite for a successful transition to
renewable energy infrastructure.

**Maximized and Streamlined Disaster Recovery Funds**

Building on the release of billions of dollars in Hurricane Maria
recovery funds held back by the Trump Administration, the Biden-Harris
Administration continues to work closely with the Puerto Rico government
to streamline and accelerate spending. To date, FEMA has obligated more
than $30 billion to help Puerto Rico recover from Hurricane Maria and
the 2020 earthquakes.

Additionally, HUD has obligated over $19 billion in Community
Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) funds to assist
Puerto Rico in rebuilding inclusive, resilient communities. Initial
outcomes include over 5,000 homes repaired; 24 multifamily projects
approved for funding; 6,000 displaced renters becoming homeowners; over
3,000 existing small businesses receiving support to recover and grow;
over 1,500 new small businesses created through the Small Business
Incubators and Accelerators Program; and nearly 2,500 individuals
receiving job training to seize new workforce opportunities. These funds
are also authorized to cover the 10 percent local funding share required
to complete FEMA projects.

FEMA’s funding obligations include nearly $4.5 billion for Hurricane
Maria recovery from January 2022 to April 2023, representing more than
2,620 projects to rebuild roads, schools, recreational facilities, and
more, with about $937 million of these funds directly financing
municipal projects. To build resilience, about 88 percent of FEMA Public
Assistance projects contain funding for activities like weatherproofing
and installing storm-resistant features. During this same period, FEMA
allocated another $370 million primarily to repair and rebuild public
buildings impacted by the 2020 earthquakes, building on resources
awarded in 2022 under FEMA’s Hazard Mitigation Grant Program to
seismically retrofit up to 55 schools at a cost of approximately $150
million. HUD also allocated nearly $185 million for earthquake recovery
in 2022 and approved immediate access to a portion of these funds to
speed the Puerto Rico Department of Housing’s recovery efforts.

To further accelerate recovery projects across Puerto Rico, FEMA worked
with the Central Office of Recovery, Reconstruction, and Resiliency
(COR3) in 2022 to raise the share of project costs covered under the
Working Capital Advance program from 25 to 50 percent, giving Puerto
Rico’s municipalities, government agencies, and nonprofits more
liquidity to initiate construction contracts.

**Accelerated Construction of a Clean, Resilient, and Affordable Energy
Grid**

Restoring and hardening Puerto Rico’s energy grid remains a top priority
for the Biden-Harris Administration, with over $12 billion in Hurricane
Maria recovery funding dedicated to building a more resilient and
sustainable grid and providing access to good quality jobs. In February
2022, the Department of Energy (DOE), HUD, the Department of Homeland
Security (which includes FEMA), and the Puerto Rico government signed a
memorandum of understanding to maximize federal investments and
accelerate work to strengthen the grid. This agreement kickstarted the
[Puerto Rico Grid Resilience and Transition to 100% Renewable (PR100)
Study](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/puerto-rico-grid-resilience-and-transitions-100-renewable-energy-study-pr100),
financed with Hurricane Maria recovery funds and with the technical
support of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory and five other
national laboratories. PR100 is a community-driven roadmap to help
Puerto Rico meet its target of 100% renewable electricity by 2050 and
increase energy resilience and affordability. In January 2023, DOE and
FEMA released the PR100 [one-year progress
report](https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy23osti/85018.pdf) and [hosted a
webinar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=02TEZqA7t6Y) in which Secretary
of Energy Jennifer Granholm, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell, and
Puerto Rico Governor Pedro Pierluisi outlined their shared commitment to
building resilient infrastructure and creating clean energy solutions.
And in March 2023, Secretary Granholm conducted her fourth visit to
Puerto Rico, as part of the PR100 Community Engagement Tour.

In October 2022, President Biden committed to deploying more resources
from DOE and other federal agencies to expedite the transformation of
Puerto Rico’s energy system. To facilitate this effort, he tasked
Secretary Granholm to lead the [Puerto Rico Grid Recovery and
Modernization](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/puerto-rico-grid-recovery-and-modernization#:~:text=Puerto%20Rico%20Energy%20Resilience%20Fund,and%20disadvantaged%20households%20and%20communities.)
Team, which includes DOE, HUD, FEMA, the Department of Agriculture, EPA,
and Department of Commerce, working in collaboration with Fortaleza, the
Central Office for Recovery, Reconstruction, and Resiliency (COR3),
Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, LUMA Energy, Genera PR, the Puerto
Rico Energy Bureau, and other stakeholders.

With $1 billion from the 2023 Consolidated Appropriations Act, DOE
established the [Puerto Rico Energy Resilience
Fund](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/puerto-rico-energy-resilience-fund) for
residential rooftop solar deployment, energy resilience, non-profit
partnerships, and clean energy workforce training. DOE expects to
announce a formal request for proposals in summer 2023 with the goal of
rapidly deploying residential rooftop solar and storage for vulnerable
households, including individuals with disabilities. In support of
Puerto Rico’s transition to renewable energy, DOE selected Cooperativa
Hidroeléctrica de la Montaña in Utuado, in partnership with Fundación
Borincana and Pecan Street, to receive a $200,000 [Inclusive Energy
Innovation
Prize](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-awards-36-million-promote-equity-and-diversity-clean-energy-innovation)
to facilitate rooftop solar and storage installation. DOE’s 2023 [Clean
Energy Innovator
Fellowship](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Flnks.gd%2Fl%2FeyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJidWxsZXRpbl9saW5rX2lkIjoxMDQsInVyaSI6ImJwMjpjbGljayIsInVybCI6Imh0dHBzOi8vd3d3LmVuZXJneS5nb3YvZWVyZS9jbGVhbi1lbmVyZ3ktaW5ub3ZhdG9yLWZlbGxvd3NoaXA_dXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbCZ1dG1fc291cmNlPWdvdmRlbGl2ZXJ5IiwiYnVsbGV0aW5faWQiOiIyMDIzMDUyNS43NzI4OTEzMSJ9.Wr6spzzbgfk5uxV2YpFh9QWE4FkBNIUcnjoZ946Iic0%2Fs%2F2967195449%2Fbr%2F203729290647-l&data=05%7C01%7Cevan.berry%40hq.doe.gov%7C1b7d532019a94546418308db5d45e160%7C6b183ecc4b554ed5b3f87f64be1c4138%7C0%7C0%7C638206326961464267%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=juCKLOUhdHheciiGjILpXtgfhlC2b%2F9t%2BtATOuvQeY0%3D&reserved=0)
will also support six recent graduates and energy professionals to work
on clean energy projects at Cooperativa Hidroeléctrica de la Montaña, as
well as the Puerto Rico Energy Bureau and LUMA Energy.

Finally, the Puerto Rico government invested American Rescue Plan funds
to provide Puerto Rico businesses up to $25,000 in
[incentives](https://recovery.pr.gov/en/energy-incentive) to cover the
cost of green energy and energy conservation projects. And FEMA
announced the approval of the first phase of a [$97
million](https://www.fema.gov/press-release/20230329/biden-harris-administration-fema-approve-over-102-million-phase-1-solar)
Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority project to design a new
solar-powered microgrid system for Vieques and Culebra, utilizing
Hurricane Maria recovery funding.

\###
