---
date: '2023-06-08'
published_time: 2023-06-08 13:32:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/08/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-wildfires-in-canada/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Wildfires in\_Canada"
---
 
This morning,  millions of Americans are experiencing the effects of
smoke resulting from devastating wildfires burning in Canada, another
stark reminder of the impacts of climate change.  Since May, more than
600 U.S. firefighters, support personnel, and firefighting assets have
been deployed, working alongside Canadian firefighters to tackle what is
likely to be the worst fire season in Canadian history, and one that has
huge impacts here in the United States.  Yesterday I spoke with Prime
Minister Trudeau and offered any additional help Canada needs to rapidly
accelerate the effort to put out these fires, particularly those in
Quebec, where the fires are having the most direct impacts on American
communities.  I have directed the National Interagency Fire Center to
respond promptly to Canadian requests for additional firefighters and
fire suppression assets such as air tankers.  I’ve asked Secretary of
Transportation Buttigieg to keep me informed about his progress in
ensuring that we proactively manage the air traffic implications of the
deteriorated air quality based on lessons learned from prior incidents. 
Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Regan is continuously
monitoring air quality and providing critical updates for each relevant
zipcode; you can find the current air quality and updated public health
guidance in your area at AirNow.gov.  In addition, the Centers for
Disease Control offer detailed recommendations on protecting yourself
from the effects of wildfire smoke at CDC.gov.  Stay safe and follow the
guidance of your local officials. 

\###
