---
date: '2023-06-09'
modified_time: 2023-06-08 22:52:05-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-09 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/09/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-sweeping-executive-actions-to-strengthen-economic-opportunity-for-military-and-veteran-spouses-caregivers-and-survivors/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Sweeping Executive\
  \ Actions to Strengthen Economic Opportunity for Military and Veteran Spouses, Caregivers,\
  \ and\_Survivors"
---
 
Today, at Fort Liberty, North Carolina, President Biden will announce a
comprehensive set of executive actions to increase the economic security
of military and veteran spouses, caregivers, and survivors.  Joined by
First Lady Jill Biden, alongside service members, veterans, and their
families, caregivers, and survivors, the President will sign an
Executive Order that includes nearly 20 actions aimed at enhancing
career stability and expanding employment resources and support for this
community. 

In times of both peace and war, military-connected families sacrifice
for our country, answering the call to duty over and again.  Many
military and veteran spouses, caregivers, and survivors—the vast
majority of whom are women—struggle to achieve their desired career
goals due to the strains of multiple deployments; frequent moves with
little control over their geographic location; caring for wounded, ill,
and injured service members or veterans; time apart for training, and
more.  Although military spouses are talented, diverse, and resilient,
they find themselves facing a 21 percent unemployment rate, a rate that
has not significantly changed over the past decade.  Employment
challenges are not limited to active-duty spouses, as Reserve and
National Guard spouses must balance their careers against the challenges
that arise during those times when their service member is activated and
deployed.  What we have learned from generations of service is that the
unique demands of military life continue to affect veteran families,
caregivers, and survivors for years after a service member’s time in
uniform. 

The President and First Lady, as a military family, recognize the
commitment and resilience of military-connected families as essential to
the recruitment, retention, and readiness of our Armed Forces. Since Day
One of the Biden Administration, Dr. Biden, through her [*Joining
Forces*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/joiningforces/) initiative, has
worked to eliminate barriers to employment and increase economic
opportunity for military families. Meeting the economic, social, and
emotional needs of our military and veteran families, caregivers, and
survivors is a national security imperative.

Always—and particularly as we commemorate the 50th anniversary of the
all-volunteer force– we owe them nothing less than the dignity of a
meaningful career and the opportunity to build economic security for
their families. That is why today, the President is taking further
action to help military-connected spouses, including the more than
16,000 military, veteran, and surviving spouses in the Federal
workforce.  These actions demonstrate the Biden-Harris Administration’s
commitment to upholding our sacred obligation and will ensure our
nation’s military and veteran spouses, caregivers, and survivors have
access to resources and support to enhance their economic security.

Highlights of today’s Executive Order include:

1.  **Directing the development of a government-wide Strategic Plan on
    Hiring and Retention for Military and Veteran Spouses, Caregivers,
    and Survivors**. To ensure the coordination of military-connected
    hiring and retention efforts across the Federal government, the
    Executive Order directs the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and
    the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), in consultation with the
    Secretaries of Defense, Labor, Veterans Affairs, and Homeland
    Security, to identify strategies to eliminate barriers to the hiring
    and retention of military and veteran spouses, caregivers, and
    survivors. The Strategic Plan, due within 180 days following the
    signing of this Executive Order, will include plans for marketing
    the talent, experience, and diversity of military and veteran
    spouses, caregivers, and survivors to agencies and encouragement for
    agencies to set benchmarks to improve performance and
    accountability.  
2.  **Increasing Federal job postings utilizing the Military Spouse
    Noncompetitive Appointment Authority**. In order to expand this
    critical pathway for hiring military spouses in Federal government
    positions, the Executive Order directs agencies to include spouses
    eligible under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointment
    Authority when soliciting applications from outside of their
    workforce.   
3.  **Setting government-wide standards to improve the Domestic Employee
    Teleworking Overseas (DETO) program**. The Domestic Employee
    Telework Overseas (DETO) program, which enables certain Federal
    employees to work remotely from an overseas location, helps the
    government carry out its global mission, supports family
    unification, and retains valuable talent and expertise in the
    Federal workforce, including military spouses residing with their
    service member stationed overseas. The Executive Order directs
    agencies to develop common standards, processing timelines, and
    communication guidelines, and establishes a permanent Memorandum of
    Understanding between the Department of Defense and the Department
    of State regarding military spouses participating in the DETO
    program.  
4.  **Bolstering access to child care for military families.** To
    continue building on the existing support and ensure that military
    families have access to affordable, high-quality child care allowing
    both the service member and the spouse to pursue professional
    opportunities, the Executive Order directs the implementation of
    Dependent Care Flexible Saving Accounts for service members no later
    than January 1, 2024, as well as expansion of pathways for military
    spouses to provide home-based child care on military
    installations.  
5.  **Providing additional tools to help retain military spouses and
    caregivers, in the public and private sectors.** In order to support
    the retention of military-connected spouses and caregivers in both
    Federal and private sector careers, the Executive Order directs
    several actions including:  
    1.  Encouraging Federal agencies to grant up to five days of
        administrative leave for military spouses in conjunction with a
        Permanent Change of Station (PCS);  
    2.  Directing OPM to issue guidance to agencies outlining telework
        and remote work flexibility for military spouses and caregivers
        to convey the importance of retention efforts of this resilient
        community of Federal employees;  
    3.  Encouraging Federal agencies to collaborate to place a military
        spouse or caregiver in another position following changes to
        support continuity of care or relocation due to a PCS that makes
        it untenable for them to continue in their existing position.  
    4.  Amending legal assistance instructions across the Military
        Departments to allow families to receive advice related to
        employment under Status of Forces Agreements or other host
        nation agreements; and  
    5.  Reinforcing the importance of considering remote work options
        for military spouses when reevaluating or entering agreements
        with host nations.  
6.  **Improving support for military spouses during transition.**
    Recognizing that military spouses also experience challenges during
    a service member’s transition to veteran status, the Executive Order
    directs the Secretaries of Defense, Labor, and Veterans Affairs to
    collaborate to advance support for military spouses in the workforce
    through the transition to veteran spouse status.  
7.  **Developing tailored resources for military and veteran spouse
    entrepreneurs**. To support military-connected spouse entrepreneurs
    in starting and sustaining their businesses, the Executive Order
    directs the Small Business Administration to develop tailored
    resources, including guidance to help military spouses with
    relocating a business following a geographic relocation, and to
    evaluate gaps in access to capital for this community.  
8.  **Improving the collection of data on military and veteran spouses,
    caregivers, and survivors in the Federal workforce.** The Executive
    Order charges the Office of Science and Technology Policy and
    agencies with reviewing opportunities to improve collection of data
    on the military-connected population. With improved data on military
    and veteran spouses, caregivers, and survivors employed in the
    Federal workforce, agencies will be better able to take an
    evidence-informed approach to reducing barriers in hiring,
    promotion, professional development, and retention practices.  
9.  **Expanding training on the employment of military and veteran
    spouses, caregivers, and survivors across the agencies.** Today’s
    Executive Order directs all Federal agencies to provide annual
    training for agency human resources personnel and hiring managers
    concerning the employment of military and veteran spouses,
    caregivers, and survivors, including training on special authorities
    for the hiring of military spouses and survivors. These trainings
    will equip agencies with best practices to access and support this
    capable and diverse pool of talent.

**The Biden-Harris Administration’s Record on Strengthening America’s
Military and Veteran Families, Caregivers, and Survivors**  
  
Together, these actions build on the commitment of the Biden-Harris
Administration to enhance the health, wellbeing, and economic security
of military and veteran families, caregivers and survivors.

In September 2021, the Biden-Harris Administration published the
[Strengthening America’s Military
Families](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Strengthening_Americas_Military_Families.pdf)
report. Prepared by representatives from the White House with
contributions from Federal agencies, the report was signed by the
President with a foreword by Dr. Biden, and outlined the first round of
Administration-wide key commitments to better understand and meet the
needs of the families of service members and veterans, caregivers, and
survivors.  In the report, all Executive Agencies across the President’s
Cabinet announced their participation in the Department of Defense’s
Military Spouse Employment Partnership.  Continuing to build on that
support across the agencies, *Joining Forces* collaborated with
military-connected spouses to create a community platform to connect
military and veteran spouses, caregivers and survivors in the Federal
workforce with resources for sustainable careers.  
  
In January 2023, the Defense Department launched a 12-week paid
fellowship program to expand employment opportunities for eligible
military spouses in the private sector, and in March 2023, [Secretary
Austin](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3338023/dod-announces-six-new-measures-to-enhance-well-being-of-military-force-and-thei/)
announced additional actions to enhance military family economic
security, including the expansion of eligibility for the military spouse
career advancement financial assistance program.  The President also
[directed](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/01/31/memorandum-on-fourteenth-quadrennial-review-of-military-compensation/)
the Secretary of Defense to initiate the 14th Quadrennial Review of
Military Compensation to evaluate pay and benefits with a particular
focus on factors such as the challenge of military spouse unemployment,
frequent military moves, periods of geographic separation between
service members and their spouses (including dual military couples), and
childcare access and cost.  
  
And, in April 2023, the President signed [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-most-sweeping-set-of-executive-actions-to-improve-care-in-history/)
14095, “Increasing Access to High Quality Care and Supporting
Caregivers.”  Among the many directives were several focused on making
child care and long-term care more accessible and affordable for
families, including military families. The actions also improve access
to home-based care for veterans and enhance job quality for child-care
and long-term care workers which in turn will ease burdens for military
and veteran families, military caregivers, and survivors.

\###
