---
date: '2023-06-14'
modified_time: 2023-06-14 20:25:14-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-14 09:36:09-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-and-civic-nation-bring-together-over-300-national-and-community-organizations-to-help-students-and-families-cut-costs-and-access-affordable-high-speed-internet/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration and Civic Nation Bring Together\
  \ Over 300 National and Community Organizations to Help Students and Families Cut\
  \ Costs and Access Affordable High-Speed\_Internet"
---
 
Access to high-speed internet is no longer a luxury – it is a necessity
to fully participate in today’s society. Still, many students and
families go without high-speed internet because of the cost, while
others are forced to cut back on other essentials to pay their monthly
internet bill. That’s why President Biden and Vice President Harris
worked with Democrats, Republicans, and Independents to include the
Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP)**—**the largest internet
affordability program in our nation’s history**—**in the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law. The Affordable Connectivity Program, administered by
the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), provides eligible
households up to $30/month (or up to $75/month on qualifying Tribal
lands) off internet bills, as well as a one-time discount of up to $100
off a laptop, desktop computer, or tablet. To further lower costs,
President Biden and Vice President Harris secured commitments from
internet service providers across the country to offer high-speed
internet plans that are fully covered by the Affordable Connectivity
Program—meaning millions of working families can now get high-speed
internet without paying a dime. Americans can check their eligibility
and sign-up at [GetInternet.gov](https://getinternet.gov/).  
  
**Today, the Administration announced that Civic Nation and the U.S.
Department of Education are launching** [***Online For
All***](https://onlineforall.org/)**, a digital equity campaign working
to close the digital divide by focusing on internet access,
affordability, and equity for students, families, and all
Americans. ***Online For All* will work with nonprofit, government,
corporate, and media stakeholders to educate communities about how the
Biden-Harris Internet for All Initiative can help them access reliable,
affordable high-speed internet.  
  
The partnership is kicking off with a Week of Action to drive enrollment
in the Affordable Connectivity Program. Over 18.5 million households are
now enrolled, saving a total of over $500 million per month on their
high-speed internet bills. This is incredible progress for a program
that is just 18 months old, but there’s more work to do. Research
indicates that approximately half of the remaining qualified Americans
are not aware of the program. **The *Online for All* Week of Action will
bring together the federal government and over 300 organizations to
raise awareness and help eligible families sign-up.  
  
AN “ALL OF GOVERNMENT” EFFORT**

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to continuing to reach
qualified Americans and seeing this program continue for years to come.
The Administration previously launched an [“all of government” ACP
enrollment
drive](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/21/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-highlights-milestone-of-1-million-new-participants-on-reducing-high-speed-internet-cost-for-americans/).
Now, the Administration is taking additional actions to reach eligible
Americans, including:

-   **Vice President Kamala Harris** is encouraging Americans to sign-up
    for the Affordable Connectivity Program at
    [GetInternet.gov](https://getinternet.gov/apply) in a new video.
    **View the video**
    [**HERE**](https://twitter.com/VP/status/1668969605526593537).  
     
-   The **FCC** and the **Universal Service Administration
    Company** (USAC) have made significant improvements to the
    Affordable Connectivity Program application to enhance the consumer
    experience and make it easier for qualified applicants to enroll,
    including allowing Pell Grant recipients to apply without having to
    submit eligibility documentation.  
     
-   The** Department of Education** will notify more than five million
    Pell Grant recipients of their eligibility for the program, and that
    they can enroll without eligibility documentation.  
     
-   The **FCC** is launching their paid media efforts with ads and a
    satellite media tour to spread the word about the Affordable
    Connectivity Program through radio and television interviews in
    English and Spanish.  
     
-   The **FCC** is officially kicking off their outreach grant programs
    with over $73 million in funding to 229 awardees.  
     
-   The **Department of Education’s** Deputy Secretary Cindy Marten will
    send a message about the Affordable Connectivity Program to 84,000
    school principals, vice principals, and tech coordinators across the
    country.  
     
-   The **Department of Health and Human Services **will share
    information about the Affordable Connectivity Program with Federally
    Qualified Health Centers and the stakeholders who provide telehealth
    services.   
     
-   The **Department of Agriculture** (USDA) and the **FCC** partnered
    to train USDA State Directors and General Field Representatives on
    how to help get qualified households enrolled.  
     
-   The **Department of Housing and Urban Development **(HUD) will send
    a letter about the Affordable Connectivity Program to all 3,300+
    Public Housing Authorities in the nation to help ensure as many
    HUD-assisted families have access to quality, high-speed internet as
    possible.  
     

 And Administration officials are hitting the road to spread the word.
Today’s events include:

-   **Senior Advisor to the President and White House Infrastructure
    Coordinator Mitch Landrieu** and **FCC Chairwoman Jessica
    Rosenworcel** will kick-off the week with a “train the trainer”
    event at a library in **Towson**, **Maryland**.  
     
-   **Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona** will headline a virtual
    event with educators alongside the American Federation of Teachers
    (AFT), the National Education Association (NEA), and the National
    Association of Secondary School Principals (NASSP) to provide them
    with the tools they need to educate families on this opportunity and
    keep students connected over the summer.  
     
-   **Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information
    Alan Davidson** will join New America’s Open Technology Institute,
    Public Knowledge, and Network: On to kick-off a half-day summit on
    Affordable Connectivity Program enrollment and the future of the
    program.  
     
-   **Rural Utilities Service Administrator Andy Berke** will be
    in **Ohio** at a community college to highlight how students benefit
    from access to high-speed internet with local organizations that
    work to enroll their communities in the Affordable Connectivity
    Program.  

**A NATION COMING TOGETHER TO CLOSE THE DIGITAL DIVIDE**

Over 300 organizations from across the nation are taking action this
week as part of the *Online For All *Week of Action. These efforts will
help thousands of new households enroll and drive awareness about how
the Affordable Connectivity Program is essential to close the digital
divide. Activities include:

-   AARP is hosting a tele-town hall with **Senior Advisor to the
    President and White House Director of Public Engagement Steve
    Benjamin** to educate older Americans all across the country about
    the opportunity to participate in the Affordable Connectivity
    Program.  
     
-   Comcast is participating in over 100 sign-up, awareness, and
    training activations across the country in 22 states and virtually
    throughout June. Comcast is furthering its commitment to invest in
    trusted community-based partners and scale a national network of
    digital navigators working to connect people to the internet and
    digital skills.  
     
-   Verizon is hosting or participating in more than 50 events and
    outreach opportunities across 10 states at local community anchor
    institutions, housing developments, and job fairs during the Week of
    Action—including an event in Atlanta, **Georgia**, where the company
    will pass out bags of free groceries outside a YMCA with information
    about the Affordable Connectivity Program inside. Verizon will also
    use its social media channels to help raise awareness about
    the *Online For All* campaign.  
     
-   Dell Technologies will drive awareness among their nonprofit,
    business, and community partners as well their K-12 and higher
    education customers. Dell will also spread the word about *Online
    For All* at their Reimagining Digital Equity celebration in
    Nashville, **Tennessee**, celebrating the culmination of a four-week
    program where Dell Technologies’ team members joined nonprofit
    partners to create tangible solutions for challenges the
    organizations face when confronted with the digital divide.  
     
-   Charter is participating in more than 20 events and outreach
    opportunities across 11 states. These actions will be highlighted
    with two marquee events, in Milwaukee and
    Madison, **Wisconsin,** where Charter will work with community
    organizations to raise awareness and increase participation in the
    program.  
     
-   AT&T is participating in more than 25 events and outreach
    opportunities across 8 states and driving awareness through a
    diverse set of media and marketing platforms.  
     
-   The Housing Authority of the City of Brownsville, **Texas** is
    hosting an outreach and enrollment event at the Strong Families
    Community Resource Fair.  
     
-   The Louisville Metro Housing Authority in **Kentucky** is hosting
    sign-up events at the Parkhill Community Center.  
     
-   Link Health, based in Boston, **Massachusetts**, is leading the
    Healthcare Day of Action on Friday, June 16 with an event featuring
    a **Veterans Affairs** National Social Work Program Special Projects
    Coordinator at the South End Community Health Center in Boston.  
     
-   ConnectLakeCounty is conducting outreach and supporting sign-ups at
    the Juneteenth Festival/Expo in North Chicago, **Illinois**.  
     
-   The San Diego Housing Commission is hosting an in-person sign-up
    event with San Diego Futures Foundation in **California**.  
     
-   The Dallas Innovation Alliance is hosting an Affordable Connectivity
    Program sign-up event at Rhythm & Wires Festival hosted by TEQMuscle
    in Texas.  
     
-   The ARC Foundation: Strengthening Communities is sharing information
    about the Affordable Connectivity Program at the Oklahoma City Pow
    Wow Club’s Bingo Fundraiser at the Indian Hills powwow grounds
    in **Oklahoma**.  
     
-   The International Rescue Committee, Inc. (IRC) in San Diego is
    hosting three Affordable Connectivity Program enrollment events with
    Burmese, Karen, Afghan, and Haitian clients in San
    Diego, **California**.  
     
-   Goodwill Industries of Southwest Florida, Inc. will be hosting
    in-person sign-up events at eight Community Resource Centers in four
    counties across Southwest **Florida**.  
     
-   The Brooklyn Public Library in **New York** will be hosting events
    at four of its Brooklyn Public Library branches.  
     
-   The Famicos Foundation in Ohio will host an enrollment event at the
    Gateway 105 Farmers Market.  
     
-   CivicTN and coalition partners including the Memphis A. Philip
    Randolph Institute are joining in-person community events across the
    state of **Tennessee** and in celebration of Juneteenth.

 To see a full list of organizations participating in the *Online For
All* Week of Action, or if your organization is interested in
participating in the *Online for All *Week of Action, please go
to [OnlineForAll.org/Week-of-Action/](https://onlineforall.org/week-of-action/).  
  
Connecting all communities across the United States to affordable
high-speed internet is a central part of President Biden’s and Vice
President Harris’ *Investing in America* agenda, which is rebuilding our
nation’s infrastructure, driving new private sector manufacturing
investments, and creating good-paying jobs, including those that don’t
require a four-year degree—rebuilding our economy from the bottom up and
middle out. That investment includes Monday’s announcement of more than
$700 million across 19 states through the ReConnect Program to fund
affordable high-speed internet deployment in rural America. And by June
30, the Department of Commerce will announce state and territory
allocations for the Broadband Equity, Access, and Deployment (BEAD)
program, which will also require service providers receiving funding to
offer a low-cost plan and to participate in the Affordable Connectivity
Program.

\###
