---
date: '2023-06-12'
published_time: 2023-06-12 15:56:12-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/12/fact-sheet-biden-administration-celebrates-the-75th-anniversary-of-womens-integration-in-to-the-armed-forces/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Celebrates the 75th Anniversary of Women\u2019\
  s Integration in to the Armed\_Forces"
---
 
Seventy-five years ago today, President Truman signed into law the
[Women’s Armed Services Integration Act of
1948](https://www.visitthecapitol.gov/artifact/s-1641-bill-establish-womens-army-corps-and-authorize-enlistment-and-appointment-women),
paving the way for women to officially serve in the United States
military. Today, the Biden-Harris Administration celebrates this
anniversary as a day to honor the more than three million women who have
stepped up to serve their country in uniform since the Revolutionary
War, and recognizes the many ways women continue to contribute to the
strength of our military.

Since the beginning of our nation’s story, women have fought and
sacrificed for our republic. Women played an especially critical role in
World War II, when all-women auxiliary units were stood up in every
branch to support the war effort. Their critical contributions to the
Allied victory in the second World War made clear that our military is
stronger with women in the force. In 1973, when the draft was replaced
by the [All-Volunteer
Force](https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/3316678/all-volunteer-force-proves-successful-for-us-military/),
the Military Departments accelerated their recruitment of women, and
just two years later, the Military Service Academies welcomed their
first class of women cadets and midshipmen. Ten years ago, all combat
positions were finally [opened to
women](https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/632536/carter-opens-all-military-occupations-positions-to-women/).
While we have come a long way in fully integrating women into our armed
forces, there is still much left to do to enable all Americans to be
able to serve to their fullest potential. 

As Commander-in-Chief, President Biden has made it a top priority to
eliminate obstacles to women’s military service through unprecedented
actions to promote their safety, inclusion, health and wellbeing, and by
delivering world-class benefits and services for women veterans,
through:

**  
Updating Military Hair, Dress, and Fitness Standards. **Under the
Biden-Harris Administration, Military Departments have made strides in
updating fitness standards, including enabling a [12-month postpartum
deferment](https://www.marines.mil/News/Messages/Messages-Display/Article/2497339/expanded-postpartum-exemption-period-for-fitness-and-body-composition-standards/) so
that new mothers are exempt
from [deployments](/Users/CACrockett/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/5Z3QQGXM/Cutter%20and%20overseas%20deployment%20deferrals%20for%2012%20months%20postpartum%20%20%3e%20United%20States%20Coast%20Guard%20%3e%20My%20Coast%20Guard%20News%20(uscg.mil)) and
physical fitness testing for the year after giving birth. The Military
Departments have [expanded
options](https://www.army.mil/standto/archive/2021/01/27/) for hair,
dress and appearance, improving the availability of gender-specific gear
and equipment, including [better-fitting
uniforms](https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/References/US-Navy-Uniforms/Maternity-Pilot-Program/) for
pregnant service members, and [lifting
restrictions](https://www.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/2996101/air-force-clarifies-policies-for-pregnant-aircrew/)to
enable pregnant airmen to fly during their pregnancies. 

**  
Advancing Historic Military Justice Reform & Expanding Support for
Survivors of Military Sexual Trauma. **President Biden has advanced
historic military justice reforms that fundamentally shift the
prosecution and investigation of sexual assault, sexual harassment, and
domestic violence, calling for the establishment of the [Independent
Review Commission on Sexual Assault in the
Military](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/02/statement-of-president-joe-biden-on-the-results-of-the-independent-review-commission-on-military-sexual-assault/) as
one of his earliest acts in office. The President also signed
an [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/26/fact-sheet-executive-order-2022-amendments-to-the-manual-for-courts-martial/) to
establish sexual harassment as a specific offense under the Uniform Code
of Military Justice, as well as strengthen the military justice response
in prosecuting cases of domestic violence, and fully implement changes
to the military justice code to criminalize the wrongful broadcast or
distribution of intimate images. In July 2022, the Department of
Defense (DoD) established initial operations for the [Offices of Special
Trial
Counsel](https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/3167285/dod-services-moving-ahead-on-recommendations-to-combat-sexual-assault/) (OSTC)
within the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps. The OSTCs will take
over prosecutorial decisions in December 2023 in sexual assault,
domestic violence, and other special victim cases to provide independent
and highly trained prosecutorial expertise.

Under the Biden-Harris Administration, the Department of Veterans
Affairs (VA) has worked to proactively prevent sexual assault and sexual
harassment, establishing a [zero
tolerance](https://www.va.gov/STOP-HARASSMENT/docs/SECVAsignedLetter_12052022.pdf) policy
for sexual assault and sexual harassment in all Veterans Health
Administration (VHA) facilities, and developing bystander intervention
training. At VA, all employees are asked to take
the [White](https://www.va.gov/health/harassment-free/) Ribbon VA
Pledge to never commit, excuse, or stay silent about sexual harassment,
sexual assault, or domestic violence. VA has taken steps to expand
pathways for reporting sexual assault and sexual harassment for veterans
and visitors to VA facilities. At the same time, VA is focused on
delivering [world-class health
care](https://www.va.gov/health-care/health-needs-conditions/military-sexual-trauma/) to
military sexual assault survivors. 

**  
Strengthening Services for Women’s Health and Wellness During and After
Military Service. **Following the Supreme Court’s decision in *Dobbs v.
Jackson Women’s Health Organization*, the Department of
Defense (DoD) took action to protect access to reproductive healthcare
for service women and their families by [establishing walk-in
contraception
clinics](https://health.mil/News/Articles/2022/11/01/Walk-in-Contraceptive-Services-Required-at-Hospitals-and-Clinics) at
military treatment facilities, and expanding access to women’s
health care in deployed environments. DoD has also
issued [policies](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3301006/dod-releases-policies-to-ensure-access-to-non-covered-reproductive-health-care/) to
enhance privacy and afford service members the time and space needed to
make personal healthcare decisions, including standardizing the
timeframe for Service members to inform their commanders about a
pregnancy, generally allowing Service members until up to 20 weeks of
pregnancy to notify their commanders of their pregnancy status.

The Biden-Harris Administration has also taken action to ensure the more
than [600,000](https://www.va.gov/opa/pressrel/includes/viewPDF.cfm?id=5867) women
veterans, the fastest growing subpopulation of veterans served by the
VA, have equitable access to benefits and gender-specific health
services, in safe and culturally-competent settings. VA has protected
and expanded access to [reproductive health
services](https://www.womenshealth.va.gov/WOMENSHEALTH/topics/reproductive-health.asp) for
women veterans, ensuring they have access to medically needed services.
VA has also expanded programs to support pregnant and postpartum women
veterans, including extending maternity care coordination services from
3 months to 12 months post-delivery to better support both the physical
and mental health of parents. In addition to reproductive and maternal
health, VA has expanded access to [breast cancer
screenings](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2022/06/07/bills-signed-s-1760-s-1872-s-2102-s-2514-s-2533-s-2687-s-3527-s-4089-and-s-4119/). VA
has prioritized hiring Women’s Health Primary Care Providers in every VA
medical center across the nation.  These efforts also include work to
upgrade facilities to ensure VA equipment and exam rooms meet the unique
needs of women veterans and increasing health services support for
transitioning women service members.

**  
Bolstering Support for Parenting and Caregiving Service Members. **With
the leadership of the First Lady’s Joining Forces initiative, DoD has
made significant investments in expanding access to quality, [affordable
childcare](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3160232/defense-department-expands-military-child-care-program-to-increase-availability/) for
military families, and implemented policies to [increase parental
leave](https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/3345492/service-members-get-extended-parental-leave/) for
active duty, Reserve and National Guard personnel following the birth,
adoption, or placement of a child for long-term foster care, tackling
challenges that disproportionately affect retention for women in
uniform, and can play a factor in women’s early separation from the
force.  Efforts include: constructing new child development
centers, focusing on  locations where there is a long waitlist and a
high concentration of military families who need childcare; launching a
child care fee assistance program to provide assistance in finding
civilian child care off the installation and offsetting the cost when
installation-based child care is inaccessible or unattainable; setting
up a pilot to offer child care fee assistance to service members who
utilize in-home child care providers, such as nannies or babysitters;
and enabling Service members to set up a [dependent care flexible
spending
account](https://download.militaryonesource.mil/12038/MOS/Factsheets/tcop/TCOP-Factsheet-DCFSA.pdf).

**  
Improving Economic & Housing Security for Women Veterans and
Transitioning Service Women. **The Biden-Harris Administration hasworked
to support women service members transition to civilian life,
especially in reaching their professional goals. In 2021 alone, the
Department of Labor (DOL) has provided over 30,000 women transitioning
from military to civilian life with [Transition Assistance Program
(TAP)](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/vets/programs/tap) training on job,
education, and other opportunities. DOL also provides individualized
career and training-related services to women veterans, helping them
determine their next professional steps. VA has also expanded
professional supports for women veterans, including by [increasing
contract awards to women-owned small
businesses](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-supports-women-veteran-entrepreneurs-in-how-to-obtain-government-contracts/) and
partnering with the private sector to expand hiring of women veterans. 

**  
Achieving Historic “Firsts” in Women’s Command Roles. **Under the
Biden-Harris Administration, women commanders have risen to
unprecedented ranks, including: [Admiral Linda
Fagan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/12/statement-from-president-biden-on-the-confirmation-of-admiral-linda-l-fagan-as-uscg-commandant/),
Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard, the Coast Guard’s first woman to
hold the rank of four-star admiral and the first woman Service Chief of
any U.S. military service; Air Force General Jaqueline
Van Ovost, head of U.S. Transportation Command; and Army General Laura
J. Richardson, head of U.S. Southern Command. President Biden has also
nominated [Rear Admiral
Yvette Davids](https://news.usni.org/2023/04/21/rear-adm-yvette-davids-nominated-as-next-naval-academy-superintendent) to
be the first-ever woman to lead a military service academy, as the next
superintendent of the U.S. Naval Academy. 

**  
Raising Visibility of Women’s Service.** In March 2023, VA unveiled
a [new mission
statement](https://news.va.gov/press-room/new-va-mission-statement-recognizes-sacred-commitment-to-all-veterans-their-families-caregivers-and-survivors/) to
reflect the obligation we have to all those who have served in our
nation’s military, including women veterans, and references the
important roles filled by veteran families, caregivers, and
survivors. VA has also increased awareness of the historic role women
have played in the military by disseminating information, establishing
new partnerships, and expanding outreach. And, today, VA celebrated
21 [Center for Women Veterans
Trailblazers](https://www.va.gov/womenvet/outreach/trailblazers.asp) “Women
Making the Difference” initiative. This campaign highlights the
experiences and contributions of women veterans and celebrates their
continued role as leaders. 

\###
