---
date: '2023-06-19'
published_time: 2023-06-19 20:14:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-makes-historic-investments-to-build-community-climate-resilience/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Makes Historic Investments to\
  \ Build Community Climate\_Resilience"
---
 
Over the past two years, more than 100 million Americans have been
personally affected by an extreme weather event. The record-shattering
heat wave that hit Puerto Rico earlier this month, recent wildfire smoke
that blanketed the Midwest and East Coast, and devastating storms in
California, are just the latest evidence that climate change is not a
far-off threat. It’s a crisis that’s here now. President Joe Biden and
Vice President Kamala Harris understand that to protect lives and
livelihoods, we need to both slash emissions *and* give Americans the
tools they need to prepare for the growing impacts of climate change.

That is why today, President Biden is in California touring a coastal
community that is working to safeguard their natural infrastructure –
highlighting both the urgency of taking bold climate action and
strengthening America’s resilience. During his visit, he will preview
the Biden-Harris Administration’s latest actions to help communities
adapt to the changing climate.

Through the President’s historic Investing in America agenda, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) will later this
week launch a first-ever **$575 million Climate Resilience Regional
Challenge** to help coastal and Great Lakes communities, including
Tribal communities in those regions, become more resilient to extreme
weather and other impacts of the climate crisis. The funding will
support innovative coastal resilience and adaptation solutions, such as
building natural infrastructure, planning and preparing for
community-led relocation, and protecting public access to coastal
natural resources, that protect communities and ecosystems from sea
level rise, tidal flooding hurricanes, storm surge, among other severe
climate impacts. The Challenge is part of the $2.6 billion in resilience
funding for NOAA included in the Inflation Reduction Act, and is part of
the President’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/).

In addition, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is **investing $2.3
billion** in states, Territories, Tribes, and the District of Columbia
over the next five years to [**bolster grid resilience across the
country**](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/grid-resilience-statetribal-formula-grant-program).
As part of this investment, California is set to receive $67.4 million
in the coming days, with the ability to apply for additional funding in
the future, to modernize its electric grid to reduce impacts from
extreme weather, natural disasters, and wildfires, and to ensure the
reliability of the state’s power sector.

The Biden-Harris Administration knows that effective climate resilience
strategies must be locally tailored and community-driven. That is why
the President is also announcing that later this year, he will bring
together state, local, Tribal, and Territorial leaders – who are
managing the lived impacts of climate change every day – for a **White
House Summit on Building Climate Resilient Communities**. As part of the
Summit, the Biden-Harris Administration will release a new **National
Climate Resilience Framework** designed to advance U.S. Government
actions, in alignment with non-Federal efforts, towards a shared vision
of a climate-resilient nation.

Today’s announcements build on the Biden-Harris Administration’s
unprecedented commitment to strengthening America’s climate resilience.

**<u>Investing in Climate Resilience and Adaptation</u>**  
President Biden’s Investing in America agenda is building communities
that are not only resilient to the impacts of a changing climate, but
also safer, more equitable, and economically stronger. The President’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act together
invest more than $50 billion in climate resilience and adaptation. This
historic level of funding is already delivering real-world benefits
while creating high-quality jobs that provide opportunities to community
residents and offer a free and fair choice to join a union. The
President’s investments are
[upgrading](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/bipartisan-infrastructure-law/protect_fact_sheet.cfm)
aging roads and bridges, providing [tax
credits](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cleanenergy/clean-energy-updates/2022/12/22/treasury-releases-faqs-on-how-to-lower-energy-costs-when-making-home-upgrades/)
for families to add more efficient appliances to their homes,
[restoring](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2022/04/11/biden-harris-administration-launches-1-billion-america-the-beautiful-challenge-to-support-and-accelerate-locally-led-conservation-and-restoration-projects/)
critical waterways, forests, and urban greenspaces, supporting
[resilient and climate-smart
agriculture](https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/about/priorities/inflation-reduction-act),
bolstering [water infrastructure](https://www.usbr.gov/bil/) across the
American West, [modernizing our electric
grid](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-13-billion-modernize-and-expand-americas-power-grid#:~:text=Grid%20Innovation%20Program%20%28%245%20billion%29%20provides%20financial%20assistance,distribution%20infrastructure%20to%20enhance%20grid%20resilience%20and%20reliability),
and funding research to develop the latest [energy-storage
technologies](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-driving-u-s-battery-manufacturing-and-good-paying-jobs/)
here in America.

**<u>Enhancing Drought Resilience Across the West</u>**  
The Biden-Harris Administration is leading a whole-of-government effort
to support drought-prone communities address the ongoing megadrought in
the West. The Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
together include $15.4 billion to [enhance drought
resilience](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/06/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-investments-to-protect-the-colorado-river-system/).
Earlier this year, under President Biden’s leadership, the Department of
the Interior and the seven Colorado River Basin states united around a
historic [consensus-based
agreement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/22/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-historic-agreement-to-protect-colorado-river-system/)
to conserve water resources in the critical Colorado River System. 

**<u>Combating the Growing Threat of Wildfires</u>**  
In addition to implementing a 10-year [Wildfire Crisis
Strategy](https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/wildfire-crisis) that
will limit the impact and severity of fires in coming years, the
Administration is helping communities prepare for and respond to
wildfires right now. Recent actions include investing $7 billion to
expand the wildland firefighter workforce, remove hazardous fuels from
millions of acres of forest, and bring online new technology to better
locate and respond to fires. The Administration also launched a new
[Community Wildfire Defense
Grant](https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/fire/grants) program that
helps local communities develop and implement wildfire preparedness
plans. In addition, the Administration is tackling the pronounced health
effects of wildfire smoke. [AirNow.gov](https://www.airnow.gov/) and its
specialized [Fire and Smoke Map](https://fire.airnow.gov/) provide
Americans with real-time information about smoke and air quality so
people can make informed decisions about how to stay safe. The
Environmental Protection Agency recently made $10 million available to
support [wildfire smoke
preparedness](https://www.epa.gov/grants/wildfire-smoke-preparedness-community-buildings-closed-announcement-fy-23)
in community buildings, and awarded an additional $9 million for
[strategies to reduce smoke
impacts](https://www.cdc.gov/climateandhealth/effects/default.htm).

**<u>Protecting Communities from Extreme Heat</u>**  
The Biden-Harris Administration is saving lives by reducing exposure to
extreme heat events. Community investments through the Low-Income Home
Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) are [reducing cooling
costs](https://www.acf.hhs.gov/blog/2022/04/liheap-and-extreme-heat#:~:text=To%20mitigate%20the%20risks%20associated%20with%20increasing%20temperatures,energy%20crisis%20assistance%2C%20weatherization%2C%20and%20energy-related%20home%20repairs.)
and funding cooling centers in public facilities. The U.S. Forest
Service’s Urban and Community Forestry Program recently announced $1
billion in grants [to expand equitable access to trees and green
spaces](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/04/12/biden-harris-administration-announces-historic-funding-expand)
in urban communities, which will reduce heat-island effects and slash
heating and cooling costs for residents. To better equip local officials
and the public with robust and accessible information, the
Administration launched [Heat.gov](https://www.heat.gov/), a centralized
portal with real-time, interactive data and resources on extreme heat
conditions, preparedness, and response.

**<u>Reducing Flood Risk for Households and Communities</u>**  
Most homeowners’ and renters’ insurance does not cover flood damage. The
Federal Emergency Management Agency’s [National Flood Insurance
Program](https://www.floodsmart.gov/) is helping communities proactively
protect their homes, businesses, and belongings from unexpected flood
damage. This includes providing
[guidance](https://www.fema.gov/sites/default/files/2020-08/FEMA_P-312.pdf)
to communities on how they can mitigate their flood risk. President
Biden also
[reinstated](https://www.fema.gov/floodplain-management/intergovernmental/federal-flood-risk-management-standard)
the Federal Flood Risk Management Standard, which ensures that Federal
agencies are considering and managing current and future flood risks in
order to build a more resilient nation.

**<u>Promoting Climate-Smart Buildings and Infrastructure</u>**  
Buildings and infrastructure investments last for generations when done
right, so it is critical to plan and build in ways that promote
long-term decarbonization and climate resilience. President Biden’s
[National Initiative to Advance Building
Codes](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/01/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-initiative-to-modernize-building-codes-improve-climate-resilience-and-reduce-energy-costs/)
is accelerating adoption of modern building codes that protect people
from extreme-weather events and save communities an estimated [$1.6
billion](https://www.fema.gov/emergency-managers/risk-management/building-science/building-codes-save-study)
a year in avoided damages. The Administration is also making billions of
dollars available to build climate-smart buildings and green
infrastructure, through programs as such the Federal Emergency
Management Agency’s [Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities
Program](https://www.fema.gov/grants/mitigation/building-resilient-infrastructure-communities),
the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s [Green and Resilient
Retrofit
Program](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_23_093),
and the Department of Transportation’s [PROTECT
program](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/bipartisan-infrastructure-law/protect_fact_sheet.cfm).  
  
**<u>Incorporating</u>** **<u>Climate Risk into Decision-Making</u>**  
Extreme weather related to climate change threatens the U.S. economy and
the financial security of families, businesses, and workers. President
Biden’s [Executive Order on Climate-Related Financial
Risk](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/20/executive-order-on-climate-related-financial-risk/)
ensures that climate risk and resilience actions are appropriately
factored into the formulation and execution of the President’s Budget,
thereby properly managing and protecting Federal funding on behalf of
taxpayers. This includes [formally
accounting](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2022/04/04/quantifying-risks-to-the-federal-budget-from-climate-change/)
for the risks that climate change pose in the President’s Budget for the
first time.  
  
**<u>Advancing Environmental Justice</u>**  
The most severe harms from climate change [fall
disproportionately](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-report-shows-disproportionate-impacts-climate-change-socially-vulnerable)
on communities that are least able to prepare for, and recover from,
those harms. President Biden’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/)
makes it a goal that 40 percent of the overall benefits of certain
Federal investments, including investments in climate resilience, flow
to disadvantaged communities that are marginalized and overburdened by
pollution. The President’s [Executive Order on Revitalizing Our Nation’s
Commitment to Environmental Justice for
All](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-revitalize-our-nations-commitment-to-environmental-justice-for-all/)
directs agencies to better protect overburdened communities from
pollution and environmental harms, including climate change. President
Biden also created a [White House Environmental Justice Advisory
Council](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/white-house-environmental-justice-advisory-council/)
to ensure that the voices, perspectives, and lived experiences of
communities with environmental justice concerns are heard in the White
House and reflected in Federal policies. The Council includes a working
group focused on climate resilience.  
  
**<u>Supporting and Learning from Tribal Communities</u>**  
Climate change has a disproportionate impact on Tribal communities and
heritage, and Tribal representation is key to climate resilience
efforts. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides more than $200
million to support [voluntary, community-led transition and
relocation](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-makes-135-million-commitment-support-relocation-tribal)
for Tribal communities severely threatened by climate change and
accelerating coastal hazards. The Inflation Reduction Act includes
[Tribal-specific
funding](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/18/fact-sheet-how-the-inflation-reduction-act-helps-tribal-communities/)
to support climate resilience and adaptation in Native communities. The
Administration has also [issued government-wide
guidance](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/OSTP-CEQ-IK-Guidance.pdf)
and an accompanying [implementation
memorandum](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/IK-Guidance-Implementation-Memo.pdf) for
Federal agencies on recognizing and including Indigenous Knowledge in
Federal research, policy, and decision making.  
  
**<u>Prioritizing Health and Safety</u>**  
Climate and health outcomes are increasingly and inextricably linked.
According to the [Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention](https://www.cdc.gov/climateandhealth/effects/default.htm),
climate change is worsening asthma, cardiovascular disease, pest- and
water-borne diseases, and other adverse health outcomes and chronic
health conditions. President Biden established the first-ever [Office of
Climate Change and Health
Equity](https://www.hhs.gov/ash/ocche/about/index.html) in the
Department of Health and Human Services to address the impact of climate
change on the health of the American people. The Department’s [Climate
and Health
Outlook](https://www.hhs.gov/climate-change-health-equity-environmental-justice/climate-change-health-equity/climate-health-outlook/index.html)
index provides public data on climate and health projections to inform
health professionals and the public.  
  
**<u>Empowering Communities to Better Understand and Plan for Climate
Risk</u>**  
The Biden-Harris Administration is advancing actionable data,
information, tools, and technical assistance to help people understand
and address their climate risks. Specific steps include developing the
[Climate Mapping for Resilience and Adaptation
(CMRA)](https://resilience.climate.gov/) tool to help communities
understand and plan for local climate-related hazards; updating
[sea-level rise
scenarios](https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/hazards/sealevelrise/sealevelrise-tech-report.html)
for all U.S. states and territories ([Sea Level Rise
Viewer](https://coast.noaa.gov/slr/)) so communities can easily assess
changes in coastal flood risk; creating the [Climate and Economic
Justice Screening
Tool](https://screeningtool.geoplatform.gov/en/#3/33.47/-97.5) (CEJST)
to help identify communities that will benefit from programs included in
the [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/);
developing an [action
plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/FTAC_Report_03222023_508.pdf)
to ensure that Federal agencies are producing coordinated, actionable
climate information for end users; and increasing support for regional
applied science and services centers, such as the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s [Climate
Hubs](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2022/01/12/usda-invests-9m-expand-reach-and-increase-adoption-climate-smart).

**<u>Harnessing the Power of Nature</u>**  
Nature holds some of our best solutions to fight climate change and
support communities’ adaptation to climate-related risks. Healthy
forests, wetlands, and grasslands can also slow climate change by
capturing and storing carbon dioxide. The Administration is taking bold
action to ensure we look to nature and fully deploy nature-based
solutions by setting the first national conservation goal through the
[America the Beautiful
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2021/05/06/biden-harris-administration-outlines-america-the-beautiful-initiative/),
to conserve at least 30% of U.S. lands and waters by 2030, launching the
[America the Beautiful
Challenge](https://www.nfwf.org/programs/america-beautiful-challenge),
which provided $91 million in funds in the first year to protect and
restore biodiversity, help achieve our climate goals, and ensure all
Americans have access to nature, and improving forest health through
President Biden’s [Executive Order on Strengthening the Nation’s
Forests, Communities, and Local
Economies](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/22/executive-order-on-strengthening-the-nations-forests-communities-and-local-economies/).

\### 
