---
date: '2023-06-28'
modified_time: 2023-06-30 14:25:21-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-28 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/28/bidenomics-is-working-the-presidents-plan-grows-the-economy-from-the-middle-out-and-bottom-up-not-the-top-down/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Bidenomics Is Working: The President\u2019s Plan Grows the Economy from the\
  \ Middle Out and Bottom Up\u2014Not the Top\_Down"
---
 
President Biden and Vice President Harris came into office determined to
rebuild our economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top
down—and that strategy is working. Even as they faced an immediate
economic and public health crisis—with a raging pandemic, elevated
unemployment, snarled supply chains, and hundreds of thousands of small
businesses at risk of shuttering—the President and Vice President
understood that it wouldn’t be enough to simply go back to the economy
we had before the pandemic. That economy was saddled with longstanding
challenges that held America back—including [rising
inequality](https://realtimeinequality.org/) and disinvestment from
communities across the country.  
  
President Biden recognized that some of those challenges were rooted in
a failed trickle-down theory that supported slashing taxes for the
wealthy and big corporations, shrinking public investment in critical
priorities like infrastructure and education, and failing to safeguard
market competition.

**The President took office determined to move beyond these failed
trickle-down policies and fundamentally change the economic direction of
our country. His plan—Bidenomics—is rooted in the recognition that the
best way to grow the economy is from the middle out and the bottom
up. **It’s an economic vision centered around three key pillars:

-   **Making smart public investments **in America
-   **Empowering and educating workers **to grow the middle class
-   **Promoting competition **to lower costs and help entrepreneurs and
    small businesses thrive

While our work isn’t finished, Bidenomics is already delivering for the
American people. Our economy has added more than 13 million
jobs—including nearly 800,000 manufacturing jobs—and we’ve unleashed a
manufacturing and clean energy boom. There were more than 10 million
applications for new small businesses filed in 2021 and 2022—the
strongest two years on record. America has seen the [strongest
growth](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/the-us-economic-recovery-in-international-context-2023) since
the pandemic of any leading economy in the
world. [Inflation](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/13/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-may-consumer-price-index/) has
fallen for 11 straight months and has come down by more than half. And
we have done it all while responsibly reducing the deficit.  
  
None of this progress was an accident or inevitable—it has been a direct
result of Bidenomics. And rather than taking us back to the failed
trickle-down policies of the past, President Biden is committed to
finishing the job and continuing to build an economy that finally works
for working families—with better jobs, lower costs, and more
opportunity.  
  
***Building More in America by Making Smart Public Investments***  
  
When President Biden came into office,
public [investment](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/Biden-Economic-Blueprint-Report-720PM-MASTER-DOC.pdf) as
a share of the economy had fallen from 7% in the 1960s to half that. A
core tenet of Bidenomics is that targeted public investment can attract
more private sector investment, rather than crowd it out. This is
particularly true in sectors that are central to the long-term economic
and national security interests of the United States—from improving our
infrastructure, to semiconductors, to investing in clean energy and
climate security.

The Biden-Harris Investing in America agenda is rebuilding our
infrastructure, including our roads and bridges, high-speed internet
capacity, ports, and airports. This infrastructure is [the necessary
foundation](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2022/08/09/the-economics-behind-the-presidents-economic-agenda/) for
durable and shared economic growth. Thanks to the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, [35,000 new projects](https://www.build.gov/) have
been awarded funding in communities all across the country. By requiring
Made-in-America products when using federal funding to rebuild
infrastructure, President Biden is not only investing in our country’s
roads and bridges, but also a strong domestic manufacturing base.  
  
The President’s agenda is also investing in key industries that are
critical to our national security and economic security, like producing
more semiconductors in America. And it is investing in accelerating the
clean energy economy to help achieve our climate goals, working with our
global partners. This approach is creating millions of good-paying jobs,
advancing American leadership in innovating next-generation
technologies, and delivering for workers and communities. The
President’s agenda is strengthening our clean energy supply chains by
spurring new and expanded U.S. factories, including more than 150
battery plants and 50 solar plants already announced. In all, we’ve
seen [$490 billion](https://www.invest.gov/) in private investment
commitments in 21<sup>st</sup> century industries since the President
took office, and inflation-adjusted [manufacturing construction
spending](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/unpacking-the-boom-in-us-construction-of-manufacturing-facilities) has
grown by nearly 100% in just two years. New data released just today
shows the clean energy workforce added nearly [300,000 jobs in
2022](https://www.energy.gov/policy/us-energy-employment-jobs-report-useer) and
clean energy jobs grew in every state in America, in part because of the
investments in clean energy and manufacturing by the Biden-Harris
Administration.

***Empowering and Educating Workers to Grow the Middle Class***  
  
Bidenomics also recognizes that the benefits of a growing economy are
only broadly shared when policies are designed to promote and empower
workers. When the President took office, independent experts like
the [Congressional Budget
Office](https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cbo.gov%2Fsystem%2Ffiles%2F2021-02%2F51135-2021-02-economicprojections.xlsx) were
projecting that the unemployment rate wouldn’t fall below 4% until the
end of 2025. But under Bidenomics, the unemployment rate [fell below
4%](https://beta.bls.gov/dataViewer/view/timeseries/LNS14000000) four
years before expectations and has stayed there for the past 18 months.  
  
We’ve also seen record lows in unemployment for workers who have often
been left behind in previous recoveries: with record low unemployment
rates achieved under this Administration for [African
Americans](https://beta.bls.gov/dataViewer/view/timeseries/LNS14000006), [Hispanic
Americans](https://beta.bls.gov/dataViewer/view/timeseries/LNS14000009),
and [people with
disabilities](https://beta.bls.gov/dataViewer/view/timeseries/LNU04074597)—and
a 70-year low
for [women](https://beta.bls.gov/dataViewer/view/timeseries/LNU04000002).
This strong labor market recovery has also led to better pay and working
conditions. Inflation-adjusted [income is up
3.5%](https://realtimeinequality.org/?id=income&incomeend=03012023&incomefreq=quarterly&incomegroups=Total&incomestart=11012020&incometype=factor_income&incomeunit=Adults&incomey=growth) since
the President took office, and low-wage workers have seen the [largest
wage gains](https://www.atlantafed.org/chcs/wage-growth-tracker) over
the last year. [Job
satisfaction](https://www.conference-board.org/press/job-satisfaction-hits-all-time-high) reached
its highest level on record last year. And the prospect of good jobs has
drawn people off the sidelines and into the workforce. In fact, the
share of working-age Americans [in the
workforce](https://beta.bls.gov/dataViewer/view/timeseries/LNS11300060) hasn’t
been higher in more than 20 years. This strong recovery will also
provide durable benefits for years to come, in part by preventing the
labor
market [scarring](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0751) that
sticks with workers
for [generations](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1040260822000533) after
a recession.

Empowering workers also means educating America’s workers—those with and
without a four-year degree. That’s why the Biden-Harris Administration
is investing more in registered apprenticeships and career technical
education programs than any previous Administration and continuing to
fight for [free universal pre-K and free community
college](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/03/09/fact-sheet-president-bidens-budget-lowers-costs-for-families-and-gives-the-american-people-more-breathing-room/).  
  
And the President believes a critical tool for empowering workers is
making it easier to join a union. The President is addressing a
decades-long decline in unionization by supporting project labor
agreements and collective bargaining. He asked the Vice President to
lead the [White House Task Force on Worker Organizing and
Empowerment](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/17/the-white-house-task-force-on-worker-organizing-and-empowermentupdate-on-implementation-of-approved-actions/) to
drive action across the Administration to empower workers and support
their right to join or form a union. Support for unions is the [highest
it’s been in more than half a
century](https://news.gallup.com/poll/398303/approval-labor-unions-highest-point-1965.aspx),
and the labor movement is expanding to new companies and industries.

***Promoting Competition to Lower Costs and Help Entrepreneurs and Small
Businesses Thrive***  
  
Bidenomics recognizes that for markets to function—and for workers and
consumers to benefit—our economy requires healthy competition across
sectors.
After [three-quarters](https://academic.oup.com/rof/article/23/4/697/5477414) of
U.S. industries grew more concentrated in the two decades before
President Biden took office, he understood that we needed a different
approach. More competition means [lower
costs](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1954849) for
consumers and [higher
wages](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/State-of-Labor-Market-Competition-2022.pdf) for
workers. And since taking office, the President has been delivering for
the American people to lower prices, protect workers, and increase
competition across the economy.  
  
When the President took office, he signed an historic [Executive Order
on
Competition](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/07/09/executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/),
which “[commits the federal government to full and aggressive
enforcement of our antitrust
laws](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/09/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-an-executive-order-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/).”
That order identified [72 specific
initiatives](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/09/fact-sheet-executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/) across
government to promote competition—and it is paying off. In addition to
enforcement, the Administration is lowering costs for consumers and
creating opportunities for innovative new products to come to
market—including from the millions of new small businesses around the
country that have started during the Biden-Harris Administration.  
  
For example, the Administration changed the rules so that hearing aids
can be sold over-the-counter, instead of just via prescription.
Previously, hearings aids could cost up to $5,000 per pair, but
Americans can now get them for a [few hundred
dollars](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/17/fact-sheet-cheaper-hearing-aids-now-in-stores-thanks-to-biden-harris-administration-competition-agenda/) at
a local convenience or electronics store. President Biden has signed
legislation into law that will lower prescription drug costs for seniors
and save taxpayers [$160
billion](https://www.crfb.org/blogs/cbo-scores-ira-238-billion-deficit-reduction) over
the next decade by giving Medicare the authority to negotiate lower
prescription drug prices. The Administration is also fighting to [end
junk
fees](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2022/10/26/the-presidents-initiative-on-junk-fees-and-related-pricing-practices/)—hidden
charges that cost Americans’ [tens of billions per
year](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/blog/hidden-cost-junk-fees/) and
rob the marketplace of the kind of transparency that is necessary for
real competition. And the Administration is working toward cracking down
on noncompete agreements, which currently limit as many as [30 million
workers](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2023/01/ftc-proposes-rule-ban-noncompete-clauses-which-hurt-workers-harm-competition) from
switching to a new job in the same field.

***Reducing the Deficit and Making the Wealthy and Big Corporations Pay
Their Fair Share***  
  
President Biden has pursued this economic vision in a fiscally
responsible way—in stark contrast to the Congressional Republican
approach. His predecessor enacted the latest version of trickle-down and
the result was predictable: his tax giveaway added trillions to
deficits, never trickled down to workers, and led to continued
offshoring of jobs and profits. In recent weeks, House Republicans have
doubled down on this approach—rolling out proposals to enact massive tax
cuts for large corporations, including oil companies that made $200
billion in profit last year, while setting the stage for trillions in
tax cuts skewed to the wealthiest
Americans, [delivering](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/make-individual-income-tax-and-estate-tax-provisions-2017-tax-act-permanent-1) a
$175,000 average annual tax cut to the top 0.1% (incomes over $4
million). Their view of “fiscal responsibility” is massive cuts to
programs that millions of Americans count on, with the Republican Study
Committee—which speaks for more than three quarters of House
Republicans—recently releasing
a [plan](https://hern.house.gov/uploadedfiles/202306141135_fy24_rsc_budget_print_final_c.pdf) to
raise the Social Security retirement age to 69, eliminate the Medicare
prescription drug savings that President Biden has signed into law,
raise premiums for seniors on Medicare, and slash Medicaid, the
Affordable Care Act, food assistance, and Pell Grants.  
  
President Biden believes in a fundamentally different approach. Under
Bidenomics, he has proven that we can make smart investments in the
American people while reducing the deficit by ensuring the wealthy and
large corporations pay their fair share in taxes, closing wasteful tax
loopholes, and slashing wasteful spending on special interests.

During his first two years, the President presided over $1.7 trillion in
deficit reduction—a larger reduction than under any other President in
American history. He has signed legislation into law to [reduce the
deficit](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/59235) by more than $1 trillion
over the next
decade, [including](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/19/fact-sheet-the-inflation-reduction-act-supports-workers-and-families/) by
ensuring the wealthiest Americans and largest corporations pay their
fair share, cracking down on wealthy tax cheats, and lowering
prescription drug costs for the American people by cutting wasteful
giveaways to Big Pharma. And his Budget would reduce the deficit by
another [more than $2.5
trillion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/03/09/fact-sheet-strongthe-presidents-budget-cuts-the-deficit-by-nearly-3-trillion-over-10-years-strong/) over
the next decade with additional reforms, including requiring the
wealthiest Americans and the largest multinational corporations to pay
at least the tax rates that many middle-class families do.  
  
Unlike House Republicans—whose plans would harm hard-working
families—the President
has [proposed](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/27/fact-sheet-extreme-maga-congressional-republicans-propose-handouts-to-rich-and-tax-hikes-for-working-families/) cutting
taxes for working people and families with children by almost $800
billion over the next 10 years, including cutting taxes by an average of
$2,600 for 39 million families that include 62 million children by
expanding the Child Tax Credit, cutting taxes by an average of $800 for
19 million working individuals or couples by expanding the Earned Income
Tax Credit, and continuing Premium Tax Credit plus-ups that are cutting
health care premiums by an average of $800 for nearly 15 million people.

\###
