---
date: '2023-06-12'
modified_time: 2023-06-11 20:28:18-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-12 08:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/12/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-75th-anniversary-of-womens-integration-in-to-the-armed-forces/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the 75th Anniversary of Women\u2019\
  s Integration in to the Armed\_Forces"
---
 
Seventy-five years ago today, President Truman signed into law the
Women’s Armed Services Integration Act of 1948—officially opening
service to women in the United States Military. On this significant
anniversary, we celebrate the contributions and sacrifices women in
uniform have made for our country, and recommit to breaking down
remaining barriers to their service—because we cannot outcompete our
adversaries, nor rise to meet our greatest global challenges, without
their talents, skills, and courage.

Since the beginning of our nation’s story, more than three million women
have stepped up to serve—beginning long before they were a conventional
part of our military. Women played an especially critical role in World
War II, when all-women auxiliary units were stood up in every service
branch to support the war effort. Their contributions were critical to
the Allied victory and made clear that the U.S. military is stronger
with women in the force. Following the Integration Act of 1948, barriers
to women’s full participation in our military persisted, but we
continued to take steps to better harness the courage and contributions
of women servicemembers. In 1973, with the establishment of the
All-Volunteer Force, the military accelerated its recruitment of women.
Two years later, the Military Service Academies welcomed their first
class of women cadets and midshipmen. In 2013, when I was Vice
President, all combat positions were finally opened to women. And as
Commander-in-Chief, I have nominated women to the senior-most command
roles in our armed forces, including the Commanders of two Combatant
Commands, the first female Service Chief, and first female Military
Academy superintendent.  
  
As we celebrate this progress, we also recognize that our work is not
yet done to ensure women servicemembers are able to have fulfilling
careers in the U.S. Armed Forces and reach their highest potential. That
is why my administration has focused on tackling the challenges that
disproportionately affect women’s recruitment and retention. Under my
Administration, the Military Departments have made strides in updating
standards for fitness, expanding options for hair, dress and appearance,
improving the availability of gender-specific gear and equipment,
including better-fitting uniforms for pregnant servicemembers. We have
advanced military justice reforms, critically removing the investigation
and prosecution of sexual assault, sexual harassment and domestic
violence from the chain of command. We have enacted new policies to
ensure access to reproductive health care for women servicemembers. We
have taken historic steps to ensure women veterans—the fastest growing
population served by the Department of Veterans Affairs—have equitable
access to benefits and services, including reproductive health care. And
the Department of Defense, in partnership with Jill’s *Joining Forces*
initiative, has accelerated progress for military families to access
quality, affordable childcare and strengthened our support for the
careers of our military spouses —so that women in uniform don’t have to
choose between their love of family and love of country.  
  
The diversity of our military—like our country—is our greatest strength.
Today, as we mark the 75th anniversary of women’s integration in the
Armed Forces, and will soon celebrate the 75th anniversary of racial
integration later this summer, let us remember that our nation is
stronger, and our people are safer, when we draw on the talents of every
qualified patriot who raises their hand to serve our nation. Together,
let us continue to honor the tenacity, heroism, and grit of our women
servicemembers and veterans. And, let us renew our commitment to
breaking down the remaining barriers to women’s advancement,
opportunity, and well-being in the military—recognizing their
indispensable place in the finest fighting force in the history of the
world. 

\###
