---
date: '2023-06-27'
published_time: 2023-06-27 10:59:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/27/fact-sheet-marking-the-one-year-anniversary-of-the-national-security-memorandum-on-combating-illegal-unreported-and-unregulated-fishing-and-associated-labor-abuses/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Marking the One Year Anniversary of the National Security Memorandum\
  \ on Combating Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing and Associated Labor\_\
  Abuses"
---
 
One year ago, on June 27th, 2022, President Biden signed the
historic [National Security Memorandum on Combating Illegal, Unreported,
and Unregulated Fishing and Associated Labor Abuses
(NSM-11)](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/27/memorandum-on-combating-illegal-unreported-and-unregulated-fishing-and-associated-labor-abuses/).

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is providing a status update on
actions taken under National Security Memorandum-11 to address the
problem of illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing, including
by distant water fishing vessels; protect ocean ecosystems; safeguard
seafood supply chains; and combat forced labor abuses within the seafood
industry.

NSM-11’s first year implementation has been strengthened by **action
through and coordination with the U.S. Interagency Working Group on IUU
Fishing** established pursuant to section 3551 of the **Maritime
Security and Fisheries Enforcement (SAFE) Act** (16 U.S.C. 8031), and
chaired by the Department of State, the U.S. Coast Guard, and the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), in collaboration
with 21 other member agencies.

-   The U.S. Interagency Working Group on IUU Fishing released the
    first [**National Five-Year Strategy for Combating Illegal,
    Unreported, and Unregulated
    Fishing**](https://media.fisheries.noaa.gov/2022-10/2022_NationalStrategyReport_USIWGonIUUfishing.pdf) on
    October 19, 2022.  The Strategy details U.S. priorities and plans to
    combat IUU fishing, curtail trade in seafood and seafood products
    derived from IUU fishing, and promote global maritime security.  The
    Strategy lists five priority flag states and administrations
    (Ecuador, Panama, Senegal, Taiwan, and Vietnam) in regions where the
    Working Group will focus its work with partners on combating IUU
    fishing and related threats.  Together with other governments and
    authorities, the seafood industry, academia, philanthropies, and
    nongovernmental stakeholders, the United States aims to use this
    strategy to make tangible progress in addressing IUU fishing and to
    execute a shared global vision for sustainable stewardship of marine
    resources.  
     
-   The U.S. Interagency Working Group on IUU Fishing created **a new
    interagency task group on identifying and countering criminal
    networks and enterprises that support IUU fishing**.  This task
    group will identify examples and recommendations for how agencies
    can use unique authorities and programs to better identify and
    target the individuals and entities behind many types of IUU
    fishing, using insight from the tools counter-narcotics and
    counter-wildlife trafficking communities have adopted in their
    work.  
     
-   NOAA, State and DOL co-chair the U.S. Interagency Working Group on
    IUU Fishing **sub-working group on Labor**, taking action to
    understand the gaps in enforcement authorities to counter labor
    abuses, and to coordinate technical assistance in fishing across the
    interagency, while supporting standing reporting requirements.

IUU fishing can be associated with forced labor, a form of human
trafficking, and other crimes and human rights abuses.  These abuses
undermine the livelihoods and human rights of fishers globally,
alongside U.S. economic competitiveness, national security, and fishery
sustainability. Actions under NSM-11 to **address forced labor in the
seafood industry **include:

-   **Sanctioning perpetrators of IUU fishing and serious human rights
    abuse: **On December 9, 2022, the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s
    Office of Foreign Assets Control [(OFAC) sanctioned two individuals,
    Li Zhenyu and Xinrong Zhuo, and the networks of entities they
    control, including Dalian Ocean Fishing Co., Ltd. and Pingtan Marine
    Enterprise, Ltd. along with eight other affiliated
    entities](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1154).
    Additionally, this action identified 157 People’s Republic of China
    (PRC) flagged fishing vessels in which these entities have an
    interest. These actions were taken pursuant to Executive Order
    13818, which builds upon and implements the Global Magnitsky Human
    Rights Accountability Act and targets perpetrators of serious human
    rights abuse and corruption around the world. The designation of
    Pingtan Marine Enterprise was the **first time Treasury has
    designated an entity listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange**. The
    action demonstrates the U.S. government’s ongoing effort to impose
    tangible and significant consequences on those engaged in serious
    human rights abuse, including on those vessels engaged in IUU
    fishing.  
     
-   **Establishing the **[**Collaborative Accelerator for Lawful
    Maritime Conditions in Seafood
    (CALM-CS)**](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/international-affairs/collaborative-accelerator-lawful-maritime-conditions-seafood).
    Developed, established and chaired by NOAA, with participation from
    the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), the
    Department of Labor (DOL), U.S. Coast Guard (USCG), the U.S.
    Department of State (State), and representatives from all relevant
    sectors—workers, harvesters, processors, retailers, brokers,
    non-governmental organizations, and think tanks—this public-private
    partnership promotes legal and safe working conditions throughout
    the fishing and seafood industry. CALM-CS working groups are each
    co-chaired by one representative from the U.S. government and one
    from an external sector, helping to give workers a voice, support
    at-risk populations at sea, promote standards and due diligence,
    identify illegal labor practices, and enhance safety and labor
    conditions aboard U.S. vessels.  
     
-   DOL’s Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB) has published
    research and created tools to **raise public awareness of forced
    labor and child labor** in seafood supply chains.
    -   DOL’s [**List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced
        Labor**](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ilab/reports/child-labor/list-of-goods) includes
        coverage of forced labor and child labor in seafood supply
        chains, as required under the [Trafficking Victims Protection
        Reauthorization Act
        (TVPRA)](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ilab/about/laws) of 2005
        and subsequent reauthorizations.
    -   The [**Sweat and Toil
        App**](https://www.dol.gov/general/apps/ilab) presents
        information on seafood and other products made with forced labor
        or child labor in an accessible, user-friendly format.
    -   The [**Better Trade
        Tool**](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ilab/better-trade-tool) provides
        data on goods imported into the United States which are at risk
        of being produced with forced or child labor.
    -   DOL’s [**Comply
        Chain**](https://www.dol.gov/ilab/complychain/) tool helps
        companies undertake effective due diligence to identify, address
        and mitigate child and forced labor in their global supply
        chains. The tool is broadly applicable to all global supply
        chains, and includes several seafood case studies.
    -   DOL has also published a [**fishing fact
        sheet**](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/ILAB/508_Fishing_Fact_Sheet.pdf) on
        strengthening labor conditions and promoting good jobs in the
        fishing sector.
    -   DOL frequently engaged with fishers’ unions and
        industry, **sharing tools to protect fishers from labor
        exploitation**, including the union campaign for **Wi-Fi aboard
        vessels**, at venues such as the Seafood Expo North America,
        Seafood Expo Global, the Conservation Alliance for Seafood
        Solutions Annual Meeting, and the Global Migration Film
        Festival.  
         
-   DOL **engages with trade partners and multilateral organizations to
    address forced labor** in fishing.
    -   DOL continues to monitor trade beneficiaries for labor rights
        violations in fishing, raising labor in appropriate **bilateral
        engagements**, including with interagency partners such as NOAA,
        the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, Customs and Border
        Patrol, and the Department of the Treasury. For example, DOL
        meets regularly with the Taipei Economic and Cultural
        Representative Office in the United States (TECRO) to discuss
        labor rights and protections for fishers in Taiwan’s distant
        water fleet. Under the auspices of the American Institute in
        Taiwan (AIT) and TECRO, both sides have exchanged ideas,
        trainings, and best practices, as well as shared information on
        the challenges of monitoring foreign-flagged fishing vessels.
    -   DOL met with the European Union Directorate General for Maritime
        Affairs and Fisheries and Directorate General for Employment in
        Brussels in the Fall of 2022 to raise the use of shared tools
        to **promote transatlantic cooperation** to counter the use of
        forced labor in seafood supply chains.
    -   During the U.S. 2023 host year of Asia Pacific Economic
        Cooperation (APEC), DOL will host a side event on the margins of
        APEC’s Oceans and Fisheries Meeting in Seattle, Washington to
        build awareness among APEC economies on the nexus of IUU Fishing
        and labor abuse.

Left unchecked, IUU fishing and associated labor abuses undermine U.S.
economic competitiveness, national security, fishery sustainability, and
the livelihoods and human rights of fishers around the world and will
exacerbate the environmental and socioeconomic effects of climate
change. The Biden-Harris Administration continues to
champion **Multilateral and Regional Solutions that Support Sustainable
Fishing**.

-   **IUU Fishing Action Alliance: **The United States, with the United
    Kingdom and Canada, launched the IUU Fishing Action Alliance at the
    2022 UN Ocean Conference.  The Alliance brings together like-minded
    partners who pledge to join and effectively implement international
    agreements, increase effective monitoring, control, and
    surveillance, and improve transparency and data sharing.  Since the
    launch, Iceland, the Republic of Korea, Norway, Chile, Panama, New
    Zealand, France, and the European Union have joined the Alliance,
    and together will work to take urgent action to combat IUU
    fishing.  
     
-   **Our Ocean Conference:  **At the eighth Our Ocean Conference in
    Panama, the U.S. delegation announced $6 billion USD in commitments
    to address threats to *Our Ocean*, more than doubling last year’s
    pledge.  More specifically, the United States made 7 announcements
    totaling more than $665 million USD under the sustainable fisheries
    area of action.  U.S. initiatives aim to improve climate resilience
    in fisheries and advance transparency in the fight against IUU
    fishing.  
     
-   **World Trade Organization (WTO) Fisheries Subsidies
    Agreement: **For more than two decades, WTO Members have negotiated
    how to address the use of harmful subsidies in the fisheries sector.
    Through extensive U.S. engagement over the course of these
    negotiations, WTO Members were finally able to achieve a
    groundbreaking agreement at the WTO’s 12th Ministerial Conference in
    June 2022. The WTO Agreement on Fisheries Subsidies (Agreement)
    contains several important disciplines, including prohibitions on
    subsidies to vessels or operators engaged in IUU fishing, subsidies
    to fishing regarding stocks that are overfished, and subsidies to
    fishing on the high seas outside of the competence of a relevant
    regional fisheries management organization or arrangement. The
    Agreement also includes robust transparency provisions to strengthen
    WTO Members’ notification of harmful fisheries subsidies and to
    enable effective monitoring of Members’ implementation of their
    obligations.  The United States was among the first WTO Members to
    accept the Agreement when it submitted [its instrument of acceptance
    to the WTO on April 11,
    2023](https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2023/april/ambassador-tai-signs-us-instrument-acceptance-wto-agreement-fisheries-subsidies-alongside-wto).  
     
-   **Adoption of High Seas Boarding and Inspection Conservation
    Management Measure in SPRFMO**:  In February of 2023, the South
    Pacific Regional Fisheries Management Organisation (SPRFMO) adopted
    a comprehensive High Seas Boarding and Inspection (HSBI) measure in
    its convention area, which goes into effect October 1, 2023. This is
    a substantial step in advancing international oceans governance and
    will aid in the management and enforcement of Conservation
    Management Measures (CMMs) across the Southern Pacific Ocean.  
     
-   **Safeguarding Labor Standards for Crew at Regional Fishery
    Management Organizations: **NOAA chairs a working group to address
    labor abuses in fisheries under the purview of the International
    Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) that seeks
    to develop a non-binding resolution to protect workers through crew
    standards.  In addition, NOAA, with support from DOL and the USCG,
    continues to actively engage in developing a binding conservation
    and management measure on labor standards for crew at the Western
    and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission (WCPFC).  
     
-   **Addressing Labor Exploitation in Fishing in ASEAN
    (**[**ALFA**](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ilab/alfa-addressing-labor-exploitation-fishing-asean)**)
    Project: **DOL funds the ALFA project, which supported the adoption
    of the **Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Declarations
    on the **[**Placement and Protection of Migrant
    Fishers**](https://asean.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/10-ASEAN-Declaration-on-Protection-and-Promotion-of-the-Rights-of-Migrant-Fishers_adopted-1.pdf) and
    on the [**Protection of Migrant Workers and Family Members in Crisis
    Situations**](https://asean.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/09-ASEAN-Declaration-on-Protection-of-Migrant-Workers-and-Family-Members-in-Crisis-Situations_adopted.pdf) at
    the 42<sup>nd</sup> ASEAN Summit on May 10, 2023. Previously, as
    part of the U.S.-ASEAN Summit in May 2022, DOL announced a $2.5
    million grant to Development Alternatives Inc. in Southeast Asia to
    counter forced labor and abusive working conditions in fishing.
    DOL’s ALFA project works closely with ASEAN’s Senior Labour
    Officials Meeting and supports ASEAN’s Labour Inspection Committee
    Thailand with upcoming **regional training for labor inspectors** to
    address forced labor in the context of trafficking in persons in the
    fishing sector. DOL’s ALFA project will commence a **Regional Study
    on Labor Practices in the Fishing Sector** and a **Regional Mapping
    on Good Practices in Private Sector Engagement in Addressing Labor
    Exploitation in ASEAN**.  
     
-   **Working with the International Labour Organization (ILO) on Decent
    Work in Fishing:**
    -   In December 2021, DOL awarded $5 million in a cooperative
        agreement for the ILO focused on strengthening decent working
        conditions in Peru and Ecuador by combating IUU fishing in
        coastal communities. DOL’s **Strengthening Decent Work in the
        Fishing Sector in Ecuador and Peru project **is conducting a
        study on the gaps, costs, and benefits of the implementation
        of [ILO Convention
        188](https://www.ilo.org/dyn/normlex/en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0::NO::P12100_ILO_CODE:C188) and
        the application of [ILO Recommendation
        199](https://www.ilo.org/dyn/normlex/en/f?p=1000:12100:0::NO::P12100_ILO_CODE:R199) in
        these countries.
    -   DOL also supported a project that will publish a
        forthcoming [ILO Handbook on the Detection of Forced Labor in
        Fishing](https://www.ilo.org/ipec/projects/global/map16/WCMS_883548/lang--en/index.htm) this
        summer.

NSM-11 acknowledges that “no nation, government entity, or
non-governmental organization can address IUU fishing and associated
labor abuses single-handedly.” Some of the actions taken to
bolster **partner engagement, capacity, and resilience**, in the last
year included:

-   **Creation of the IUU Fishing Center of Excellence (COE):**  The
    U.S. Coast Guard will establish an IUU Fishing Center of Excellence
    (COE) to be located on Ford Island, Hawai’i. The establishment of
    this Indo-Pacific IUU Fishing COE will promote regional cooperation
    and collaboration including maritime domain awareness,
    interoperability, capacity building, and professional exchanges to
    combat IUU fishing, identify safety and labor violations, and
    protect living marine resources.  
     
-   The **U.S. Coast Guard Signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
    with Global Fishing Watch**. 
    The [MOU](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/uscoastguard_coastguard-iuufishing-illegalunreportedunregulatedfishing-activity-7004209083008352256-TQb8?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop) enables
    the Coast Guard to exchange real-time technology, information, and
    analysis, to inform operational patrol planning with Global Fishing
    Watch, an international nonprofit organization dedicated to
    advancing ocean governance and one of the international leaders in
    the fight against IUU fishing.  
     
-   **Designation of an Indo-Pacific Support Cutter – USCGC HARRIET LANE
    (WMEC 903):** The U.S. Coast Guard designated the USCG Cutter
    HARRIET LANE as the new Indo-Pacific support cutter to support
    capacity building, maritime domain awareness, and combined
    operations with like-minded Indo-Pacific partners.  The HARRIET LANE
    will be based out of Hawaii and operational by the end of Fiscal
    Year 2024.  
     
-   **Creation and Deployment of the Deployable 5-Day IUU Fishing
    Seminar**: NOAA and the U.S. Coast Guard developed an exportable
    international-focused seminar to assist partner nations in
    developing and strengthening their domestic fisheries enforcement
    regimes to prevent IUU fishing commodities from entering the global
    seafood market. In 2022, the U.S. Coast Guard and NOAA provided
    seminars to the Philippines, Thailand, Mexico, and Mauritania. In
    addition, the Department of State, with interagency partners, has
    created an IUU Fishing Road Show at U.S. Embassies in Peru and
    Colombia.  
     
-   **NOAA’s Capacity Building Program**:
    -   NOAA implemented a [**five-year interagency
        agreement**](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/enforcement/countering-iuu-fishing-partnership-sustainably-managed-fisheries) on
        efforts to combat IUU fishing with USAID in Colombia, Ecuador,
        and Peru. NOAA is providing on the ground support to the three
        target countries to improve their capacity to detect, deter, and
        interdict IUU fishing and fishing related crimes. NOAA’s direct
        engagement includes providing **technical assistance and
        training to fisheries enforcement officials**, strengthening
        monitoring, control and surveillance tools and **supporting
        effective implementation of the **[**Port State Measures
        Agreement
        (PSMA)**](https://www.fao.org/port-state-measures/en/).
    -   In partnership with USAID’s Regional Development Mission for
        Asia, the Department of State’s Bureau of International
        Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL), and the **Southeast
        Asian Fisheries Development Center (SEAFDEC), 60 government
        officials from Vietnam and Thailand were trained** in best
        practices for foreign fishing vessel inspection, and proper flag
        state responsibilities. U.S. law enforcement staff traveled to
        Vietnam and Thailand, and strengthened relationships with
        Thailand’s Department of Fisheries and Vietnam’s Directorate of
        Fisheries.
    -   NOAA also led a [Seafood Container Inspection
        Workshop](http://www.seafdec.or.th/home/news/464-regional-training-course-on-container-inspection),
        hosted by SEAFDEC and in partnership with USAID. Twenty
        government officials from the ten ASEAN nations were trained in
        implementation of the PSMA and best practices for shipping
        container inspections.
    -   NOAA, with support from DOS INL, engaged in a **“Peer to Peer
        Exchange” with the Philippines** Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic
        Resources (BFAR) to engage with Philippines agencies that have a
        nexus to the PSMA and combating IUU fishing and complete a draft
        five-year work plan.
    -   The Government of Indonesia–with NOAA support–has **developed
        PSMA Inspector training curriculum** specific to their domestic
        implementing regulations. NOAA is moving forward under a new
        five-year agreement with USAID to assist with refinement of the
        curriculum and to coach Indonesian instructors who will begin to
        deliver the curriculum. This marks a significant step towards
        the goal of having Indonesia become self-reliant in training
        their fisheries inspectors to detect and deter IUU fishing
        products from entering the international market. The Government
        of Indonesia, with NOAA support, will be leading its first PSMA
        inspector training using their updated curriculum in October
        2023.  
         
-   **SeaVision maritime situational awareness upgrades, updates, and
    operational successes: **The U.S. **SeaVision tool**, hosted by the
    Department of Transportation with the U.S. Navy,** has grown to over
    5,000 active users from more than 100 partner
    nations**. [SeaVision](https://info.seavision.volpe.dot.gov/) is a
    web-based maritime situational awareness tool that enables users to
    view and share a broad array of maritime information to improve
    maritime operations, increase maritime security, and build
    partnerships within the maritime community.
    -   **Incorporation of Radio Frequency (RF) Data into SeaVision**:
        The SeaVision team successfully integrated HAWKEYE 360’s
        commercial RF collection capability into the maritime domain
        awareness tool thereby enabling the detection and tracking of
        radars not emitting Automatic Identification System (AIS)
        signals. This feature aids worldwide endeavors attempting to
        combat IUU fishing, identify trends and specific activities of
        interest, and helps manage resources through more effective
        cueing by providing increased situational awareness to both U.S.
        agencies and partner nations.
    -   **Updates to SeaVision Baseline**: The SeaVision team continues
        to elicit feedback from the user community to provide meaningful
        updates on an agile framework basis. Recent updates include
        adding the abilities to alert users to vessels not emitting AIS,
        to playback vessel voyages with enhanced features (playback
        speed, filtered vessel lists, and alerts) and to export history
        trails and playbacks.
    -   **Recent SeaVision Operational Successes:** SeaVision chat
        communicated directly with the Seychelles’ Coast Guard Maritime
        Operations Center during a [March 2023 maritime bilateral
        operation](https://mu.usembassy.gov/news-events/maritime-bilateral-operation-closing-ceremony-in-seychelles/) to
        support the development of products resulting in the boarding
        of, and building the IUU fishing case against, the Fishing
        Vessel *Fish Finder*. Separately, SeaVision’s ability to
        highlight vessels of interest led to USCGC STONE capturing
        images of four high-priority OFAC-sanctioned vessels and the
        identification of a potential illegal transshipment by an
        OFAC-sanctioned vessel.

Additionally, as directed in NSM-11, in December 2022, **NOAA issued a
proposed rulemaking on the Seafood Import Monitoring Program (SIMP) **as
part of its commitment to continuously expand coverage of the program,
as appropriate.  The rule proposed to add five new species and species
groups to SIMP and expand two species groups already included in SIMP. 
In addition, the proposed rule would make several other administrative
changes and improvements to SIMP functioning.  NOAA has also continued
to develop its capabilities to conduct risk-based assessments under
SIMP, as part of its efforts to strengthen its efforts to combat IUU
fishing and seafood fraud.  
  
During this [National Ocean
Month](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-ocean-month-2023/),
these NSM-11 actions, and many more still planned or underway, showcase
President Biden’s commitment to counter IUU fishing and associated labor
abuses, strengthen America’s economic competitiveness, and conserve and
restore the health and productivity of the world’s ocean for generations
to come.  

*\###*
