---
date: '2023-06-02'
published_time: 2023-06-02 18:16:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/02/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-48/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Marjorie Rollinson, Nominee for Chief Counsel for the Internal
    Revenue Service
-   David E. White Jr., Nominee for Deputy Director of the Peace Corps
-   Jeffrey Prescott, Nominee for U.S. Representative to the United
    Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture, with the rank of
    Ambassador
-   Gwynne A. Wilcox, Nominee for Member of
    the National Labor Relations Board
-   Suzanne Elizabeth Summerlin, Nominee for General Counsel of the
    Federal Labor Relations Authority 
-   Summer K. Mersinger, Nominee for Commissioner of the Commodity
    Futures Trading Commission
-   Mark Toshiro Uyeda, Nominee for Commissioner of the Securities and
    Exchange Commission

**<u>Marjorie Rollinson, Nominee for Chief Counsel for the Internal
Revenue Service</u>**

Marjorie Rollinson has had a distinguished career in tax services. She
recently retired from the firm Ernst & Young where she served as the
Deputy Director of the National Tax Department since the beginning of
2019. She began her career at Ernst & Young in 1987 (known then as Ernst
& Whinney), becoming a partner in 1997. In 2003 she became the Director
of the International Tax Services National Tax Group where she served
clients directly and also led the International Tax Technical Committee.
In 2013 she left the firm to join the Office of Chief Counsel as
Technical Deputy Associate Chief Counsel in the Office of the Associate
Chief Counsel International, and she was named Associate Chief Counsel
International in 2016. In this role, Rollinson oversaw on office of 100
tax lawyers who were responsible for issuing published guidance and
providing the Internal Revenue Service with technical expertise on all
matters pertaining to international tax rules. In this role she worked
closely with the Treasury Department and the Department of Justice.
Rollinson received her B.A. from Wellesley College in 1984, and her J.D.
from the University of Maryland School of Law in 1987. She is a member
of the Maryland Bar Association.

**<u>David E. White Jr., Nominee for Deputy Director of the Peace
Corps</u>**

David E. White Jr. currently serves as Special Assistant to the
President in the White House Office of Presidential Personnel (PPO).
Prior to this role, he served on the National Security Council as Senior
Advisor to the White House Coordinator for Operation Allies Welcome,
where he facilitated whole-of-government efforts to provide housing,
health care, education, employment, and other resources at scale for
nearly 90,000 Afghan allies resettled in the United States. An attorney
by training, White joined the Biden-Harris Administration as Deputy
Associate Counsel in PPO. He was previously a member of the Biden-Harris
Transition Team and an attorney at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz in New
York City.

White began his career in public service as a cavalry officer in the
U.S. Army. He served on active duty in a variety of domestic and
overseas assignments, including as a Scout Platoon Leader in Kandahar,
Afghanistan, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom from 2011 to 2012.
After being wounded in combat, White served as second-in-command of the
Warrior Transition Unit at West Point, where he coordinated care for
other wounded, ill, and injured service members. His military awards and
decorations include the Bronze Star Medal, Purple Heart, and Combat
Action Badge. White is a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West
Point and earned his law degree, cum laude, from Harvard Law School. He
clerked for Judge Paul J. Watford of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit. Born and raised in New York’s Hudson Valley, White lives
with his wife, Dana McKinney White, in Washington, D.C.

**<u>Jeffrey Prescott, Nominee for U.S. Representative to the United
Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture, with the rank of
Ambassador</u>**

Jeffrey Prescott is Deputy to the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations,
leading Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield’s Washington office at the
Department of State. During the Obama-Biden Administration, Prescott
served as then-Vice President Biden’s Deputy National Security Advisor
and his Special Advisor for Asian Affairs. He also served as Special
Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Iran, Iraq, Syria,
and the Gulf States on the National Security Council. Prescott joined
the Obama-Biden Administration in 2010 as a White House Fellow. Prior to
the Biden-Harris Administration, he was Executive Director of National
Security Action and Strategic Consultant to the Penn Biden Center for
Diplomacy and Global Engagement at the University of Pennsylvania.
Previously, Prescott was a Senior Research Scholar and Lecturer in Law
at Yale Law School and Deputy Director of Yale’s China Center. He was
also a Bernstein Fellow and staff attorney at the Lawyers Committee on
Human Rights in New York. Raised in Wichita, Kansas, Prescott earned his
B.A. from Boston University and his J.D. from Yale Law School.

**<u>Gwynne A. Wilcox, Nominee for Member of the National Labor
Relations Board</u>**

Gwynne A. Wilcox has served as a Member of the NLRB since August 4, 2021
with her term ending on August 27, 2023. She is the first Black woman to
serve on the Board since its inception in 1935. Wilcox is also the first
Board Member to be sworn-in both with English and Spanish as the agency
strives to be more inclusive, welcoming, and accessible for all its
workers. In November 2021, Wilcox was presented with the Honorable
Bernice B. Donald Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in the Legal
Profession Award by the ABA’s Labor and Employment Law Section. The
award is given to a member, law firm, corporation, organization or
academic institution “that has demonstrated leadership in and commitment
to advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion in the legal profession.” 

Before joining the Board, Wilcox was a senior partner at Levy Ratner,
P.C., a New York City labor and employment law firm. While there, she
served as Associate General Counsel of 1199SEIU United Healthcare
Workers East and as a labor representative to the NYC Office of
Collective Bargaining. Prior to joining Levy Ratner, she worked as a
Field Attorney at Region 2 of the NLRB in New York City. Wilcox holds a
J.D. from Rutgers University School of Law-Newark, a B.A. from Syracuse
University,

and is a Fellow in the College of Labor and Employment Lawyers.

**<u>Suzanne Elizabeth Summerlin, Nominee for General Counsel of the
Federal Labor Relations Authority</u>**

Suzanne Elizabeth Summerlin currently serves as Deputy General Counsel
and Deputy Executive Director for the Federal Education Association,
representing educators who serve our military families stateside and
overseas. Previously, Summerlin served as Associate General Counsel for
the National Federation of Federal Employees, the federal sector
affiliate of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers, and was a Peggy Browning Fund Fellow at the American Federation
of Government Employees within the AFL-CIO.

Summerlin has extensive experience in federal sector labor law,
advocating for a wide range of civilian employees at more than thirty
agencies, including U.S. Forest Service wildland firefighters,
Department of State passport processors, General Services Administration
contract administrators, Veterans Administration medical professionals,
Transportation Security Administration security screeners, and Army
Corps of Engineers employees. In her work, Summerlin has litigated cases
in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. She has also negotiated
collective bargaining agreements on behalf of doctors and nurses at the
Department of

Veterans Affairs, and educators serving in Europe and Asia with the
Department of Defense Education Activity. Prior to beginning her legal
career, Summerlin was an award-winning broadcast journalist, working as
a television news producer and documentary film producer. Summerlin
earned her undergraduate and law degrees from the University of Florida,
and is proud to be 100% public-school educated.

**<u>Summer K. Mersinger, Nominee for Commissioner of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission</u>**

Summer K. Mersinger has served as a Commissioner of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) since March 2022 after her nomination
by President Biden and unanimous confirmation from the Senate. Prior to
her appointment, Mersinger served as the Chief of Staff to CFTC
Commissioner Dawn D. Stump. She also served as the Director of the
Office of Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Commission
under former Chairman Heath Tarbert. Mersinger has 20 years of Capitol
Hill and government relations experience. Prior to joining the CFTC, she
was Senior Vice President at Smith-Free Group, a leading government
affairs practice, where she worked on financial services issues
including advocating for large fintech organizations.

From 2004 to 2016, Mersinger was a top aide to current Senate Minority
Whip John Thune, who represents her home state of South Dakota. Most
recently she served as the Chief of Staff in his D.C. office,
coordinating legislative activities for the Senator’s team and working
regularly with Senate leadership and senior staff on both sides of the
aisle. Mersinger was instrumental during policy debates involving
banking, finance, telecommunications, surface transportation,
agriculture, and trade issues. Mersinger was also directly involved in
the communications efforts spearheaded by Senator Thune through his
leadership post on the Senate Republican Conference. Prior to joining
Senator Thune’s staff, Mersinger was Director of Government Relations at
Arent Fox, and also worked in Senator Thune’s office while he was a
member of the House of Representatives from 1999 to 2002. Mersinger
completed her undergraduate degree from the University of Minnesota and
her law degree from the Catholic University’s Columbus School of law.
She is a proud mother of four children, and resides in Northern Virginia
with her husband.

**<u>Mark Toshiro Uyeda, Nominee for Commissioner of the Securities and
Exchange Commission</u>**

Mark Toshiro Uyeda currently serves as a Commissioner with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). He has nearly 28 years of
experience in corporate and securities law, including 19 years of public
service working in federal and state government. Uyeda joined the SEC in
2006 and has worked in various capacities as a career attorney,
including as Senior Advisor to Chairman Jay Clayton and Acting Chairman
Michael S. Piwowar, as well as Counsel to Commissioner Paul S. Atkins.
He has also served as Assistant Director and Senior Special Counsel in
the SEC’s Division of Investment Management. He was on detail from 2021
to 2022 from the SEC to the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs as Securities Counsel to the Committee’s Minority
Staff. Uyeda has been recognized with multiple SEC awards, including the
SEC Chairman’s Award for Excellence and the SEC Capital Markets Award.
Uyeda is also a past Chair of the SEC Asian Pacific American Employees
Committee.

From 2004 to 2006, Uyeda served as Chief Advisor to the California
Corporations Commissioner, the state’s securities regulator. Before
entering public service, Uyeda was an attorney in private practice with
O’Melveny & Myers LLP in Los Angeles, and Kirkpatrick & Lockhart LLP in
Washington, D.C. He is a past President of the Asian Pacific American
Bar Association of the Greater Washington, D.C. Area. Uyeda received his
J.D. with honors from Duke University and his B.A. in Business
Administration from Georgetown University.

\###
