---
date: '2023-06-16'
published_time: 2023-06-16 20:22:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/16/statement-by-nsc-spokesperson-adam-hodge-on-assisting-canada-in-responding-to-wildfires/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by NSC Spokesperson Adam Hodge on Assisting Canada in Responding\
  \ to\_Wildfires"
---
 
In order to do everything possible to reduce the degradation of air
quality in American communities caused by smoke from wildfires burning
in Canada, President Biden directed the Department of Defense to provide
technology support that enables Canada to more rapidly identify and
suppress new fires. This technology can provide early warning of
emerging wildfires in remote wilderness areas so that the fires can be
stopped before they spread and burn out of control.  
  
Starting today, DOD personnel will analyze and share real time data
derived from U.S. satellites and sensors and convey it via a cooperative
agreement between the U.S. National Interagency Fire Center and the
Canadian Interagency Forest Fire Centre.  This initiative is built upon
on the Pentagon’s innovative FireGuard program that the Biden
Administration first deployed to support U.S. wildland fire detection
and suppression in 2021 and 2022 and which has already proven very
effective in the U.S. homeland.    
  
The Biden Administration is also deploying additional U.S. Department of
the Interior (DOI), USDA Forest Service (USFS), and state wildland
firefighting personnel and equipment, including airtankers and
smokejumpers, to assist with ongoing wildfire suppression efforts in
Canada.  
  
In the weeks ahead, the United States will continue to closely
coordinate with the Government of Canada on the ongoing response to the
historic wildfires burning in Canada.

\###
