---
date: '2023-06-15'
published_time: 2023-06-15 11:16:07-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/15/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-supreme-court-decision-in-haaland-v-brackeen/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Supreme Court Decision in Haaland v.\_\
  Brackeen"
---
 
I stand alongside Tribal Nations as they celebrate today’s Supreme Court
decision. This lawsuit sought to undermine the Indian Child Welfare Act
– a vital law I was proud to support. The Indian Child Welfare Act was
passed to protect the future of Tribal Nations and promote the best
interests of Native children, and it does just that. The touchstone law
respects tribal sovereignty and protects Native children by helping
Native families stay together and, whenever possible, keeping children
with their extended families or community who already know them, love
them, and can help them understand who they are as Native people and
citizens of their Tribal Nations. The Indian Child Welfare Act
safeguards that which is most precious to us all—our children. Today’s
decision from the Supreme Court keeps in place a vital protection for
tribal sovereignty and Native children.  
  
Our Nation’s painful history looms large over today’s decision. In the
not-so-distant past, Native children were stolen from the arms of the
people who loved them. They were sent to boarding schools or to be
raised by non-Indian families—all with the aim of erasing who they are
as Native people and tribal citizens. These were acts of unspeakable
cruelty that affected generations of Native children and threatened the
very survival of Tribal Nations. The Indian Child Welfare Act was our
Nation’s promise: never again.  
  
Tribal Nations fought hard to pass the Indian Child Welfare Act, and I
am proud to have joined them in the ongoing efforts to defend it. Vice
President Harris and I will continue to stand with Tribes to protect
Native children, honor tribal sovereignty, and safeguard the essential
principals of the Indian Child Welfare Act.

\###
