---
date: '2023-06-10'
published_time: 2023-06-10 09:26:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/10/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-60th-anniversary-of-the-equal-pay-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the 60th Anniversary of the Equal Pay\_\
  Act"
---
 
Sixty years ago, President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act of
1963 into law. The landmark law recognized the right of equal pay for
equal work, prohibiting pay discrimination on the basis of sex for
workers doing substantially similar jobs. It was a momentous step
forward and created the first of many equal pay protections to combat
pay discrimination that harms women, particularly women of color.

While we’ve made strides to protect workers from pay discrimination
based on race, age, disability, and more since then, our work is not
done. For women working full-time, year-round the pay gap has narrowed
from 59 cents in 1963 to 84 cents in 2021, compared to every dollar paid
to men.  But gender and racial pay gaps remain, and are even greater for
Black women, Native American women, Latinas, many Asian American women,
and women with disabilities.

Vice President Harris and I are committed to building on the legacy of
the Equal Pay Act and ensuring every worker is paid fairly and has the
opportunity to participate in our economy to their fullest potential. To
strengthen equal pay protections, I have issued Executive Orders to
advance pay equity for the Federal workforce, including the elimination
of discriminatory pay practices, and to promote efforts to achieve pay
equity for job applicants and employees of Federal contractors. To
address caregiving challenges that force families, and women in
particular, to cut back on work and lower their earnings, I recently
announced a sweeping set of executive actions to make child care and
long-term care more accessible and affordable for families, and to boost
pay and job quality for care workers, who are disproportionately women
of color. This builds on the $39 billion in significant funding under my
American Rescue Plan that helped 220,000 child care providers keep their
doors open during the pandemic.

Sixty years after the signing of the Equal Pay Act, the fight for equal
pay continues, which is why this Congress must pass the Paycheck
Fairness Act to increase pay transparency for workers, strengthen
protections to fight discrimination, and help level the playing field
for women and people of color. I will never stop working towards the
promise of equal protection under the law and for an economy that works
for everyone.

\###
