---
date: '2023-06-27'
published_time: 2023-06-27 14:12:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/27/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-driving-forward-on-convenient-reliable-made-in-america-national-network-of-electric-vehicle-chargers/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Driving Forward on Convenient,\
  \ Reliable, Made-in-America National Network of Electric Vehicle\_Chargers"
---
 
*New Study Shows Public and Private Investments On Track to Achieve
Biden-Harris Administration’s Goal of 500,000 Public Chargers; Will
Catalyze Additional Private Sector Investment and Create Good-Paying
Union Jobs*

  
Through his Investing in America Agenda, President Biden is building the
economy from the middle out and bottom up, creating American-made
products in American factories with American workers and positioning the
United States as a leader in the clean energy economy. President Biden
understands that to compete and win the 21<sup>st</sup> century global
economy, strengthen the American auto industry, and tackle the climate
crisis, we must build a convenient and reliable network of
made-in-America electric vehicle (EV) chargers along America’s highways
and throughout all our communities, especially underserved and
overburdened communities.

That’s why President Biden set the country on a path to achieve net-zero
emissions by 2050 and advance an industrial strategy that will continue
to build out the domestic EV and EV charging industry – all while
creating good-paying union manufacturing and installation jobs on the
way.

Thanks to President Biden’s leadership, we’re on track to meet these
historic goals.

**2030 NATIONAL CHARGING NETWORK STUDY**

Today, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) released
the [**2030 National Charging
Network** **study**](https://driveelectric.gov/files/2030-charging-network.pdf) –
a new analysis that quantifies the estimated number, type, and location
of the chargers needed nationwide to support rapidly growing EV
adoption. The study, produced in collaboration with the [Joint Office of
Energy and Transportation](https://driveelectric.gov/) (Joint Office)
and the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Vehicle Technologies Office
(VTO), assesses charging infrastructure needs for light-duty EVs with an
unprecedented level of detail, including by accounting for the effects
of local variation in EV adoption, climate, travel patterns, housing,
and charging preferences.  
The study finds:

-   The United States is on track to install a network of 1.2 million
    public chargers by 2030, keeping up with rapidly growing demand for
    EVs.
-   Of the 1.2 million charging ports, about 1 million are expected to
    be Level 2 charging, providing convenient, low-cost charging to meet
    a variety of daily needs, with the remaining charging ports being DC
    fast chargers that are critical to driver confidence and longer
    distance travel.
-   Building out this public charging network will require between $31
    and $55 billion of cumulative public and private capital investment
    and will help unlock hundreds of billions of dollars of consumer
    savings from reduced fuel and maintenance costs.

Thanks to President Biden’s Investing in America agenda, rising demand
for EVs, and investment from private firms, the public sector, and
electric utilities, nearly $24 billion has already been committed for
public charging infrastructure through 2030. We are on track to achieve
President Biden’s visionary goal **of 500,000 public chargers and we
will keep going even further by harnessing private investment to meet
the nation’s EV charging needs identified in the study.This shows how
effectively the Biden-Harris Administration has catalyzed private
investment in a race to line our highways and roads with public
chargers. **The Biden-Harris Administration remains committed to working
with industry and all levels of government to ensure that the pace of
investment is sustained in line with the increased demand for EVs.

**BUILDING A CONVENIENT, RELIABLE, AND FULLY INTEROPERABLE CHARGING
NETWORK**

President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests $7.5 billion in
EV charging, $10 billion in clean transportation, and over $7 billion in
EV battery components, critical minerals, and materials. These flagship
programs put a down payment on our nation’s EV future and complement the
Inflation Reduction Act’s landmark support for advanced batteries, tax
credits for EVs and chargers, and dozens of other Federal initiatives.

One of the flagship programs for EV charging is the National Electric
Vehicle Infrastructure program (NEVI), a $5 billion initiative to create
a national network of high-speed EV chargers along major highways and
interstates. All 50 states, Washington DC, and Puerto Rico are
participating in the NEVI program, and the first two years of funding
alone will electrify over 75,000 miles of the national highway system.

The Administration also [set new national
standards](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-standards-and-major-progress-for-a-made-in-america-national-network-of-electric-vehicle-chargers/) for
Federally-funded EV chargers, including NEVI-funded chargers. The
minimum standards set a baseline to ensure the national EV charging
network is interoperable between different charging companies, with
similar payment systems, pricing information, and charging speeds. This
protects the traveling public by ensuring a predictable and reliable EV
charging experience – no matter what car you drive or where you charge.
The minimum standards allow flexibility to support industry innovation
in this evolving field and to allow States, communities, and their
partners to build charging infrastructure that meets local needs.  For
example, Federally-funded fast chargers are required to include Combined
Charging System (CCS) connectors, which are used by the majority of
automakers today, but may also offer other connector types such as the
North American Charging Standard (NACS) developed by Tesla.  Several
states, such as Texas and Washington, have already signaled their intent
to require both CCS and NACS connector types on their NEVI-funded
charging networks. 

President Biden’s goal is to build out the national network of EV
chargers as quickly as possible while ensuring that Federal investment
continues to support a reliable, convenient, and user-friendly charging
experience. The Administration is working to support even greater
interoperability within the NEVI program, tasking experts across the
Federal government to work closely with States, localities, labor,
automakers, charger manufacturers, and standards setting bodies to
achieve this goal.** As part of this work, the Society of Automotive
Engineers (SAE)
announced **[**today**](https://www.sae.org/news/press-room/2023/06/sae-international-announces-standard-for-nacs-connector)** that
they will initiate an expedited process to review NACS as a potential
public standard. This would open the NACS connector to other suppliers
and manufacturers and has the potential to dramatically increase the
size, reliability, and availability of an interoperable charging network
supported by industry recognized standards**. That’s a win for the EV
charging industry and a win for all EV drivers.  

**IMPROVING RELIABILITY OF EXISTING CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE**

Reliability and availability are critical to enabling confidence in
charging. That’s why the Biden-Harris Administration is complementing
its charging standards with a multi-pronged approach to both build new,
reliable charging infrastructure* and* improve, fix, or replace existing
infrastructure. In addition to the Joint Office’s work with the Society
of Automotive Engineers (SAE) to review NACS as a potential public
standard on an expedited and unprecedented timeline, the
Administration’s approach is driving forward with key pillars including:

-   **Providing funding** **to repair, replace and upgrade chargers** to
    improve network performance reliability, performance, and
    interoperability. The Federal Highway Administration anticipates
    making available up to $100 million from the NEVI Program to help
    States and localities quickly repair, replace and upgrade broken or
    unreliable chargers across the country.
-   **Measuring and evaluating the charging experience **to understand
    opportunities for continued improvement. The Joint Office of Energy
    and Transportation is developing EV-ChART, a centralized data
    platform for EV charger data reporting that will maximize access to
    data and insights that can enhance future charging reliability.
-   **Combining efforts of the Joint Office with the** [**National
    Charging Experience Consortium
    (ChargeX)**](https://driveelectric.gov/chargex-consortium/), which,
    over the next two years, will identify and pursue opportunities to
    significantly improve the charging experience. The Consortium has
    over 30 partners from across the private sector that are focused on
    delivering near-term improvements in three areas: payment processing
    and user interface; vehicle-charger communication; and diagnostic
    data sharing.

To bring together industry, State and local partners, DOE and DOT
will **host a summit** in early July to discuss and collaborate on how
all partners involved are working to achieve the Administration’s EV
charging goals.  
  
**PROGRESS TO DATE ON AN EV FUTURE**

Since President Biden took office, EV sales have tripled and the number
of publicly available charging ports has grown by more than 40%. There
are now more than three million EVs on the road and over 140,000 public
chargers across the country. Companies have recently announced [new
commitments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/17/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-private-and-public-sector-investments-for-affordable-electric-vehicles/) to
expand their networks by thousands of public charging ports in the next
two years, using private funds to complement Federal dollars and putting
the nation’s EV charging goals even closer within reach.    
Earlier this year, the Administration released its Build America, Buy
America implementation plan to ensure that our EV future is Made In
America. The NEVI Program standards’ strong workforce requirements mean
that historic investments in EV charging create good-paying jobs in
communities across the country.

At the same time, Federal funds are attracting a generational wave of
private investment to ensure that the clean energy transition is powered
by American manufacturing and creates and sustains good-paying union
jobs. Since President Biden took office, the private sector has
announced well over $130 billion of new investment for electric vehicle,
battery, and EV charging manufacturing in the United States.

These investments also span more than just personal EVs – the
Administration is investing in medium- and heavy-duty clean energy and
electric vehicles. Yesterday, the [Federal Transit Administration
announced](https://www.transit.dot.gov/about/news/biden-harris-administration-announces-nearly-17-billion-help-put-better-cleaner-buses) nearly
$1.7 billion for low- and no-emissions buses and transit projects, that
will more than double the number of zero-emission transit buses on
America’s roadways – and they will be manufactured with American parts
and labor. And later this year, the EPA will announce the next round of
awards from the $5 billion Clean School Bus Program to lower emissions
and promote safer environments for children to learn and grow.

For more information on these announcements
visit [driveelectric.gov](https://driveelectric.gov/).
See [here](https://driveelectric.gov/news/#private-investment) for a  
more comprehensive list of investments in EV charging in the United
States.

\###
