---
date: '2023-06-01'
published_time: 2023-06-01 23:01:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/01/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-senate-passage-of-the-bipartisan-budget-agreement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Senate Passage of the Bipartisan Budget\_\
  Agreement"
---
 
Tonight, Senators from both parties voted to protect the hard-earned
economic progress we have made and prevent a first-ever default by the
United States. Together, they demonstrated once more that America is a
nation that pays its bills and meets its obligations—and always will be.
I want to thank Leader Schumer and Leader McConnell for quickly passing
the bill.  
  
No one gets everything they want in a negotiation, but make no mistake:
this bipartisan agreement is a big win for our economy and the American
people.  
  
It protects the core pillars of my Investing in America agenda that is
creating good jobs across the country, fueling a resurgence in
manufacturing, rebuilding our infrastructure, and advancing clean
energy. It safeguards peoples’ health care and retirement security,
protecting bedrock programs like Social Security, Medicare, and
Medicaid. It protects vital investments in hardworking families that
help make our country strong—from child care and education, to public
safety and Meals on Wheels. It protects my student debt relief plan for
hardworking borrowers. And it honors America’s sacred obligation to our
veterans by fully funding veterans’ medical care.  
  
Our work is far from finished, but this agreement is a critical step
forward, and a reminder of what’s possible when we act in the best
interests of our country. I look forward to signing this bill into law
as soon as possible and addressing the American people directly
tomorrow.

\###
