---
date: '2023-06-22'
modified_time: 2023-06-21 23:15:06-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-22 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/22/fact-sheethistoric-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-investments-in-water-infrastructure-and-lead-pipe-replacement-are-creating-new-domestic-manufacturing-job/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Historic Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Investments in Water\
  \ Infrastructure and Lead Pipe Replacement Are Creating New Domestic Manufacturing\_\
  Jobs"
---
 
*Major US manufacturers committing to new investments and hiring in
response to historic $50B investment in water infrastructure from
President Biden’s Investing in America agenda*

This week, senior executives from major U.S.-based manufacturers and
distributors of water infrastructure parts joined senior Biden-Harris
Administration officials at the White House to announce new private
sector investments spurred by President Biden’s Investing in America
agenda. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law includes a more than $50
billion investment in the nation’s water infrastructure – including $15
billion set-aside for lead service line replacement. This historic
investment represents a transformational increase in federal investment
in the nation’s drinking water infrastructure over the next five years.
By requiring Made in-America products when using federal funding to
rebuild infrastructure, President Biden is not only investing in fixing
our country’s water systems and replacing lead pipes, but also creating
good-paying jobs and new domestic manufacturing.  
  
To meet the increased demand for American-made water products, American
manufacturers are stepping up their production capacity with new
investments, creating jobs and American industrial capacity in the
process. Administration officials have also emphasized the importance of
collaborating with unions to ensure these investments build the middle
class from the middle out and bottom up, not top-down.  
  
This week, the following firms announced tens of millions in new
manufacturing investments and hiring commitments:

-   **A.Y. McDonald Mfg. Co.** is an Iowa-based 167-year-old 5th
    generation family business with three manufacturing locations in
    Iowa, and Tennessee, with plans underway to build a state-of-the-art
    brass foundry in Wisconsin. Since the beginning of 2019, A.Y.
    McDonald Mfg. Co. has doubled the manufacturing space of their
    Tennessee facility with a 100,000 square feet addition and has
    undertaken the largest capacity expansion in the company’s history
    having invested millions of dollars in new machinery and automation.
    Their production workforce has grown 45% since the end of 2020.  In
    addition, parent company A.Y. McDonald Industries built a 100,000
    square foot warehouse to house finished goods and maintenance
    supplies to free up additional manufacturing space in the 3 existing
    A.Y. McDonald Mfg. Co. factories.    
     
-   **Cerro Flow Products**, an Illinois-based pipe manufacturer that is
    part of the Marmon/Berkshire Hathaway Group – has 100% domestic
    manufacturing facilities and is currently looking to **hire 23
    individuals for good-paying union jobs** as soon as possible at
    their Sauget facility. Cerro is also standing ready to add
    additional shifts at their primary mill, as well as utilize
    additional manufacturing capabilities at other Cerro sites as demand
    for water products increases due to federal investments. Cerro has
    also invested in new workforce development programs, additional
    upskilling for maintenance and electrical staff, and sponsors a
    tuition reimbursement program unique to the industry.   
     
-   **Commercial Forged Products,** an Illinois based company that does
    not normally make water parts, plans to invest $9 million in
    additional forging and ancillary equipment, while adding 15 new
    United Steelworker positions across multiple shifts, as well as hire
    4 additional skilled machinists in its Bedford Park facility.  
     
-   **The Ford Meter Box Company**, an Indiana-based company, is
    expanding its production capacity to meet private and public
    waterworks infrastructure demand in the long term, as well as lead
    service line replacement project needs in the near term. Ford has
    hired 40 new employees already this year, added new shifts, and
    invested in new equipment, all of which will increase production by
    20%.  The construction of a **new 300,000 sq. ft. state of the art
    foundry** will be announced this summer, pending final site
    selection. The new facility, along with committed downstream
    manufacturing investment, will increase production an additional
    42%. This **nine-figure manufacturing investment** is the largest
    expansion project in the company’s 125-year history. Additionally,
    the continued pursuit of a complementary “investment in people”
    includes a Manufacturing Support Specialist Program, a two-year
    training program to advance employees into salaried manufacturing,
    support, and administrative positions.  
     
-   **Mueller Water Products**, an Atlanta-based company, has
    invested**  approximately $150 million** in three capital projects
    in recent years, expanding its U.S. production capacity due in part
    to the billions of dollars in water infrastructure investments made
    in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. The largest capital project is
    a **new brass foundry located in Decatur, Illinois**, which will
    significantly expand its capacity to produce products, including
    those commonly used in lead service line replacements. The new
    foundry, which will replace an existing aging facility, uses a
    state-of-the-art brass alloy to eliminate dependence on imported
    Bismuth from China and increases recyclability.  The new foundry –
    expected to be fully online by 2024 and employ United Steelworkers –
    and other production improvements are also expected to increase
    Mueller’s production capacity for brass and other water
    infrastructure products. Mueller already employs about 465 United
    Steelworkers in Decatur, and the firm’s investments will help
    replace 100% of lead service lines and deploy the largest single
    investment in U.S. water infrastructure.  
     
-   **Quality Steel Products**, a Michigan-based firm that previously
    did not make components in the water space, has committed to expand
    its business to meet upcoming demand by adding employees and
    additional shifts, investing millions of dollars in new forging
    presses and equipment, induction furnaces, transformers and capital
    improvement process.

Through historic levels of funding from President Biden’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and American Rescue Plan, annual appropriations, and
harnessing a variety of tools across federal, state, and local
government, the Biden-Harris Administration is delivering tangible
progress on the groundbreaking Biden-Harris Lead Pipe and Paint Action
Plan to replace all lead service lines in America in the next decade.  
  
All Bipartisan Infrastructure Law investments are subject to the Build
America, Buy America Act, which requires iron, steel, manufactured
products and construction materials used in infrastructure projects to
be produced in the United States. President Biden’s Investing in America
agenda is revitalizing American manufacturing, including in once
hollowed out communities, and creating good-paying jobs across the
country. Under President Biden’s manufacturing boom, nearly 800,000 new
manufacturing jobs have been created, and private sector companies have
announced over $480 billion in manufacturing and clean energy
investments since President Biden took office. This week’s announcements
provide further evidence his approach to industrial policy is creating
good jobs and rebuilding our manufacturing capacity while ensuring every
family can access clean, safe drinking water. 

\### 
