---
date: '2023-06-13'
published_time: 2023-06-13 23:05:34-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/13/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-call-with-president-giammattei-of-guatemala-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Call with President Giammattei of\_\
  Guatemala"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris spoke today with President Alejandro
Giammattei of Guatemala, following up on their May 26 call and the May
31 visit of her National Security Advisor, Dr. Phil Gordon, to Guatemala
City. The Vice President and President Giammattei discussed the launch
of the initial phase of the “Oficinas de Movilidad Segura” (OMS) program
on June 12, which Guatemala and the United States agreed to following
recent high-level engagements. The OMS program will help manage
irregular migration by facilitating access to lawful pathways for
migration to the United States and other countries, family reunification
or access to temporary work visas for nationals from Guatemala, El
Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua. The Vice President noted that the
U.S.-Guatemala joint commitment on OMS paved the way for similar joint
commitments with Costa Rica and Colombia, all of which advance efforts
to provide individuals with an alternative to migrating irregularly to
the United States. The Vice President welcomed our continued partnership
with Guatemala to enhance enforcement, expand legal pathways, strengthen
border security, and address the root causes of irregular migration. In
advance of Guatemala’s June 25th general elections, the Vice President
re-affirmed the Biden-Harris Administration’s support for free, fair,
inclusive and peaceful elections and a transparent electoral process.  

\###
