---
date: '2023-06-22'
modified_time: 2023-06-29 15:42:03-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-22 15:46:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/22/joint-statement-from-the-united-states-and-india/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement from the United\_States and\_India"
---
 
1.        President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. and Prime Minister Narendra
Modi today affirmed a vision of the United States and India as among the
closest partners in the world – a partnership of democracies looking
into the 21<sup>st</sup> century with hope, ambition, and confidence. 
The U.S.-India Comprehensive Global and Strategic Partnership is
anchored in a new level of trust and mutual understanding and enriched
by the warm bonds of family and friendship that inextricably link our
countries together.  Together, we will build an even stronger, diverse
U.S.-India partnership that will advance the aspirations of our people
for a bright and prosperous future grounded in respect for human rights,
and shared principles of democracy, freedom, and the rule of law.  Our
cooperation will serve the global good as we work through a range of
multilateral and regional groupings – particularly the Quad– to
contribute toward a free, open, inclusive, and resilient Indo-Pacific. 
No corner of human enterprise is untouched by the partnership between
our two great countries, which spans the seas to the stars.  
   
***Charting a Technology Partnership for the Future***  
   
2.        President Biden and Prime Minister Modi affirm that technology
will play the defining role in deepening our partnership.  The leaders
hailed the inauguration of the Initiative on Critical and Emerging
Technology (iCET) in January 2023 as a major milestone in U.S.-India
relations.  They called on our governments, businesses, and academic
institutions to realize their shared vision for the strategic technology
partnership.  The leaders recommitted the United States and India to
fostering an open, accessible, and secure technology ecosystem, based on
mutual confidence and trust that reinforces our shared values and
democratic institutions.  
   
3.        President Biden and Prime Minister Modi set a course to reach
new frontiers across all sectors of space cooperation.  The leaders
applauded our growing cooperation on earth and space science, and space
technologies. They welcomed the decision of NASA and ISRO to develop a
strategic framework for human spaceflight cooperation by the end of
2023.The leaders hailed the announcement by NASA to provide advanced
training to Indian astronauts at the Johnson Space Center in Houston,
Texas, with a goal of mounting a joint effort to the International Space
Station in 2024.The leaders celebrated the delivery of the NASA-ISRO
Synthetic Aperture Radar (NISAR) satellite to ISRO’s U.R. Rao Satellite
Centre in Bengaluru, India, and looked forward to NISAR’s 2024 launch
from India.  Welcoming India’s Space Policy – 2023, the leaders called
for enhanced commercial collaboration between the U.S. and Indian
private sectors in the entire value chain of the space economy and to
address export controls and facilitate technology transfer. President
Biden deeply appreciated India’s signing of the Artemis Accords, which
advance a common vision of space exploration for the benefit of all
humankind.    
   
4.        President Biden and Prime Minister Modi committed their
administrations to promoting policies and adapting regulations that
facilitate greater technology sharing, co-development, and co-production
opportunities between U.S. and Indian industry, government, and academic
institutions.  The leaders welcomed the launch of the interagency-led
Strategic Trade Dialogue in June2023 and directed both sides to
undertake regular efforts to address export controls, explore ways of
enhancing high technology commerce, and facilitate technology transfer
between the two countries.  
   
5.        President Biden and Prime Minister Modi hailed the signing of
an MoU on Semiconductor Supply Chain and Innovation Partnership as a
significant step in the coordination of our countries’ semiconductor
incentive programs.  This will promote commercial opportunities,
research, talent, and skill development.  The leaders welcomed an
announcement by Micron Technology, Inc., to invest up to $825 million to
build a new semiconductor assembly and test facility in India with
support from the Indian government.  The combined investment valued at
$2.75 billion would create up to 5,000 new direct and 15,000 community
jobs opportunities in the next five years.  The leaders also welcomed
Lam Research’s proposal to train 60,000 Indian engineers through its
Semiverse Solution virtual fabrication platform to accelerate India’s
semiconductor education and workforce development goals, and an
announcement by Applied Materials, Inc., to invest $400 million to
establish a collaborative engineering center in India.   
   
6.         President Biden and Prime Minister Modi share a vision of
creating secure and trusted telecommunications**, **resilient supply
chains, and enabling global digital inclusion.  To fulfill this vision,
the leaders launched two Joint Task Forces on advanced
telecommunications, focused on Open RAN and research and development in
5G/6G technologies. Public-private cooperation between vendors and
operators will be led by India’s Bharat 6G Alliance and the U.S. Next G
Alliance.  We are partnering on Open RAN field trials and rollouts,
including scaled deployments, in both countries with operators and
vendors of both markets, backed by U.S. International Development
Finance Corporation (DFC) financing.  The leaders welcomed participation
of Indian companies in the U.S. Rip and Replace Program.  They endorsed
an ambitious vision for 6G networks, including standards cooperation,
facilitating access to chipsets for system development, and establishing
joint research and development projects.  President Biden and Prime
Minister Modi also stressed the need to put in place a “Trusted
Network/Trusted Sources” bilateral framework.  
   
7.        President Biden and Prime Minister Modi welcomed the
establishment of a joint Indo-U.S. Quantum Coordination Mechanism to
facilitate collaboration among industry, academia, and government, and
our work toward a comprehensive Quantum Information Science and
Technology agreement.  The United States welcomes India’s participation
in the Quantum Entanglement Exchange and in the Quantum Economic
Development Consortium to facilitate expert and commercial exchanges
with leading, like-minded quantum nations.  The United States and India
will sustain and grow quantum training and exchange programs and work to
reduce barriers to U.S.-India research collaboration.  The leaders
welcomed the launch of a $2million grant program under the U.S.-India
Science and Technology Endowment fund for the joint development and
commercialization of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and quantum
technologies, and encouraged public-private collaborations to develop
high performance computing (HPC) facilities in India.  President Biden
also reiterated his government’s commitment to work with U.S. Congress
to lower barriers to U.S. exports to India of HPC technology and source
code.   The U.S. side pledged to make its best efforts in support of
India’s Center for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) joining the
U.S. Accelerated Data Analytics and Computing (ADAC) Institute.  
   
8.        The leaders welcomed 35 innovative joint research
collaborations in emerging technologies funded by the U.S. National
Science Foundation (NSF) and the Indian Department of Science and
Technology (DST).  Under a new implementation arrangement between NSF
and DST, both sides will fund joint research projects in computer and
information science and engineering, cyber physical systems, and secure
and trustworthy cyberspace. Furthermore, NSF and India’s Ministry of
Electronics and Information Technology will bring fresh funding for
joint projects in applied research areas such as semiconductors, next
generation communication, cyber security, sustainability and green
technologies and intelligent transportation systems.  
   
9.        Both President Biden and Prime Minister Modi acknowledge the
profound opportunities and significant risks associated with AI. 
Accordingly, they committed to develop joint and international
collaboration on trustworthy and responsible AI, including generative
AI, to advance AI education and workforce initiatives, promote
commercial opportunities, and mitigate against discrimination and bias.
The United States also supports India’s leadership as Chair of the
Global Partnership on AI.  The leaders applauded Google’s intent to
continue investing through its $10 billion India Digitization Fund,
including in early-stage Indian startups.  Through its AI Research
Center in India, Google is building models to support over 100 Indian
languages.  
   
10.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi hailed our deepening
bilateral cooperation on cutting-edge scientific infrastructure,
including a $140 million in-kind contribution from the Indian Department
of Atomic Energy (DAE) to the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE’s) Fermi
National Laboratory toward collaborative development of the Proton
Improvement Plan-II Accelerator, for the Long Baseline Neutrino Facility
— the first and largest international research facility on U.S. soil. 
They also welcomed the commencement of construction of a Laser
Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) in India.  The
leaders called on their administrations to extend these partnerships to
advanced biotechnology and biomanufacturing, and enhance biosafety and
biosecurity innovation, practices, and norms.  
   
***Powering a Next Generation Defense Partnership***  
   
11.      The U.S.-India Major Defense Partnership has emerged as a
pillar of global peace and security.  Through  joint exercises,
strengthening of defense industrial cooperation, the annual “2+2”
Ministerial Dialogue, and other consultative mechanisms, we have made
substantial progress in building an advanced and comprehensive defense
partnership in which our militaries coordinate closely across all
domains.  The leaders appreciated the strong military-to-military ties,
mutual logistics support, and efforts to streamline implementation of
foundational agreements.  They noted that information sharing and
placement of Liaison Officers in each other’s military organizations
will spur joint service cooperation.  They also reiterated their resolve
to strengthen maritime security cooperation, including through enhanced
underwater domain awareness. The leaders welcomed the launch of
dialogues in new defense domains including space and AI, which will
enhance capacity building, knowledge, and expertise.  
   
12.      Expressing their desire to accelerate defense industrial
cooperation, the leaders welcomed the adoption of a Defense Industrial
Cooperation Roadmap, which will provide policy direction to defense
industries and enable co-production of advanced defense systems and
collaborative research, testing, and prototyping of projects.  Both
sides are committed to addressing any regulatory barriers to defense
industrial cooperation.  The leaders also noted the decision of India’s
Ministry of Defense and the U.S. Department of Defense to commence
negotiations for concluding a Security of Supply arrangement and
initiate discussions about Reciprocal Defense Procurement agreement.  
   
13.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi hailed the landmark
signing of an MoU between General Electric and Hindustan Aeronautics
Limited for the manufacture of GE F-414 jet engines in India, for the
Hindustan Aeronautics Limited Light Combat Aircraft Mk 2.  This
trailblazing initiative to manufacture F-414 engines in India will
enable greater transfer of U.S. jet engine technology than ever before. 
The leaders committed their governments to working collaboratively and
expeditiously to support the advancement of this unprecedented
co-production and technology transfer proposal.   
   
14.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi also welcomed India’s
emergence as a hub for maintenance and repair for forward deployed U.S.
Navy assets and the conclusion of  Master Ship Repair Agreements with
Indian shipyards.  This will allow the U.S. Navy to expedite the
contracting process for mid-voyage and emergent repair.  As envisaged in
the Defense Industrial Roadmap, both countries agree to work together
for the creation of logistic, repair, and maintenance infrastructure for
aircrafts and vessels in India.  
   
15.      The leaders welcomed the setting up and launch of the
U.S.-India Defense Acceleration Ecosystem (INDUS-X). As a network of
universities, startups, industry and think tanks, INDUS-X will
facilitate joint defense technology innovation, and co-production of
advanced defense technology between the respective industries of the two
countries. The U.S. Department of Defense’s Space Force has signed its
first International Cooperative Research and Development Agreement with
Indian start-up 114 AI and 3rdiTech. Both companies will work with
General Atomics to co-develop components using cutting edge technologies
in AI and semiconductors respectively.  
   
16.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi welcomed India’s plans
to procure General Atomics MQ-9B HALE UAVs.  The MQ-9Bs, which will be
assembled in India, will enhance the ISR capabilities of India’s armed
forces across domains. As part of this plan, General Atomics will also
establish a Comprehensive Global MRO facility in India to support of
India’s long-term goals to boost indigenous defense capabilities.  
   
***Catalyzing the Clean Energy Transition***  
   
17.      As climate action and clean energy leaders, the United States
and India share a common and ambitious vision to rapidly deploy clean
energy at scale, build economic prosperity, and help achieve global
climate goals.  They recognize the critical role of the U.S. Inflation
Reduction Act and India’s ambitious production-linked incentives scheme
for cutting-edge clean and renewable technologies.  The leaders
highlighted the U.S.-India Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030
Partnership and Strategic Clean Energy Partnership (SCEP) as reflective
of this commitment.  The leaders welcomed joint efforts to develop and
deploy energy storage technologies, including through the establishment
of a new task force under SCEP. The leaders welcomed the launch of the
U.S.-India New and Emerging Renewable Energy Technologies Action
Platform, which will accelerate cooperation in green hydrogen, offshore
and onshore wind, and other emerging technologies. They will collaborate
to achieve their respective national goals to reduce the cost of
green/clean hydrogen under India’s National Green Hydrogen Mission and
the U.S. Hydrogen Energy Earthshot.  The United States welcomed India’s
decision to co-lead the multilateral Hydrogen Breakthrough Agenda. The
leaders called for the development of joint efforts in carbon capture,
utilization, and storage, given its role in reducing emissions.  The
leaders welcomed India’s VSK Energy LLC’s announcement to invest up to
$1.5 billion to develop a new, vertically integrated solar panel
manufacturing operation in the United States and India’s JSW Steel USA’s
plans to invest $120 million at its Mingo Junction, Ohio, steel plant to
better serve growing markets in the renewable energy and infrastructure
sectors.  
   
18.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi underscored the
importance of decarbonizing the transportation sector, including by
accelerating the deployment of zero emissions vehicles, continued
collaboration to promote public and private financing for electric
transportation, and the development of biofuels, including sustainable
aviation fuels.  To this end, the leaders lauded the creation and
development of the Global Biofuels Alliance, which will be launched in
July 2023, with the United States as a founding member.  Both leaders
welcomed the signing of an MOU under which the U.S. Agency for
International Development will support Indian Railways’ ambitious target
to become a “net-zero” carbon emitter by 2030.The United States and
India also announced plans to create a payment security mechanism that
will facilitate the deployment of 10,000 made-in-India electric buses in
India, augmenting India’s focused efforts in reducing greenhouse gas
emissions, improving public health, and diversifying the global supply
chain.  
   
19.      India and the United States committed to create innovative
investment platforms that will effectively lower the cost of capital and
attract international private finance at scale to accelerate the
deployment of greenfield renewable energy, battery storage, and emerging
green technology projects in India.  The United States and India will
endeavor to develop a first-of-its kind, multibillion-dollar investment
platform aimed at providing catalytic capital and de-risking support for
such projects.   
   
20.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi reaffirmed their
support for the mission of the International Energy Agency (IEA), and
President Biden pledged to continue working with the Government of
India, IEA members, the IEA Secretariat, and other relevant stakeholders
toward IEA membership for India in accordance with the provisions of the
Agreement on an International Energy Program.    
   
21.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi affirmed the intention
of the two governments, as trusted partners, to work together to ensure
that our respective markets are well-supplied with the essential
critical minerals needed to achieve our climate, economic and strategic
technology cooperation goals.  The leaders pledged to hasten bilateral
collaboration to secure resilient critical minerals supply chains
through enhanced technical assistance and greater commercial
cooperation, and exploration of additional joint frameworks as
necessary.  The United States enthusiastically welcomes India as the
newest partner in the Mineral Security Partnership (MSP), to accelerate
the development of diverse and sustainable critical energy minerals
supply chains globally while agreeing to the principles of the MSP
including environmental, social, and governance standards.  The leaders
lauded the announcement of India’s Epsilon Carbon Limited’s plans
toinvest $650 million in a U.S. greenfield electric vehicle battery
component factory.  
   
22.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi underscored the
important role nuclear energy plays in global decarbonization efforts
and affirmed nuclear energy as a necessary resource to meet our nations’
climate, energy transition, and energy security needs.  The leaders
noted ongoing negotiations between the Nuclear Power Corporation of
India Limited (NPCIL) and Westinghouse Electric Company (WEC) for the
construction of six nuclear reactors in India.  They welcomed
intensified consultations between the U.S. DOE and India’s DAE for
facilitating opportunities for WEC to develop a techno-commercial offer
for the Kovvada nuclear project. They also noted the ongoing discussion
on developing next generation small modular reactor technologies in a
collaborative mode for the domestic market as well as for export. The
United States reaffirms its support for India’s membership in the
Nuclear Suppliers Group and commits to continue engagement with
likeminded partners to advance this goal.  
   
23.      The leaders recognize that addressing sustainable consumption
and production is a key component to achieving <s>of</s> the
development, environment and climate ambitions of the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development and the SDGs.  In this regard, President Biden
welcomed Prime Minister Modi’s Lifestyle for Environment initiative
(LiFE) as a successful national model to address the impacts of climate
change, biodiversity loss, desertification and land degradation, and
resolved to work together to implement the G20 High Level Principles on
Lifestyles for Sustainable Development.  
   
***Deepening Strategic Convergence***  
   
24.      As global partners, the United States and India affirm that the
rules-based international order must be respected. They emphasized that
the contemporary global order has been built on principles of the UN
Charter, international law, and respect for sovereignty and territorial
integrity of states.  
   
25.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi expressed their deep
concern over the conflict in Ukraine and mourned its terrible and tragic
humanitarian consequences.  The leaders underscored the serious and
growing impacts of the war on the global economic system, including on
food, fuel and energy security, and critical supply chains.  They called
for greater efforts to mitigate the consequences of the war, especially
in the developing world.   Both countries further pledge to render
continuing humanitarian assistance to the people of Ukraine.  They
called for respect for international law, principles of the UN charter,
and territorial integrity and sovereignty.  Both countries concurred on
the importance of post-conflict reconstruction in Ukraine.  
   
26.      The United States and India reaffirmed their resolve to counter
any attempts to unilaterally subvert the multilateral system. The
leaders underscored the need to strengthen and reform the multilateral
system so it may better reflect contemporary realities. In this context
both sides remain committed to a comprehensive UN reform agenda,
including through expansion in permanent and non-permanent categories of
membership of the UN Security Council.  Sharing the view that global
governance must be more inclusive and representative, President Biden
reiterated U.S. support for India’s permanent membership on a reformed
UN Security Council(UNSC).  In this context, President Biden welcomed
India’s candidature as a non-permanent member of the UNSC for the
2028-29 term, in view of India’s significant contributions to the UN
system and commitment to multilateralism, as well as its active and
constructive engagement in the Inter-Governmental Negotiations process
on Security Council reforms, with an overall objective of making the
UNSC more effective, representative, and credible.  
  
27.       President Biden and Prime Minister Modi recommitted themselves
to empowering the Quad as a partnership for global good.  The two
leaders welcomed the progress made at the Hiroshima Summit last month
among the four maritime democracies to further advance a positive and
constructive agenda for peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific.  The
leaders welcomed progress on the Indo-Pacific Partnership for Maritime
Domain Awareness, through which Quad partners are providing maritime
domain data across the Indian Ocean, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific
regions. The Quad to be hosted in India in 2024 would be another
opportunity to continue the dialogue and consolidate cooperation.  The
leaders committed to continue working in partnership with regional
platforms such as the Indian Ocean Rim Association, Indo-Pacific Oceans
Initiative, and ASEAN to achieve shared aspirations and address shared
challenges in the Indo-Pacific Region.  Prime Minister Modi welcomed the
United States joining the Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and President
Biden welcomed India’s continued participation as an observer in the
Partners in the Blue Pacific.  28.      The leaders also welcomed the
depth and pace of enhanced consultations between the two governments on
regional issues including South Asia, the Indo-Pacific and East Asia and
looked forward to our governments holding an inaugural Indian Ocean
Dialogue in 2023.  
  
29.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi reiterated their
enduring commitment to a free, open, inclusive, peaceful, and prosperous
India-Pacific region with respect for territorial integrity and
sovereignty, and international law.  Both leaders expressed concern over
coercive actions and rising tensions, and strongly oppose destabilizing
or unilateral actions that seek to change the status quo by force. Both
sides emphasized the importance of adherence to international law,
particularly as reflected in the United Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea (UNCLOS), and the maintenance of freedom of navigation and
overflight, in addressing challenges to the maritime rules-based order,
including in the East and South China Seas.  
  
30.      The leaders expressed deep concern about the deteriorating
situation in Myanmar, and called for the release of all those
arbitrarily detained, the establishment of constructive dialogue, and
the transition of Myanmar toward an inclusive federal democratic
system.  
  
31.      The leaders also condemned the destabilizing ballistic missile
launches of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), which
violate relevant *UN Security Council* resolutions and pose a grave
threat to international peace and security.  They reaffirmed their
commitment to the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and
urged DPRK to *comply with its obligations under these resolutions and*
engage in substantive dialogue.  They stressed the importance of
addressing the concerns regarding DPRK’s proliferation linkages related
to weapons of mass destruction, their means of delivery, and related
items in the region and beyond.

32.       The United States and India stand together to counter global
terrorism and unequivocally condemn terrorism and violent extremism in
all its forms and manifestations.  President Biden and Prime Minister
Modi reiterated the call for concerted action against all UN-listed
terrorist groups including Al-Qa’ida, ISIS/Daesh, Lashkar e-Tayyiba
(LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), and Hizb-ul-Mujhahideen.  They strongly
condemned cross-border terrorism, the use of terrorist proxies and
called on Pakistan to take immediate action to ensure that no territory
under its control is used for launching terrorist attacks.  They called
for the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai and Pathankot attacks to be
brought to justice. They noted with concern the increasing global use of
unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), drones and information and
communication technologies for terrorist purposes and reaffirmed the
importance of working together to combat such misuse. They welcomed the
cooperation between our two governments on counterterrorism designations
and homeland security cooperation, including in intelligence sharing and
law enforcement cooperation, and called upon the Financial Action Task
Force to undertake further work identifying how to improve global
implementation of its standards to combat money laundering and the
financing of terrorism.  
  
33.      The leaders reiterated their strong support for a peaceful,
secure, and stable Afghanistan.They discussed the current humanitarian
situation and concurred on the need to continue to provide immediate
humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan. The leaders urged
the Taliban to abide by UNSC Resolution 2593 which demands that Afghan
territory should never be used to threaten or attack any country,
shelter or train terrorists, or plan or finance terrorist attacks.
Committing to continue close consultations on the situation in
Afghanistan, the leaders emphasized the importance of formation of an
inclusive political structure and called on the Taliban to respect the
human rights of all Afghans, including women and girls, and to respect
freedom of movement.

34.       President Biden and Prime Minister Modi looked forward to
strengthening a long-term strategic partnership between the I2U2
countries of India, Israel, United Arab Emirates, and the United States
to leverage markets to build more innovative, inclusive, and
science-based solutions to enhance food and energy security, improve
movement of people and goods across hemispheres, and increase
sustainability and resilience.

35.  President Biden and Prime Minister Modi reaffirmed their countries’
commitment to an open, secure, inclusive, safe, interoperable, and
reliable Internet, and to continuing cooperation on a range of
cybersecurity issues, including preventing and responding to cyber
threats, promoting cybersecurity education and awareness and measures to
build resilient cyber infrastructure.  Both the United States and India
are committed to sharing information about cyber threats and
vulnerabilities, and to working together to investigate and respond to
cyber incidents.   
   
36.      The United States and India reaffirm and embrace their shared
values of freedom, democracy, human rights, inclusion, pluralism, and
equal opportunities for all citizens.  Both countries have a tradition
of recognizing the diversity represented in their nations and
celebrating the contributions of all their citizens.  They reasserted
that democracy, freedom, and rule of law are the shared values that
anchor global peace and sustainable development. In keeping with the
spirit of leaving no one behind, both leaders committed to working
towards ensuring that fruits of economic growth and well-being reach the
underprivileged. They also committed to pursue programs and initiatives
that would facilitate women-led development, and enable all women and
girls to live free from gender-based violence and abuse. President Biden
underscored his appreciation for India’s participation in the Summit for
Democracy process, and for efforts made by India toward sharing
knowledge, technical expertise, and experiences with electoral
management bodies of other democracies. The leaders also welcomed the
re-launch of the Global Issues Forum, which would hold its next meeting
at an appropriate time.  
   
***Propelling Global Growth***  
   
37.      As two of the world’s largest democratic economies, the United
States and India are indispensable partners in advancing global
prosperity and a free, fair, and rules-based economic order.  President
Biden highlighted the impactful participation of Prime Minister Modi in
the G7 Hiroshima Summit and looks forward to the G20 Summit in September
in New Delhi. He applauded India’s leadership in its ongoing G20
Presidency, which has brought renewed focus on strengthening
multilateral institutions and international cooperation to tackle global
challenges such as climate change, pandemics, fragility and conflict,
along with work to accelerate achievement of the UN Sustainable
Development Goals, and lay the foundation for strong, sustainable,
balanced, and inclusive growth.  
   
38.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi are united in their
determination to use the G20 to deliver on shared priorities for the G20
Leaders’ Summit, including improving the sovereign debt restructuring
process; advancing the multilateral development bank evolution agenda,
including mobilizing new concessional financing at the World Bank to
support all developing countries; and raising the level of ambition on
mobilizing private sector investment for quality, sustainable, and
resilient infrastructure, including through the Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment. The United States looks forward to
hosting the G20 presidency in 2026, nearly two decades after the first
full-scale G20 Leaders’ Summit in Pittsburgh.  
   
39.      The United States and India recognize the potential of Digital
Public Infrastructure (DPI) approaches for enabling open and inclusive
digital economies. President Biden and Prime Minister Modi intend to
work together to provide global leadership for the implementation of DPI
to promote inclusive development, competitive markets, and protect
individual rights.  In this regard, the United States and India will
explore how to partner together and align our efforts to advance the
development and deployment of robust DPIs, including appropriate
safeguards to protect, privacy, data security and intellectual
property.  They will explore developing a U.S.-India Global Digital
Development Partnership, which would bring together technology and
resources from both countries to enable development and deployment of
DPIs in developing countries.  
  
40.      The leaders are committed to pursuing ambitious efforts to
strengthen Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) to address shared
global challenges of the 21<sup>st</sup> century. In this regard, they
emphasized the need for comprehensive efforts by MDBs to evolve their
vision, incentive structure, operational approaches and financial
capacity so that they are better equipped to address a wide range of
SDGs and trans-boundary challenges including climate change, pandemics,
conflicts and fragility. Recognizing multilateral efforts in this area,
the leaders acknowledged the ongoing work under the Indian presidency of
the G20 on strengthening MDBs including the report of the G20 Expert
Group on Strengthening MDBs.  By the G20 Leaders’ Summit in New Delhi,
the United States and India will work together to secure G20 commitment
to create a major new dedicated pool of funds at the World Bank to
deploy concessional lending for global challenges, and to enhance
support for crisis response in International Development Association
recipient countries.  
   
41.      The leaders reaffirmed that the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework
(IPEF) is an important pillar of our collective and collaborative
efforts to build resilience in our supply chains, harness
transformations in clean energy, and accelerate progress of our
economies through anti-corruption efforts, efficient tax administrative
practices, and capacity building measures.  The leaders welcomed the
substantial conclusion of negotiations on the proposed IPEF Supply Chain
Agreement and committed to working with other partners expeditiously to
conclude negotiations of the agreements under the clean economy and fair
economy pillars to deliver concrete benefits that enhance the economic
competitiveness and prosperity of countries in the Indo-Pacific.
President Biden invited India to attend the APEC Summit in San Francisco
in November 2023 as a guest of the host.  
   
42.      The U.S.-India trade and investment partnership is an engine
for global growth, with bilateral trade exceeding $191 billion in 2022,
nearly doubling from 2014.  The leaders applauded the reconvening of the
U.S.-India Commercial Dialogue and CEO Forum in March in New Delhi. 
They encouraged respective industries to take action on the
recommendations from the CEOs for greater engagement and technical
cooperation to build resilient supply chains for emerging technologies,
clean energy technologies, and pharmaceuticals; promote an innovative
digital economy; lower barriers to trade and investment; harmonize
standards and regulations wherever feasible; and  work towards skilling
our workforces.  The leaders support continued active engagement between
the U.S. Treasury Department and the Indian Ministry of Finance under
the Economic and Financial Partnership dialogue.  They encouraged the
U.S. Federal Insurance Office and the Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority of India to advance areas of mutual interest in
the insurance sector under their existing MoU framework.  
   
43.      The United States and India have also taken steps toward
deepening bilateral cooperation to strengthen our economic relationship,
including trade ties. Underscoring the willingness and trust of both
countries in resolving trade issues, the leaders welcomed the resolution
of six outstanding WTO disputes between the two countries through
mutually agreed solutions as well as their understandings on market
access related to certain products of significance to the bilateral
trade relationship.  They also looked forward to reconvening the
India-U.S. Trade Policy Forum before the end of 2023 to further enhance
the bilateral trade relationship by addressing trade concerns and
identifying further areas for engagement. India highlighted its interest
in the restoration of its status under the U.S. Generalized System of
Preferences program, which could be considered in relation to
eligibility criteria determined by the U.S. Congress.  The leaders
supported intensifying the work to advance progress on issues related to
the eligibility criteria. Prime Minister Modi also expressed India’s
interest towards being recognized as a Trade Agreements Act-designated
country by the United States to further enhance the integration of both
economies and to further promote trade and investment between two
countries.  In this regard, the leaders welcomed the initiation of
discussions between both sides at an official level on issues related to
bilateral government procurement.  
   
44.      The leaders welcomed focused efforts under the re-launched
U.S.-India Commercial Dialogue to expand cooperation in the areas of
Talent, Innovation, and Inclusive Growth.  President Biden expressed
appreciation for the significant workforce development efforts
undertaken by several of the Indian companies taking part in the
U.S.-India CEO Forum to upskill more than 250,000 employees and promote
STEM learning within local communities across the United States.  Both
leaders applauded the concept of an “Innovation Handshake” under the
Commercial Dialogue that will lift up and connect the two sides’ dynamic
startup ecosystems, address specific regulatory hurdles to cooperation,
and promote further innovation and job growth, particularly in emerging
technologies.  The Innovation Handshake demonstrates the resolve on both
sides to further bolster their shared vision of an elevated strategic
technology partnership, leveraging the strength and ingenuity of their
respective private sectors to identify new innovations and match them
with industry requirements across the priority sectors identified under
the iCET framework.   
   
45.      Recognizing the essential role that micro, small and
medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) play in advancing inclusive growth,
expanding exports, and boosting employment across our respective cities,
towns, and rural areas, the leaders welcomed plans under the Commercial
Dialogue to organize a forum to promote the role and scope of MSMEs in
bilateral trade and a digital commerce showcase to strengthen the
engagement of women-owned and rural enterprises in particular.  They
commended the work of the U.S. Small Business Administration and the
Indian Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, which are
pursuing increased cooperation and intend to formalize their work
through a MoU to support entrepreneurs and MSMEs.  
   
46.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi again welcomed Air
India’s historic agreement with Boeing to acquire more than 200
American-made aircraft.  This purchase will support more than one
million American jobs across 44 states and contribute to ongoing efforts
to modernize the civil aviation sector in India.  Boeing has announced a
$100 million investment on infrastructure and programs to train pilots
in India, supporting India’s need for 31,000 new pilots over the next 20
years. The leaders also welcomed Boeing’s announcement of its completion
of a C-17 aftermarket support facility for MRO and a new parts logistics
center in India to capture future synergies between defense and civil
aviation.  
   
***Empowering Future Generations and Protecting the Health of our
People***  
   
47.      President Biden and Prime Minister hailed the growing bilateral
education partnership between the United States and India.  Indian
students are on pace to soon become the largest foreign student
community in the United States, with an increase of nearly 20 percent in
Indian students studying in the United States last year alone.  The
leaders welcomed the establishment of a new Joint Task Force of the
Association of American Universities and leading Indian educational
institutions, including the Indian Institutes of Technology, and the
nomination of councils on each side, and noted their interim
recommendations for expanding research and university partnerships
between the two countries.  They also welcomed the establishment of
Indo-U.S. Global Challenge Institutes to spark deeper research
partnerships and people-to-people exchanges between a range of diverse
institutions in the U.S. and India in semiconductors, sustainable
agriculture, clean energy, health and pandemic preparedness, and
emerging technologies.  
   
48.      The leaders welcomed an announcement by the U.S. Department of
State that it would launch a pilot to adjudicate domestic renewals of
certain petition-based temporary work visas later this year, including
for Indian nationals, with the intent to implement this for an expanded
pool of H1B and L visa holders in 2024 and eventually broadening the
program to include other eligible categories.  
   
49.      The leaders affirmed that the movement of professional and
skilled workers, students, investors and business travelers between the
countries contributes immensely to enhancing bilateral economic and
technological partnership. While acknowledging the important steps taken
to augment processing of visa applications, they noted the pressing need
to further expedite this process. The leaders also directed officials to
identify additional mechanisms to facilitate travel for business,
tourism, and professional and technical exchanges between the two
countries.  
   
50.      Concomitant with the rapid growth in our strategic partnership
and demand for travel, both sides intend to open new consulates in each
other’s countries. The United States intends to initiate the process to
open two new consulates in India in the cities of Bengaluru and
Ahmedabad.  India will take steps to operationalize its new consulate in
Seattle later this year, and open two new consulates at jointly
identified locations in the United States.  
   
51.      The leaders recognized the role of asocial security
totalization agreement in protecting the interests of cross border
workers and reaffirmed the intent to continue ongoing discussions
concerning the elements required in both countries to enter into a
bilateral social security totalization agreement.  
   
52.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi celebrate the historic
and active collaboration across the full expanse of our respective
health sectors. They welcomed the opportunity for deeper collaboration
to secure pharmaceutical supply chains.  The leaders encouraged their
administrations to continue their strong collaboration on pandemic
preparedness, supported by epidemiology training; laboratory
strengthening and point of entry surveillance; and food safety and
regulation.  The leaders applauded collaborations between research
institutes of both countries on affordable cancer technology programs,
including for the development of AI enabled diagnostic and prognosis
prediction tools, and on diabetes research.  The leaders committed to
holding a U.S.-India Cancer Dialogue, hosted by President Biden’s Cancer
Moonshot, to bring experts together from both countries to identify
concrete areas of collaboration to accelerate the rate of progress
against cancer. They also called for expanded collaboration on digital
health platforms including responsible use of cutting-edge technologies
like AI, and to explore cooperation in research and the use of
traditional medicine. President Biden lauded Prime Minister Modi’s plan
to eliminate tuberculosis in India by 2025, five years ahead of the
target set by the UN’s sustainable development goals, hailing it as a
big step forward that will inspire other countries to action.  
   
53.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi welcomed the
opportunity for deeper collaboration to secure, de-risk, and strengthen
pharmaceutical supply chains, with a focus on active pharmaceutical
ingredients, key starting materials, and key vaccine input materials.
They also underscored the need for strengthening global collaboration
network on research and development in medical countermeasures, 
vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics to promote access to safe,
effective, and innovative medical products in an affordable manner.  
   
54.      President Biden and Prime Minister Modi committed to work
toward a broader and deeper bilateral drug policy framework for the
21<sup>st</sup> century.  Under this framework, both countries aspire to
expand cooperation and collaboration to disrupt the illicit production
and international trafficking of illicit drugs, including synthetic
drugs, such as fentanyl and Amphetamine Type Stimulants and illicit use
of their Precursors. Toward this end, they committed to a holistic
public health partnership to prevent and treat illicit drug use, address
workforce shortages and skilling requirements, and showcase a secure,
resilient, reliable and growing pharmaceutical supply chain as a model
for the world.  
   
55.      Prime Minister Modi conveyed his deep appreciation for the
repatriation of antiquities to India by the United States.  Both sides
expressed strong interest in working quickly toward a Cultural Property
Agreement, which would help to prevent illegal trafficking of cultural
property from India and enhance cooperation on the protection and lawful
exchange of cultural property.  
   
56.      The Leaders welcomed the establishment of the Tamil Studies
Chair at the University of Houston and reinstating the Vivekananda Chair
at the University of Chicago to further research and teaching of India’s
history and culture.  
   
57.      Prime Minister Modi looked forward to the visit of President
Biden to the G20 Leaders’ Summit in New Delhi in September 2023.  
   
58.      Taken together, the leaders today affirmed that this document,
in its breadth and depth,  represents the most expansive and
comprehensive vision for progress in the history of our bilateral
relationship.  Still, our ambitions are to reach ever greater heights,
and we commit both our governments and our peoples to this endeavor, now
and into the future.

\*\*\*\*\*
