---
date: '2023-06-27'
modified_time: 2023-06-27 16:29:46-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-27 16:29:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/27/cea-apples-to-apfel-recent-inflation-trends-in-the-g7/
tags: statements-releases
title: "CEA: Apples to \xC4pfel: Recent Inflation Trends in the\_G7"
---
 
*Inflation is top of mind globally. Comparing inflation across
countries, however, is a lot easier said than done. In this post, the
CEA introduces a new model that harmonizes various measures of
inflation, allowing for a more apples-to-apples comparison across G7
countries—or rather, apples to Äpfel.*

In May, Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation in the United States was
four percent year-on-year. Inflation in the U.S. has declined
substantially since last summer, when its yearly growth peaked at over
nine percent. One common question this raises is how U.S. inflation
compares to inflation in other advanced countries. Due to a variety of
measurement issues, such a comparison is harder than is commonly
recognized.

In this blog post, the Council of Economic Advisers assembles and
constructs harmonized inflation data for G7 countries, allowing for more
apples-to-apples inflation comparisons. U.S. harmonized inflation
generally rose and peaked earlier in the pandemic than the rest of the
G7, measured on a 12-month basis. Though inflation remains elevated
across all countries in this analysis, the U.S. now has the lowest
12-month harmonized inflation in the G7, both for overall and core
inflation. That said, inflation going forward remains considerably
uncertain across all G7 nations, including the U.S.

**Inflation measurement can differ significantly between countries.**

Measuring inflation is a difficult but crucial task for national
statistical agencies and doing so raises a host of methodological
choices—and challenges. While advanced countries address many of these
hurdles in similar ways, it is little surprise that methodological
differences both large and small have also arisen over time.

One of the most significant methodological differences involves
owner-occupied housing. In the U.S., for example, the Bureau of Labor
Statistics (BLS) includes owners’ equivalent rent (OER)—the rental value
of housing services received by homeowners—as a part of CPI. BLS bases
this, in part, on estimates of the expected market rate rent for each
owner-occupied unit given its amenities and characteristics. Statistics
Canada also incorporates owner-occupied housing into Canada’s CPI, but
it uses a substantially different approach, pricing mortgage interest
costs and housing replacement costs instead of owner’s equivalent rent.
To widen the differences even further: in Europe, Eurostat excludes
owner-occupied housing rents entirely from the Harmonized Index of
Consumer Prices (HICP).

These methodological differences have real, non-trivial implications:
owner-occupied housing can make up a significant share of the consumer
price basket (e.g. 1/5 in the U.S. CPI), and in the U.S., housing has
been one of the primary drivers of recent inflation.  Therefore, it is
not only a question of whether or not owner-occupied housing is
included, but *how* it is measured that matters significantly when
comparing inflation across national borders.

Differences arise elsewhere, too. Economists and policymakers often
track “core” inflation—inflation excluding volatile food and energy
prices—because it tends to be a better predictor of future overall
inflation than current “headline” inflation itself. But the precise
definition of “core” varies by country. In the U.S., core CPI excludes
both food at home (groceries) and food away from home (restaurants),
while Japan only excludes “fresh food” from its core CPI (essentially
groceries).  Likewise, in Europe, the Eurostat measure core HICP only
excludes “unprocessed foods” (also essentially groceries), but,
confusingly, the core measure used by the European Central Bank excludes
both groceries and restaurant food prices as well as alcohol and
tobacco. These different definitions further obscure international
comparisons.

**According to common inflation definitions, U.S. inflation generally
peaked earlier and is now lower than the rest of the G7.**

Figures 1 and 2 harmonize headline and core inflation, respectively,
among the G7 countries using a common European HICP
definition.<sup>1</sup> Put simply, “harmonizing” means using the same
consumer basket in all countries. Both figures exclude the direct costs
of owner-occupied housing (owners’ equivalent rent or, in the case of
Canada, mortgage interest, replacement costs, and property taxes), but
still include rental costs and the repair costs of owner-occupied
housing. Furthermore, core also excludes unprocessed foods (or their
equivalent) and energy goods and services, but includes prices at
restaurants. BLS helpfully produces a U.S. inflation series—the
R-HICP-U—that already makes all of these adjustments. For Canada and
Japan, the CEA uses their national CPIs and strips out these categories.
The result is close to a truly apples-to-apples inflation concept that
allows for international comparisons, despite lacking some components
with which many American inflation analysts are familiar.

Importantly, BLS’s methodology of incorporating owner-equivalent rent is
widely-acknowledged by economists as the approach most consistent with
CPI’s explicit goal of measuring consumption prices over time. The HICP
approach outlined here should absolutely not be interpreted as “better,”
“more accurate,” or “right.” Rather, this approach is necessary to
fairly compare U.S. inflation with that of other advanced economies.

The CEA’s series shows that harmonized inflation in the U.S. rose
earlier, and peaked earlier, than it did in other G7 nations (with the
exception of Canada where headline inflation peaked the same month as
the U.S.). Furthermore, the U.S. is now seeing lower inflation than the
other G7 nations. Part of this result is due to the omission of
owner-occupied housing costs. Of course, another important factor for
headline inflation is the war in Ukraine, which has affected food and
energy prices globally but especially in Europe, which has had the
broadest exposure to the consequences of the conflict. Still,
differences in sensitivity to the Ukraine conflict cannot explain all of
the cross-country variation. When looking at core harmonized inflation
on a 12-month basis, which strips out the energy and grocery costs most
pinched by the war, U.S. inflation is still below other G7 countries,
including Japan. In fact, both Germany and the UK saw higher core
harmonized inflation in April than the U.S.’s early-2022 peak.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Picture-3CEA.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-79419" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 405px) 100vw, 405px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Picture-3CEA.png 2093w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Picture-3CEA.png?resize=615,534 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Picture-3CEA.png?resize=768,667 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Picture-3CEA.png?resize=1270,1103 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Picture-3CEA.png?resize=1536,1334 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Picture-3CEA.png?resize=2048,1779 2048w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Picture-3CEA.png?resize=368,320 368w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Picture-3CEA.png?resize=737,640 737w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Picture-3CEA.png?resize=1474,1280 1474w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Picture-3CEA.png?resize=979,850 979w"
width="405" height="351" />
</figure>

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CEA-226.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-79420" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2147px) 100vw, 2147px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CEA-226.png 2147w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CEA-226.png?resize=615,536 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CEA-226.png?resize=768,670 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CEA-226.png?resize=1270,1107 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CEA-226.png?resize=1536,1339 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CEA-226.png?resize=2048,1786 2048w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CEA-226.png?resize=367,320 367w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CEA-226.png?resize=734,640 734w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CEA-226.png?resize=1468,1280 1468w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/CEA-226.png?resize=975,850 975w"
width="2147" height="1872" />
</figure>

Effectively comparing inflation across countries requires shared
definitions. The CEA’s harmonized measure produces a fair calculation
and ultimately shows that while there were common pandemic experiences
across advanced G7 countries, there was a great deal of variation in
experiences, too. The CEA’s series also reveals that both headline and
core U.S. inflation is growing more slowly compared to other G7
countries. Going forward, the near-term evolution of inflation remains
considerably uncertain.

<sup>1</sup> Harmonizing instead to a U.S. definition is impossible
given the lack of consistent imputed rental estimates across Europe and
Canada.

\###
