---
date: '2023-06-08'
modified_time: 2023-06-08 10:27:25-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-08 10:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/08/report-card-two-years-of-building-stronger-supply-chains-and-a-more-resilient-economy/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Report Card: Two Years of Building Stronger Supply Chains and a More Resilient\_\
  Economy"
---
 
The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting economic crisis significantly
disrupted supply chains around the world, forcing many families to
navigate empty store shelves, endure longer delivery times, and pay
higher prices at the register. Supply chain bottlenecks for critical
inputs, like semiconductors, exposed major U.S. economic and national
security vulnerabilities, many of which were decades in the making.
Pandemic-induced disruptions were exacerbated by Russia’s unjust
invasion of Ukraine, which further highlighted the dangers of
overreliance on geographically concentrated production and far-flung,
fragile supply chains. Together, the pandemic and the war contributed to
a surge in input costs and inflation across many sectors of the
economy.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration made supply chain resilience and
response a top priority on day one, collaborating with industry and
labor to address acute shortages and bottlenecks throughout the economy.
As a result, critical supply chains are significantly more fluid and
resilient than they were when the President took office.  Today, we see
increased access to transportation and warehousing capacity and
equipment, solid throughput at the ports, improved delivery times,
greater ocean shipping reliability, and steady declines in
transportation costs.

-   The nation’s ports moved record levels of cargo in 2021 (25.8
    million units) and 2022 (25.5 million units) through increased
    collaboration across the logistics industry, which has helped reduce
    the significant backlog of anchored vessels from a peak of 155 to
    roughly a dozen in May 2023.  
-   92 percent of goods at grocery and drug stores are in stock—above
    where they were pre-pandemic.

<!-- -->

-   There are over 120 new trucking firms with Registered Apprenticeship
    programs to help attract, train, and retain talent in this critical
    sector.  
-   The New York Fed’s Global Supply Chain Pressure Index has eased off
    of its highest level on record. This has happened alongside a
    historic surge in East-West ocean shipping prices, which have fallen
    by roughly 90 percent since their peak in September 2021, as well as
    a 30 percent drop in gas prices since their summer 2022 peak.
    Moreover, annual core goods inflation has fallen more than 65
    percent since its peak in February 2022.

Today, the White House Council of Economic Advisers [released a
blog](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/06/08/easing-supply-chains/)
demonstrating that the normalization of supply chains appears to be
driving down prices for goods, lowering inflation for families,
consumers, and businesses.  
  
Even with this success, President Biden has long recognized that
building strong supply chains requires not just solving acute crises but
making long-term investments in resilience. In his first months in
office, President Biden signed Executive Order (E.O.) 14017, “America’s
Supply Chains,” directing the federal government to undertake a
first-of-its-kind comprehensive 100-day review of the supply chains of
four critical products – semiconductors, large capacity batteries,
critical minerals and materials, and pharmaceuticals and active
pharmaceutical ingredients – to identify vulnerabilities, assess risks,
and develop strategies to promote resilience.  
  
To undertake this comprehensive review, the Biden Administration
established an internal task force spanning more than a dozen agencies,
consulting with hundreds of stakeholders from labor, business, academic
institutions, Congress, and U.S. allies and partners to identify
vulnerabilities and solutions for these supply chains. The [100-day
review](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-supply-chain-disruptions-task-force-to-address-short-term-supply-chain-discontinuities/)
was released on June 8, 2021.  
  
Two years later, significant progress has been made in implementing the
100-day review’s findings. More than 70 recommendations across the
report have been completed to date – from providing financing across the
full battery supply chain to leveraging the Defense Production Act in
historic ways to diversifying supply chains by supporting small- and
medium-sized businesses. Spurred by President Biden’s Investing in
America agenda, the private sector has invested over [$470
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov) in
manufacturing of semiconductors, electric vehicles (EVs) and EV
batteries, clean energy technologies, and pharmaceutical and medical
products.  
  
The following report card lays out actions taken across more than two
dozen of the most significant cross-cutting recommendations in the
100-day review, strengthening critical supply chains while creating
good-paying, union jobs, and bolstering our industrial base and domestic
manufacturing capacity.  
  
To read the full report,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Supply-Chain-Report-Card.pdf>

\###  
