---
date: '2023-06-27'
modified_time: 2023-06-27 20:52:36-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-27 14:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/27/fact-sheet-national-strategy-for-countering-domestic-terrorism-strategic-implementation-update/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: National Strategy for Countering Domestic Terrorism Strategic\
  \ Implementation\_Update"
---
 
Two years ago this month, the Biden-Harris Administration released the
first-ever *National Strategy for Countering Domestic Terrorism*. Since
the strategy’s launch in June 2021, we have sharpened our understanding
of the domestic terrorism threat, increased information sharing with
state, local, Tribal, and territorial law enforcement and foreign
partners, doubled our investigations into domestic extremism and
terrorism, prioritized funding for research into the factors that
influence domestic terrorism and extremism, strengthened local efforts
to prevent acts of domestic terrorism, and expanded our capabilities to
disrupt and prosecute such acts, all while safeguarding privacy, civil
rights and civil liberties.

Domestic terrorism strikes at the very foundations of democracy and is a
direct threat to the civil rights and civil liberties guaranteed to all
Americans. Those who engage in domestic terrorism and hate-fueled
violence attempt to intimidate Americans and deny them their most basic
rights, including their lives and liberty. The Biden-Harris
Administration is determined to ensure that domestic terrorist activity
or hate-filled violence interferes with Americans’ ability to speak
freely, to practice their faiths as they wish, to live safely, or to
exercise their other constitutional rights, including to assemble and
protest peacefully. 

**Developing a Shared Understanding of Domestic Terrorism**

The U.S. government is increasing its understanding of the nature of the
threats posed by domestic terrorism and sharing this information with a
wide range of stakeholders inside and outside of government by:

-   **Improving information-sharing on domestic terrorism threats across
    the federal government and with our state, local, tribal, and
    territorial law enforcement partners.** Department of Homeland
    Security (DHS), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the
    National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC) updated the [*US Violent
    Extremist Mobilization Indicators
    booklet*](https://www.dni.gov/index.php/nctc-newsroom/nctc-resources/item/2272-u-s-violent-extremist-mobilization-indicators-2021),
    which details observable behaviors that could signal whether
    individuals – including domestic violent extremists – are pursuing
    ideologically-motivated violent extremist activities. More than
    40,000 copies of this booklet have been disseminated to partner
    organizations, including state, local, tribal, and territorial law
    enforcement partners to date, and it is also available online. The
    FBI also published a Spanish language version of the booklet and a
    summary for the tech sector.  In addition, the FBI has distributed
    threat information reference guides to all law enforcement partners
    that explain the variety of threats that comprise the domestic
    terrorism landscape in the United States.   
     
-   **Increasing the rigor and value of intelligence production on
    domestic terrorism issues. **The FBI and DHS have vastly increased
    production of analysis on domestic terrorism threats, highlighting
    the diversity of those threats in the United States.  
     
-   **Expanding our cooperation with international partners to better
    target global extremism.** Many of these threats may start at home,
    but we know that what may inspire bad actors does not stop at our
    borders. The Departments of State (State) and Justice (DOJ) launched
    the Counterterrorism Law Enforcement Forum in 2022, which for the
    first time gathered international law enforcement, prosecutors and
    other criminal justice personnel to focus on transnational racially
    or ethnically motivated violent extremism. The Administration, in
    partnership with the International Institute for Justice and the
    Rule of Law, released a guide for criminal
    justice [practitioners](https://www.theiij.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/J10434-IIJ-REMVE-Practitioners-Guide_ENG-WEB-v04.pdf) to
    identify, investigate, disrupt and prosecute domestic violent
    extremists. We also work bilaterally and multilaterally with many
    countries experiencing similar trends; for example, DHS also
    continues to coordinate with countries including Canada, the United
    Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand through the Five Country
    Ministerial and its working groups.  
     
-   **Engaging the private sector to enlist their help in our response
    to the threat posed by domestic terrorists.** Departments and
    Agencies have developed new information sharing and technical
    assistance mechanisms that respond to requests from technology,
    financial, and other private sector actors to better understand the
    threat posed by domestic terrorists and stop such terrorists from
    accessing goods and services in furtherance of their violent acts.
    The Treasury Department included a domestic terrorism section in the
    2022 National Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment to provide the
    financial sector better information on the domestic terrorism
    threat. In April 2023, Treasury launched a [domestic terrorism
    resource
    website](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/terrorism-and-illicit-finance/domestic-violent-extremism) for
    private and public sector entities seeking a better understanding of
    domestic violent extremists, their foreign peers, and associated
    financial activity. Financial institutions are using these resources
    to inform their own anti-money laundering programs. In addition, the
    DHS Office of Intelligence and Analysis (I&A) has developed two new
    trainings within the past year, available to the private sector on
    the I&A National Threat Evaluation and Reporting Office
    public-facing website that assists partners with identifying and
    reporting suspicious activity related to terrorism and targeted
    violence.

**Preventing Domestic Terrorism Recruitment and Mobilization**

The Administration is adopting an evidence-based, stakeholder-informed,
public health-focused violence prevention approach. The strategy draws
on the expertise, experience and efforts of the entire government to
establish and enhance community-level and individual-level violence
prevention and resilience by:

-   **Increasing financial, technical and educational resources for the
    whole of society.** In March, the Administration launched
    the [Prevention Resource Finder](https://www.dhs.gov/prevention),
    the first ever website with a comprehensive list of Federal
    resources available to help state and local governments, community
    organizations, houses of worship, schools, and others prevent acts
    of targeted violence and terrorism. The new website offers nearly
    100 resources from 17 Federal partners all in one place. With this
    single stream resource, stakeholders no longer have to navigate
    multiple websites to find the critical resources and training
    materials they need to keep their communities safe. In its first
    month, the website had more than 24,000 page views and more than
    10,000 return users.   
     
-   **Expanding community-based diversion of individuals at risk of
    committing targeted violence or terrorism.** The FBI has expanded
    its partnerships with local law enforcement, social service
    providers, mental health providers, and community leaders to try to
    prevent violence before it occurs. The DHS Center for Prevention
    Programs and Partnerships (CP3) [Targeted Violence and Terrorism
    Prevention Grant program](https://www.dhs.gov/tvtpgrants) doubled
    its annual funding to $20 million in 2021 to help nonprofits, state,
    local, tribal, and territorial governments and institutions of
    higher education establish or enhance targeted violence and
    terrorism prevention. CP3 has invested $40 million across the United
    States to increase awareness, establish local prevention networks
    and provide training to community members.   
     
-   **Boosting training opportunities to support local prevention
    efforts**. Since 2021, CP3 has delivered nearly 250 briefings to
    communities and stakeholder groups on the threat of violence and
    creating local prevention efforts. The DHS I&A National Threat
    Evaluation and Reporting (NTER)
    Program [Office](https://www.dhs.gov/nter) has trained over 200
    Master Trainers who assist state and local partners working to
    establish multidisciplinary behavioral threat assessment and
    management (BTAM) programs. The National Threat Assessment Center
    (NTAC) at the U.S. Secret Service continues to publish cutting edge
    research that supports these efforts. The launch of their most
    recent analysis of 173 attacks between 2016 and 2020 garnered 21,000
    participants from all 50 states and 81 countries.  
     
-   **Addressing the role of the Internet in influencing individuals to
    commit acts of domestic terrorism.** The Administration has
    continued to participate in nongovernmental and multilateral efforts
    to understand and respond to terrorist content and activities
    online. A number of agencies are participating in the Global
    Internet Forum to Counter Terrorism, and the Administration joined
    the Christchurch Call to Action in 2021. DOJ’s National Institute of
    Justice has prioritized funding of research focused on the role of
    social media platforms in promoting and countering violent extremist
    content and information. DHS has also funded more than two dozen
    grants supporting these programs. 

**Disrupting and Deterring Domestic Terrorism**

We know that strengthening prevention efforts at the state and local
level are not the silver bullet to stopping domestic terrorism. The
Administration has therefore also stressed the importance of deterring
domestic terrorism by consistently investigating and prosecuting bad
actors:

-   **Prioritizing domestic terrorism-related investigations and
    prosecutions at both the national and local level. **The number of
    FBI domestic violent extremism and domestic terrorism investigations
    has more than doubled since the spring of 2020 – to approximately
    2,700 investigations at the end of fiscal year 2022. Additionally,
    DOJ has formed a domestic terrorism unit within the National
    Security Division’s Counterterrorism Section to better coordinate
    with U.S. Attorney’s Offices, the FBI, and others to charge and
    prosecute domestic violent extremism and terrorism subjects as
    appropriate. In addition, the DOJ has also updated its Justice
    Manual to add new notification and approval requirements regarding
    domestic extremism and terrorism matters to better track and
    consolidate the agency’s reporting.  
     
-   **Enhancing support for state, local, tribal and territorial
    partners investigating and prosecuting domestic
    terrorists. **Supporting these agencies goes beyond the
    information-sharing discussed earlier; partners need to receive
    actionable information in a timely and coordinated manner. To that
    end, in 2022 DHS deployed a mobile application, the DHS Intel mobile
    application, to support the rapid dissemination of DHS and
    partner-authored finished intelligence.

**Confronting Long-Term Contributors to Domestic Terrorism**

The Biden-Harris Administration has launched a series of efforts focused
on the prevention and reduction of hate crimes.

**The United We Stand Summit. **Last September, the President hosted the
Summit, which put forward a shared vision for a more united America,
demonstrating that the vast majority of Americans agree that there is no
place for hate-fueled violence in our country. We know that when
Americans stand united to heal divides, we can help prevent acts of hate
and violence. The Summit mobilized communities across the country to
make commitments towards advancing an inclusive and bipartisan vision
for a more united America. See this [Fact
Sheet](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/15/fact-sheet-the-united-we-stand-summit-taking-action-to-prevent-and-address-hate-motivated-violence-and-foster-unity/) for
more information.

**Presidential Initiatives to Address Antisemitism, Islamophobia and
Related Forms of Bias and Discrimination. **In December 2022, the
President established an interagency policy committee (IPC) to counter
bias and discrimination. In response to the alarming increase in
antisemitic incidents among other acts of hate, the President directed
the interagency group as its first order of business to develop a
national strategy to counter antisemitism.

In May 2023, the Administration released the first-ever *U.S.* *National
Strategy to Counter Antisemitism*, which includes over 100 meaningful
actions that more than two dozen government agencies will take in the
next year to counter antisemitism, as well as over 100 calls to action
for Congress, state and local governments, companies, technology
platforms, students, teachers and academics, civil society and faith
leaders, and others to counter antisemitism. See [this Fact
Sheet](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/02/the-u-s-national-strategy-to-counter-antisemitism-key-actions-by-pillar-2/) for
more information on the key strategy actions.  

\###
