---
date: '2023-06-21'
published_time: 2023-06-21 15:07:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/21/readout-of-fourth-meeting-of-the-ukraine-donor-coordination-platform-steering-committee/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Fourth Meeting of the Ukraine Donor Coordination Platform Steering\_\
  Committee"
---
 
Today, the fourth meeting of the Steering Committee of the Multi-agency
Donor Coordination Platform for Ukraine was co-chaired by Deputy
National Security Advisor for International Economics Mike Pyle, Deputy
Prime Minister for Restoration of Ukraine Oleksandr Kubrakov, and
European Commission Director-General for Neighborhood and Enlargement
Negotiations Gert Jan Koopman, with participation by Minister of Finance
of Ukraine Sergii Marchenko. The Platform is the primary vehicle for
Ukraine to convene with its key partners on recovery and reconstruction
planning and assistance. This was the first in-person meeting of the
group, taking place on the margins of the Ukraine Recovery
Conference (URC) in London. After opening remarks from Prime Minister of
Ukraine, Denys Shmyhal, representatives from the Government of Ukraine
and G7 Members of the Steering Committee, and international financial
institutions (IFIs), discussed ongoing work to lay the foundation
for transparent, well-coordinated, and effective recovery and
reconstruction efforts that can be supported by a broad set of
partners. The group discussed progress on Ukraine’s 2023 early recovery
priorities in the areas of energy infrastructure, civilian demining,
critical and social infrastructure, housing, and support to the private
sector. They also heard updates on the development and implementation
of Ukraine’s reform agenda, which is important for establishing
an environment in which international investment
drives sustained economic growth.  
  
Deputy National Security Advisor Pyle welcomed efforts by donors and
IFIs to mobilize assistance for Ukraine’s 2023 early recovery priorities
and their ongoing commitment to strong coordination. During the URC,
Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced that the United States,
working with Congress, intends to provide an additional $1.31 billion in
assistance to help Ukraine recover from Russia’s ongoing assaults on the
country. Pyle underscored the urgency of the platform delivering on its
mandate as the main vehicle for ensuring donors are well coordinated
and deploying resources together in a strategic and impactful manner.
The Steering Committee identified immediate next steps to make progress
on this front in the weeks ahead, and also to enhance dialogue around
Ukraine’s reform agenda. Pyle thanked the UK for its collaboration with
Ukraine to co-host the URC, including efforts to advance work across a
variety of economic issues. For example, the G7+ and Government of
Ukraine announced and endorsed a Clean Energy Partnership for the
Sustainable Recovery and Reconstruction of Ukraine’s Energy System,
which includes a commitment by the Ukrainian government to accelerate
critical reforms in the energy sector. Collaboration within the
Platform will continue in the coming weeks, and the Steering Committee
will continue to meet regularly.

\###
