---
date: '2023-06-30'
published_time: 2023-06-30 12:49:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/30/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-supreme-court-decision-on-student-loan-debt-relief/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Supreme Court Decision on Student Loan\
  \ Debt\_Relief"
---
 
This fight is not over. I will have more to announce when I address the
nation this afternoon.  
  
My Administration’s student debt relief plan would have been the
lifeline tens of millions of hardworking Americans needed as they try to
recover from a once-in-a-century pandemic. Nearly 90 percent of the
relief from our plan would have gone to borrowers making less than
$75,000 a year, and none of it would have gone to people making more
than $125,000. It would have been life-changing for millions of
Americans and their families. And it would have been good for economic
growth, both in the short- and long-term.  
  
The hypocrisy of Republican elected officials is stunning. They had no
problem with billions in pandemic-related loans to businesses –
including hundreds of thousands and in some cases millions of dollars
for their own businesses. And those loans were forgiven. But when it
came to providing relief to millions of hard-working Americans, they did
everything in their power to stop it.  
  
While today’s decision is disappointing, we should not lose sight of the
progress we’ve made – making historic increases to Pell Grants;
forgiving loans for teachers, firefighters, and others in public
service; and creating a new debt repayment plan, so no one with an
undergraduate loan has to pay more than 5 percent of their discretionary
income.  
  
I believe that the Court’s decision to strike down our student debt
relief plan is wrong.  
  
But I will stop at nothing to find other ways to deliver relief to
hard-working middle-class families. My Administration will continue to
work to bring the promise of higher education to every American.  
  
And later today, I will provide more detail on all that my
Administration has done to help students and the next steps my
Administration will take.

\###
