---
date: '2023-06-26'
published_time: 2023-06-26 10:32:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/26/statement-from-president-biden-on-international-day-in-support-of-victims-of-torture/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President\_Biden on International Day in Support of Victims\
  \ of\_Torture"
---
 
Torture is prohibited everywhere and at all times.  It is illegal,
immoral, and a stain on our collective conscience.  Today, on the
International Day in Support of Victims of Torture, I reaffirm the
United States’ opposition to all forms of inhumane treatment and our
commitment to eliminating torture and assisting torture survivors as
they heal and in their quests for justice.   
  
Torture destroys lives, families, and communities.  Yet, every day,
people around the world are subjected to this horrific violation of
their human rights and human dignity.  In Ukraine, we have seen evidence
of appalling brutality by members of Russia’s forces. Patterns of abuse
included torture to compel cooperation with occupation authorities and
during interrogations, such as through beatings, electrical shock, mock
executions, and use of sexual violence. Inside Russia itself, reports of
torture in places of detention are commonplace, including against
activists and critics of government policies.  In Syria, tens of
thousands of Syrians remain forcibly disappeared and subject to torture,
with families often never knowing the fate and whereabouts of their
loved ones.  In North Korea, there are widespread credible reports of
torture and other forms of cruel, inhumane, and degrading punishment by
the government, including in political prison camps, and against women
specifically, such as sexual violence, forced abortion, and forced
sterilization.  We see reports of torture from every region of the
world: no country is immune.  
  
It is our firm belief as a nation that we must hold ourselves to the
same standards to which we hold others.  This is why we continue to
ensure that torture remains prohibited in all of its forms, without
exception.  This is also why the United States will continue to be the
world’s largest contributor to the UN Voluntary Fund for Victims of
Torture, which has provided desperately needed assistance to survivors
of torture and their families from around the world as they undertake
the long process of physical, psychological, economic, and social
recovery.  It is why we are providing the largest ever funding amount
for the U.S. Survivors of Torture Program in the Office of Refugee
Resettlement at HHS, and have requested even more funding in coming
years, to help survivors and their families build new lives in the
United States.  It is why we work to promote justice for victims and
survivors around the world.  And, it is why we must take this
opportunity to reaffirm our commitment as a nation to ending the
practice of torture once and for all.  I call on all nations around the
world to join me in supporting rehabilitation and justice for torture
survivors and in taking action to eliminate torture and inhumane
treatment for good.

\###
