---
date: '2023-06-07'
published_time: 2023-06-07 07:27:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/07/president-biden-names-thirty-fourth-round-of-judicial-nominees-and-one-new-nominee-to-serve-as-u-s-attorney/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Names Thirty-Fourth Round of Judicial Nominees and One New\
  \ Nominee to Serve as U.S.\_Attorney"
---
 
The President is announcing his intent to nominate two individuals to
federal district courts, one individual to the Court of Federal Claims,
and one individual to the District of Columbia Superior Court—all of
whom are extraordinarily qualified, experienced, and devoted to the rule
of law and our Constitution.  
  
These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country—both in terms of personal and professional
backgrounds.  
  
If confirmed, this slate would include the first person of color ever to
sit on the United States District Court for the Western District of
Louisiana.  
  
This will be President Biden’s thirty-fourth round of nominees for
federal judicial positions, bringing the number of announced federal
judicial nominees to 170.  
  
The President is also announcing his intent to nominate one individual
to serve as U.S. Attorney.  This is an official who will be
indispensable to upholding the rule of law as a top federal law
enforcement official.  
  
This candidate was chosen for her devotion to enforcing the law,
professionalism, experience and credentials, dedication to pursuing
equal justice for all, and commitment to the independence of the
Department of Justice.  
  
The President has now announced 71 nominees to serve as U.S.
Attorneys.  

**<u>United States District Court Announcements</u>**

**<u>Jerry Edwards, Jr.: Candidate for the United States District Court
for the Western District of Louisiana</u>**  
  
Jerry Edwards, Jr., has served as the First Assistant U.S. Attorney in
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Louisiana in
Shreveport since 2022.  Previously he served as Chief of the Civil
Division from 2020 to 2022 after joining that office as an Assistant
United States Attorney in 2019.  Prior to that, Mr. Edwards was an
associate from 2006 to 2014 and then a shareholder and director from
2014 to 2019 at Blanchard, Walker, O’Quin & Roberts, A.P.L.C.  From 2005
to 2006, he served as a law clerk for Judges Jeanette G. Garrett and
Scott J. Crichton of the First Judicial District Court of Louisiana. 
Mr. Edwards received his J.D. from Vermont Law School in 2005 and his
B.A. from Georgia State University in 2002.  
  
**<u>Brandon Scott Long: Candidate for the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of Louisiana</u>**  
  
Brandon Scott Long has served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana in New Orleans
since 2014.  From February 2020 to July 2021, Mr. Long was detailed to
serve as the Deputy Chief of Staff to the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation in Washington, D.C.  He previously served as an
Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District
of Columbia from 2010 to 2014.  From 2005 to 2010, Mr. Long was an
associate at King & Spalding L.L.P.  He received his J.D., *cum laude,*
from Duke University School of Law in 2005 and received a B.B.A. and a
B.A., *cum laude*, from the University of Texas at Austin in 1999.  

**<u>United States Court of Federal Claims Announcement</u>**

**<u>Philip S. Hadji: Candidate for the United States Court of Federal
Claims</u>**  
  
Philip S. Hadji has served as a civilian attorney with the Office of the
General Counsel at the Department of the Navy since 2011.  He has served
as a Senior Trial Attorney in the Naval Litigation Office since October
2022, as an Associate Counsel and then Deputy Counsel in the District of
Columbia Office of the Naval Information Warfare Systems Command from
2020 to 2022, an Assistant Counsel and then Division Director in the
Acquisition Integrity Office from 2016 to 2020, and an Assistant Counsel
at the Naval Facilities Engineering and Expeditionary Warfare Center
from 2011 to 2016.  He received his LL.M. from George Washington
University Law School in 2011, his J.D. from Case Western Reserve
University School of Law in 2009, and his A.B., *cum laude*, from
Hamilton College in 2004.  

**<u>District of Columbia Superior Court Announcement</u>**

**<u>Kenechukwu Onyemaechi Okocha: Candidate for the District of
Columbia Superior Court</u>**  
  
Kenechukwu Onyemaechi Okocha has served as an Assistant United States
Attorney in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia
since 2011.  He has been Deputy Chief for the Sex Offense and Domestic
Violence Division in that office since 2019.  Mr. Okocha previously
served as an Assistant District Attorney at the Dane County District
Attorney’s Office in Madison, Wisconsin from 2008 to 2010.  Mr. Okocha
received his J.D. from the University of Wisconsin Law School in 2007
and his B.S. from the University of Wisconsin in 2004.   

**<u>United States Attorney Announcement</u>**

**<u>Rebecca C. Lutzko: Candidate for United States Attorney for the
Northern District of Ohio</u>**  
  
Rebecca C. Lutzko has served as an Assistant United States Attorney in
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Ohio since
2005.  Ms. Lutzko has held several leadership and line assistant
positions in that office, serving as Chief of the Appeals Unit since
2017 and previously serving as Deputy Chief of the Major Fraud and
Corruption Unit from 2010 to 2011.  Prior to that, she was an associate
at BakerHostetler in Cleveland from 1998 to 2005.  Ms. Lutzko served as
a law clerk for Judge Alice M. Batchelder on the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit from 1997 to 1998.  She received her J.D., *cum
laude*, from Georgetown University Law Center in 1997 and her B.A.,
*magna cum laude*, from Boston University in 1993.

\###
