---
tags: blog
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 16:56:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/10/29/honoring-domestic-violence-awareness-and-prevention-month/
published_time: 2021-10-29 16:56:01-04:00
title: "Honoring Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention\_Month"
---
 
By: Rosie Hidalgo, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor
on Gender-Based Violence, Gender Policy Council

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When President Biden declared October 2021 as [Domestic Violence
Awareness and Prevention
Month](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-domestic-violence-awareness-and-prevention-month-2021/#:~:text=BIDEN%20JR.%2C%20President%20of%20the,Violence%20Awareness%20and%20Prevention%20Month.),
he recognized “the important roles of the public and private sectors,
non-profit organizations, communities, and individuals in helping to
prevent and address domestic violence and create a culture that refuses
to tolerate abuse.”  Advancing efforts to address and prevent domestic
violence has been a cornerstone of President Biden’s career as a public
servant, including his authorship of the original Violence Against Women
Act (VAWA) and his leadership in advancing subsequent reauthorizations
of VAWA to continue expanding access to safety and services for all
survivors. The Biden-Harris Administration has centered efforts to end
gender-based violence as one of ten key strategic priorities to advance
gender equity and equality through a whole of government approach, both
domestically and globally, through the [National Strategy on Gender
Equity and
Equality,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/National-Strategy-on-Gender-Equity-and-Equality.pdf)
which was released earlier this month.  The Strategy also highlights the
importance of taking an intersectional approach that recognizes
overlapping experiences on the basis of gender, race, ethnicity, sexual
orientation, age, and other factors.

While the Administration is advancing this blueprint for a holistic
approach, it is also taking steps to address the immediate needs of
survivors and service providers. The COVID-19 pandemic has fueled a
health crisis and an economic crisis, which has exacerbated a “shadow
pandemic” of gender-based violence in the United States and around the
world.  Through the American Rescue Plan (ARP) legislation, the
Biden-Harris Administration has [invested nearly $1
billion](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2021/10/25/hhs-announces-nearly-800-million-american-rescue-plan-funds-support-domestic-violence-sexual-assault-survivors-their-children.html)
to provide supplemental funding for domestic violence and sexual assault
service providers through the Family Violence Prevention and Services
division (FVPS) of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).
This also includes an historic investment to support community-based
organizations that provide culturally-specific support for survivors of
sexual assault and domestic violence.

In recognition of Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention Month, and
in conjunction with the release of the additional ARP funds, HHS
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Acting Assistant Secretary for the
Administration for Children and Families JooYeun Chang, FVPS Director
Shawndell Dawson, and I [visited a local domestic violence service
provider](https://www.dashdc.org/dash-welcomes-white-house-and-hhs/) in
Washington, DC. It was an opportunity to hear from advocates about their
efforts to support survivors during the pandemic and provide holistic
services that are trauma-informed. And it was an important opportunity
to recognize and honor the dedication and life-saving work of advocates,
both here and throughout the nation.

As we move forward to advance a more comprehensive and holistic strategy
to address and prevent gender-based violence, we have embarked on
developing our nation’s first-ever **National Action Plan on Ending
Gender-Based Violence**. This is a mandate in the Executive Order that
created the [White House Gender Policy
Council](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/08/executive-order-on-establishment-of-the-white-house-gender-policy-council/)
and is a model that has been adopted by countries around the world. This
process is underway with the input of all federal agencies, as well as
extensive consultation with stakeholders. To date, the Gender Policy
Council has held listening sessions with over 2000 participants —
including a meeting with youth advocates who offered targeted
recommendations to advance the Administration’s work to address online
harassment and abuse. Additionally, the Executive Order calls for
updating the [U.S. Strategy to Prevent and Respond to Gender-Based
Violence
Globally](https://www.state.gov/u-s-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-gender-based-violence-globally-gbv-strategy/).
As we work to advance these efforts on both the domestic and
international level, we do so with the aim of better integrating these
commitments into a robust blueprint for action.

Additionally, we have continued advancing efforts to renew and
strengthen existing legislation to support survivors.  This included
legislation to [strengthen the Victims of Crime Act
(VOCA)](https://ovc.ojp.gov/news/announcement/president-biden-signs-voca-fix-sustain-crime-victims-fund-act-2021),
which President Biden signed into law in July. Among other things, it
requires funds collected by the Federal Government under deferred and
non-prosecution agreements to be deposited into the Crime Victims Fund,
which has already resulted in more than $200 million in additional
deposits as of September.  Furthermore, the Administration is supporting
efforts to renew and strengthen VAWA, which passed the House with
bipartisan support in March. Earlier this month, the Senate Judiciary
Committee held a hearing on VAWA reauthorization in efforts to advance
bipartisan legislation. The Administration also strongly supports the
[reauthorization of the Family Violence Prevention and Services
Act,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/HR-2119-SAP.pdf)
which recently passed the House with bipartisan support. This
legislation will expand investments in domestic violence prevention
efforts and strengthen existing services, while also expanding access to
resources and services to Tribes and tribal coalitions,
culturally-specific programs, and other underserved communities.

As President Biden said in his Proclamation marking *National Domestic
Violence Awareness and Prevention Month,* let us “honor the tremendous
dedication of advocates and service providers, honor the courage and
resilience of survivors, and recommit ourselves to standing with them
for safety, dignity, and justice.  There is still much work to do, and
it will take all of us to do it.  We must rededicate ourselves to
creating a society where domestic violence is not tolerated, where
survivors are supported, and where all people have an opportunity to
thrive without fear of violence or abuse.”
