---
date: '2023-06-26'
modified_time: 2023-06-26 18:36:19-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-26 18:36:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/06/26/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-17/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:07 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So a couple things at the top before we take
questions.  
  
Today marks the anniversary of three landmark Supreme Court cases which
were consequential in affirming the basic truth that every American
should have the right to marry the person they love.   
  
Ten years ago today, the Court’s ruling in United States v. Windsor
<s>v.</s> \[and\] Hollingsworth v. Perry made significant strides laying
the groundwork for marriage equality in our country.   
  
They were followed two years later by the Supreme Court’s ruling of Ob-
— Obergefell v. Hodges, finally recognizing that LGBTQ+ Americans have a
constitutional right to marry who they love.   
  
These monumental cases moved our country forward, and they were made
possible because of the courageous couples and unrelenting advocates in
the LGBTQ+ community who fought for these hard-won rights.   
  
Last year, President Biden was proud to build on their legacy by signing
into law the Respect for Marriage Act, guaranteeing the rights and
protections of LGBTQ+ and interracial couples.  And he continues to call
on Congress to pass the Equality Act to ensure equal rights under the
law for all Americans.  
  
Our work is not over, but today we celebrate the progress that has been
made and we recommit ourselves to the work ahead.   
  
As you all know, this week, the entire Biden-Harris administration is
highlighting the work we’ve done to grow the economy from the middle out
and the bottom up, not the top down. The President’s economic strategy
has powered the strongest recovery of any major economy in the world.   
  
This morning, you heard the President announce $40 million — billion —
pardon me — $40 billion towards ensuring every American has access to
affordable, high-quality, high-speed Internet.  
  
On Wednesday, the President will deliver a major speech in Chicago to
highlight how his strategy of growing the economy by growing the middle
class is delivering for the American people.   
  
Throughout the week — throughout the week and, clearly, the next several
weeks, you’ll continue to hear from leaders across the administration on
how the President’s economic plan is delivering results for the American
people. 

With that, as you all know, the Admiral is here to answer any foreign
policy questions that you may have on the news of the day.  
  
John, the podium is yours.

MR. KIRBY:  Good afternoon, everybody.  Look, I know there’s still a lot
of interest out there in events in Russia over the weekend, so just a
few words at the top from me.  
  
As you all just heard from the President, the United States closely
monitored those events, with President Biden receiving literally
hour-by-hour updates from his national security team throughout the
weekend.  And those updates continue for him.  
  
On Saturday morning, the President convened a call with his top national
security aides to discuss the developments and any impacts that
instability in Russia could have as we — as we prepared for a range of
scenarios.  And the President also convened calls with many of our
allies and partners throughout the weekend, and those calls continue.   
  
National Security Advisor Sullivan, Secretary Blinken, Secretary of
Defense Austin also spoke with a number of their counterparts as well.  
  
Now, as the President noted, it was important that both internally, here
inside the administration, and externally, with our allies and partners,
including with Ukraine, that we all shared our perspectives on what was
going on and we all stayed on the same page.   
  
We also made clear to all our allies and partners that the United States
was not involved and would not get involved in these events, and that we
view them as internal Russian matters. We delivered that same message to
the Russians themselves through appropriate diplomatic channels.  
  
I’ll emphasize — as the President did just a little bit ago — that it’s
too early to speculate on the impact these events might have or to reach
any definitive conclusions — except one, of course.  And that is that no
matter what happens next, we’re going to stay closely coordinated with
those allies and partners and we’re going to continue to stand with
Ukraine.   
  
As we’re speaking here right now, Ukrainian forces are still fighting
for their country.  They’re still trying to claw back captured
territory.  They’re still taking and they’re still inflicting
casualties.   
  
So, whatever occurred in Russia this past weekend did not change those
facts — didn’t change the facts for us, didn’t change those facts for
Ukraine.  And they absolutely are not going to change our continued
support.  
  
So, with that, I’m happy to take a few questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Aamer.   
  
Q    What implications do you expect this episode to have on Wagner’s
power and ability both inside Ukraine as a fighting force — can it
continue to be a fighting force inside Ukraine?  But also, more broadly,
in Africa where they’re — they have a big footprint — where does Wagner,
do you think, go from here?  Do you have any early read on that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No, we don’t.  And we — we don’t know the answer to your
question.  It’s just too soon to know.  
  
We recognize that Wagner still has a presence in Africa.  I think you
know we have worked to hold Wagner accountable.  They are listed as a
transnational criminal organization.  We have sanctioned them.  
  
We will continue to take those actions that are appropriate to try to
limit their ability to continue to sow chaos and violence wherever it
is.  But it’s just too soon to know, after the weekend’s events, where
Wagner goes as an entity or where Mr. Prigozhin goes, in terms of his
leadership of it.  
  
Q    Do you know where Prigozhin is?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    Ukraine is warning that Russia has completed preparations to
potentially blow up the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Station.  Is that
your assessment as well?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I — not going to get into specific intelligence.  I would
tell you that we’re watching this very closely.  We’ve seen that
reporting.  We’re — we have, as you know, the ability near the plant to
monitor radio activity, and we just haven’t seen any indication that
that threat is imminent, but we’re watching it very, very closely.  
  
Q    And, more broadly: As Secretary Blinken said, this has exposed
“cracks in Putin’s power.”  How concerned are you that Putin could now
be more desperate, more unpredictable, to the point that he could take
more extreme measures to try and maintain his grip on power?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I won’t speak for Vladimir Putin or hypo- —
hypothesize about what next steps he might take or might not take.  I
think it’s important to take a step back here and remember that the
Russians still have tens of thousands of troops inside Ukraine.  And
that, as I said in my opening statement, there’s still active fighting
going on.  
  
The Ukrainians are still trying to claw back territory.  The Russians
are still vigorously trying to defend against those efforts by the
Ukrainians, and casualties are being taken even as you and I are
talking.  And I think it’s important to remember that.   
  
So what we’re going to stay focused on is making sure that Ukraine can
continue to succeed on the battlefield and not speculate about what this
might or might not do on the political spectrum inside Russia.  As
President Biden said very well earlier, “This is an internal matter for
the Russian system.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    John, do you see President Putin as being weakened as a result of
these events over the weekend?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, we’re focused on what’s going on in Ukraine.  This is
an internal Russian matter.  And I think it’s important to remember that
Mr. Putin still commands a very large and a very capable military, and
the bulk of that military is across the border in Ukraine.  And that
military is defending itself against Ukrainian attacks.   
  
And we’ve got to stay focused on what really matters mostly in front of
us, and that’s helping Ukraine succeed on the battlefield.  And that’s
what we’re doing.   
  
Q    Can you clarify whether there were U.S.-Russian
military-to-military contacts over this?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  All I can tell you is that we, through various diplomatic
channels, conveyed — conveyed those messages to Russia directly.  One,
that there was no U.S. involvement here, nor will — no will there be or
would there be.  And that we expect Russia to observe its obligations —
its international obligations for the protection of diplomatic personnel
inside Moscow.  
  
Q    Do you have any idea —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Actually, throughout the country.  
  
Q    Just a last follow-up on that: Do you have any indication that
Russia thinks that the U.S. was — the U.S., the West, NATO, et cetera,
were involved?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, I — I can’t begin to speculate what Russians think or
what Mr. Putin thinks.   
  
Q    (Inaudible) emphasizing that —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Because —  
  
Q    — as did the President, right?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, look, we saw — we saw some social media activity by
Foreign Minister Lavrov, who seemed to allude that some sort of
investigation was in the offing at the suspicion of the involvement of
Western intelligence services.  And I think we could all spare Mr.
Lavrov the effort by just making it clear there was no U.S. involvement
whatsoever — no Western involvement.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Go ahead, Kelly.   
  
Q    I wanted to follow up on that as well.  Given the emphasis both you
and the President have made today, do you think that that issue of U.S.
involvement or our ability to know that some of — something was going to
happen in advance contributes to the instability of the moment?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The — we’re all concerned by any potential for instability
in Russia, given the stakes and given what’s going on in Ukraine.  And
I’m not going to talk about intelligence matters one way or the other
here.   
  
The rift between Mr. Prigozhin and the Wagner Group and the Russian
Ministry of Defense was pla- — the Ministry of Defense — was playing out
in public for all of you to see.  The tensions, the frustrations, the
anger, the accusations all played out publicly.  That was no secret
whatsoever.   
  
Now, what that tension does inside Russia — again, that’s an internal
Russian matter.  What we’ve got to do is not get distracted by that and
make sure that we’re focused on supporting Ukraine.   
  
Q    I want to follow up on a different subject briefly.  At the
question-and-answer event with the President and Prime Minister Modi,
our colleague, Sabrina Siddiqui of the Wall Street Journal, asked a
question of the Prime Minister.  And since that time, she has been
subjected to some intense online harassment from people inside India. 
Some of them are politicians; they have associations with the pro-Modi
government.  And in part they’ve been targeting her because of her
Muslim faith and questioning her own heritage.  
  
Because this was supposed to be about democracy and — in some form —
wanted to find out what is the White House reaction to the fact that a
journalist posing a question to a democratic leader is getting that kind
of pushback.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re aware of the reports of that harassment.  It’s
unacceptable.  And we absolutely condemn any harassment of journalists
anywhere under any circumstances.  That’s just — that’s completely
unacceptable.  And it’s antithetical to the very principles of democracy
that — that — you’re right — were on display last week during the state
visit.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Richard.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Kirby, so do you agree that the counteroffensive — the
Ukraine counteroffensive has gone more slowly than expected?  And do you
feel — do you  
analyze that, considering the Wagner Group will be busy doing something
else, that it will help this counteroffensive?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know what the Wagner Group is going to be busy doing
here.  Again, I think it’s too soon — to Aamer’s question — it’s just
too soon to know how this is going to play out, whether in Africa or
elsewhere and, certainly, in Ukraine.   
  
And I am not — I have said before, and I’ll say it again today — I’m not
going to do armchair quarterbacking of the counteroffensive from — from
this podium.  That’s up to President Zelenskyy to speak to.  
  
They — our focus is on making sure that they have what they need to
succeed, whether it’s training, tools, equipment.  And you’re going to
see another round of support announced from this administration for
Ukraine in terms of weapons and capabilities this week.  So we are
focused on that.  That’s — that’s what — that’s where our heads are.  
  
Q    And just to make sure, Kirby, that I understand well: The NSC — how
much did the NSC know about the development — the development of this —
of this Wagner movement towards Moscow before it started?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, as I think I mentioned to Kelly, the dispute and the
tension between Wagner and the Russian Ministry of Defense was widely
known.  It was public.  
  
Q    But to the point it was rolling towards Moscow.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  It — it was all — all that tension was public.  I’m not
going to talk about intelligence matters.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, go ahead, Ed.  And then we’ll go to the back.   
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Ed goes first, and then we’ll go to the back.  
  
Q    Thank you, John.  Thank you for doing this.  So, what should we
call what transpired over the weekend?  Is it a mutiny, coup, or
attempted coup — an armed rebellion?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re not slapping a bumper sticker on it, Ed.   
  
Q    In the U.S. assessment, was the objective ever really to directly
threaten Putin or the Kremlin?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry, can you say that again?  
  
Q    In the U.S.’s assessment, was it ever the Wagner Group’s intent to
directly target Putin or the Kremlin?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I would let the parties speak for themselves here in
terms of what transpired and what motivations there were for these
actions.  That’s not something that we could accurately or even
appropriately speak to.   
  
What I can speak to is: We made sure that we lashed up early and have
stayed lashed up with our allies and partners to make sure we all have
the same kind of perspective on this and were approaching it from the
same way, and that we made appro-  — appropriate communications with the
Russians about our — their obligations to protect our diplomats and to
make sure that they knew we weren’t involved.   
  
Q    You were describing early attempts to communicate with the Russians
about what happened.  Did they respond in real time to any of that
outreach?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  There were appropriate diplomatic discussions that occurred
over the course of the weekend, again, to send those two messages.   
  
Q    So, is the U.S. confident the Russians would be responsive in the
event of a nuclear or other real crisis, given how they were this
weekend?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I would just tell you, Ed — and this has been the case for
the last 16 months; I mean, Russia is a nuclear power — that we have
been monitoring as best we can Russian strategic posture, their nuclear
capabilities.  That continues.   
  
And we’ve seen no indication — outside of the blustery rhetoric, we’ve
seen no indication that there is any intent to use nuclear weapons
inside Ukraine.  And I can also assure you that we’ve done nothing —
we’ve seen nothing that would — that would compel us to change our own
strategic deterrent posture.  
  
Q    But just given how the interactions went over the weekend, you’re
confident they’d respond in real time if there was some other kind of
crisis?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We had — we had good, direct communications with the
Russians over the course of the weekend.  It’s our expectation that that
would be able to continue going forward.   
  
Q    And just to button up real quick, given all that interaction this
weekend, what you guys have seen, can you say right now who is in charge
of the Russian military?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The Russian military — I mean, first of all, I — I wouldn’t
— it’s not my job to speak for another military.   
  
But there’s absolutely no indication that there’s been any changes that
we’ve seen in the chain of command for the Russian military forces.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Jon, in the back.  Go ahead.  Jon.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, the NATO Summit is just a few weeks away. 
How have the events of this past weekend in any way changed or modified
the agenda for the NATO Summit?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think it’s, again, too soon here.  This just happened over
the weekend.  So I think I’d be fibbing to you if I told you that there
was some sort of big agenda item changed because of what happened over
the weekend.  We’ll have to see how this plays out.  It’s just too soon
to know what the impacts are.   
  
It’s going to be an important NATO Summit regardless, because we are
now, you know, almost a year and a half into war here in Ukraine.  We’ve
got a new NATO member in Finland and, hopefully soon, a 32nd member.  So
there is an awful lot on the agenda to speak to, and it’s a critical
time for the Alliance.  So the President is looking forward to it.  
  
Q    Does the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    — administration subscribe to the view, as it relates to Russian
leadership who essentially leads that country, that the devil you know
is better than the devil that you don’t know?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not sure I completely understand the — the question. 
But let me tack it this way, and if I’m wrong —  
  
Q    I — I can try a little (inaudible), if you’d like.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Okay.  Because you — you lost me there a little bit —  
  
Q    Well —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — on the “devil” stuff.   
  
Q    Well, I — I’m sorry to get into that.  I was just simply saying:
Would you prefer to have Vladimir Putin leading Russia or an entity like
the Wagner Group or someone named from the Wagner Group leading the
Russian government?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We believe it’s up to the Russian people to determine who
their leadership is.  And we would prefer to see Russia not invade their
neighboring countries.  We would prefer to see Russia, since they
already did that, remove all their troops from Ukraine and end the war
today, which they could do.  That’s what we prefer.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  <s>Justin</s> \[Jordan\].   
  
Q    Thanks.  John, you said a number of times you’ve declined to
comment on, you know, Putin’s grip on power in Russia by saying it’s an
internal Russian matter.  Is that a deliberate decision by the U.S.
government to avoid contributing to the notion that the U.S. was somehow
behind this?  Or does the White House simply not have an assessment at
this moment of his grip on power?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re just not going to involve ourselves in speaking to an
internal domestic Russian issue right now.  We’re staying focused on
supporting Ukraine.   
  
And the — I just want to disavow you of any idea that the reason why
we’re saying we weren’t involved has something to do with not wanting to
comment about the situation in Moscow and Mr. Putin’s leadership.  
  
It — it was important to say it for the — on the face of it that we
weren’t involved and we have no intention of being involved.  What we
are going to be involved in is supporting Ukraine.   
  
Q    And then there’s been — you know, Brent Crude increased this
morning.  There was higher European natural gas prices.  How closely is
the administration monitoring potential energy price shocks as a result
of instability in Russia?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’ve been watching it since the beginning of the war —
actually, before the beginning of the war, and we’ll continue to do
that.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  April.  
  
Q    John, I want to kind of get into the weeds on — on Jeff’s question
on weakness.  Are you concerned about the instability in Russia because
of the nuclear capability?  If they have to come out stronger, they
could use that.  Is that the reason for your concern about
instability?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think you’ve got to take a broader view of that, April.  I
mean, the reason we’re — we would be concerned about instability in
Russia is the war in Ukraine, predominantly.   
  
Yes, Russia is a nuclear power.  And yes, that’s of concern.  And yes,
we continue to monitor that.   
  
But, I mean, I just think if you look at the scope of recent events —
again, over the past year and a half — there’s a lot of reasons to be
concerned about stability in Russia and the impact that that could have
on the Ukrainian people and on the European continent.  
  
Q    And as you said, over the last year and a half, going back to what
Jeff said, this administration acknowledged that they were shocked that
it took Russia so long.  They have not shown to be the power — the
military might that everyone thought they were.  And then, what happens
this weekend — does it show cracks in Russia’s military might, who they
are as we perceive them?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, again, I’m not going to — we’re not going to
characterize the events of the weekend or be able to contextualize it
for you beyond what we’ve said before.  It’s just too soon to know what
impacts this is going to have on Ukraine and on Russia — quite frankly,
throughout Europe.  It’s just too soon to know.   
  
But broadly speaking, I mean, we’re now in 16 months of war, a war that
was advertised by the Russian side as only going to be taking a few
days.  And now we’re 16 months into it.  Clearly, you don’t need me to
tell you; the history of this conflict has shown that the Russian
military is not as vaunted as perhaps they wanted to characterize
themselves as.   
  
But — and this is a big “but,” and I think it’s an important point to
make — as Ukraine conducts offensive operations this summer to claw back
some of that territory, they are running into a Russian defense, and the
Russians have invested in those defensive capabilities.  And so, as I
said in my opening statement, casualties are being taken on both sides. 
There’s a lot of active fighting right now in the east and the south of
the country.  
  
And again, not to sound like a broken record, but what we’re trying to
do is make sure that the Ukrainians have everything they need to be
successful in that fight.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, is the President at all disappointed that
this episode came and went, and Vladimir Putin is still in power?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President is focused on supporting Ukraine.  We didn’t —
we’re not taking sides in this internal matter.  The President is going
to make sure that we’re staying focused on Ukraine.  
  
Q    He did say, though, in March 2022, “For God’s sake, this man cannot
remain in power.”  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Regime change —  
  
Q    And this might have changed that.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Regime change is not our policy.  We’ve been very, very
clear about that.   
  
What we’re focused on is making sure Ukraine can succeed on the
battlefield.  
  
Q    What was his demeanor like when he was getting the hour-to-hour
updates?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Look, I wasn’t with the President when he was getting these,
so I’m not sure I’m qualified to speak to his demeanor.  
  
As you know, the President very keenly tracks foreign policy
developments around the world.  His national security team was giving
him updates literally hour by hour throughout the weekend.  And he was
absorbing all that information and making sure that, in the context of
absorbing it, he was also sharing our perspectives with allies and
partners.  
  
And as I said, those conversations, they didn’t — it wasn’t just one and
done.  He’s had several over the course of the last couple of days, and
you’re going to see that continue going forward.  
  
Q    And one last one on the conversations with our allies.  You had
said: We’re not going to get involved in these events.  We would not at
any point.   
  
But if this had turned to a nuclear situation, what was the conversation
with our allies about how that would be addressed?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I wouldn’t speculate on hypotheticals, Jacqui.  
  
Q    Who was leading  that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I wouldn’t get into hypotheticals.  They were talking about
the situation as we were seeing it unfold.  They were communicating with
each other, our allies and partners, about their perspectives — what
they were seeing, what we were seeing; sharing as much context as we
could; and making sure that we all had sort of the same sight picture
and that we were basically all reacting in real time in roughly the same
way.  It was important for that — for that to be the case.  And so,
that’s really where the focus was.  
  
On the nuclear thing — I mean, again, I’m not going to hypothesize here,
but we continue to watch this very, very closely.  We’ve seen a lot of
reckless rhetoric coming out of the Russian side.  We watch it closely. 
We just have seen no indication that Mr. Putin has any intention of
using nuclear weapons inside Ukraine or anywhere else, for that
matter.  
  
And I can assure you we have done nothing to change our own strategic
deterrent posture when it comes to that — to that potential threat.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ken.  Go ahead, Ken.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    John, just on —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   We’re going to come to the back.  Go ahead, Ken.  
  
Q    — Prigozhin’s status: Does the U.S. have any assessment on whether
his safety was ensured as part of this deal?  Or is there a belief that
his life could be in jeopardy?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We don’t know the parameters of this deal.  We weren’t a
party to it.  I’d point you to the parties to it to speak to the details
of it.  We just don’t have visibility on that.  
  
Q    And then, just in terms of the war itself, do you have an
assessment of just how much, to what extent the Wagner’s forces have
been diluted in Ukraine and what that might mean for the Ukrainian
troops?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  “Deluded” with a “D” or “diluted” with a “T”?  
  
Q    “Diluted” with a “T.”  Just in terms of the size of the force in
Ukraine now, as — you know, as opposed to last week.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Oh, you mean siphoned off in the fight.  
  
Q    Yeah, exactly.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, it’s unclear right now where the bulk of the Wagner
forces are.  I mean, we’ve seen some reporting, mostly through the press
and social media, that many of them moved back across into Ukraine, but
we’re not in a position to verify or validate those reports.  So, it’s
really unclear where they all are and where they all might go or what
they might do in terms of the future.   
  
Un- — it’s indisputed, of course — undisputed, of course, that Wagner
played a role, particularly in the fight for Bakhmut.  They were
reinforced by Russian military forces, and that had a major factor on
their ability to take that town.   
  
But as I have said many, many times, I mean, Wagner’s approach here was
just to throw bodies at the fight — largely ill-trained, ill-equipped,
and poorly led, but just body after body after body.  And they suffered
a lot — tens of thousands of casualties — just tra- — just taking
Bakhmut, all for a town which, I’ve also said, didn’t have any strategic
value to the Russians one way or another.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nadia.

Q    Thank you.  Can you confirm that Mr. Prigozhin is in Belarus —

MR. KIRBY:  No.

Q    — as Senator Warner seemed to indicate?

MR. KIRBY:  I cannot.

Q    Okay.  Can you give us your assessment of the group?  Can it
survive without him?  Or do you think that he was a central figure that
he was able to control it — all its operation, whether it’s —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah —

Q    — in Ukraine or in Africa?

MR. KIRBY:  — I think I’d give you the same answer I gave Aamer.  It’s
just too soon to know what the future of Wagner is going to be.  We’re
going to stay focused on the group.  Of course, we have to. 

They — they do operate outside of Ukraine.  And we have levied lots of
sanctions against them.  And we’ll continue to hold them accountable, as
— as appropriate.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  And thanks, John.  Earlier today, President Biden
said that he would be speaking with additional heads of state this
afternoon.  I wonder if you can give us any details about who, the
substance, the timbre of those conversations; about whether what he’s
trying to convey today is different or evolving from what he tried to
convey over the weekend.

MR. KIRBY:  The call that he was alluding to earlier is to the prime
minister of Italy, Prime Minister Meloni.  And that call should be
taking place just about now.  We’ll give you a readout when it’s over. 
But it’ll be very much in keeping with the kinds of readouts you’ve seen
over the last 48 hours.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeremy.

Q    John, Prigozhin, in his first message since all of this came do- —
went down, said that he wanted to “avoid Russian bloodshed” and that he
marched in a “demonstration of protests, not to overturn power in the
country.”  Does the U.S. buy that?

MR. KIRBY:  We’re not taking a position on Mr. Prigozhin’s motivations.

Q    Okay.  And then, secondly, has the U.S. been able to corroborate
the allegations that Prigozhin made that he says were the pretext for
this attempted insurrection?  He said that 30 Wagner fighters died after
a Russian military attack on their position on Friday.

MR. KIRBY:  I cannot confirm those reports.

Q    And then, lastly, do you have any — I know you’ve said that you
have no idea where Prigozhin is right now.  Is that correct?

MR. KIRBY:  That’s correct.

Q    What’s your — what’s your sense of where this goes?  Do you believe
that this is over now — that his attempted insurrection failed, it’s not
going to restart again?  Or are you still monitoring for the possibility
that Wagner fighters might attempt something like this again?

MR. KIRBY:  We don’t know.  We don’t know where this goes or whether
this is really the end, which is why we are going to continue to monitor
it and why the President is still getting routinely updated and will in
the coming days.

Q    And very quickly, do you have any sense of whether Ukraine was able
to take advantage of this chaos over — over the weekend, in terms of —

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not sure what you mean by “take advantage” of it.

Q    Take advantage in — from a military standpoint, in terms of their
offensive in the east of Ukraine.

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I would let the Ukrainians speak to their military
operations.  All I would say — and it’s why I wanted to put it right up
top when I started here — is that there’s a lot of fighting going on in
the east and south of Ukraine.  They are still trying to get a territory
back from the Russians, and they are still inflicting and taking
casualties.

So, the fight goes on.  Now, how much and to what degree in any given
area that fighting was adjusted or changed, slowed down or sped up as a
result of the weekend, I just couldn’t speak to it.  Certainly nothing
discernible from our perspective.  But again, the Ukrainians would have
to speak to their operations.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Earlier today, the President said that he and allies had talked
about planning for several different scenarios over the course of the
weekend.  Could you speak to some of those scenarios?

MR. KIRBY:  No.  (Laughter.)

Q    And he and President Zelenskyy have communicated yesterday.  Have
they spoken today?  Can you give us a sense of their conversations?

MR. KIRBY:  There has not been another conversation with President
Zelenskyy since the — the one that we’ve already read out to you that
occurred yesterday.

But as you heard the President say, he does expect to be speaking again
with President Zelenskyy very, very soon.  And of course, we’ll read
that out to you when it happens, as we always do.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steven.

Q    Thanks, John.  The President, earlier today — and you here — have
broadcast the message that was sent by the West privately to Putin.  Is
there a message that you would send publicly to the people of Russia?

MR. KIRBY:  This has — I think, you know, the best thing I could do is
point you back to the President’s speech when we went to Warsaw several
months ago, and he had a whole section in there about the Russian
people. 

And — and that would still be our message today: that this is — our
issue with what Russia is doing in Ukraine is with the Kremlin and the
Russian military and, of course, their enablers, such as the Wagner
Group; it’s not with the Russian people.  It’s not with men, women, and
children that live in that country and — and who didn’t make this rash
and reckless and illegal decision to invade a neighboring country in a
completely unprovoked way.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Anita.

Q    Thank you.  Can we just talk about the White House’s assessment of
other nations’ reactions to whatever we’re calling this thing over the
weekend, specifically Tehran’s reaction, Beijing’s reaction, and New
Delhi?  Did — did Washington engage with any of those three?

And then, also, we know that the NSC had meetings in Copenhagen this
weekend with BRICS countries.  Has — can you just tell us what came out
of that and whether they’ve adjusted their posture on (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  So, on your first question, as we have these conversations,
certainly at the President’s level or at the Cabinet level, they will be
read out to you.  So I don’t have any other conversations to speak to,
and I certainly would not get into the business of characterizing
another country’s attitudes or reflections or perspectives.  They can
speak for themselves.

We’ve been very focused on how we’re looking at this and how we’re
tracking things.

On the — on the meeting in Copenhagen, I think you know the National
Security Advisor attended virtually, and Senior Director for Europe,
Amanda Sloat, was there in person in Copenhagen.  
It was a meeting called by the Ukrainians, hosted by Denmark, but it was
a Ukrainian meeting.  And it was really about having a discussion about
the principles of peace and this idea of a just peace and where that can
go, and what’s the right next steps to try to achieve a just peace in
Ukraine.  
  
And it was a valuable discussion, I’m told productive, and a — and a,
you know, good variety of countries that were there representing, you
know, places from all over the world.   
  
Again, I’d let those countries speak for their participation and their
takeaways.   
  
But our takeaway was it was a — it was worth the time and worth having
that discussion.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, in the white top there.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Thank you, Admiral.  What does the White House
make of — it’s on the Middle East — what does the White House make of
Prime Minister Netanyahu’s call today to eradicate the idea of
establishing a Palestinian state and to cut off the Palestinian
aspirations regarding establishing one?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I haven’t seen those comments, so I’m going to refrain from
a specific reaction to them until I’ve had a chance to see them and —
and look at them and discuss that with — with the rest of the team.  
  
I will only say that the President remains committed to the value and
the viability of a two-state solution.  (Reporter sneezes.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Bless you.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  There is some concern in such countries like Poland and
Lithuania, neighboring Belarus, about possible movement of Wagner’s
troop to Belarus.  You just said that you don’t know where they are, but
will you be able to track them?  And if there is a movement of Wagner’s
Group’s soldiers to Belarus, wouldn’t it require strengthening eastern
flan- — flank of NATO just in case?  
  
And on another topic: Is there any movement on Sweden’s membership to
NATO?  Are there any signs that may suggest that Sweden may join NATO
before Vilnius summit?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President is still optimistic that they will, and we
look forward to welcoming them into the Alliance.  The conversations
between Sweden and Turkey continue.  We encourage that dialogue, and we
hope that it’ll very soon come to a positive conclusion.  
  
On your first question: We just don’t know what the future is here for
Wagner and — and where those troops are going to go and what they’re
going to do.  We just don’t know.   
  
So this idea of tracking them — I mean, I couldn’t begin to answer that
question for you with specificity.  
  
What we are going to track is what’s going on inside Ukraine.  And we’re
going to make sure that we’re also in constant communication with the
Ukrainians about what they need to be successful.  That’s where the
focus is.   
  
Now, on your question about the eastern flank, we have already bolstered
the eastern flank.  President Biden ordered an additional 20,000
American troops to the eastern flank of NATO, and they have stayed
there.  So we now have about 100,000 American troops on the European
continent, the most since, you know, World War Two.  And that’s a
significant presence, and we’re going to continue to evaluate that with
our Allies along that flank to — you know, if we have to adjust, we’ll
adjust, but there’s already been a significant contribution by the
United States to the — to the eastern flank of NATO.  
  
Q    You have no concerns about security of NATO Summit in Vilnius if
Wagner’s troops move to Belarus?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, that’s a hypothetical I can’t possibly answer, in
terms of where they’re going to go.   
  
We’re looking forward to a productive NATO Summit.  And, of course,
security for summits like that are always a prime concern for all the
nations involved.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, David.  
  
Q    Thanks.  A couple questions.  The fact that this Wagner convoy
could travel a main highway without being stopped by any kind of
airpower, does that reflect to you any kind of issues with Russian
command and control?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I can’t speak to that.   
  
Q    Okay.  And then secondly, in terms of the kind of Ukrainian
counteroffensive, what’s your assessment of the pace of how that’s
going?  Is that going slower than it should be?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  President Zelenskyy himself, I think, spoke publicly last
week, saying that — you know, that it’s — it’s going slower in some
areas than — than he would have liked.  He’s the commander-in-chief. 
You know, he gets to make those determinations, and he gets to give
those orders.  
  
As I said earlier, the Russians have invested a lot in the last six,
eight months in terms of defensive capabilities.  In some cases, their
defensive lines are three deep.  And by “three deep,” I don’t mean just
three feet.  I mean, miles and miles and miles deep, but three big lines
of defense.   
  
They knew that the Ukrainians were going to — going to want to take back
territory in the spring and summer months, and they — and they worked to
prepare it.   
  
And defense — as any military history student will tell you, defense is
the stronger form of war, and so the Ukrainians are running into Russian
defenses.  And it — and by President Zelenskyy’s own — in his own
analysis, it has — it has slowed them down a little bit.  
  
Q    Is there a possibility or even a hope on the U.S. side here that
the instability that we’re seeing, kind of, in Russia between
(inaudible) Wagner — that that weakens, I guess, the Russian defense
(inaudible)?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, too soon to know.  Just too soon to know.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, just a couple more.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  And thank you, Admiral.  So, can you please expand on
the early assessments from the U.S. on the impact of the developments in
Russia on the war in Ukraine and whether it signals the beginning of the
end for the war?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I think it’s — not to sound like a broken record, but
it’s just too soon to know what the impact to the war in Ukraine is
going to be as a result of the events over the last weekend.  And I just
don’t know that it would be helpful to speculate that.  
  
I do want to keep centering you, though, and reminding you that there
are tens of thousands of Russian troops and vehicles and capabilities —
air and ground, in fact — and sea — that they have still available to
them to try to defend against Ukrainian offensive operations.  And they
are doing that.  
  
I mean, even as all this stuff happened over the course of the weekend,
there was fighting inside Ukraine from these two forces.  
  
Q    How concerned are you at this point that Putin could take any more
extreme measures to demonstrate his control?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  That’s going to be a decision for Vladimir Putin to make,
and I wouldn’t begin to speculate about what that might be.  
  
We have been watching Russian actions and leadership since the beginning
of the — actually, before the beginning of the war.  And one thing that
we have always talked about, unabashedly so, is that it’s in nobody’s
interest for this war to escalate beyond the level of violence it has
already visited upon the Ukrainian people.  It’s not good for,
certainly, Ukraine.  It’s not good for our allies and partners in
Europe.  Quite frankly, it’s not good for the Russian people.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Sebastian.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Hello, Admiral.  During this — during this whole drama,
was the administration happy and content that all the nuclear weapons in
Russia were, like, totally under control the whole time?  Or was that
actually something that was beginning to worry people over on this side,
given the chaos and, briefly, actual complete — no one having any clue
who’s in charge anymore?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  “Happy” and “content” are two words I don’t normally
associate with monitoring nuclear activity.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Hey, some people get their kicks, you know, in different ways. 
(Laughter.)   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Not us.   
  
Look, we monitor this very closely.  And all I can tell you is that
we’ve seen no indication that Mr. Putin is interested in moving in that
direction and nor have we seen anything that would cause us to change
our own deterrent posture.  That’s really as far as I can go on that.  
  
Q    I’m sorry, I didn’t mean a question on Mr. Putin but rather that
there was a period of — however many it was — 12, 16, 18 hours — where
actually no one was totally sure who was in charge and it’s still a
nuclear-armed country.  So, that period.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  As I said, instability in Russia is something that, you
know, we take seriously.  And we certainly had lots of questions over
the course of the weekend, as did you, about the situation in Russia and
the issue of stability.  And we did have and were able to have in real
time, through diplomatic channels, conversations with Russian officials
about — about our concerns.   
  
I can’t get — just have to leave it at that.  
  
Q    Given the role that Belarus appeared to play, at least in ending
this uprising, does that give any new insight from your vantage point on
the relationship between Putin and Lukashenko?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t think so.  I mean, Lukashenko and Belarus have, you
know, basically been a surrogate for Mr. Putin and for Russia for quite
some time, certainly before this war started.  And Belarus has — even
though they have not actively involved themselves in the fighting, they
have certainly allowed Belarusian soil to be used for staging
activities, for the launching of attacks inside Ukraine, for the storage
of Russian capabilities.  I mean, they have — they have been an enabler
for Mr. Putin.  
  
So, I don’t know that there was a lot of shock or surprise that — that
Mr. Lukashenko got involved.  But again, I’d — I’d let those parties
speak to that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Okay.  Last question, way in the back.  Emel.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Karine.  Thank you, John.  Do you believe
this instability in Russia will have an impact on Beijing’s relations
with Moscow?  Do you hope that China’s support for the Kremlin will
decline as a result of this?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let — we’ll the PRC and President Xi speak for
himself.   
  
We don’t want to see any country at all support Mr. Putin and make it
easier for him to kill more Ukrainians.  We want to see every country
around the world sign up and actually implement the sanctions that are
in place — the international sanctions, not provide any ability for Mr.
Putin to continue to operate his — his war machine.  And we have
communicated that not just to the PRC, but to other countries all around
the world.  
  
Now, what they do about this is going to be for them to speak to.  All I
can do is tell you what President Biden is focused on, and that’s making
sure, A, we’re staying abreast of what’s going on and that the
Ukrainians know nothing is going to change about our support.  
  
Q    And, secondly, according to reports, Israeli Prime Minister
Netanyahu is expected to visit China next month.  Do you have any
reaction?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I haven’t seen those reports.  But, obviously, he’s the
elected leader, the Prime Minister of Israel.  He gets to speak for his
travel habits and where he goes and who he wants to talk to.  And — and
that’ll be up for — that’ll be up for them to talk about.  
  
Thanks.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Thanks, John.  Thanks.  
  
Q    Was this an intelligence failure, John?  
  
Q    (Inaudible) Chinese troop in Cuba?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So there’s one thing I just want to address really
quickly, which I think is really important.  It goes to Kelly O’s
question about Sabrina and what she has been dealing with since
Thursday.   
  
So I just want to just reiterate a little bit what John said — is that
we’re certainly — here, at the White House, under this administration,
we’re committed to the freedom of the press, which is — which is why we
had the press conference last week.  So just want to remind folks that’s
why we had the press conference last week.   
  
And just to also just repeat what you just all heard from my colleague:
We certainly condemn any efforts of intimidation or harassment of a
journalist or any journalist that is just trying to do their job.  And
so, I just want to —  
  
Q    So are you going to take questions from me?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just want to be very clear about that.  
  
Q    Are you going to take questions from me because you’ve been
discriminating against me for the past nine months.  
  
Q    Please stop.  How is she discriminating against you?  
  
Q    No, she — she called on you.  She just gave you a few questions.  I
just need a question in nine months.  
  
Q    If you ask a question — just ask a question.  
  
Q    Please.  Allow me —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Aamer.  Kick us off.   
  
Q    — to do my job and ask my question.   
  
Q    And so, I wanted to —  
  
Q    When you say that journalists are being —  
  
Q    — I wanted to ask on forgiving of student debt.  The administration
booked up four —  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  If this continues, we’re going to end the press
briefing.  
  
Q    I’ve been in this briefing room.  I’ve been trying to ask you one
question when I am on.  
  
Q    Simon, stop.  Simon, stop.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  If this continues — you’re being incredibly rude.  
  
Q    Simon, stop.  
  
Q    When President Biden —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re incredibly rude.  You’re being incredibly
rude.  
  
Q    No, no, what you are doing is —  
  
Q    Simon, stop.   
  
Q    — you are not giving me freedom of the press.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re talking over your colleagues.  
  
Q    You are not applying it in this — in this briefing room.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re talking — you’re talking over your
colleagues.  
  
Q    I have a question, I think —  
  
Q    I’m not talking over the colleagues.  
  
Q    — that’s important that I’d like to ask.  When President Biden
forgave student debt, the administration booked a $400 billion cost that
added to the deficit at the end of last fiscal year.   
  
How does the administra- — administration plan to look at this issue,
given the pending Court decision?  Will you book the deficit reduction
and debt forgiveness?  Or will it stay in hopes of challenging the
ruling?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to get ahead of the ruling. 
Right?  We — we are — we’re — we are very confident that we are — that
the law is on our side here.  And — and so certainly not going to get it
ahead of what is going to happen and what the Supreme Court is going to
— is going to rule.   
  
We are confident in our legal authority, as we’ve said over and over
again.  And as you all know, and I think I’ve said this before, the
Soli- — Solicitor General made a compelling argument before the Court,
so we’re certainly not going to get ahead of this decision.   
  
Look, when it comes to the deficit, this is a president — and he’s shown
this by his action on how much he takes lowering the deficit —
decreasing the deficit, makes that a priority.  We’ve seen that in a
record number, $1.7 trillion, and in the first two years.  That is
something — because of the — what the President has put forward in his
economic policies, he’s been able to do that.   
  
And in the budget negotiation that you all covered and saw, one of the
things that he made sure is that that budget negotiation lowered the
deficit by another trillion dollars.  So this is something that the
President certainly cares about and certainly has taken action and moved
forward with making sure that his economic policy does just that.  
  
Look, when — more broadly, as it relates to the student loan, we — we’ve
been very clear: We think it is certainly important, as people — as
we’re coming out of this pandemic, to give folks — and the pause is
going to be lifted, as we all know, in August — to make sure that we
give Americans — American families a little bit of breathing room.  That
is what this does.   
  
And because of this, it is actually going to be able to bring — put
money back into the economy, if you think about people being able to buy
a home now, if you think about people being able to actually do more
with this burden that they’ve been carrying and they’ve had to deal
with.   
  
So we think it’s part of that economic policy agenda to make sure that
we are not leaving anybody behind but also building an economy that is —
that is important and that is also fiscally responsible at the same
time.   
  
Q    All right.  Just very briefly: Senator Manchin was here earlier
today.  Was there any engagement by the President or anyone else, senior
staff, on Acting Secretary Su’s nomination?  And has there been any
determination of how long she could stay in that role — in the acting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as I’ve stated before, we — we believe that Julie
Su is highly qualified to be Labor Secretary.  As you know, she served
as deputy secretary for two years, and now she’s clearly acting
secretary.   
  
And we are doing everything that we can, in our power, to make sure that
she is successful in becoming the next — the next Labor Secretary.  And
I think I’ve laid out actions that we have taken every day, even during
the budget negotiation, to make those calls, to have conversations with
senators on the Hill, and to get her through.   
  
I don’t have anything to share ahead of that, but we continue to support
a swift confirmation of her.  I don’t have a readout of a Manchin — us —
a ma- — a conversation with Senator Manchin in the last couple of
hours.  But I can assure you that our team here, Office of Leg Affairs,
and other members of the different offices here at the White House has
certainly been all hands on deck in trying to make sure that we get her
through.   
  
Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    Karine, to follow up on the press freedom issue that you touched
on, can you give us a sense of the discussion between President Biden
and Prime Minister Modi about that?  What — what did they discuss and
what did President Biden say to him about not only press freedom, but
the other human rights issues that are so clear in India right now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as we’ve said many times, the President has nev- —
will never shy away on having those conversation with a — with a world
leader, a head of state, when it comes to human rights.  He has done
that throughout the past two years and through his career as a vice
president and certainly as a senator.   
  
I’m not going to get into private conversations, but I think we have
made ourselves very clear here on — on our view.  And I’ll just leave it
there.   
  
Q    Did the President accept Prime Minister Modi’s answer to Sabrina
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    — about — about the human rights issues and — and attacks on
Muslims and others in — in his country?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, we were asked this question last week on
Friday, and I think that is for the Prime Minister to answer and for —
for all you all to — to — to, you know, critique or write about it.  I’m
not going to discuss that from here.   
  
What I know is that we are committed — we are certainly committed to the
freedom of the press, which is why we had — we held a press conference
last Thursday, which is why we thought it was important for you all to
be — to hear from both, not just from the President, but also from the
Prime Minister, and for journalists to be able to ask a question.   
  
Q    A follow-up on India?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeremy.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I wanted to ask you about this new “Bidenomics”
messaging push.  Can you just give me a sense, first, of, you know, how
did you guys coin that phrase, or why did you decide to go with that
branding going forward?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You don’t like “Bidenomics”?  
  
Q    No, I’m just asking.  I’m curious.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think it’s — I think it’s pretty clever.  It’s
pretty good.   
  
Look, it makes good sense, “Bidenomics.”  Right?  It kind of flows off
the tongue really well.   
  
But in all seriousness, look, what you’re going to hear from the
President — I don’t want to get ahead of him — I think we’ve kind of
laid out a little bit of what — what we — what we are thinking — or what
we think the President is going to lay out or what he is going to lay
out.   
  
Certainly, it’s a vision — right? — it’s a vision about growing the
economy from the middle out, the bottom up.  You hear us say that over
and over again, because we believe that trickle-down economics does not
work.  And we have seen that over and over and over again.   
  
And what we have seen, even before the pandemic, is we’ve seen Americans
and American families being left behind.  And so one of the things that
you are — the data — if you look at the data and what we have — we’ve
seen from what the President has been able to deliver in the last two
years is an economy that’s getting back on its feet, an economy that’s
actually delivering for the American people: 13 million jobs; you know,
unemployment rate at under 4 percent.   
  
When you think about wages going up, when you think about inflation at
its lowest by more than 50 percent than it was a year ago, that’s
because of the work that this President has done.  And he’s going to
continue to focus on what we can do to lower cost for the American
people.  And so, that is incredibly important.   
  
Look, it’s going to be a cornerstone speech, as you’ve heard me say. 
It’s going to be an opportunity to talk about the historic progress —
right? — as we’re talking about implementing those historic pieces of
legislation.   
  
And so, all of those things go hand in hand.  And we believe that that
is the vision of the President and, hence, Bidenomics.   
  
Q    Well, the reason — one of the reasons I asked is because, you know,
the latest CNN polling showed that just 34 percent of Americans approve
of the President’s handling of the economy.  So, is there a risk that
this new branding could backfire?  And are you confident that this new
messaging push is going to change Americans’ opinions of the President’s
handling of the economy?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we believe our job is to continue to speak to the
American people to lay out what it is that the President is doing on
behalf of American families.  And that is important.  And we have the
data to prove it.  We have the numbers to show that his economic policy
has indeed worked.  
  
Look, I kind of talked about this moments ago.  This has been a
challenging time for Americans, right?  You had the pandemic.  We just —
we just had my colleague here talk about the war that Russia — that Mr.
Putin has started in Ukraine and what that has done to — to inflation
not just here, but around the world.   
  
So we know that the American people is dealing — they’re dealing with a
lot.  But what we believe is that we have — we have — we have done the
work.  And we have shown that inflation — inflation has indeed come
down.  It is still too high.   
  
And so — and so, the President is going to talk to that — to that.  He’s
going to speak to where the American people are.  And he’s going to make
sure that we lay out what is it that we have been able to do in historic
fashion, to deal with where — what the American people is currently
dealing with.  
  
But look, 13 million jobs.  Again, when you think about how Americans
feel better about their personal finances, that is important.  When you
think about wages are going up; when you think about the really
good-paying — millions of good-paying jobs that — union jobs that his
policies are going to create — all the things that are really incredibly
important.   
  
So the President is going to continue to speak to that.  And — and
that’s what we — we believe we’re going — that is our — you know, our
priority to do.  
  
Q    So you’re confident that you can change the public’s perception of
the economy?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to try.  Right?   
  
I think the President — when he has a moment, when he is at the podium —
most of the time, when he’s speaking to the American people, he speaks
to the economy.  He speaks to lowering costs.  He speaks to what matters
to the American people.  He talks about making sure that we give
Americans a little bit more breathing room.  He understands what it’s
like at the end of the month when people are — families are sitting
around their kitchen table talking about how they’re going to pay
costs.   
  
That’s why insulin at 35 bucks a month is so important — right? — for
the senior citizens.  That what’s — that’s what came out of the
Inflation Reduction Act.  
  
That’s why energy — making sure we’re lowering costs for energy is so
important.  That’s what came out of the Inflation Reduction Act.   
  
And that’s just one piece of historic — that’s just one historic piece
of legislation that is now into law.   
  
So there are so many things that we have done that is — we believe that
the American people need to hear directly from us.  And that’s what
you’re going to continue to see.   
  
Let’s not forget the investment — the Invest in America tour, right? 
This is the site we’re about to launch the second part of that tour
where — where Cabinet Secretaries — you’re going to see the principals
are out there talking to the American people.  So we believe it is
important for us to do that.  And that’s what you’re going to see.  
  
Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    A follow-up to Jeremy’s question.  Should we view Bidenomics as a
response, answer to, or opposite of Reaganomics?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we believe Reaganomics doesn’t work. 
We’ve been very clear.  We believe that trickle-down — a trickle-down
economy doesn’t work.  It has not worked.  That has shown to be the case
for decades now.   
  
And so, what we have been very clear — you hear me say this all the
time: Building an economy from the — from the middle out and bottom up,
that’s what we want to do.  And every piece of historic legislation
speaks to that, speaks to what the President wants to do very loud and
clear, in historic fashion.  Some of them in bipartisan way.   
  
When you think about the inf- — infa- — the infrast- — infra- —
infrastructure legislation — right? — and what that has been able to do
bringing both sides together, making historic investments in our roads
and our bridges.  We just talked — the President just talked about
broadband this morning — historic investment in broadbands to
communities that have been left behind when we talk about that.   
  
And so, all of these things are important.  And so, this is — he is, if
you will, reimagining how economy — how we sho- — we should build an
economy, transf- — transforming how an economy should look like for the
better so that we, again, do not leave anybody behind.   
  
And it’s not about blue st- — just blue states.  It’s about blue states,
red states, rural America, urban America.  It’s about everyone who he
believes he is the president for.   
  
Q    I will just follow up.  The —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Historians view Ronald Reagan as a top-10 president in their own
surveys.  He left office with a better than 60 percent approval rating. 
It’s argued — you don’t have to agree; I’m sure the President doesn’t —
but, you know, many people believe that Ronald Reagan’s record, his
economic record propelled the country to prosperity — “Morning in
America,” late 1980s growth, propelling it for growth in the 1990s. 
What’s your response to the idea that —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will say — what I will say — and we have been
very clear: Trickle-down economics does not work.  It just does not
work.  It gives handouts to special interest and big corporations —
that’s what we have seen — that would increase the debt, and it has
increased the debt.  That’s — we’ve seen.  This is what we’ve seen in
the last couple of decades.   
  
It outsources jobs and raised utility bills for families.  That’s why
the President is making sure that we’re bringing jobs back to the United
States — manufacturing jobs — 800,000 manufacturing jobs.   
  
We’ve seen manufacturers wanting to invest in this country.  We have not
seen that in a long time, right?  And so that is incredibly
important.   
  
Utility bills.  I just talked about what the Inflation Reduction Act is
going to do.  All of those things is building an economy, transforming
the way we see the economy in a different way — in a way, again, that is
equal, that does eq- — has equality — equity at the center of it and
leaves no one behind.   
  
And the President is very proud — very proud in what he’s been able to
do in the last two years.  We understand there’s more work to do, and
certainly we’re going to be — we’re going to do that.   
  
Go ahead, Michael.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The President has called the previous
administration’s policy of separating families who crossed the border
illegally “a moral and a national shame.”  USA Today published a story
today that details how the Justice Department is defending that policy
in a series of lawsuits filed by separated families.   
  
So my question is: Why is the administration going to such lengths to
defend a policy that the President himself says is a national — “a moral
and a national shame”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President repeatedly has said that Trump
administration’s family separation policy was abhorrent, it was
unconscionable, and viola- — violated every, every norm of who we are as
a nation.  He’s been very clear about that.  He’s repeated that.   
  
And that’s why on the first day in the office, he made sure to end the
administration family separation policy.  And — and what we’ve been able
to do is we created a task force, as you know, where we’ve been able to
reunite about 700 family members and also support families that were
torn apart.  And so we’re continuing to do that work.   
  
And certainly, that is not going to stop.  Again, that’s why we put
together the task force.  That was — that’s why we ended that very
hateful policy.   
  
So when it comes to DOJ and what they’re doing and how they’re moving
forward on the litigation, I’m just not going to comment from here.   
  
But our actions, policy wise, in the last two years — making sure that
we reunite families, we still have that that task force going; making
sure we’re supporting those families that were torn apart, ending that
policy — I think, speaks for itself.   
  
I’m just not going to get into the Department of Justice and what
they’re doing.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Two questions on the Montana train derailment.  How confident is
the administration that it’s not going to have a negative effect on
Yellowstone water?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So just a couple of things on that.  So, obviously,
this is something that we are monitoring, the train derailment in — that
occurred in Montana on Saturday, so a couple of days ago.  
  
The preliminary water sampling conducted by the Montana Department of
Environmental Quality and the EPA have not shown any risks to the public
drinking water, which is obviously important to the community, to the
state of Montana.  EPA, Montana DEQ, and Montana Rail Link are actively
monitoring water quality.  And federal agencies, including the EPA and
DOT, are coordinating with the governor’s office and local officials to
assist in the — in the response.  
  
And obviously, as always, whenever — whenever something like this
happens, the White House is ready and — to — to offer any federal
assistance.  And, certainly, we are in regular communications with
government officials on the ground.  
  
Q    On the heels of this and East Palest- — East Palestine, is there
anything more the President can do to prevent more of these from
happening?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I know the Department of Transportation
certainly has been looking into this and evaluating these types of
derailment, so I would certainly refer you to them.  And I know that
Secretary Buttigieg has taken this very seriously, as — as has the
President.  So we are doing everything that we can to address this —
this — certainly, this issue of derailment across the country.   
  
But as it relates to Montana, as it relates to even East Palestine, that
community, we certainly were all hands on deck in making sure that we
provided what the community needed.  And in this most recent situation,
we are — we’re here to offer any federal assistance that the state of
Montana might — might need.  
  
Q    To the back, Karine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jon.  
  
Q    Thanks a lot, Karine.  Over the weekend, Speaker McCarthy floated
this idea of launching an impeachment inquiry targeting Attorney General
Merrick Garland.  And the focus here, according to the Speaker, would be
Merrick Garland’s weaponization of the DOJ.  What’s your reaction to
that idea?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you’ve heard me say repeatedly, over and over
again at this podium, is that the President respects the Department of
Justice’s independence.  He respects the rule of law.  And that is what
you’re going to see under this administration.  
  
So I’m not going to speak to any — any — anything that is related to
that piece.  
  
But I will say more broadly — look, we’ve been very clear: I just laid
out — we talked about Bidenomics.  I was just asked by one of your
colleagues why the President is focusing on this, why he’s having this
conversation with the American people, why we have coined this term.   
  
That’s because the President believes that we have a lot of work to do
for the American people, that this is the priorities of the American
people: making sure we continue to build on the success that we’ve seen
the last two years; continue to lower costs, making sure that we’re
implementing those historic pieces of legislation, clearly, that is now
law — the bipartisan infrastructure legislation.  When you think about
the — the CHIPS and Science Act, when you think about the Inflation
Reduction Act, all of these pieces of legislation are — that are now
law, clearly, are incredibly important.  
  
And so, that’s what the President is going to talk about: investing in
America.  
  
And it’s unfortunate that congressional Republicans want to continue to
focus on an issue that Americans are — that’s not their priority.  They
want us to move in a bipartisan way on everything that I just laid out. 
We saw that in — in November, in the midterm election.  And that’s what
they want to see.  
  
And we would be — we would welcome congressional Republicans to join us
on working on behalf of the American people, working on the priorities
that they care about, working on lowering costs for — for American
families across the country.  
  
Q    If the Republican-led House goes down this path, they have the
numbers, if they wish to do so, to impeach the attorney general.  They
don’t have the numbers, however, just based upon the makeup of the
Senate.  Would you say, Karine, that this is a waste of time on the part
of congressional Republicans?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will say is basically what I just laid out
seconds ago, Jon: It’s just — this is not the main priority of American
families.  They want us to come together in a bipartisan way to work on
the things that they truly care about.   
  
When it comes to the Dobbs decision — right? — when it comes to
reproductive rights and reproductive healthcare, when it comes to making
sure that we are working and focusing on lowering costs for American
people, that’s what they want us to see.  That’s what they want us to
come together in a bipartisan way to deliver, to build on the successes
that this President has done the last two years.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I’ve got two quick questions.  Florida Governor
Ron DeSantis is on the border, and he is escalating his attacks against
the Biden administration, who, in his words, he calls, quote, “the
critical link in an illegal transnational human smuggling syndicate.” 

I’m wondering if the White House has any response to that kind of
rhetoric.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait, say that one more time, because I have not — I
have not heard his remarks.

Q    The governor says that the White House, in his words, is “the
critical link in an illegal transnational human smuggling syndicate.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m going to be careful because, yes, he’s the
governor, but he’s also a candidate, so I’m bound by the Hatch Act.  So
I’m going to be incredibly careful, and I’m not going to comment on
campaign ma- — matters. 

What I can speak to is more broadly.  And, you know, I will remind —
remind you that Repub- — congressional Republicans just voted —
literally, they just voted a few weeks ago, a month ago, to — for the
biggest border security cut in history — the biggest cut in history —
when it came to the Default on America Act.  That’s what that was. 

Part of that act was to cut border security.  And that’s what they voted
on. 

And meanwhile, what this President has done, he has secured record
funding for border security, he has record number of agents and officers
securing our border, and is implementing policies that have resulted in
significant drop in unlawful border crossings since Title 42.  That is
what the President has done.   
  
And so, you know, I’m, again, going to be very mindful in how I
respond.  But speaking more broadly, I would say the question is to not
us, but it is to congressional Republicans and what they have done to
make this situation even more difficult by cutting — by cutting the
budget for bo- — by voting to cut the budget for border security and not
supporting this President in what he’s been trying to do.

Q    And my second question: It’s not unusual for presidents to invite
members of their family to official White House functions, like the
State Dinner last week.  I’m curious, though, in light of some of the
recent legal controversy, if the President communicated to members of
his family not to conduct business on White House grounds.  Can you tell
us a bit about any kinds of guardrails that are up?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m going to be, again, very mindful,
because this is all connected to — to a case that the DOJ is currently
overseeing.  So I’m not going to comment on that specifically. 

But as you know and we have laid out very — early on in this
administration, when it comes to ethics, when it comes to how we all
kind of move about and how we have — we respect, clearly, the government
ethics here, this is a presi- — this is an administration has been
incredibly transparent on that and has put some very strict — strict
rules.  

And so I can speak to that.  I can speak to how the President has moved
forward in making sure that the people who work for him and himself are
— are held to, kind of, a strict course of action.  But I’m not going to
speak to anything that’s related to —

Q    So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — the case.  I’m go- —

Q    — (inaudible) White House staff about anything about guardrails —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just —

Q    — for the President’s family?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to speak to anything that’s related
to this case.  I —

Q    Do any guardrails exist?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I am not going to speak to anything — (laughs) — that
is related to this case.  As you stated, there are — we’ve had — when it
comes to ethics, we take that very, very seriously here in this
administration. 

Thank you, everybody.

3:13 P.M. EDT  
