---
date: '2023-06-30'
published_time: 2023-06-30 23:26:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/06/30/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-secretary-of-education-miguel-cardona-and-deputy-director-of-the-national-economic-council-bharat-ramamurti/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, Secretary of Education\
  \ Miguel Cardona, and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council Bharat\_\
  Ramamurti"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room 

4:30 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, today, we’re joined by Secretary of
Education, Miguel Cardona, and Deputy NEC Director, Bharat Ramamurti. 
They’re here to speak about the Supreme Court’s decision on st- — on the
student debt relief this morning and — as you all know, you just heard
from the President. 

And so, before we get — we go there, I just want to talk about a few
things at the top.  And then we’ll — I’ll hand it over to our two
guests.  
  
First, we are deeply disappointed in the Supreme Court’s decision today
in 303 Creative, which takes our nation backward in the fight for
equality.  This decision undermines the basic truth that no American
should face discrimination for who they are or who they love.  And it’s
even more disappointing as we close out Pride month today. 

It chips away at a longstanding laws that protect all Americans against
discrimination in public accommodations, including people of color,
people with disabilities, and people of faith, and women.  
  
While the Court’s decision only addresses expressive original designs,
as President Biden said today, we are concerned that the decision could
invite more discrimination against the LGBTQ+ community.

And we know that when one group’s dignity and equality are threatened,
the promise of our democracy is threatened, and we all suffer.

The administration will remain focused on enforcing federal
anti-discrimination protections, and the President will continue to call
on Congress to pass the Equality Act. 

Now, second, as we head into July 4th, the Department of Transportation
and the FAA are working closely with airlines to help minimize flight
disruptions resulting from extreme weather. 

Airline operations quickly recovered from the weather earlier this week,
except for United Airlines, which expects to return to normal tomorrow. 
But we will continue to keep a close eye on all this. 

And we want to remind air travelers to visit FlightRights.gov — again,
that’s FlightRights.gov — to see what you’re entitled to if your flight
is cancelled or delayed.

Finally, as you know, we normally do the week ahead on Fridays, but
because it’s 4:30 on Friday ahead o- — going into a holiday weekend,
we’re going to send the week ahead through a pool note in a couple of
hours, before the end of the day for sure.  
  
But before I move on, I want to acknowledge someone in the room who you
all know very well and who has been a friendly face to all of you and to
all of us.  That is Ed Lewis.  
  
Ed is retiring today, after 25 years as photographer for Fox News and 14
years at C-SPAN.  (Applause.)   
  
In his career — hi, Ed.  (Laughter.)  In his career, Ed has covered
every president since Ronald Reagan.  Right?  Not to age you, my
friend.  (Laughter.)  You look young, 21.  
  
I know he is a friend to many folks here, and is — certainly many folks
on my team.  He always has a smile.  Every time I see him, he always
waves, smiles, and gives me a thumbs-up.  So I give you thumbs-up back
to you, my friend.  
  
And I know many of you have seen him travelling, carrying like 13 bags,
or something like that — (laughter) — all at once.  So, incredibly
impressive.  
  
So, Ed, thank you for being a joy to work with.  I hope you are en- —
you will enjoy more time at the tee, following your last day here, and
we will truly, truly miss you.  And thank you for just always being a
friendly face.  
  
We do — the team decided to get you something.  
  
Q    Awww —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here you go.  
  
Can you step away for a second, or do I have to come back — I can come
back.  
  
Q    (Laughter.)  Awww —  
  
(Ms. Jean-Pierre walks to the back of the briefing room.)  
  
(Applause.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A first.  (Laughter.)

All right.  
  
Q    First time I’ve ever (inaudible) anything like this.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, and — you’re very welcome.  (Laughter.)  Very
excited.  
  
Okay.  So, now I’m going to turn it over to Secretary Cardona, who is
going to say a few words about the plan that the President announced
today after the Supreme Court decision.  And then, of course, Bharat, as
you know, is here to take any questions, as well.  
  
Mr. Secretary —  
  
SECRETARY CARDONA:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that’s for you.  
  
SECRETARY CARDONA:  Thank you.  
  
Good afternoon.  In the last 48 hours, our country has been set back, in
terms of providing equity and access in higher education.  And as you
heard from the President, today the Supreme Court ruled against more
than 40 million working families.  
  
Let’s be clear about who would have benefited from the President’s
student debt relief plan.  Nearly 90 percent of relief would have gone
to borrowers making less than $75,000 a year.  Twenty million Americans
would see their debts dropped to zero, with twenty million more seeing
lower payments.  
  
This would mean fewer borrowers falling into the delinquency and default
when payment pause ended.   
  
We’re not talking about the millionaires who benefited from the billions
in tax giveaways a few years ago.  We’re talking about low- and
middle-income families recovering from the worst pandemic in a
century.  
  
I strongly disagree with the Court’s decision here.  So today, I want to
assure our students, our borrowers, and families across America: Our
fight is not over.  We’re taking action.  
  
The President, the Vice President, and I have put borrowers first from
day one.  We refuse to go back to the way things were before the
pandemic, when a million borrowers defaulted each year and faced
devastating financial consequences.   
  
So let me tale \[sic\] — tell you about the actions we’re taking
today.   
  
Number one, we’re going to open up an alternative path to debt relief
for as many borrowers as possible as quickly as possible.   
  
While we acknowledge the Court’s decision, we began the negotiated
rulemaking process on settlement and compromise authority today.  More
information on the new regulations will come out shortly.  
  
Number two, today, we’re rolling out the most affordable income-driven
repayment plan ever.  This new plan is called Saving on a Valuable
Education — SAVE.  
  
It’ll cut monthly payments in half for all undergraduate loans.  It’ll
cut payments to zero dollars for millions of people making less than
$33,000 a year.  All other borrowers will save at least $1,000 per
year.   
  
This plan will stop runaway interests, and it’s not going to require you
to pay more than you can afford.   
  
And number three, as the Presid- — as the President mentioned, we’re
creating an on-ramp for repayment for up to one year for those who need
it.   
  
This means although interest will accrue starting September 1st and
payments are due starting in October, we’ll help borrowers who are
struggling to make payments avoid harsh financial consequences, such as
delinquencies and wage garnishments.  Borrowers who can make payments
should.   
  
Again, I disagree with today’s decision from the Supreme Court.   
  
Today, the Court substituted itself for Congress.  It’s outrageous to me
that Republicans in Congress and state offices fought so hard against a
program that would have helped millions of their own constituents.   
  
They had no problem handing trillion-dollar tax cuts to big corporations
and the super wealthy.  And many had no problems accepting millions of
dollars in forgiven pandemic loans, like Senator Markwayne Mullin from
Oklahoma had more than $1.4 million in pandemic loans forgiven.  He
represents 489,000 eligible borrowers that were turned down today.   
  
Representative Brett Guthrie from Kentucky had more than $4.4 million
forgiven.  He represents more than 90,000 eligible borrowers who were
turned down today.   
  
Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene from Georgia had more than
$180,000 forgiven.  She represents more than 91,800 eligible borrowers
who were turned down today.   
  
I want all the students and borrowers to know President Biden, Vice
President Harris, and I will not stop fighting for you.  You should be
able to earn a college education without student debt blocking you from
opportunity.   
  
That’s why we’re fixing a broken system.  We’re protecting the next
generation by increasing college accountability, fixing public service
loan forgiveness, and going after predatory college, in addition to
increasing Pell Grants.  
  
Today, we’ve approved more than $66 billion in targeted loan
forgiveness, and we’re not going to stop fighting.   
  
We cannot allow the setbacks of yesterday and today to stop us from
reimagining a better tomorrow, one in which all students from different
income levels and racial backgrounds have access to affordable pathways
to college and career.   
  
Thank you.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Let’s start it off.  
  
Q    Good afternoon, sir.  Could you give us any details about how you
plan to apply the HEROES Act — I’m sorry, the — the Higher Education Act
to this?  
  
And it — it seems like if — if the HEROES Act was on legally scurrilous
footing, this might be even more so.  And if — if you’re more secure
that this is a legal route to do it, why didn’t you just use this in the
first place?

SECRETARY CARDONA:  We believe the Supreme Court got it wrong today.  We
believe the HEROES Act does give me the authority.  The Supreme Court
made their decision today.  We accept that.  The Higher Education Act
has a pathway, and we’re going to use that pathway.

  
Q    But if — if you think that’s a better way to do it, why didn’t you
just use that in the first place?  
  
SECRETARY CARDONA:  We believe that the HEROES Act pathway was quicker
and we had the authority to do that.  
  
Q    The President said that this new path would take some time, that it
will take longer.  How long are you expecting it to take?  And you also
mentioned that more details will be rolled out.  When will that be
happening?

  
SECRETARY CARDONA:  Sure.  So it is a regulatory process.  And I’ll turn
it over to my colleague, Bharat, in a second.  But that process does
take longer, as the President said, which is why we started with the
HEROES Act.  We had the — believe we had the authority and we were ready
to act, and it was stopped through a lawsuit ri- — right when we were
going to provide the debt relief.  
  
Do you want to comment on that, Bharat?  
  
MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  So the Higher Education Act rulemaking is — goes
through what’s called the negotiated rulemaking process.  That’s
actually different than your typical rulemaking process.  As you all
know, even a typical rulemaking process can take some amount of time. 
You have to do a proposal, it has to receive comments, it has to be
finalized, and so on.   
  
The negotiated rulemaking process — again, by law — is even more
complicated than that, in that there needs to be public hearings that
involve back-and-forth with relevant stakeholders, relevant members of
the public.  So it’s going to take some amount of time.  
  
What you heard from the President today was that we are committed to
moving as quickly as possible to get through all of those steps until we
get a final proposal.  And it’s indicative of that that the Secretary,
in just the hours between when the Supreme Court issued its opinion and
to — and right now, has already initiated that process, has already
filed the necessary paperwork to get it going.   
  
Q    But that sounds like a pretty complicated process.  Are we talking
about weeks, months?  What —  
  
MR. RAMAMURTI:  Well, certainly not weeks.  It’s going to be months.  I
think, as I said, even the typical rulemaking process typically takes
months.  But we are aiming to do it as quickly as possible.  And so, we
will give you more updates as we hit each milestone in that process.  I
don’t know if the Secretary mentioned this, but the first step is going
to be a public hearing.  That’s going to happen in July.  So that’s
going to get the ball rolling beyond what we did today. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steve.

Q    And the President said that this new plan is legally sound.  How
did you reach this conclusion?  Did you do an analysis, or what exactly?

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Lawyers from the Department of Education, from the
White House, from the Department of Justice all reviewed this plan. 
They weighed in and believe that it was legally available.  I should be
clear that they did the same for the HEROES Act.  And obviously, we ran
into a Supreme Court that had a different view of things — frankly, a
view that we believe is out of step with where the law is. 

But we have the backing of all of the relevant attorneys here from the
attorney — from the Department of Justice, from the Department of
Education, and from the White House, all believing that this is a valid
pathway to providing debt relief to many borrowers.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, (inaudible).

Q    Would the same number of Americans who would have benefited under
the previous plan benefit under this pathway?  Is it a smaller number? 
Is it a bigger number?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Well, one of the things about the rulemaking process is
that we can’t actually prejudge its outcome.  Part of how we do this
process is that we initiate it, we put a proposal on the table, we work
with stakeholders to get their input.  That ends up shaping the scope of
the proposal. 

So it’s too early to say, but we have clear guidance from the President
and the Secretary that our goal is to provide relief to as many
borrowers as possible under this process.  So you’ll hear more about
that as we get to each stage of the process going forward. 

Q    But can you say at all whether this will be a more narrow plan than
the one that was struck down?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  It’s too early to say.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Colleen.

Q    Sorry —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)

Q    I had a question on the 12-month.  It’s not a pause, but what is
going to happen in the interim for people who are

impacted by the decision?

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Sure.  So, you’re right, it’s not a pause.   What
we’re — what we’re communicating to borrowers is, you know, the interest
will start accruing, and the payments are due.  And if you’re able to
pay, pay.  But we’re not going to be, you know, sending information to
credit agencies or having folks go into delinquency. 

Three years have passed.  Forty-three million Americans were waiting
today for a decision and a little bit of help.  And the Supreme Court
shut that down. 

What I want to tell borrowers is: This on-ramp is intended to support
you, make it back to repayment with dignity and back on your feet.  We
want to prevent delinquencies.  We want to prevent defaults.  That’s why
we did this targeted loan forgiveness in the first place. 

So this on-ramp is not a loan pause.  It is a process through which
we’re going to support our borrowers by not, you know, sending
information to credit agencies if they’re missing a payment.  But we’re
encouraging payment to be made, and interest will be accruing in the
process. 

Q    And if the process on the new rulemaking takes longer than 12
months, would you be willing to extend this beyond a year? 

SECRETARY CARDONA:  You know, from day one, the President, Vice
President, and the Department of Education has been focused on getting
more students into higher education and making sure that higher
education doesn’t mean a lifetime of debt, where people can’t buy homes
or have children, or are discouraged from being public servants.  That’s
what we’re focusing on. 

So we’re going to take it — this step is going to be a 12-month
process.  We’re going to make sure we’re communicating with borrowers
clearly.  And we’re going to make it as smooth as possible for
repayment.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  In the back.  Go ahead.

Q    This administration was very confident that the HEROES Act would
work.  Of course, the Supreme Court blocked that.  Why should borrowers
trust you this time that this one will work?

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Yeah.  There has been no other president that has
done more to fight for student debt relief, to fight to make higher
education more accessible.

Look, I was a classroom teacher.  I was a district leader.  I had too
many conversations with parents who thought college was out of reach for
their kids.  And in the last 48 hours, these two decisions from SCOTUS
make me want to fight harder to make sure that we’re giving them
opportunities — opportunities like I had, as a first-generation college
student.

There are too many people watching right now that are worried that
they’re not going to be able to access college or that they’re not going
to be able to afford it.

With the SAVE plan, the income-driven repayment plan, with the on-ramp,
and with the processes that we’re going to take, we’re doing everything
we can to fight for our students and to give them the opportunity to
access higher education.

Q    The lawyers that you’re saying believe that this path is sound, you
know, this path could face the same Court —

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Right.

Q    — as the previous plan.  So, given that the lawyers got the outcome
wrong the last time with the Court that we have, how is this going to
impact, you know, Bidenomics and the central piece of the 2024 campaign,
which has hinged on this forgiveness plan and people believing that it’s
possible?

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Yeah.

Q    What has changed?

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Sure.

Q    The Court isn’t changing.  So what — what’s changing?

SECRETARY CARDONA:  So, I’ll let Bharat answer that about Bidenomics and
the long-term impact.  But we’re going to fight.  We’re going to keep
fighting.  And there were many other legal scholars that believe we had
the authority under the HEROES Act.  I mean, the HEROES Act makes it
pretty clear I have the authority to modify or waive. 

The Supreme Court saw it differently.  We’re moving forward in another
path.  And we’re going to put the best legal argument forward to provide
relief for borrowers.  That’s our focus, and we’re not going to stay off
of that.

Q    Do you think, though, that this Court will see eye to eye with
you?  It’s going to be the same Court —

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Right.

Q    — if challenged legally.

SECRETARY CARDONA:  We’re going to keep fighting, and we’re going to put
the best legal argument for it to stand up for borrowers and to keep
fighting for affordable college. 

Did you want to talk about the bigger plan — Bidenomics?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  Well, I just want to add one thing on that
question.  It’s — we’re just beginning the rulemaking process now. 
There’s going to be time to craft the exact proposal under this new
legal authority. 

You know, one thing, of course, that we’ll keep in mind is how this plan
is going to be received by the courts.  But what the President believes
is that if his lawyers, who are all highly qualified attorneys, tell him
that a path is legally available, he’s going to trust them, and we’re
going to put our best foot forward in court to defend it. 

And what I would say to borrowers is that we are taking action on
multiple fronts to help them in light of the Supreme Court opinion
today.  There is the 12-month on-ramp to repayment, which is going to be
a real benefit to borrowers who may be having trouble getting started
again on their repayments and who may have to skip a payment or two
because they need to get their financial situation together. 

Previously, they may have been put into delinquency or default or seen a
negative mark on their credit report.  We’re going to make sure that
doesn’t happen for the first 12 months.  So that’s a real benefit to
those borrowers. 

And as the Secretary said — and I don’t want people sleeping on this —
this income-based repayment plan that we’re rolling out today that was
finalized is a huge deal.  It is going to save the typical borrower
$1,000 a year on their loan repayments. 

Somebody who is making $50-, $60,000 a year is going to see a
substantial savings and may even end up paying zero dollars in their
monthly payment because of these n- — this new program. 

And, by the way, one concern that people have had about the income-based
repayment program in the past is that if you were making these smaller
payments, your balance would keep growing over time.  One of the reforms
we’re putting in place is making sure that that balance doesn’t grow
over time, even as you are making potentially a zero-dollar payment each
month.

It is a big deal for both current borrowers and for all the future
borrowers who are out there. 

Now, I want to be clear: That’s not a substitute for debt relief, but it
is a huge benefit for borrowers that is going to be available coming
this summer.  And we encourage people to sign up for it. 

Q    You talked about the timeline on this.  It sounds like it’s going
to take a long time.  Are you — is the administration taking any steps
to speed up the regulatory process: shortened deadlines, waiving the
typical public co- — comment requirements?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Well, there are requirements that are laid out in the
law that we have to follow.  At- — but we are committed to doing those
requirements as quickly as we possibly can, while keeping with the
spirit of the law. 

Like I said, we have to do these public hearings.  There has to be a
certain amount of preparation to do the public hearings.  You have to
intake the comments that you get from the public, and then you have to
decide whether to change your proposal accordingly before you do the
next public hearing. 

All of that takes some amount of time.  But as the Secretary made clear,
as the President made clear, we are doing that as quickly as we possibly
can, starting with the fact that we have already initiated the process
today, in just the handful of hours since the Supreme Court issued its
opinion.

Q    Has the administration considered an executive order that would
lower interest rates for these federal loans?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  We looked at a number of possibilities.  The President’s
direction to us was to look at all available legal authorities to figure
out what we can do to provide relief to borrowers.  The specific
proposal that you discussed was not the one that we went with,
eventually. 

We think that this pathway that we have laid out here is the fastest way
to provide the relief to the most amount of borrowers.  And so, that’s
what we’re going with now.  We think it’s legally available.  And we
look forward to providing that relief to borrowers as soon as this
process is done. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Tam, and then we’ll go to the back row.

Q    Are you on totally solid legal footing with the income-based
repayment changes or could there be lawsuits challenging that as well?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  That authority is crystal clear.  There is a specific
statute allowing the Secretary to design these income-based repayment
programs.  And the specific details of this income-based repayment
program are — are clearly within what’s permitted under the statute
there. 

And so, we — I would be surprised, frankly, if there was a legal
challenge to that proposal. 

Q    And you say it’s not a substitute, obviously, for debt
forgiveness.  Are there — and — and I think this is a known answer, so
I’m sorry for even asking it — but, like, how big is the universe of
people who don’t qualify for the income-based repayment who just aren’t
going to be covered by this exciting thing you just offered?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  Every single borrower is eligible for this
program.  Now, the key is that if you’re an extremely high-income
borrower, your income may be so high that the specific benefit, where
you cap your payment at a percentage of your income, doesn’t actually
benefit you because that percentage is still higher than what your
monthly payment would be. 

But it — it stretches pretty far up the income spectrum so that, you
know, the kinds of folks who are eligible for the initial debt relief
program we’re talking about — people making $75-, $80,000 a year — are —
are certainly going to benefit from this. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Courtney.

Q    Thank you.  The opinion touches on the President’s authority to act
without specific permissions on Congress and cites several opinions that
I know have tripped up Biden administration policies over the last
couple of years.  Can you talk about how you see this opinion moving
forward applying in other areas of policymaking that you do?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Well, look, I — I think that it’s kind of in the eye of
the beholder.  Right?  When — when the HEROES Act says that the
Secretary can waive or modify a provision, it seems to me that that is
very clear about what the Secretary’s authorities are.  It is a broad
grant of authority from Congress that was expecting the Secretary to be
act- — acting in an emergency situation. 

There is also a very broad grant of authority in the Higher Education
Act, which talks about the Secretary having the ability to settle or
compromise debts. 

So, look, I — I think that even the Supreme Court would say that this
doctrine is evolving.  It is something that was invented very recently. 
And it has already changed, in our view, in this opinion, compared to
the last opinion in which it came up.  So, we’ll need to keep an eye on
it. 

But from where it stands now, we think that the settlement and
compromise pathway — that Higher Education Act pathway that we talked
about today is going to be a valid pathway that conforms with the — the
major questions doctrine issue that the — the Supreme Court raised
today.

Q    Do you see this doctrine continuing to be an obstacle to different
goals that we have moving forward? 

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Well, it — it seems to be intended to place restrictions
on what the executive branch can do in certain situations, even when, in
our view, Congress speaks clearly about what the executive branch can
and can’t do. 

So we have to take that at face value.  And as we evaluate the
availability of certain administrative actions going forward, we’ll have
to weigh how it would stand up against that new doctrine that the
Supreme Court has issued. 

But again, we think that the pathway that we’re choosing here, the
Higher Education Act, is available even with this doctrine in place.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead. 

Q    Secretary Cardona, are you considering potentially raising the
income threshold for those zero-dollar monthly payments on the IDRs?  Or
is that $33,000 annual number set in stone henceforth?

SECRETARY CARDONA:  It is $33,000.  And I want to make it very clear to
the folks who are paying attention to this that maybe don’t know the
details of it: The income-driven repayment plan that we talked about
today, SAVE — we’re calling it “SAVE” — will cut in half loan payments
for undergraduate students. 

So think about the students that said, “I can’t go to college because I
can’t afford the 600-, 700-dollar…” — those are going to be cut in
half.  It’s going to open doors to higher education for the folks making
less than $33,000, which is your question.  Their threshold — the
threshold of payment is higher than the $33,000.  So if you’re making
less than $33,000, you won’t have a payment.

Q    Is the IRS — or who’s going to be monitoring whether people are
still making that number moving forward?

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Did you want to take that?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  Yeah, as part of the program, you have to submit
your tax return.  So it monitors it on an annual basis.  And I think
there’s actually an obligation that if your income changes
significantly, you have to provide an update.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    From a practical perspective, the millions who’ve already applied
to the program that now has been blocked, that — I noticed the President
was encouraging people to still sign up.  So is the thinking that that
could just be transferred to the new regulation once that’s set up?  Or
how will that work?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah — again, I know this is not particularly
satisfying, but it is too early to say, because we haven’t completed the
rulemaking process yet.  It is clearly the case that, you know, just a
handful of days — I think maybe a little bit over a week — that the
website was available, we had an incredible rush of interest.  You had
16 million people go to the website, fill out the form, and indicate
that they were eligible for debt relief. 

You know, as the President’s remarks made clear today, he certainly
feels for all of the 40 million borrowers but especially those 16
million who went through the process and got a notification saying you
will — “You are going to get your debt relief,” only to have Republican
officials and the Court step in and block that. 

But — but, no, it’s not — it’s too — it’s premature to say whether those
people are necessarily going to be at the front of the line or anything
like that in a new process.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the —

Q    And for months, the White House had said they felt confident about
the law being on their side.  But then also, of course, you guys were
preparing different scenarios, as we’ve now learned.  So what were you
bracing for today?  How surprised were you both about this outcome?  Or
is this really what you expected, given some of the work that was put
into the contingency?

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Look, let me read: The Secretary has the right to
“waive or modify any statutory or regulatory provision” in the form
deemed appropriate by the Secretary to offset national emergency.

That was the legal authority. 

What I want to remind folks is we got a decision from SCOTUS.  I thought
— I think it’s the wrong decision.  Forty-three million people were
waiting for some relief, like some others have gotten in the form of PPP
loan forgiveness.  That didn’t happen. 

Within hours, we started the regulatory process.  We’re not going to
stop fighting.  This President has been very clear, the Vice President
has been very clear: We’re going to put borrowers first; we’re going to
put students first. 

And the President made — someone made reference to when the President
asked folks to go online.  Public Service Loan Forgiveness went from
7,000 people from 2017 to 2021.  We’re at 600,000 people now in two
years.

We’re fighting for students.  We’re fighting for access for higher
education.  We’re going to continue to do that.  And we’re going to do
tha- — we’re going to do that based on legal footing.  We recognize that
this decision today, we had to read it very carefully to make sure we
know which path we’re going to go forward. 

But the bottom line is: The President is going to continue to fight;
we’re going to continue to fight.  Higher education should be accessible
to more people.  And that’s what we’re going to be fighting for. 

Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The Secretary has to go because he has to catch a
flight.

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m going to let him go.

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Bharat, do you mind staying for a couple more
questions?  And then we’ll (inaudible).

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Thank you.  Thank you very much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much.  Happy Fourth.

Q    Thank you.

SECRETARY CARDONA:  Thank you.  Have a good weekend.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, we’ll take a couple more. 

Go ahead.

Q    Yes.  Thank you, Karine.  Question: The Democrats like to
distinguish themselves as being different than Republicans in terms of
this specific law, for example.  But really, neither side is doing
anything about the runaway cost of higher education.  Nobody is really
doing anything.  I mean, this relief doesn’t do anything for future
students. 

So, is either party really any different?  Are you — are Democrats not
just, essentially, as dishonest in their approach as they accuse the
other side of being in terms of the impact that they would have on
students going forward?  Neither — both — both parties are really
beholden to the Wall Street beneficiaries of these runaway interest
rates and these runaway debts.

What are Democrats willing to do about the runaway cost of education?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.

Q    That really is at the heart of the matter.

MR. RAMAMURTI:  No, I think it’s a real problem.  That’s one of the
reasons why when the President announced his plan last August, when he
announced his debt relief plan, there was another key provision in
there, which was a set of policy ideas about holding colleges
accountable for raising prices. 

It was a set of reforms that we were putting in place to make sure
exactly what you said: that colleges can’t get away with continuing to
raise tuition costs for students so that the ability to go to — to go to
college is out of reach for your typical middle-class family.

The Department of Education has already made progress in what’s called
the gainful employment rule, which would restrict whether federal loans
can be used at a particular school if they aren’t showing that people
are graduating from that school and getting higher incomes when they
graduate.    It’s a significant update to that rule that is going to
hold colleges accountable for actually delivering on the promise of
higher education for those students.   
  
And I would also note that the President was able to secure the
single-largest increase in the Pell Grant that we’ve had in the history
of this country so that people, like he said, who make, in almost every
instance, under $60,000 a year — people from families making $60,000 a
year or less — get that additional bump, which is going to open up the
doors for higher education for them.   
  
So we’re trying to come at this from both ends.  We’re trying to help
lower-income, middle-income families afford the cost of college by
providing some direct relief, and we’re holding colleges accountable so
they can’t keep raising prices while delivering poor outcomes for
students.  
  
Q    And a quick follow-up to that.  Republicans have offered to work
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Quick.  Quickly, please.  Quickly.  
  
Q    Yeah, I’ll be very quick.  
  
Republicans have offered to work with the President on measures to
combat this — the actual cost of education.  Is the President willing to
work with the Republicans on that?  Do you believe the Republicans are
sincere?

  
MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, I — look, I think that the President has a long
track record of working with Democrats and Republicans for getting
things done for middle-class families.  He did it a number of times in
the first two years in office.  
  
If it comes to real, serious reforms to the cost of higher education
that aren’t going to cut off pathways for middle-class families and
where the costs of that aren’t being placed on middle-class families,
then I think that the President is willing to work with anybody who has
good ideas on that, in that regard.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Just a couple more and we got to let him
go. 

Go ahead, Gerren.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The White House touted the student debt relief
program as a tool to close the racial wealth gap.  Without it, does the
White House believe that its economic policies can still achieve that
goal and — or that these new actions can help achieve that goal?

  
MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, one of the many reasons why we’re continuing to
pursue this alternative pathway is because the President feels very
strongly that we need to take steps to close that racial wealth gap in
America.  It — you’re right that the initial debt relief program would
have made real strides in that — in that area.  And our goal with
providing debt relief to borrowers — as many borrowers as we can, as
quickly as we can — is to do that, as well.   
  
I mean, I don’t have to tell you, but I think we’ve — we’ve seen the
data about the disparate impact of student loan debt — right? — that
Black borrowers tend to have to borrow more often for going to school,
that they have to borrow more because they tend to have less family
wealth to rely upon, and it takes them longer to repay after they
graduate because, again, they have less family wealth to rely upon.   
  
In fact, there’s data showing that many Black borrowers, in addition to
having to repay their own loans because they had opportunity to go to
college, are helping other people in their family pay off their debts. 
Whereas for other types of borrowers, they’re getting family assistance
to pay off their own loans.   
  
So there’s a really serious issue here.  That’s — it’s one of the many
reasons why the President pursued this debt relief path and why he is
continuing to pursue this alternative pathway now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Great.  Ed, and then Phil.  
  
Q    Yeah, thank you.  I wanted to get at that affordability issue.  So
does the President then blame universities for that affordability
issue?  And do you really think that that rule is working, that you
talked about?  
  
MR. RAMAMURTI:  Well, the rule is still in progress.  It’s going to be
proposed and then ultimately put in place.  But I think when it is in
place, it’s definitely going to go after the — the worst performers in
this space, the colleges and universities that are charging the most and
delivering the worst results.   
  
I think other reforms are necessary.  The President is willing to work
with Congress to talk through what those may be.   
  
But as we said, there’s another goal here, which is to ease some of that
cost in the — in the meantime for lower-income and middle-income
families who are trying to send their kids to school.  And that’s what
the Pell Grant does.   
  
And I would just note that, not so long ago, the Pell Grant — typical
Pell Grant covered about 75 percent of the cost of college.  Now it
covers way less than half the cost of college.  It has been devalued
over time, and that’s one of the reasons why the President has been
aggressive about increasing the size of the Pell Grant.  
  
Q    So the Department of Education has pre-approved 16 million people
for the forgiveness program.  Was that meant to put political pressure
on the court?  Because you knew that this was going through the court
process.  You didn’t have a decision yet.  And were government resources
then wasted on this?

  
MR. RAMAMURTI:  No, I think we explained to borrowers what the process
is going to be: We’re going to set up this website; as soon as you send
us your information, people behind the scenes at the Department are
going to be working extremely quickly to validate your information and
to decide whether you’re approved or not.  That’s exactly what we
did.   
  
The court, unfortunately — the lower court in this case — stepped in
before we could actually take that final step and actually discharge
debt for approved borrowers.  But —  
  
Q    But you took — you took those approvals when the court process was
happening.  You didn’t have an answer.  
  
MR. RAMAMURTI:  Right, but we didn’t know what — that the court was
going to enjoin us from actually doing debt relief.  That was still an
open question at the time.  We had an obligation to borrowers to keep
moving with the process as long as we legally could.   
  
And I want to make one more point here, because the debt relief program
was announced alongside, if you remember, a resumption in payments.  So
we had a student loan pause in effect.  In August, the President
announced that we were going to have this debt relief as a lead-in to
student loan payments resuming in January of this year.   
  
And so, there was a time pressure on us to make sure that borrowers who
were applying were getting their debt relief quickly, before they had
that obligation to start making payments.  Because, of course, that
discharged relief could mean that their payments would go down when they
had to start pay — making payments again.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, one more.  Go ahead, Phil.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  First, the other day, the President said that
this is not a “normal” Court.  While the administration disagrees with
this decision, does the administration think that it is legitimate?  
  
And then, second, isn’t the comparison between student loans and the
Paycheck Protection Program a little bit strained, given that some of
those federal student loans were given with the expectation that they
would be paid back, and then the Paycheck Protection Program loans were
given to employers with the expectation that those loans would be
forgiven if they kept folks on payroll during a pandemic?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, so on your first question, you know, we — we
accept the Court’s ruling.  Of course, we disagree with it.  You know,
we had a chance to review the dissent written by Justice Kagan.  We
largely agree with the points that were made in the dissent. 

You know, in terms of the — the PPP analogy, I think that — that this is
the — the big picture here: As the p- — as we went through the pandemic,
there were a variety of programs put in place to help certain subsets of
the population, and one of the biggest programs that was put in place
was PPP.  That was intended to help small-business owners.  Right? 

And — and I think that we have gone through with those loan
forgivenesses — as the — as the President has said: $780 billion worth
of — of loan forgiveness.  But I think that the real hypocrisy, in his
view, is that a lot of that loan forgiveness was happening over the last
year, year and a half.  And at any time, all of the Republicans in
Congress who are saying to us, “This debt relief program is
unacceptable” could have also been saying, “Hey, take it easy on doing
all this debt forgiveness.” 

You know, a lot of these small-business owners actually did really well
in the pandemic.  Shouldn’t we take a second look at whether all of
these loans should be forgiven?  They’re costing taxpayers hundreds of
billions of dollars. 

And we never got a single bit of incoming from Republicans saying, “Slow
down PPP forgiveness.”  In fact, the incoming we got was people saying,
“Do it faster.  Make it easier for people to qualify for forgiveness.”

So, yeah, we think that there is a real tension between that and the
idea that if we’re going to try and give $10,000 to a nurse or a
firefighter, that that somehow is unacceptable or crosses the line in —
from acceptable government relief to unacceptable government relief. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Ebony — Ebony, you have — you have the last question. 
This is (inaudible) question. 

Q    Thank you.  You mentioned that there were a number of things that
you were considering, but — but you said why you went with the two that
— that you did.  My question is: If you don’t get the projected outcome
that you want — which you s- — haven’t said what that number is — are
there a number of other measures that you are considering, like other —
whether it’s canceling some of the interest or looking at the PSLF,
maybe changing even some of the en- — some of the jobs that would be
required for that or any other measures if this doesn’t give you the
desired outcome?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, I want to make clear that we’re moving out on
multiple fronts.  Today, we announced two new steps.  Right?  We
announced pursuing the Higher Education Act rulemaking process, and we
announced the 12-month on-ramp to repayment.

The changes to — to Public Service Loan Forgiveness, they’re already
taking place.  And as the Secretary pointed out, up until this
administration, something like 7,000 people total had gotten Public
Service Loan Forgiveness.  Even though you had teachers and members —
service members who had met the requirements, they weren’t able to get
their relief.

We have taken incredible steps to fix that program.  And now 600,000
people have gotten that relief.  So we’re moving out on the PSLF front. 

We’re moving out on the income-based repayment front.  Remember, this is
going to me- — be a massive savings for a lot of borrowers.  Your
typical borrower is saving $1,000 a year on their repayment. 

And, by the way, there are some changes in — in that program as well,
such that if you are — have lower amounts of debt, like you went to a
community college, you’re actually on a faster pathway to getting your
loans forgiven, such that the typical community college student is going
to get their loans forgiven within 10 years. 

So we’re — as Secretary Cardona said: There has never been a president
and there has never been an administration that has come close to
providing the support and relief for student loan borrowers that this
administration has.  And we’re committed to doing that because student
loan borrowers are the types of middle-class folks that this President
thinks are really important to this economy doing well. 

To take it back to the question about Bidenomics: When we talk about
growing the economy from the bottom up and the middle out, that’s what
this relief program was about.  Ninety percent of it went to people
making under $75,000 a year, and now that’s been ripped away. 

We’re not going to stand for that.  We’re not going to let that lie as
it is.  We’re going to move forward on every other pathway we can to get
those middle-class folks their relief.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you, Bharat.

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Thanks. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Appreciate it.

Q    Can you give us the website again before you go?  I’m sorry.  The
name of the website?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  For PSLF? 

Q    Just for the new relief that you’re onboarding.

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Oh.  So, if you go to StudentAid.gov, you will see FAQs
about some of the steps that we’re taking. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you, Bharat.  
  
MR. RAMAMURTI:  All right.  Thanks.  Thanks, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Happy Fourth. 

MR. RAMAMURTI:  You too.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much.  All right. 

Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Take a few more since it’s after five o’clock on a
Friday.  (Laughter.)

Colleen.

Q    Why not?  Let’s keep going. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, why not?  (Laughter.)

Q    Okay.  I have a question about the Court rulings this week.  So, if
the — if the Supreme Court doesn’t reflect the views of the American
people, like Biden has said, should he be embracing a proposal to change
the Court?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I just want to — as you know — and I talked
about this a little bit during the gaggle yesterday, which was — you all
were asking me about the — the commission that the President was very
proud to put together.  It was diverse.  It had legal voices from the
right, from the left.  And it was something that you had never seen
before.  And it was incredibly important, the President thought, was —
to do.

And obviously, he read the report.  Don’t have any — don’t have any
decisions to — to lay out at this time.  So, certainly, I’m not going to
get ahead of the President. 

I know people have asked about expanding the Court.  He’s been very
clear: That’s not something that he wants to do, as it relates to that. 

Look, the President is — is — certainly has made himself very clear
about how he sees these Court decision.  And the ra- — the reason why he
said that is — it’s pretty clear — right? — when you think about the
Dobbs decision, when you think about Roe v. Wade, this is something that
was constitutional for almost 50 years — almost 50 years. 

And, you know, some of these decisions on these big kind of items that
have been reversed were decided by both Republicans and Democrats. 
Right?  And so that is — that is not the norm when you reverse something
that was almost 50 years.   
  
You think about affirmative action, also — and the President said this
yesterday — decades — decades, again, decided by Republicans and
Democrats.  And so that has been reversed. 

So, you know, I — I’m not going to go beyond what the President said. 
But if you lay that out, that’s pretty clear.  And this is also a
president that was the chair of the Judiciary Committee — right? — when
he was se- — when he was a senator — right? — who was able — who
understands this process, respects this process, is an expert in this
process. 

So when you have someone with — like the President, who has this
experience, and says that, you know, he’s not saying it because it’s a
feeling; he’s saying it because he has seen this over and over a year —
over and over — over the decades and how Supreme Court have acted and
how they’ve taken action. 

And so, you know, don’t have anything beyond what the President said
yesterday and what he has said many times about when he’s been asked
directly about the Court.  But it’s — you know, I’ll lay it out for the
American people, and they can see themselves and — and make their
decisions for themselves.

Q    Thank you so much, Karine.  I have two questions.  I wanted to
follow up a little bit on that.  These decisions of the Supreme Court
here have begi- — big repercussions in other countries.  Some are
assessing implications on their own societies.  So do you have any
message to those countries watching what is taking place here?

Any — on yesterday, the President commented that “this is not a normal
Court.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Does he have any solution for that?  What is — what can he do?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, one of the things that the President has
done since the beginning of this administration is make sure that he put
nominees forward in the judicial — when you think about judicial level —
right? — the federal court — that are — that is diverse.  He’s gotten
136 people through, nominees through.  And we’re talking about diverse
candidates that reflect — and you heard — you hear this over and over
from us, right?  We want an administration, that includes the court,
that looks like America.  And that’s what this President has done. 

And I think that’s an action that he has been very deliberate about,
very — very methodical about so that we can have a court system that is
reflective, a court system that is fair, a court system that is
diverse.  And so that is an action that he has taken, again, almost from
day one. 

Q    Another — and another question about the news — breaking news
today.  Today, the Brazil Electoral Court voted to ban former President
Bolsonaro from running for office for eight years because of his
election fraud claim.  I wonder if you guys have any reaction to that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, we’ve seen the reports.  I’m just —
don’t have a comment at this time.

Go ahead.

Q    House Foreign Affairs Chairman Michael McCaul released a statement
a couple of minutes ago criticizing the administration for only
releasing 24 of the 87 pages of the Afghanistan after-action report, and
saying, “This is another blatant attempt to hide the Biden
administration’s culpability in the chaotic and deadly evacuation from
Afghanistan.”  Do you have a response to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, yeah, a couple of things.  I have not seen his
statement, since you just said it happened a couple of minutes ago.  So
I want to be mindful.  I don’t like to respond to things I haven’t
seen. 

But first, I would say I would refer you to the State Department.  They
released this — this resport \[sic\] — this report.  So any specific
questions that you have, certainly would refer you there. 

But more broadly, on the transparency question: Look, this
administration has consistently provided updates, information on the
withdrawal from Afghanistan.  We have provided that information. 
Anytime that we have been asked, we have done so. 

And a couple of examples is thousands of pages of documents — thousands
of pages of documents and analysis, spreadsheets, and written responses
to questions that we have received, that we have gotten from the
committee, from — from Congress; hundreds of briefings to bipartisan
members and staff, public congressional testimony that many of you have
covered and — and talked about.  These have been done by senior
officials. 

So when you look at those — and that’s just the facts.  That’s the data
that tells you how transparent and how responsive this administration
has been.  Anything related to the release from the State Department,
any specifics, I certainly would refer you to them. 

Q    But amid criticism from Republicans that the administration has
tried to downplay its culpability in the evacuation mayhem and the
things that went wrong as the U.S. was pulling out, what message does it
send to release this long-anticipated report on a Friday on a heavy news
day ahead of a holiday weekend?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, that is a State Department decision, so I
would have to refer you to them.  But your first question — your first
part of the question — right? — we were — you were talking about
transparency.  I just laid out thousands of pages of documents, just
laying it out.  Analysis, just laying it out.  Spreadsheets, just laying
it out.  Responses to questions.  We’re —

Q    So you disagree with the premise?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I disagree with the premise, but I’m also laying
out what we’ve actually done.  Right?  We’ve actually laid out and have
conversation.  You’ve seen senior officials take questions — tough
questions — in a bipartisan way on this issue.  And we’ve — we have
delivered on hundreds and hundreds — thousands — pardon me — of pages of
information.  Hundreds of briefings. 

So that’s being transparent.  That’s being there and answering and
taking those tough questions. 

And so, yeah, I disagree with the premise — the premise of the question,
but, again, I just laid out the facts for you.  And it’s been there;
it’s for all of you to see.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you — just on the report, has the President
reviewed it or been briefed on it?  He was just asked about it in the
Roosevelt Room, and he said, “Read your press.”  And I wasn’t really
clear what he was trying to say there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I didn’t — I didn’t hear — I know that he was
asked about the — about this particular review or this action —
after-action review that was given.

Look, what I can speak to is more broadly what the President has said. 
And I think this is what he was referring to: He had to make a tough
decision.  Right?  In the beginning of his administration, he had to
make a tough decision on what to do with the nation’s — with the
nation’s longest war — right? — where we were seeing, you know, billions
of dollars go into a war that had no end in sight, where our — our
members of the military were put at risk. 

And so, he wanted to stop that.  He wanted to end that.  And he also
wanted to — and this is part of what he said at the end, which is he
wanted to make sure that we remain vigilant against terrorism.  And
that’s what he was laying out — right? — the threats that they were —
that have been demonstrated. 

And so, we took — as you know, we took a leader of al Qaeda without
having any troops — any troops on the ground.  And so, that’s what he
was talking about is keeping our promise, making sure that we keep
Americans safe, making sure that we make sure that we put the American
people’s interests first.  And so that’s what you have seen this
President do. 

Q    The report specifically says that senior administration officials
were to blame for the chaotic exit; for failing to decide which Afghans
should be elible \[sic\] — eligible for evacuation; and for issuing
changing guidance. 

Do you agree with the report?  Do you accept responsibility for this
chaos?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I am — the report came from the State
Department.  It’s an action — after-action report.  I will just let it
speak for itself.  I’m just not going to comment further.  This is a
State Department report.  Clearly, it is part of the administration.  If
that’s what it lays out, that’s what it lays out.

Go ahead.

Q    Can you explain why — what he means by —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead. 

Q    — he said, “We’d get help from the Taliban,” Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    You had the Supreme Court ruling yesterday on college admissions,
the rulings today.  Two things.  How do you view this as a whole?  How
big a setback is this to the President’s agenda?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the President has been really clear. 
You heard from the Secretary, you heard from the President.  We’re going
to continue to fight.  We think the Supreme Court got it wrong.  We’ve
been very clear about that.

This is — you know, when you think more broadly about, especially
student loan, the student debt relief and what the President put
forward, this is part of a little bit of what Bharat was talking about. 
This is part of Biden- — Bidenomics.  Right?  This is part of what the
President has been trying to do for the last two years, which is give
the American people a little bit more relief. 

And you see that it has worked.  When you think about 13 million jobs
created.  When you think about an unemployment rate at below 4 percent. 
These are the things, because of the actions that this President has
taken, has worked.  And it started with the American Rescue Plan.  You
saw the bipartisan infrastructure legislation, the Inflation Reduction
Act.  And the student debt relief is all part of that.

There are real people across the country who are still suffering, who
need a little bit of help. 

You know, when — when the Secretary started, he gave a very passionate
intro about who — who would have been benefited from this debt relief,
and it is 90 percent — right? — 90 percent of the people in that plan,
who make $75,000 or less, would have benefited.  And the President
talked about this, too.  Why would we not want to give relief to those
people? 

And it is unfortunate that Republicans think the — that — that they
don’t need relief.  And it’s — we’re talking about people in their own
district. 

And so that is what is truly disappointing about that, but it’s not
going to set us back.  It’s — it’s a setback for the moment, but it’s
not going to set back to the pro- — the President’s broader plan and how
he sees building the economy, not leaving anybody behind and not doing a
trickle — a trickle-down, but actually doing it with a — with building
out the middle — to building up the middle class and doing it from the
bottom up.  And that’s the President’s commitment to this.

Go ahead.

Q    Today —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I see, Colleen is — Colleen is near — at the edge of
her seat. 

Go ahead.

Q    Sorry. 

Q    Today is the deadline that the President set back in December for
the national archivist to release the remaining records about JFK’s
assassination.  Has the President been updated about the progress?  What
is the remaining number of records that will remain classified?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so I do have an update for you.  As part of the
Biden-Harris administration’s continued commitment to government
transparency, accountability, the President — President Biden issued a
memorandum today concluding the review of records from the President
John — from President John F.  Kennedy assassination records
collection. 

Under President Biden’s leadership agencies have fully declassified over
16,000 records since 2021.  This action reflects his instruction that
all information related to President Kennedy’s assassination should be
released, except when the strongest possible reasons council otherwise. 

As a result, over 99 percent of the records in the collection are now
publicly available at the National Archives.  In keeping with the
President’s direction, the National Archives will be digitizing the
entire collection to make it more accessible to the public. 

Any — any other specifics or any additional information, I certainly
will refer you to the National Archives to have a — to answer any
additional questions on this. 

But that was done today. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  On 303 Creative, what is an “expressive original
design”? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.

Q    Do you feel like you have a sense — a clearer sense of who this
actually impacts — this decision today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I don’t have like a number or a list of who —
of who this is going to impact.

What we know and understand is this was — this was a — the wrong
decision.  This was incredibly disappointing that decision was made. 
It’s certainly going to impact for sure the LGBTQ+ community.  It opens
up — it opens up an entry — a pathway for — for that community to be
even more discriminated upon. 

And so, after you’ve seen this type of, you know, statehouse session
where we see more than 600 anti-LGBTQ+ bills, including a few hundred
that go after trans kids and their parents, it is incredibly
disappointing.  It is incredibly disappointing. 

This is a vulnerable community, along with others, that have been under
attack — under attack.  And so the President — you saw the President’s
statement.  He’s been very clear about this.  We do have our concerns. 
And we certainly are going to call it out. 

We have said very — I said very clearly that we’re going to continue to
push for the Equality Act, which we think is incredibly important that
Congress should act on that.  And so, look, we’re going to do everything
that we can to protect these vulnerable communities, as the President
has been doing since day one.

Q    Got it.  But the Court tries to distinguish in its decision — the
Gorsuch’s decision — between a service and a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — an expressive design.  And I’m just trying to get a sense of if
you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —

Q    — feel like you understand that distinction?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I hear you.  I’m just not going to get into
specifics. 

More broadly, this is a problem.  Right?  This is clear discrimina- —
this is going to — clearly opened another avenue, another door to
discriminating against a vulnerable community.  And so, the President is
going to continue to enforce federal anti-discrimination protections,
and he’s going to call on Congress to move forward with the Equality
Act. 

And that’s what I think the American people need to hear.  That’s what
the community need to hear, that we’re going to do everything that we
can to protect them. 

All right, I’m going to take one last question, and try and call
somebody I haven’t called on. 

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Karine, can we clarify about Afghanistan, please? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I don’t have anything else to add on
Afghanistan.

Q    Can you just explain what the President said when he said, “I said
we’d” —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just — I —

Q    — “get help from the Taliban”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I literally just — I literally just answered that
question to your colleague.  I’m trying to explain to you where I
thought he was coming from.  I literally just went into that.

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Go ahead. 

Q    Hi.  Just a follow-up and another question after that.  A follow-up
to the discussion about the racial wealth gap and the burden of student
loan debt on African Americans, especially Black women.  The United
Negro College Fund is asking for the Pell Grants to be doubled, because
students at historically Black colleges and universities qualify for
that nearly — nearly three out of four of them qualify for that.  Is
this something the administration is willing to push Congress to do?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think that’s a little bit of what Bharat was
saying, when he was up here, what the President has done.  He — he did
expand the Pell Grant, right?  Remember, he was talking about it used to
cover about 50 percent or more and now it’s lost — it’s gotten
devalued.  And so, one of the things that the President did very early
on is to expand the Pell Grant, and especially for African American
communities and communities that really need that extra help.  And so,
that is something that we have done. 

And look, I’m not going to — not going to talk specifically about other
things that we’re going to do outside of the plan that the President
announced, outside of the — the — the details that both the Secretary
and — and also Bharat spoke to, but this is something we understand the
— the inequalities — right? — that we see in the — in this country that
still exist.  The President talked about that in his remarks on
affirmative action.  This is a real thing that communities have to deal
with. 

And so, this is a President — everything that he has done, every policy,
especially as we talk about the economy, at the center of that has
always been equity, always been equality, making sure we leave no one
behind and we build an economy that — that is different, that is not
trickle-down economics, that is something that we build from the bottom
up, middle out.  And we — and also expand in the middle class.  And
that’s something that the President’s going to continue to do. 

All right, everybody. 

Q    And the — oh, and the second question.  The second question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  What’s your second question?

Q    The President has blamed Republicans for doing everything in their
power to block the student loan forgiveness program, but this was
ultimately the Supreme Court’s decision.  Why the blame on Republicans?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the Republicans — during the budget
negotiations, as you all know, they tried to strip — they tried to take
away — that was something that they wanted to put on the chopping blocks
was the student debt relief.  They were very clear about that. 

And so, what the President did was protect it, and that was something
that he — he fought just a couple of months ago.  And he’s been fighting
for this since he announced the student debt relief plan. 

So, yes, Republicans have been wanting to get rid of this plan.  Again,
something — this is a plan that’s going to give relief to 90 percent of
— of the folks who make less than $75,000.  Why would we not want to
offer that up — that relief to people who truly, truly need it,
especially after going through what folks have gone through the last
three years: this pandemic that has hurt so many families?

And so, you know, that’s just the fact.  That’s what we had to fight
for. 

Now, we do think the Supreme Court got it wrong.  And it is unfortunate,
which is why we came up with a plan B.  And we’re going to execute on
that plan. 

Thanks, everybody.  Happy Fourth.   
  
5:28 P.M. EDT
