---
date: '2023-06-02'
published_time: 2023-06-02 19:23:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/06/02/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-37/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:33 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Just doing a little housekeeping there.  (Laughs.)  
  
Okay.  So, today we learned that 339,000 jobs were created last month. 
That’s more than 13 million jobs created since President Biden took
office.  Unemployment has been below 4 percent for almost a year and a
half.  The last time our nation had such a long stretch of low
unemployment was in the 1960s.  The share of working-age Americans in
the workforce is also at its highest level in 16 years.  
  
The President’s leadership to avert default means we will continue to
deliver good jobs for the American people in communities throughout the
country.  
   
The bipartisan budget agreement protects our historic and hard-earned
economic recovery and all the progress that American workers have made
in the last two years.  
  
Members of Congress from both parties came together to prevent a
catastrophic default and demonstrated once more that America is a nation
that pays its bills and meets its obligations — and will always be.  It
is a testament to the President’s strength that more Democrats than
Republicans in both house of Congress voted for this bill.  
  
The work is far from finished, but this bipartisan agreement is a
reminder of what’s possible when we act in the best interest of our
country.  
  
Now, yesterday, as you all know, marked the first day of Pride Month. 
The Biden-Harris administration joins Americas across — Americans across
the country to celebrate the strength, resilience, and bravery of the
LGBTQI+ community and reaffirm our commitment to fight for equality and
freedom for all people.   
  
The reality is: This year has been really scary for our community.
People are being treated — threatened, intimidated, and targeted for who
they are and who they love.  
  
This year alone, more than 600 anti-LGBTQI bills have been filed in
statehouses across the country, and a significant portion of those bills
target transgender youth.   
  
As President Biden says, these young people are some of the bravest
people he knows, but no one should have to be brave to be themselves.   
  
It’s why the President has taken historic steps to advance equality for
LGBTQI community and protect civil rights.  
  
He was proud to sign an executive order directing federal agencies to
protect LGBTQI families and youth, support youth mental health, and stop
harmful conversion therapy policies.  
  
DOJ is actively supporting challenges to state laws that target
transgender kids.  
  
In light of the Dobbs decision, he took action to protect marriage
equality by signing into law the Respect for Marriage Act.  
  
And he continues to call on Congress to pass the Equality Act to
enshrine civil rights protections for LGBTQI+ Americans in federal
law.  
  
On behalf of the administration, I will say to the LGBTQ+ community that
we see you, we love you, and we will continue to celebrate you not just
this month, but every month.  
  
We’re going to continue to stand alongside you and fight back against
these attacks, and we’re going to remain focused on advancing equality
for all people across the country.  
  
Now, today, as you all know as well, we’re also marking National Gun
Violence Awareness Day.  And in recognition, the White House will be lit
in orange lights this evening.  And many of us are wearing orange, as
you can see from what I’m wearing today — all orange — as we remember
the thousands of Americans killed and injured in acts of gun violence
across our nation.  
     
As some of you may know, this observance started a decade ago after a
15-year-old girl named Ha- — Hadiya Pendleton was shot and killed on a
playground in Chicago, just one week after marching in President Obama’s
second inaugural parade.  Soon after this tragedy, Hadiya’s friends
commemorated her life by wearing orange.  They chose this color because
it’s what hunters wear in the woods to protect themselves from others. 
“Wear Orange” is now observed every June.  
  
As the President said this morning in his statement, he’s proud to have
signed the most significant gun safety legislation in decades and dozens
of executive actions.  But as we all know, it is nearly not enough.  
   
It will take congressional action to make the kinds of meaningful
reforms we need to keep our communities safe like kids like Hadiya.  
  
Today, Vice President Harris will also deliver remarks at John Lewis
High School, where she will talk about the administration —
administration’s actions to reduce gun violence and call on young people
to continue leading efforts to end gun violence and save lives.  
   
Today and every day, the President and the First Lady are praying for
the victims of gun violence across America and for the survivors who
will carry trauma for the rest of their lives.  
  
And the President continues to call on Congress to act on commonsense
reforms that will curb our gun violence epidemic, like establishing
universal background checks, requiring safe storage of firearms, and
finally banning assault weapons and high-capacity magazine.   
  
Now, finally, this weekend — just to give you guys a week ahead of
what’s going to be happening in the next couple of days — the President
will remain in Washington, D.C.   
  
On Monday afternoon, the President will welcome Prime Minister Mette
*Frederik-sen* — Frederiksen — of Denmark to the White House to further
strengthen the deep and enduring ties between the United States and
Denmark.    
  
Later, the President will welcome the Kansas City Chiefs to the White
House to celebrate their championship season and victory in the Super
Bowl LVII.   
  
On Tuesday, the President will hold a Cabinet meeting.  The Vice
President, per usual, will participate in that Cabinet meeting as
well.  
  
On Thursday morning, the President will greet Prime Minister Sunak and
Mrs. Murty of the United Kingdom of an official working visit to further
deepen the relationship — the close and historic relationship and
partnership between the United States and the United Kingdom.  
  
Then, the President will hold a bilateral meeting with the Prime
Minister.  
  
In the afternoon, as I mentioned before, the President will host a joint
press conference with the Prime Minister as well.   
  
In the evening, the President will host a Pride Celebration with Betty
Who on the South Lawn.  
  
Friday evening, the President and the First Lady will travel to Camp
David.   
  
On Sunday, the President and the First Lady will return to the White
House from Camp Da- — Camp David.   
  
In the evening, the President and the First Lady will host a reception
for the Ford’s Theater Gala at the White House.   
  
Finally — finally, finally — on a bittersweet note, we hope you’ll join
us today in saying goodbye to our valued member of the White House press
team.   
  
You all know Hi’ilei Haru as the always-kind, always-smiling press
wrangler who keeps events running smoothly.  What you may not know is
that Hi’ilei is a lawyer and a business school graduate who spent the
last 10 months of her Presidential Management fellow and — here with us,
as you all know.  And she has been an indispensable member of our
team.   
   
We will miss you, Hi’ilei.  We will miss your kindness.    
  
And also, apparently — I don’t — didn’t know anything about this, but
you have brought in Hawaiian snacks before, which I never tried — so I
don’t know how I got left out of this — but she brings them to the
office.  And her willingness to take on any challenge to help the White
House press team and the reporters we work with.  
  
I know many of you will join me tonight and — for the goodbye
festivities this evening.  And if you cannot join us this evening,
please come to the Lower Press and please say goodbye to our press team
member and also our favorite lawyer as well.   
  
I think you have something to share with our friends here in the room. 
You can try some of these Hawaiian treats that I’ve never had to try. 
(Laughter.)  Or —  
  
I think one thing we could be known for as this press team is giving a
lot of treats.  (Laughter.)  We love to share.  
  
Q    Well, thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re very welcome.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    *Mahalo*.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There you go.  *Mahalo*.  That’s right, Nancy.  Nancy
knows.  
  
Okay, with that, let’s get going.  Chris.

Q    Hello.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What you got for us?  
Q    So, the President had the fall yesterday.  The White House has said
that he’s fine.  Was he checked out by a doctor?  What was that
examination like?  What was the result of that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just want to just remind everybody what the
President was in Colorado Springs for yesterday.  He was there to — to
offer his thanks to the dedicated brave women and — men and women who
were graduating and about to serve in the Air Force.  And he was proud —
very proud to shake the hands of more than 900 of them beforehand.

So, I just want to make sure that we are aware: As Commander-in-Chief,
that is why he was there.  And he was incredibly proud to do so.

And just to — just, you know, make sure we clear the record here: He
tripped over a bag — a sandbag on the stage and — briefly; he tripped
and got up.  And he — he got — got right back up and continued —
continued what he was there to do.

He did not — he — there was no need for the doctor to see him, as it was
related to the fall.  And he’s doing fine.   
  
You saw — most of — some of you saw him last night when he returned,
getting off Marine One on the South Lawn.  He spoke to this.  So, I
would refer you back to his comments.  And so, I’ll just leave it there.

Q    Another question on his speech yesterday at the Air Force Academy. 
He expressed a lot of confidence that Sweden would be accepted into
NATO.  What is the source of his confidence?  And Biden spoke with
Erdoğan earlier this week.  Was there an assurance given there that made
him more confident about this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to go into private discussions or
conversation that he had with — with Erdoğan.  I mentioned a couple days
ago that the President did bring up Sweden and NATO.  And so, the
President continues to be confident.  And — and he’s hopefully — we hope
that this will definitely occur, that we’ll see Sweden be part of the
NATO Alliance.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  What can you tell us about the President’s remarks
tonight in the Oval Office?  What’s behind the decision to do it tonight
and in that setting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just a little bit — well, one of the things I can
say why — why the Oval Office, why tonight: As you all know, we’ve been
talking about averting a catastrophic default for the past couple of
weeks, the past couple of month, and how it was important months, and
how important it was for the President to do that.

There is a gravity, as you all can imagine, of this moment. And so, the
President wanted to make sure that he addressed the American people
directly.  And he’s going to be speaking, clearly, from the Oval Office,
behind the Resolute Desk, to the American people for the first time, and
so — during a primetime — clearly, at seven o’clock — during primetime
hour.

And so, he just wanted to make sure that the American people understood
how important it was to get this done, how important it was to do this
in a bipartisan way.  This would have been a first-ever default.  We’ve
listed out what could have happened.  We — created a recession,
potentially — triggered a recession; lose millions of jobs, up to 8
million jobs; increased costs for all Americans.

When we’re talking about retirement account- — accounts and devastating
paychecks, that’s what could have happened by Monday if we didn’t get
this done; caused chaos and cata- — and catastrophe in the world
economy; and undermined the full faith and credit of — of the United
States. 

That’s what was able to averted in a bipartisan way.  And so the
President wants to lay that out for the American people, and that’s what
you’re going to hear him do today.

Q    Fitch is now warning that the U.S. credit rating is still, though,
at risk even once this deal is done.  How confident are you that a d- —
how confident are you that a downgrade will be avoided?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as I — as we all saw, we saw a bipartisan
agenda come together in a way that the — in a way that Congress should
work, right?  And it was — it was majority — we saw a majority of
bipartisanship from both chambers of Congress pass a strong — a strong
fiscal responsibility proposal that will reduce the deficit by more than
a trillion dollars.  That is important to note.  And it ensures that the
government will continue to meet our commit- — commitments, which is
important to do as well.

So, look, the Treasury market remains the safest, the deepest, and the
most liquid market in the world.  And so, I’ll just leave it there as
what we — by basically laying out what we’ve been able to do.  And I
think that’s important for the world to see.

Q    And just any updates on when he’ll actually sign the bill at this
point?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, it won’t be today.  The — the House and the Senate
have to do their business.  And so, we’re going to work very quickly
with them to get this done, to make sure we can sign it, hopefully, as
soon as — as soon as tomorrow.  But we have to let the House and the
Senate do what they need to do so it can get to us, so the President can
sign it.

Go ahead.

Q    Fitch, in their statement today, said that the “repeated political
standoffs” is what was lowering their confidence.  In the President’s
speech tonight, will he lay out any kind of plan to avoid this standoff
going forward?  And could he potentially address the use of the 14th
Amendment?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to, certainly, get ahead of
what the President will say today.  As the fo- — as it relates to the
14th Amendment, the President has spoken to that numerous of times. 
What was important for him is to get this — was to get this deal done
and to take default off the table, which is what we saw happen these
past couple of days.

Look, the President wants to make sure that the American people
understand and understood what occurred.  Congress came together — the
leaders came together to agree on a bipartisan — bipartisan budget
agreement that protects our — the economic progress that we made and
that will protect — protect not the — not just the economy, but also the
American people.

And so, look, when we think about the Investing in America, what the
President proposed — those historic pieces of legislation — those were
protected: the CHIPS and Science Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure
law.  Think about the veterans that — the PACT Act.  Think about all
those important pieces of legislation that’s going to make sure that we
continue to grow an economy from the bottom up and middle out.  Those
are the things that the President was able to protect — Social Security,
Medicare, Medicaid.

And so all of these things are incredibly important, and he’s going to
lay that out.  And I’m just not going to get ahead of him too much.

Q    Okay.  And then, last night, you guys put out a readout of a call
with President Obama where you said they discussed this debt deal but
also other topics.  What were some of the other topics they discussed? 
And why did you decide to read out this call?  I mean, my understanding
was that they spoke, you know, somewhat regularly.  Do they —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, they speak regularly.  As we know, there was the
debt limit situation that was occurring, and so I think it was important
for us to — for us to read it out to let them know that the President —
President Obama and President Biden spoke.

No particular — no specific, particular reasoning.  But just in the
moment, we wanted to readout this conversation that they had.  And I
know sometimes people ask when they speak.  And we thought, because of
the debt limit, because of the bipartisanship that we saw happening in
the last couple of days, it was important to also lay out that the
President — President Obama and President Biden spoke.

Q    And in terms of the other topics that they —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not going to get into it from here.  I’m sure we will
be — we will hear more on what those other topics are.  You know, the
President — President Obama has been here a couple times.  But I just
don’t have anything else to lay out specifically.  
  
Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Joey.

Q    Yeah, thanks, Karine.  Is the President concerned with the
precedent that this debt ceiling standoff that we’re coming out of sets,
perhaps, in terms of how a party — Republicans in this case — not in the
White House might try to pass policies, pass their objectives,
priorities in the future?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Meaning we’ll — say that one more time.  
  
Q    Yeah, I mean, does this — is he concerned that this sets a
precedent, in terms of how Republicans might try to enact, pass policies
down the road during the next time we get to a debt ceiling maxed out?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I think that the fact that this is a
President that was able to bring both sides together and get this done
on behalf of the American people, I think that’s important.  I think
that’s what we’re going to point to.  
  
I can’t speak to what Republicans in Congress are going to do or might
not do or get into hypotheticals.  I think what’s important here is that
we avoided, averted something that could have been incredibly
catastrophic to our economy and hurt American families.  And so that’s
going to be our focus.  
  
You know, I’m not going to get into hypotheticals from here, but I think
that what you have seen, what you’ve all been reporting and seeing the
past two weeks people didn’t think would happen, right?  People didn’t
have the confidence that the President would bring both sides together
to make this happen.  And it did.  
  
And so that’s import- — on behalf of the American people — the American
people won here, and I think that’s important to speak to.  
  
Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    Karine, you mentioned the Danish Prime Minister coming on Monday. 
What does the President think of her?  And would he consider —
(laughter) — ask — well, there’s a reason I ask that —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
Q    — which is: Is he thinking of asking her to stand for NATO General
Se- — Secretary General?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I could say that the two leaders have a
broad agenda that they will discuss on Monday.  They will review our
efforts as NATO Allies and close partners to strengthen transatlantic
security and bolster economic prosperity.  They will discuss our
unwavering support for Ukraine in the face of Russia’s brutal war of
aggression.  And I expect our joint efforts to train Ukraine — Ukrainian
pilots on the fourth-generation aircraft, including F-16s, will be part
of that conversations.  
  
And so they’re going to coordinate on a range of issues, whether it’s
climate change, energy security, global issues.   
  
And so he’s looking forward — the President, I can say, is looking
forward to his conversation with her.  They had a good conversation when
they met in NATO Summit in Madrid — I’m sorry, last year in NATO Summit
in Madrid.  And so he’s looking forward to continuing those type — that
conversation.  
  
I’m just not going to get ahead of anything specific.  Clearly, we’ll
have a — you all — there will be a bilat.  You’ll have an opportunity to
— to see their relationship up close.  And — and we’ll probably have a
readout once they have — once they’re done with their — their extended
bilateral on Monday.  
  
Q    And anything on speculation that she might be in line for the next
— to be NATO Secretary General?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to get into any speculation as far
as that.  
  
Q    Let me ask you as well about this weekend’s OPEC meeting.  Does the
White House have any expectation or any signal or desire for what may
come out of that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, we’re not — we’re not members of OPEC
— OPEC+.  I’m not going to get into what conversation or what may come
out of that.  
  
And so I’m just going to leave it there and see — and we’ll — we’ll all
see what comes out of those discussions.  
  
Q    And one quick follow-up on the earlier question about his remarks
tonight.  Can you — can you explain more as to why he chose the Oval?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, he chose the Oval because this was a — really
the gravity of the situation of what could have happened, you know, if
we indeed averted — didn’t avert, I should say, you know, defaulting. 
It could have been catastrophic.  Could have been catastrophic.   
  
And so he wanted to talk directly to the American people about what we
have been able to do in a bipartisan way with his leadership: coming up
with a budget agreement that’s going to cut the deficit, as I just
explained moments ago, by a trillion dollars, but also saved some
important programs that Americans need, just — just some basic, basic
things that American needs every day.  
  
And so, when you think about healthcare, when you think about Social
Security, Medicare, Medicaid — all of these things were certainly
potential for — for being cut.  Twenty-one million — 21 million peo- —
million people losing healthcare.  That matters.  
  
And so the President wanted to — wants to lay that out, wants to talk
directly to the American people and talk about how we were able to come
together and deliver for — for American families.   
  
That’s important.  We think that’s important.  So he’s going to use, you
know, his first Oval — Oval address to talk directly to them.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hey.  Thanks, Karine.  I wanted to drill a little bit further on
the display of bipartisanship you talked about.  Two relating
questions.  Has the President talked to Speaker McCarthy since
legislation passed or extended an offer for him to come to the White
House or the Oval?  Or —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, don’t have a conversation beyond what we laid out
a couple days ago after the House — the House passed the — their version
of the bill.  The President certainly spoke to Speaker McCarthy after
that — after that passage.  They’ve spoken — they’ve met about three
times in the past — in the — in the last month.  They’ve spoken several
times.  
  
And as you saw on Monday, the President thanked Speaker McCarthy for
coming together and having this — for coming together and having this
bipartisan agreement.  
  
I don’t have more to share as to the Speaker.  Clearly, they will be
talking and meeting a lot more on different — on different legislative
agendas and issues, but I just don’t have anything else to share beyond
that.  
  
Q    Well, and on that, I wonder if people can glean from this that
there’s a — that you guys have more of a template for how to deal with
the Speaker in an era of divided government with these negotiations
ultimately coming up successful.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I think what you saw in display — in
full display the last couple of weeks — and, look, maybe there’s a
template; maybe there isn’t.  But what I can say for sure — right? — is
that you had leadership in Congress, the President come together and lay
out in a divided government, as you just laid out — go through a
negotiation process.  
  
As we have said before, negotiations are hard.  Not everybody gets what
they — what they want — all that they want.  And they came together to
deliver for the American people.  
  
So, I can’t speak to a template for future conversations, but what I can
say is this is a President — as Senator, as — as Vice President, and now
as President: believes in bipartisanship.  Peop- — many people said he
couldn’t do it when he talked about it during his Inaugural Address —
right? — before stepping into the role.  And he was able to do that.  He
was able to continue the bipartisanship that we have seen on historic
legislation and now on averting a — a — something that would have been
catastrophic to our economy.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Going back to Fitch and their continued “negative
watch,” has the White House or Treasury or anyone else been in touch
with Fitch and the other ratings agencies, even after a deal came
together?  And are you concerned that a downgrade could still happen? 
The S&P downgrade happened in 2011 after there was deal.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I don’t have any conversations to lay out or
to speak to with any of the, you know, specific agencies.   
  
What I can lay out and talk — speak to is this bipartisanship that we
saw from both — both chambers, which is important, right?  We saw both
chambers come together and deliver here because of the President’s
leadership.  And the deficit — it’s going to lower the deficit by $1
trillion.  That’s what I can speak to.   
  
Again, the Treasury market remains the safest, deepest, and most liquid
market in the world.  And I think that’s important.   
  
I cannot speak to what agencies are going to be doing.  What I can speak
to is what we’ve been able to do from here, and I think that’s what’s
important here.  
  
Q    And during the most frenzied part of the negotiations, some Hill
Democrats were frustrated that Kevin McCarthy was going out into the
hallways and talking to reporters constantly, non-stop, and that he was
sort of controlling the narrative, while the White House, and the
President especially, were pretty quiet publicly.   
  
Is this Oval Office address the President getting the last word?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President is the president, and the American
people look to him for deliver on their — on their behalf.  
  
And when you think about what could have happened — what could have
happened here if we did not pay our bills — right? — if we did not get
this done, if we did not avert a default, that would have been
catastrophic.   
  
When you think about millions of jobs being lost; when you think about
people’s retirement accounts; you know, you think about what could have
happened here to our seniors, to our veterans, to American families
across the country, on programs that they truly, truly need — you know,
that is something that the President believes he should speak to.  That
is something that the President believes that he has an opportunity to
talk directly to the American people.   
  
This was — this was — this could have been, as we’ve said over and over
again, as you all reported — it could have been devastating. 
Devastating to our economy, devastating to American families.  
  
This is — we believe, he believes this is a good moment to lay that out
and to talk to the American people in how we were able to come together
to avert this crisis — potential crisis.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Can you speak to whether you’re confident that it will be signed in
time for Treasury to do what it needs to do to avoid running out of
cash?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re —  
  
Q    They said as soon as Monday; you’re saying a signing as soon as
tomorrow, which raises the prospect of signing Sunday.  Is it good?  Are
you good on this?  Or —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — we’re — we feel confident.  
  
Q    Are you nervous?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We feel confident.  We are not nervous.  We feel
confident that it could be signed as soon as tomorrow.  The House and
the Senate clearly have to do their business in getting — in getting the
bill to us.  
  
As far as any specifics as what Treasury needs to do, I would certainly
refer you to them.  But we’re going to get this done certainly before
June 5th.  
  
Q    And going back to the downgrade question: If I’m hearing what
you’re saying, you don’t know whether you’ll be downgraded again or not,
but you don’t believe that should happen?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, it’s not — it’s not something that, clearly —
that I can speak to, right?  That is up to — clearly, that is a response
that’s going to come from the agencies.  
  
What I can say is what we’ve been able to do in a bipartisan way dealing
with the deficit — right? — making sure that the deficit is — will be
addressed, reduced by more than a trillion dollars.  I think that’s
really important.  We believe that it is a fiscally responsible piece of
legislation that –the bipartisan legislation that was agreed upon.  And
that really is important.  We will continue to meet our commitments. 
That’s important.  
  
So I can speak to what we were able to do.  I cannot speak to the
agencies.  And — and I’ll just leave it there.  
  
Q    And going forward, does the President want to explore ways to
eliminate the debt ceiling?  He sort of mused about whether the 14th
could be used or not before.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Will the debt ceiling still be there in 2025, when we come back
(inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President has — has commented on this. 
He believe that is something for Congress to kind of deal with.  He’s —
I’m just not going to go beyond what the President has laid out and said
about — particularly about the (inaudible).  
  
Go ahead.  And then I’ll come around.  
  
Q    I want to ask you, if I can, very quickly about one of the items
included in the debt limit deal, soon to become law, where Senator Tim
Kaine of Virginia said that he wasn’t alerted about the Mountain Valley
Pipeline.  As you know, that cuts — it goes from West Virginia; it cuts
through parts of his state.  
  
Here, Tim Kaine said the White House doesn’t “even bother to pick up the
phone and call me.”  Has the President now spoken to Tim Kaine?  And if
not, why not?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — any conversations to read out.  
  
What I can say — that we’ve been very clear and consistent for months
that the President supported — right? — Senator Manchin’s permitting
bill, which included this project.  That is not new; that has been
something that we’ve been pretty consistent about saying.  You’ve heard
me say multiple times at the podium that there’s nothing new here as it
relates to this particular project.  Again, we’ve been consistent;
there’s nothing new.  We’ve known for some time.  
  
Look, and we’ve also said we may not love everything in the bill, but we
support it.  And we have repeatedly called on Congress to pass it ever
since we secured the Inflation Reduction Act.  
  
So, look, we believe that the bipartisan budget deal here that was
reached is something that — that we all should be proud of, that
congressional Democrats should be proud of.  And it really protected —
it protected some — some of — all of the President’s historical —
historical legislation, but particularly on climate legislation as
well.  And I think that’s important, moving — it’s going to move forward
the environmental justice projects, and that’s important as well;
accelerate our climate agenda, which is one of the four crises that the
President talked about when he walked into this administration.   
  
And so, look, that’s — that’s what I can lay out for you.  I just don’t
have any conversations to read out as far as it relates to Senator
Kaine, who we respect and have had a very good relationship with over
the past few years.  
  
Q    Obviously, all Democrats aren’t celebrating.  There’s still five
Democrats and — at least in the Senate who voted against it. 
Progressives.  So, what does the White House say to those progressives? 
And what does the White House say to combat the criticism from some
Democrats that Republicans play hardball when it comes to these
negotiations and the Democrats do not?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I’m not going to speak to how any of our
Democratic friends voted on this.  That is a decision that they make on
their own.  
  
What I can speak to is how we believe this bipartisan agreement, that’s
soon to be law, really is going to make sure that we protect some of the
most important programs for American families, and that matters. 
Right?  
  
Q    What do you say to progressive Americans, though?  Obviously, the
President represents all Americans —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.  
  
Q    — but certainly progressive Democrats are a part of the base of
support he needs to be reelected.  What do you say to those Americans
who are disillusioned by this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, this is a President — if you look at his — his
record the last two years, it has been historic.  It has been one of the
most historic — historic legislative — legislative accomplishments that
we have seen from a President.  And that matters.  
  
When you talk about a President who wants to build an economy from the
bottom up, middle out, that’s what we’ve seen.  When you talk about
Inflation Reduction Act, it’s going to lower healthcare costs, it’s
going to lower energy costs.  You talk about bi- — bipartisan
infrastructure legislation, it’s going to actually invest in those very
communities to make sure that we have — we have an infrastructure —
whether it’s broadband, whether it’s tunnels and bridges — to make sure
that we don’t leave anybody behind.   
  
Creating — creating jobs.  I just laid out what the jobs numbers was
this — for this — this month and how we — the President, under his
watch: 13-point — 13 — more than 13 million jobs have been created under
this President.  That matters.  
  
That is a President that cares about all Americans, that makes sure that
no one is left behind, and that there’s equity at the center of
everything that we’ve done.  
  
And so, look, Americans reacted to this in the midterms in 2022, saying
they approved of what we were able to do.  And so that matters as
well.  
  
And so, look — and every piece of legislation that he’s moved forward,
that have been historic, have been incredibly popular.  So, this —
clearly, this is a President that cares about all Americans and is
always zero-focused on.   
  
And the American people are going to hear directly from him this
evening.  
  
Go ahead, Steven.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The present crisis, disaster averted — the country
at a certain point is going to have to grapple with the substantially
more significant question of how the government is going to meet the
obligations that it’s made to Social Security recipients, Medicare
recipients over the next decade and more.  Should we expect the
President to reflect on that challenge tonight?  And how does he view
Congress’s ability to grapple with those questions in the wake of this
bipartisan deal?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a good question, Steve.  And, clearly, there’s
more work to be done.  We’ve never said, “After this agreement, the work
is done.”  We’ve never said that.  Clearly, there’s more work to be
done.  
  
I’m not going to get ahead of what the President is going to say
specifically this evening, but I would say tune in and you’ll hear
directly from him.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, the Republicans were able to pass a bill in the Senate that
overturns the President’s student loan plan.  What does it say that
Democrats, such as John Tester and Joe Manchin, supported overturning
that bill?  And do you have a timetable on a veto?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, it has to come to us.  The President,
clearly, is going to veto this bill.  
  
What I can say is — I think what’s important here is — I’m not going to
speak directly to how members — senators voted on this.  But I will say,
and I said this a few times, this is a — this is — this is — when you
think about the students — the student relief program, this is going to
give Americans a little bit of breathing room, especially after coming —
going through the pandemic.  
  
You — we’ve said this over and over again: Ninety percent of the relief
is going to go to Americans who make $75,000 or less.  That matters.   
  
This is part of the President’s economic policy, his economic plan, to
make sure we do not leave anybody behind.  
  
And so, you know, he’s going to continue to fight for American
families.  And — and, you know, if this bill gets to his desk, as I just
mentioned, he’s going to veto it.  
  
And so, look, again, it’s going to help American families.  This is why
the President put this forth — put this forth, especially after coming —
coming — getting through the pandemic, and wanted to make sure that
people didn’t default when their loan payments resume, which is going to
happen next month, in August.  I should be more clear: in August.  
  
Q    And just a couple of Republicans felt that the defense funding
levels were too low.  And they sought assurances from both the Senate —
both the Democrat and Republican leaders in the Senate that it’s
possible that more security funding could be provided.  Is the President
open to additional defense funding, or does he feel like, under this
deal, that defense spending is sufficient?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we kept — we kept the levels that the
President asked for, as you know, if you look at his fiscal year 2024
budget.  And so that’s important.  
  
The President felt like he was able to protect — protect that.  I’m not
going go into what’s — you know, there’s going to be an appropriations
process, as you all know.  Director Young talked about that when she was
here.  So, certainly not going to get into that process. 

But, look, this is — this is a deal — a bipartisan agreement — a
commonsense, reasonable bipartisan agreement.  And when you negotiate on
these types of agreement, not everybody — no one gets everything that
they want.  And we’ve been very clear about that. 

And so, look, the President is going to talk later this evening — talk
di- — speak directly to the American people, and they’ll hear from him.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Yep.  Go ahead. 

Q    I wanted to ask —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —

Q    — one question about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    — whether or not the President plans to invite the Speaker to
whenever the signing happens.  Is that in the works?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share on what the signing is
going to look like.  We — the President, clearly, wants to sign the bill
as soon as possible.  It’s important.  As someone just laid out, June
5th is on Monday.  So, he wants to get to it as soon as possible.

Q    And on that question about, sort of, the template now for working
in a divided government, has the President’s relationship with the
Speaker improved, the same, unchanged after the last several weeks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, the President thanked the Speaker on
Monday.  I think that was important.  They came to an agreement — a
bipartisan, reasonable agreement.  I think that’s important.  They’ve
met — met about three times in the past month.  They’ve talked several
times.  Certainly not going to get into the President’s relationship
with McCarthy. 

But clearly, they were able to deliver on behalf of the American
people.  We got a strong bipartisan votes in both the House and the
Senate to get this done very quickly. 

It is Friday, and it is done, right?  They got it done just last night. 
And the President is going to speak to the American people directly to
talk about what — what occurred the last couple of weeks, the last
couple of month.  And I think that’s — is what is important here.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  So, when the President of Japan — ears pricked
up when he spoke of a thaw or maybe a possible coming thaw with China. 
A thaw.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, say that one more time. 

Q    A thaw.  Yeah, my accent — T-H-A-W.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.  (Laughter.)

Q    Yeah, I — I forgive you.   
  
Q    Thaw.  
  
Q    I forgive you.  I’m not talking of Thor, the God of whatever, you
know.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Which is what we heard a lot yesterday.

Q    That would have been a hell of a (inaudible).  Anyway.

Q    The God of Thunder —

Q    Yes, yes.

Q    — just for the record.

Q    So, thaw.  Thaw.  That sounded like —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  “God of Thunder,” as we’re hearing from the back.

Q    Yeah, God of Thunder.  Yeah, he had lightning bolts and stuff like
that.  (Laughter.)

Q    Thor.

Q    Thaw.  I feel like I’m in a “Monty Python” sketch here. 
(Laughter.)  I sort of —

He — he spoke of a thaw, which everyone — everyone’s ears pricked up
when he said that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, a thaw.  A thaw.

Q    Yes, a *thaaww.*

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  (Laughter.)

Q    Can I say it like that?  A *thaaww.*

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A *thaaww.*

Q    A *thaaaww.*

Okay.  (Laughter.)  So, there we are.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s a lot happening here, folks.  It’s Friday.   
  
Q    Okay.  It’s Friday.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s Friday.

Q    I have a follow-up, by the way.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  On the *thaaww*?

Q    Okay, so there we are: the President and his thaw.  (Laughter.)   
  
We’ve since learned — today we learned that the CIA director was in
China some time before this brief mention of “the word I won’t repeat”
in Japan.  Is that — are those two things connected?  Did the director
come back with some news that might make the President think about a
thaw?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as — as it rela- — (laughs) — as it relates to the
CIA director’s travel, I would have to refer you to — to the CIA
directly to speak to that.  I just do- — I’m not going to get into it
from here, from the podium, so I would have to refer you to the CIA.

Q    Okay.  And how about a — how about any — I know you’re going to
tell me you got nothing to share, but how m- — how about a phone call
with President Xi?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, the President is looking forward to Pres-
— to speaking to President Xi.  As you know, they’ve spoken many times
in the last two years.  Just don’t have anything to read out.  When the
— the time per- — is appropriate, certainly that conversation will
occur.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  The debt negotiations have been such a big focus
on the agenda for the last couple of weeks.  What’s the next top
legislative priority that the President wants Congress to move forward
on?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, it’s a good question.  I talked about the Equality
Act — right? — for — at the beginning here as something that the
President really wants to see move forward and is an important agenda
that he believes that needs to happen.  He’s talked about that many
times, so nothing new there. 

And so, look, the President has had a remarkable record as it relates to
getting things done in a bipartisan way.  I’ve talked about the historic
pieces of legislation that he’s been able to make happen.  And a — and
it’s — it’s a record because we have not seen anything like that from —
from any administration. 

You think about the CHIPS and Science Act.  You think about the veterans
program — the act there for veterans program.  You think about the
infra- — infrastructure legislation as well, which is, clearly, law now.

So, look, we also worked with Congress to prevent this — this de- — this
default. 

And so, there’s the Equality Act.  There’s permitting reform.  There’s
Roe v. Wade.  There’s comprehensive immigration reform.  There’s the PRO
Act, or reducing the deficit by making the rich pay — pay their share —
fair share.

So, the President has a serious agenda that he wants to get done for the
American people, and he’s going to continue to work on that agenda.  And
not only that — his agenda is actually popular with majority of
Americans.   
  
So this is all of — this is — this is important to him.  He’ll — he’ll
stay focused on getting these things done.   
  
Q    But now — you know, all those things that you just mentioned are
things the President would like to do.  There’s been a lot of talk
about, you know, with a divided government, not everybody can get
everything they want with this latest negotiation.   
  
Given the lessons learned from all of this, what are the policies that
the administration thinks could get bipartisan support given what you
guys just went through with this negotiation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, it’s a good question.   
  
I think what I — we can say is, as I just laid out, all of these
different issues and pieces of legislation that’s important, those are
popular.  The majority of Americans want to see these things done, and
so I think that matters.   
  
That’s how the President is going to move forward.  Those are the
conversations that we’re going to continue to have with — with members
of Congress.  How do we get these things done?    
  
You hear us talk about gun safety, and I know that’s a tough issue, but
we can’t continue to see our kids and — and communities being killed.   
  
You know, we talk about Roe v. Wade and really making that the law of
the land.  We have to make sure that we protect the freedoms — the
freedoms of American — of women in particular, as it relates to women’s
reproductive rights.  Equality Act.  All of those things are popular. 
All of those things are things that the American people want to see.  
  
And so, look, it’s not going to be easy.  It’s never easy.  The
President has always understood that.  And people have always — have
also said — many folks have said he couldn’t get it done, and every
challenge he’s been able to get it done.  It might take a little bit
more time, a little longer, but we believe that these are — things are
important, are critical, that American families want to see happen.   
  
And so it’s not going to stop us because there’s a divided government. 
Again, we were just able to get this done in a bipartisan way.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  As the President is celebrating this bipartisan win on
the debt deal, he is squashing the bipartisan bill on student loans. 
Why does he accept the will of the people in one area but ignore the
will of the people when it seeks to block the transfer of this debt to
the taxpayers?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t think protecting American families or making
sure that we give them a little bit of a breathing room is going against
the will of the American people, when you think about 90 percent —
right? — when you think about his plan and how it’s going to help 90
percent of Americans who make $75,000 or less.   
  
That’s what we talk about.  That’s the most important thing to remember
about the student loan.  It’s going to help people who truly, truly,
really need it in a time where the loan — as you know, the pause is
going to lift.  
  
We don’t — we want to make sure that the people — people have a little
bit of extra — extra breathing room to be able to pay for those loans
once the pause is lifted in August.  
  
And so that matters.  I don’t think — I don’t think — and also, his plan
is actually very popular with Americans.   
  
Q    Just process-wise, I mean, his forgiveness plan was done by
executive order.  Even the payment pause was done through an emergency
statute.  But the debt bill that mandates restarting payments got votes
from Congress to pass.  
  
This bill, you know, rejecting the forgiveness program, cleared both
chambers and is heading to the President’s desk.  I mean, how — how do
you argue with that, that it — this is clearly what people want to see
happen?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you’re talking about debt relief that would
have been — that would have made 40 million people eligible who are
borrowers.  Forty million people — again, most of whom are making less
than $75,000 a year.   
  
That’s who the President is focused on.  That’s who the President wants
to make sure he protects.  And that’s what he did.   
  
And, look, we also preserved our ability to pause student loan payments
should be necessary in an event of future emergencies.  That’s also
important.  Right?  
  
We have to look to see what hap- — we don’t know what’s going to happen
in the future.  So we have to make sure we’re ready for that.   
  
And so, when you think about 40 million Americans who are borrowers,
protecting them, protecting folks, 90 percent who makes $75,000 or less,
I think that’s important for the President to be — to protect — to
protect the student loan relief plan — right? — as he did during these
budget negotiations.   
  
And he’s going to veto this resolution that — as you just stated, that
has passed, because it is not the right thing to do.  The President is
always going to focus on American families.  He’s always going to focus
on the Americans who need it the most at this time.   
  
Again, 90 percent — from his plan, 90 percent of folks who are borrowers
are making $75,000 less in this plan — who make $75,000 or less on — in
this plan is going to be protected.   
  
That matters.  And it’s a popular plan as well.   
  
Go ahead, April.  
  
Q    On guns.  One more real quick.  On guns.  
  
Should someone who’s a drug user be able to possess a firearm?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into tit for tat on this.  
  
Q    It’s just (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m just not going to.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, as you talk about next steps — following up on Karen’s
question-and-answer with you — the Supreme Court.  There are two issues
that deal with equality, equity, inclusion: voting rights.  Democrats
are still pushing for that, screaming that gerrymandering right now in
this nation is very unfair — of their constituents — and also the issue
of the admissions — affirmative action admissions in colleges.  What are
you bracing for or what are you planning for in the weeks and weeks to
come?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, that’s something that the Department of
Justice certainly is keeping an eye on.  They will — they have been
focused on that issue.  Certainly, I’m not going to speak to what
they’re bracing for or potentially thinking might may happen, but they
are dealing with this.  So, I would refer you to the Department of
Justice.   
  
Look, when it comes to equity — when it comes to racial equity: When the
President walked into this administration, he talked about — I mentioned
this mo- — moments ago about the four crises that we needed to deal
with.  Racial equity was one of them.  And that’s why this President has
taken steps since almost day one to make sure the federal government,
every agency in particular — he signed an executive order making sure
that there was racial equity coming out of the agencies.   
  
And as it ra- — relates to voting rights, he’s been very clear about
where he stands on that and making sure that we deal with that in a real
way, making sure that there is legislation that — that — calling on
Congress to put forth the legislation that deals with voting rights.   
  
And so, look, the President has been very clear, the Vice President has
been very clear: There are real issues that we need to take — to take —
address and to look at, and he’s been able to deal with that — deal with
those issues — deals with rac- — racial equadity \[sic\] — equality from
the federal government, but clearly there’s more work to be done.   
  
Q    So, on voting rights, Democrats are very intent on trying to push
forth voting rights.  It’s not going to happen in the House, but it
could definitely happen in the Senate.  Are you expecting the President
to possibly lean in this time on this next wave of a push for new voting
rights laws?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the President has always been clear of
where he stands on the voting rights law and that it needs to happen. 
And he’s always supported that, and he’s going to continue to do — to do
so.   
  
He, you know, commends the Congress to — to continue to find a path
forward, as they should.  We have to deal with this; this is a real
issue that we have to deal with.  
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead, Nancy.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  You mentioned the historically low unemployment,
below 4 percent for such a long time.  But unemployment did jump last
month by a fairly surprising —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — margin: from 3.4 percent to 3.7 percent.  Does the White House
have a view on why that might be and why unemployment among Black
workers jumped by almost a full percentage point?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, it’s a bit complicated.  I’ve asked the economist
about this here.  And — but those numbers come from different surveys,
so that’s important to note.  
  
The number of jobs created is from a business survey that — that came
out.  But the unemployment rate is from a survey of households.  Our
economic experts think they moved in a different direction this month
mainly because of the way they were categorized — that jobs were
categorized, specifically self-em- — self-employment.   
  
But we s- — we believe, as I said at the top, regardless of the number,
when you think about 3.7 — that’s the jump from 3.4 to 3.7 —
unemployment and more than 300,000 jobs created just this last month is
a sign of a very strong labor market and a resilient economy.  So, it’s
important to actually put those two together and see how we see the
trajectory as we — as we look at the economy continuing to — continuing
to grow.  
  
Q    And do you fa- — do you — does the White House believe that the
fact that jobs continue to grow every month at a faster rate than
economists are predicting is a sign that the economy is still overheated
and that the Fed may have to raise interest rates again?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re — I’m not going to speak to — we’ve
been very, very consistent here about not speaking to the Fe- — the Fed
and its policies, so we’re continuing to do so.  And look, you know, we
continue to believe that we are in a transition to more stable and
steady growth.  That’s what we’ve been seeing.   
  
And beating — certainly, beating inflation remains the President’s top
economic goal.  It’s a priority.  And — but we have seen some progress
over the last 10 months now: Annual inflation has fallen, and it’s down
by 40 percent just last mon- — last summer.  So, all of these things are
clearly important.   
  
I’m not going to speak to the Fed policies.  We’ll let them do their
business independently, and that’s something that we believe that this
President is incredibly important for that to happen and occur.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thanks, Karine.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, I’ll take one last question.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  So, NATO members are still very divided about — on
Ukrainian membership.  Are the United States supporting for NATO
membership for Ukraine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’ve said this over and over again: When it
comes to NATO, we believe in its — we are committed to the open-door
policy.  Any Alliance decision is between the 31 Allies and the as- —
and the aspirant country.  We’ve said that many times before.  That has
not changed.  That has been our view.   
  
And so — but right now, as we’ve said many times, my NSC colleagues have
said many times, the President has said many times, we’re focused on
what we can do to support Ukraine’s effort to fight for their democracy,
clearly to fight for their freedom against the Russia — Russia’s
aggression, and that’s what we’re going to continue to do.   
  
We just announced $300 million of additional assistance just a couple of
days ago.  And so, you’ve seen that commitment over the past 15 months,
and we’ll continue that.   
  
Thank you, everybody.  Have a great weekend.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
3:22 P.M. EDT  
