---
date: '2023-06-08'
modified_time: 2023-06-07 23:15:19-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-08 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/06/08/background-press-call-previewing-the-vice-presidents-travel-to-the-bahamas/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call Previewing the Vice President\u2019s Travel to the\_\
  Bahamas"
---
 
*Via Teleconference*

6:34 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thank you so much for joining us today.  This
is \[redacted\] from the Vice President’s communications team. 

On this call today, we are going to be previewing the Vice President’s
visit to the Bahamas tomorrow.  This call is on background, attributed
to “senior administration officials.”  The contents will be embargoed
until tomorrow, June 8th, at 5:00 a.m. Eastern. 

We’ve sent everyone who’s RSVP’d a factsheet.  That factsheet is under
the same embargo of tomorrow at 5:00 a.m. Eastern Time. 

Today we are joined by \[senior administration official\].  We’re also
joined by \[senior administration official\]. 

\[Senior administration official\] will deliver opening remarks, and
then we will take your questions.

And with that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[moderator\].  And thanks to
everyone for being here this evening.  We’re pleased to do this call to
talk about the Vice President’s travel to the Bahamas tomorrow.  It is a
historic visit because she is the highest-ranking U.S. official to visit
the Bahamas since its independence in 1973. 

And, in fact, the last high-level White House visitor was President John
F. Kennedy in 1962, which, of course, was before the Bahamas had
actually gained its independence. 

This visit comes a month before the 50th anniversary of the Bahamas
independence and the 50th anniversary of CARICOM, so it is very well
timed. 

In terms of the schedule for tomorrow, the Vice President will arrive in
the Bahamas midday and will be greeted upon arrival by members of
various Bahamas civil society organizations.  She will then have a
bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Davis of the Bahamas. 

She will then co-host the U.S.-Caribbean Leaders Meeting, which includes
leaders from CARICOM nations, the Dominican Republic, and the CARICOM
Secretary-General.

This engagement will have a few components.  She will greet each leader
individually upon arrival.  She will then have a private engagement with
just the leaders.  The leaders will take a family photo.  And then the
leaders will have a long multilateral meeting where the Vice President
will deliver remarks at the top to press.  And finally, the Vice
President will have a meet-and-greet with staff and families of U.S.
Embassy Nassau.

We view the U.S.-Caribbean relationship as significantly strengthened
under our administration, thanks in large part to the leadership of the
Vice President.  This will be her fourth multilateral meeting with
Caribbean leaders, which I think is a really acute demonstration of how
important she sees this partnership and how important she sees
leader-level engagement with Caribbean counterparts. 

The Vice President has repeatedly made clear in her prior engagements
that, as neighbors, we share common bonds and interests with the
Caribbean, and she views strengthening our partnership as key to our
shared prosperity and security.

So in terms of how this meeting came about: From the beginning of our
administration, the Vice President has been very clear that we needed to
elevate our engagement with the Caribbean.  And, really, she has
delivered on that commitment. 

In April of 2022, the Vice President convened the CARICOM leaders, plus
the Dominican Republic, virtually.  They had a long discussion about
economic growth, COVID, security, and especially on efforts to address
the climate crisis.  And at that meeting, the Vice President committed
to convene that group, CARICOM plus DR, annually.  So this meeting in
the Bahamas tomorrow is a fulfillment of that commitment for the year
2023.

Following the April ‘22 meeting, the Vice President galvanized the U.S.
interagency to put together an initiative on the climate crisis, the
result of which was the U.S.-Caribbean Partnership to Address the
Climate Crisis 2030, or PACC 2030, which they can conceived in that
first meeting. 

After that, the Vice President convened Caribbean leaders in Los Angeles
at the Summit of the Americas and officially launched PACC 2030 in June
of last year.  At that meeting, the Vice President also launched three
committees of U.S. and Caribbean representatives to make short-term
progress on three key priorities: energy security, food security, and
access to financing. 

She then convened the Caribbean and U.S. co-chairs of these committees
at the Blair House in Washington in September 2022, and they put in
place action plans on each of those areas. 

And now, tomorrow, the Vice President is convening Caribbean leaders
again for her fourth multilateral meeting in a little over a year to
make further progress. 

So in terms of the progress that we expect to see — take stock of and
report on tomorrow in the multilateral meeting — first, let me just say
a few words on PACC 2030. 

So a primary focus of the U.S.-Caribbean Leaders Meeting will be on our
shared efforts to address the climate crisis through PACC 2030.  Under
the Vice President’s leadership, our administration has made significant
progress, which is outlined in the factsheet that you all will have
received already.  The Vice President will discuss the steps we’ve taken
thus far on PACC 2030. 

For example, throughout the region, we are now facilitating clean energy
infrastructure development, climate adaptation projects, and technical
assistance projects.  We have provided assistance to deploy solar
microgrids, to develop geothermal power projects, to train a clean
energy workforce, and to support battery storage and energy grids, among
other projects.

We built Caribbean capacity with regard to disaster preparedness, and we
have worked to bring investors to the Caribbean to identify and develop
new clean energy projects. 

At this meeting, the Vice President will announce significant new
investments through PACC 2030.  And let me just highlight two quickly
here.  The first is a $20 million investment in the Caribbean Climate
Investment Program, which will mobilize the private sector to deploy new
technologies to help with climate adaptation.  And the second is a $15
million investment to support disaster risk reduction and emergency
response efforts.

And building off the Vice President’s meeting tomorrow, on Friday, the
Atlantic Council and RMI — formerly known as the Rocky Mountain
Institute — will host in Nassau a PACC 2030 summit.  Senior members of
the Vice President’s office and our administration will participate, and
the intention is to facilitate connections between Caribbean
governments, our government, the private sector, NGOs, and
philanthropies to identify, build, and operate new clean energy projects
in the region.

Next, just a minute on MDB reform.  A big priority for Caribbean leaders
has been increasing access to development financing and specifically
doing so to support climate projects.  Now, the Vice President has heard
this loud and clear throughout her engagements with Caribbean leaders,
and has worked in Washington and with other global leaders on this
issue.  And it’s a key pillar of PACC 2030. 

As many of you will have seen, earlier this week, the Vice President met
with the new president of the World Bank, Ajay Banga, and laid out the
U.S. policy position for reform of multilateral development banks.  Our
position was informed by her conversations with Caribbean leaders, and
we’re aiming to achieve these reforms by the time of the G20 this fall,
which will have a major impact on Caribbean nations.

More specifically, the Vice President and our administration are
advocating for: One, significant new concessional financing delivered
through a new window or other innovative mechanism to incentivize action
on global challenges such as the climate crisis.  Two, focus on the
climate crisis and the mission of the World Bank.  And three, renewed
focus on mobilizing the private sector in support of these aims.

Now, tomorrow, the Vice President has invited President Banga to
participate in part of the multilateral meeting on development financing
to help advance these reforms and discuss how they can best meet the
needs of the Caribbean.

Now, just on a few other topics that we anticipate the Vice President
will raise and discuss with the leaders tomorrow.

Another issue that Vice President Harris has heard from Caribbean
leaders on is firearms trafficking, and we expect this will be a topic
of discussion.

Disrupting illicit firearms trafficking in the Caribbean is a shared
priority for the United States and our Caribbean partners and an
important aspect of our cooperation to address rising levels of crime
and violence in the region.

President Biden signed into law last year the bipartisan Safer
Communities Act, which increases penalties for straw purchases and
firearms trafficking.  And the Vice President will discuss
implementation of this law.

In addition, we’re announcing the creation of a new position at the
Department of Justice, the Coordinator for Caribbean Firearms
Prosecutions, which will increase information sharing as traffickers are
prosecuted.

And we’re also investing new funds in various initiatives that will help
Caribbean investigator- — investigations and prosecutions.

Now, on Haiti, we expect the leaders to have a conversation on the
humanitarian and security crisis.  The United States continues to
increase our support for the Haitian National Police, but the worsening
security situation requires an international response, which is why the
United States strongly supports the deployment of a multinational force
to Haiti, which the Vice President will make clear to the Caribbean
leaders.

She will also announce more than $50 million in new humanitarian aid,
and she will announce our support for the extension of the HOPE-HELP
trade preferences for Haiti, which are due for renewal in 2025.

At this critical time, it’s important that producers and investors in
Haiti — those they do business with and the workers upon which they rely
— have certainty about the uninterrupted continuation of the HOPE-HELP
program.

Lastly, another major priority for the Caribbean had been diplomatic
presence.  And to that end, the Vice President will announce that our
administration has begun the process to establish two new embassies and
additional diplomatic support presence in the Eastern Caribbean.

So with that, I will open it up and look forward to your questions.

MODERATOR:  Great, thank you so much, \[senior administration
official\].  Thank you all again for joining.  Just a reminder that this
call is attributed to “senior administration officials” and is embargoed
until tomorrow at 5:00 a.m. Eastern.

With that, we’re ready to take your questions.  Please use the “raise
hand” function and we will call on you.

First question we’ll go to Jacqueline Charles.  Jacqueline, your line
should be unmuted.

Q    Can you hear me?

MODERATOR:  Yes.

Q    Okay.  Hi.  Thanks for doing this.  I have two questions.  The
first has to do with the concessional financing. You know, Caribbean
countries have always talked about the fact that they’ve been considered
middle income on paper, but reality, that is not the case.  So I’m just
wondering what the administration is promoting.  Is it only concessional
and new financing as it relates to climate change initiatives?  Or is
there a change in the formula that would allow Caribbean countries to
tap concessional financing in a new way that would be beneficial?

And the second question, particularly on Haiti: You know, the Vice
President is going to renew the position in terms of a multinational
force, but you’re going into an environment where, just a few months
ago, Caribbean leaders basically said that they were not going to
support an international force and that they were going to work with the
police. 

So I’m just wondering, in terms of her conversations with Caribbean
leaders, following that meeting with Canada, is there going to be more
of a push to get them to support a multinational force?  What can we
expect in terms of that discussion with her and Caribbean leaders on
this issue?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Jacqueline, for both of those
questions.  I guess I’ll start off with the question on concessional
financing.  It may be helpful — I’d also refer you to the readout of the
Vice President’s meeting with World Bank President Banga, which is a
pretty good exposition of our position on this.

But I would say that our goal is to work with World Bank shareholders
and with President Banga in order to take actions that will deliver, as
I said, this new concessional financing.  We’re still working through a
lot of the details, whether that will look like a new window or a
different kind of innovative mechanism.

But the idea is to incentivize action on a range of global challenges to
include climate change, but certainly not exclusively climate change,
across all borrower countries.

And the intent of all borrower countries is — to gesture at the other
part of your question — which is, of course, we seek to increase access
to concessional financing to countries in a range of income brackets
and, in that sense, expand the access to financing for countries in the
Caribbean and elsewhere who have the need for these types of
concessional resources and where it will have the highest impact.

With respect to Haiti, I will just say — I mean, not wanting to get
ahead of the conversation tomorrow — as I said before, the United States
is continuing to increase our support for the Haitian National Police. 
We have continued to make clear that we believe that the security and
the humanitarian situation in Haiti is worsening, and the situation on
the ground will not improve without armed security assistance from
international partners. 

So it remains our view that any decision about military force would be
done in consultation with the U.N. and with the Haitian government. 
Those discussions are still ongoing and certainly will continue tomorrow
when Prime Minister Henry will be in the room with Vice President Harris
and the other Caribbean leaders.

And I would just say, in the meantime, as we continue to work through
the details, again, we continue to support the HNP, and the United
States is also supporting the people of Haiti by providing humanitarian
assistance, including the more than $50 million of new assistance the
Vice President will be announcing tomorrow.

MODERATOR:  Our next question will go to Akayla Gardner.  Your line
should be unmuted.

Q    Hey, guys.  I just wanted to ask about the funding for PACC 2030. 
Is this the first funding that’s going towards that initiative?  And if
not, how much funding was already allocated?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey, Akayla.  Thanks for the question. 
We don’t have an accounting of the precise amount that has been
dedicated to PACC 2030 thus far, although I would just draw your
attention to the factsheet and the very robust suite of activities that
have already happened under the auspices of PACC 2030.

I would note, of course, that the goals of PACC 2030 are multifaceted. 
And so pillar one, for example, is about access to development,
finance.  And to the question that Jacqueline just raised, of course,
that’s not something that you would put a monetary value on but is of
great significance to the Caribbean countries.

Similarly, the fourth pillar of PACC 2030 is about elevating
U.S.-Caribbean cooperation and engagement.  Again, not something that
you can put a dollar value on but something that’s of significant
diplomatic and geopolitical import to both the Caribbean and to us.  And
as I mentioned at the top, this being the Vice President’s fourth
multilateral meeting with Caribbean leaders, I think it just speaks to
the progress we’re making.

But in terms of more concrete actions — again, sort of referring to some
of the details at the bottom of the factsheet — I would say the U.S. is
providing support for the Barbados Blue-Green Investment Corporation. 
We have also facilitated clean energy projects across a wide range of
Caribbean countries, ranging from training and clean energy workforce in
Antigua and Barbuda; to new geothermal development in Dominica and Saint
Kitts and Nevis; to Dominican Republic energy storage support,
specifically focused on battery storage; to St. Lucia solar-plus
microgrid support.

And so the totality of it is quite impressive.  As you heard, there will
be new announcements on the order of tens of millions of dollars
tomorrow.  But we don’t have a sort of grand total in terms of all the
different effort across the U.S. interagency that has gone under this
program thus far.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Brendan O’Boyle. 
Brendan, your line should be unmuted. 

Brendan?  Your line should be unmuted.

Q    Can you hear me?

MODERATOR:  Yes, we can.  Go ahead.

Q    Do you have any more details on the expanded diplomatic presence in
the Eastern Caribbean and where these two new embassies will be and what
they will be working on?  Or — yeah.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So, the Vice President is going
to announce that the U.S. Department of State has begun the process to
establish two new embassies and an additional diplomatic support
presence in the Eastern Caribbean.

Five countries in the Eastern Caribbean do not currently have a physical
U.S. diplomatic presence.  And so, we will engage with Congress and the
governments of the countries in the Eastern Caribbean on the topic of
expanding our physical diplomatic presence, but we don’t have specific
locations to announce today.

Q    Okay.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you.  If anyone else has questions, please use
the “raise hand” function.  We’ll give it a couple seconds to see if any
queue in.

And our final question will go to Pearl Matibe.  Pearl, your line should
be unmuted.

Q    Hello.  You know, issues that have been in one region often affect
another region.  So, I’m with Premium Times Nigeria.  And while Africa
may not be your top on the agenda, you just mentioned the trafficking
and arms — firearms trafficking, which are usually connected with
transnational criminal organization and networks who have been taking
advantage of that part of the world and coming across into South Africa,
going to Asia and other parts.  Do you think that aspects of that type
of — those types of linkages might be threaded into discussions with
these leaders?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Pearl.  I would say the focus
of the conversation tomorrow will really be primarily on the Caribbean
and U.S.-Caribbean issues.  But, of course, to the extent that that
affects other regions and has global implications, that could be a
subject of conversation as well.

But, again, you know, primarily, we anticipate the Vice President will
be focusing with Caribbean leaders on the immediate and urgent needs of
their own region.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you, everyone, for joining.  As a reminder,
the contents of this call are embargoed until tomorrow at 5:00 a.m., as
is the factsheet.

Talk to you all soon.

END                  6:54 P.M. EDT

\###
