---
date: '2023-06-13'
published_time: 2023-06-13 17:52:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/06/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-39/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:02 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everyone.  Good afternoon.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, we’re going to get to it.  This evening,
the President will welcome community leaders, lawmakers, students,
educators, and hundreds of others to the White House for a historic
Juneteenth celebration concert on the South Lawn.  You probably are
hearing a little bit of the soundcheck right now.   
  
In 2021, President Biden signed bipartisan legislation establishing
Juneteenth as the nation’s newest federal holiday since Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr. Day nearly four decades ago.  Establishing Juneteenth as
a federal holiday was only the beginning of the Biden-Harris
administration’s efforts to ensure that America lives up to its highest
ideals.   
  
Since taking office, a couple of things that the President has been able
to accomplish is: created a federal government that reflects the
diversity of America; strengthened the economy and lowered the
unemployment rate for Black Americans at a historic low to 4.7 percent;
increased across — increased access, excuse me, to homeownership;
nominated more Black women to federal courts than every president
combined — nearly one third of judicial appointments are Black
Americans; provided nearly $7 billion in historic resources and support
for historic Black colleges and universities; taken action on marijuana
reform by pardoning all prior federal offenses of simple possession of
marijuana; insured everyone has access to clean drinking water by
replacing lead pipes; and modernizing bridges, roads, ports, and
airports as well; lowered the prices of prescription drugs and energy
costs for seniors through the Inflation Reduction Act; restricted the
use of chokeholds and signed an executive order for accounta- —
accountable and effective pol- — policing when Senate Republicans
blocked legislation from reaching the President’s desk; brought together
Democrats and Republicans to pass the first major gun safety reform in
30 years to keep our communities safe; cut Black child poverty in half
as a result of the Child Tax Credit made possible through the American
Rescue Plan; and fought for $10,000 in debt relief for all eligible
borrowers and up to $20,000 for borrowers who received Pell Grants.   
  
Now, as the President has said, it’s not enough to just commemorate
Juneteenth.  To honor the true meaning of Juneteenth, we must not rest
until we deliver the promise of America for all Americans.   
  
Lastly, I’d also note that the concert celebration takes place during
the Black Music Month, where the President will uplift American art
forms that sing to the soul of the American experience.   
  
Also today, we are — we are announcing a new security assistance package
to help meet Ukraine’s security and defense needs.  The package includes
key capabilities such as Bradley infantry fighting vehicles; Stryker
armored personnel carriers; artillery rounds; Stinger anti- —
anti-aircraft systems; Javelin anti-armor systems; ammunition to
U.S.-provided HIMARS; and more than 22 million rounds of small-arms
ammunition to help Ukraine retake its sovereign territory.  The package
also contains additional munition for Ukraine’s air defenses to help
protect the Ukrainian people.   
  
This is the 40th drawdown of equipment from Department of Defense
inventories using presidential drawdown authorities for Ukraine.  And we
appreciate the bipartisan support of Congress, which has made this aid
possible.  
  
The United States will continue to stand with the people of Ukraine as
they courageously defend their sovereignty, their democracy against
Russia’s aggression.   
  
Finally, today’s CPI report showed continued progress in our fight
against inflation.  Annual inflation is now the lowest in more than two
years and has fallen for 11 months from a peak of 9.1 percent just last
June down to 4 percent last summer \[sic\] — last — pardon me, last
month.   
  
Wages rose over the last year accounting for inflation.  This is
especially helping lower-income workers who have seen their wages rise
faster than others, helping them catch up after decades of widening wage
gra- — gaps.   
  
Energy prices fell 11 percent over the last year.  Gas prices are down
by $1.40 since — from their peak after Putin’s inva- — invasion.  And
grocery prices are trending down, with egg prices in particularly — in
particular nearly 30 — 30 percent since January.   
  
Of course, there is more work to be done.  And the President’s agenda is
helping lower prescription drug costs, cap insulin, and lower energy
bills as well.   
  
President Biden is growing the economy from the middle out and bottom up
with more than 13 million jobs created and unemployment under 4 percent
for almost a year and a half.  
  
House Republicans, on the other hand, have a different agenda.  Their
approach is trickle-down approach.  Today, they are marking up their Tax
Scam 2.0, which would give handouts to rich special interest and big
corporations that would increase the debt by hundreds of billions of
dollars while also repealing investments that are fueling our
manufacturing resurgence, creating jobs, and lowering energy costs for
working families.  
  
With that, Josh, the floor is yours.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Three subjects.  First, since you mentioned
Ukraine in your topper, Russian President Vladimir Putin says Ukrainian
forces have suffered, quote, “catastrophic” losses.  He says Ukraine
lost 160 tanks and over 300 armored vehicles, while Russia loss 54
tanks.  Are Putin’s statements accurate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m just going to repeat what the President said
during his — during his remarks when you all saw him just moments ago
when he was with the — with the Secretary-General of NATO.   
  
I’m going to leave Ukraine to, certainly, speak to their military
operations.  That’s something that we’re going to do from here.   
  
As it relates to the comments that President — Mr. Putin has made: As
you know, we don’t put stock in Russia’s public assessment.  And so,
I’ll just leave it there.   
  
Q    And then, on the big news of this afternoon, First Lady Jill Biden
said it’s a little shocking that many Republicans support Donald Trump
after his indictment.  What has President Biden said?  Was he also
shocked?  Does he agree with his wife?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to comment on anything that’s
related to the — to the indictment.  We’re just going to be very mindful
here and respect the Department of Justice, let them do their job.   
  
Q    And then, lastly, the Office of Special Counsel has said that your
use of “MAGA Republicans” violated the Hatch Act.  What kind of guidance
had you previously been given by the White House Counsel on that
matter?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me just lay — lay this down.  I’m really glad
that you asked the question.  I know there’s been many news reports on
this.  
  
So as — we’ve made very clear throughout our time in this administration
that we do everything that we can to uphold, certainly, the Hatch Act
and take the law very seriously.  
  
A couple of things that I want to lay out here:  
  
So, with — you know, many of you have mentioned, with friendly
consternation, how often we take the — we take the Hatch Act and we
follow the Hatch Act throughout these past two years.  
  
We received a letter from the Office of Special Counsel, which is the
independent agency that enforces the Hatch Act, as all of you know, and
it communicated to us that — their opinion and — issuing a warning, but
not taking further action.  As you all know by reading the letter and
the reports, the White House Counsel’s Office is reviewing their opinion
and is going to respond to them.   
  
So, certainly not going to get ahead of how the White House Counsel is
going to respond or what’s going to come out from — from that action.  
  
So, now, if you — if you look at the archived Trump White House website,
it contains about 2,000 — nearly 2,000 uses of “MAGA” to describe
policies and official agendas.  Congressional Republicans have also used
“MAGA” to refer to policies and official agenda frequently, for years
now — even, clearly, before we entered the administration.  
  
And what’s more, I also want to note that — that the opinion that you
see that was presented by — by OSC happened just last week, which is —
it occurred months after the briefing where I made those comments.  
  
So, basically, it is retroactive, right?  The actions were retroactive,
after I had made the comments.  
  
So, look, when — basically, what we’re seeing by me laying that out is
that we did not know their opinion when we were able to use — to — we
were be- — when we — when we were given the green light to actually say
the comments that I made.  So I just want to make that very clear.  
  
But again, look, it’s going to be reviewed.  That’s what the White House
Counsel is going to do.  They’re going to have a dialogue, a routine
dialogue with a OC- — OSC.  And so, I’ll just leave it there.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  But it sounds like you disagree with the
findings.  Is that true?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  What I’m saying is that this — we got this letter
last week.  And — and it was retroactive, right?  The letter was
retroactive.  I — what I — the comments that I made was months prior. 
And so, we didn’t know that was the opinion months prior, when it was
said.  
  
So, what I will say now is that the White House Counsel is going to have
a routine dialogue, like many administrations have in the past, with
OSC.  And certainly not going to get ahead of that.  I’m going to let
that process move forward.  
  
Q    And just more broadly, since you cite the Hatch Act so often, what
is your interpretation of it?  What are your limitations?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what I know is: As it relates to an ongoing
election right now — right? — we’re talking about 2024 — we just are
very careful.  We are very careful to respect the law, the rule of law. 
We’re very respect- — respectful to not speak — as a federal employee,
to not speak about the election, about candidates in the election, about
anything that’s related.   
  
Anything that you all ask me about the campaign, I very often, if not
almost every time, refer you to the campaign.  
  
As it relates to this specifically, I just laid out, if you look at the
archives from the Trump White House website, it contains nearly 2,000
uses of “MAGA” to describe policies and official agendas.  Right?  And
congressional Republicans have used that word multiple times to describe
their policies and official agenda as well.  
  
I’m not going to get into any — any back-and-forth about this.  I’m
going to let the White House Counsel has — have their routine
conversation with OSC and let them handle it.  
  
Q    And then, just one more on the Trump indictment, which  
I know you already spoke about.  But, you know, it’s one thing to not
answer questions about the charges and the actual pending case before
the DOJ, but what about the substance of these documents?  Can you at
least share whether President Biden has been briefed on the substance in
these documents?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will let — I will let my colleagues at the White
House Counsel deal with that.  I’m just not going to speak to it from
this podium.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.  You’re welcome.  
  
Go ahead.  Welcome to the briefing room.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Just a little bit of a clarification on the
Trump indictment.  You have been clear that you don’t want to politicize
the indictment, but the President’s opponents have accused him of
weaponizing the DOJ.  So just to be clear, can you say categorically
that President Biden was not involved or influenced at all any of the
decisions into indicting the President by —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not at all.  He was not involved.  
  
This is — the President has been very, very clear: The Department of
Justice is independent.  He wants to restore that independence of — of
the Department of Justice, and that’s what you have seen.  
  
That is why we have been very, very consistent.  When it comes to
criminal cases, we just do not comment.   
  
Q    Has the President been briefed on any security concerns around the
former President’s court appearance today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I was asked this yesterday, so was my colleague
from NSC — the Admiral was asked this question when he was at the
podium.  And we — he laid out — right? — and I laid out — he normally
gets an update from his national security team and also his intelligence
team on a daily basis.  And that’s usually where he gets his update.  I
cannot speak beyond that.  
  
Q    Any additional requests for security?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — can’t speak to anything beyond any request. 
All I can say is that we are prepared.  
  
Q    And a fi- — one final question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    Is the assessment of the White House that inflation has finally
peaked?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I know that you — I know the CPI data came
out today, as I just laid out this morning.  Look, so what I — what I
will say is that we’re making progress on fighting inflation, and that’s
good news.  That’s good news for hardworking families.  That’s
incredibly important that we see that, and we’re seeing that in this
data.   
  
And I kind of said this at the top, but I’ll reiterate it here: Annual
inflation is at the lowest level that we have seen in more than two
years, that — since March of 2021.  And it has fallen for 11 months, and
in less than half of what it was this past — this past June, the June
before this one, clearly.  And wages has rose over the last year.  So
all of that is important.  Gas prices is down by $1.40.  That’s because
of the work that this President has done.   
  
If you think about his investment in America, if you think about his
economic policy, how he wants to make sure that we’re building an
economy that builds from the bottom up, middle out, that is what you’ve
seen.   
  
And I have said, and he has said many times, when it comes to his
economic policy, lowering costs is his number one priority.  So this is
important.  We are fighting inflation.  We’re seeing progress.  And this
is going to be incredibly important for Americans across the country.   
  
Q    So just to continue on inflation, and then I’ve got another one
after that: One of the components of the inflation data showed that rent
prices are still sticky; they’re just not responding the way that you
hoped that they had.  It’s starting to remind some people of the comment
that inflation was going to be transitory.   
  
So for a long time, the expectation has been that housing prices and
rental prices would come down, and they just haven’t.  Are you starting
to get worried that they’re not going to come down and what the
implications are?  And what can you do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we know — and it’s a good question.  We know
housing affordability is — is a challenge for families.  And the good
news is that we are starting to see a cooling in housing — in the
housing market.  So that’s incredibly important.   
  
And also, that is why the President has taken extra steps.  Right? 
You’ve heard us over the last two years talk about the — talking about
the Housing Supply Action Plan that the President put forth to help
close the housing supply shortfall that we have seen in the last five
years; making it easier to use the American Rescue Plan funds to
increase the supply of affordable housing, which is another way that —
another part of the President’s plan as it relates to lowering costs
when it comes to housing or dealing with the housing market; releasing a
Blueprint for Renters Bill of Rights and a set of federal actions to
make the rental market fairer; and calling on Congress to provide
additional incentives for housing construction and support low-income
families.   
  
So, look, we get it.  We understand what families are going through. 
Again, the housing market is cooling, so that’s important.  But the
President has taken extra steps over the last two years to deal with —
to deal with the affordability aspect as it relates to housing.   
  
Q    So are you considering additional actions since the housing prices
don’t seem to be responding?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any additional actions to announce at
this time.  But, I mean, I just laid out four real, constructive,
comprehensive, substantive actions that this President has taken over
the last two years to deal with certainly issues that — that American
families have to deal with when it comes to affordable housing.   
  
Q    And then, on Ukraine: NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg just said
that the Ukrainian counteroffensive is making progress.  The Ukrainians
are making progress, and that’s important in terms of strengthening
their hand when they get to the negotiating table.  Does the White House
share his view that the Ukrainians are, in fact, making advances?  And
can you give us any details?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I know that President Zelenk- — Zelenskyy
has spoken to this.  He says the counteroffenses \[sic\] operations have
begun, but certainly I’m going to leave that to Ukraine to speak to. 
That’s basically what the President was asked when he was — “said,”
pardon me, when he was asked.  When it — when it — as it relates to the
military operations, we’re just going to let them, President Zelenskyy
and his team, speak to that.   
  
And, look, what we can say is that we — we know that the Ukrainian
people are brave and they are tough.  We have seen this the last 15
months.  They — they have been incredibly impressive.  We have done
everything that we can to make sure that they are successful in the
battlefield.  And that’s not just us.  More than 50 countries have gone
beh- — have come behind Ukraine and supported their efforts, their fight
against Russia’s aggression, and to fight for their freedom.   
  
And so we’re going to continue to do that.  We know that there are
difficult challenges ahead, but we feel that they are prepared.  I’m
certainly not going to get into military operations or what’s going on
on the — on the battlefield.  Again, I’ll let Ukraine speak to that.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I wonder, do you believe that you violated the
Hatch Act with those comments about MAGA Republicans?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is: At the time, I was given the
sign-off — right? — to use that terminology.  And — and I said this just
moments ago: The letter that we received was from last week.  We
received that letter for something that I said months ago, so it was
retroactive, if you will.   
  
I’m just not going to get into giving my opinion or thoughts.  I’m just
going to lay out the facts for all of you.  You all are going to report
this and have reported it.  And we’re going to have a routine
conversation.  Not — not myself, but clearly the White House Counsel is
going to have a routine conversation with OSC to talk about this.  I’m
just going to leave that there.  
  
Q    It’s a term that you, but also the White House press shop has used
a lot in — in paper statements and everything else.  So is — are you
guys going to continue to use that terminology going forward?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to get ahead of what the
outcome of this might be.  They’re — the White House Counsel certainly
is reviewing the opinion, and they will have a routine conversation with
OSC, as they should.  This is going to be an ongoing process.   
  
As you stated, we have used this term many times before.  It’s nothing
new in the context.  And the way we use it is in the context of talking
about their policies and in talking about their values.  That’s how we
have used this term.  And so I will — you know, I’ll leave it there. 
And we’ll — we’ll continue — they’ll continue to have a conversation.  
  
Q    And last one on this.  I know that the White House Counsel’s Office
sometimes conducts informational sessions with staff to educate them
about the Hatch Act, what the guardrails are, et cetera.  When is the
last time that you participated in one of those?  And do you intend to
get some kind of a refresher from the White House Counsel’s Office?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any — any refresher to — to speak to
at this time.  But, yes, I’ve sat in many — many conversations that have
been held by the Counsel on the Hatch Act specifically.  I know I did
one recently this — this year.  I just don’t have the exact date in
mind.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, last question.  I wonder, as it relates to the
case that — that President — the former President Trump is facing: Is
there any world in which President Biden would consider pardoning the
former President?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to speak to that.  No comment. 
(Laughs.)  
  
Q    In the back.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jo- — and I’ll come to the back.  Go ahead,
<s>Joey</s> \[Michael\].  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Senator Bernie Sanders is saying that he won’t
move forward with the President’s nominee for the National Institutes of
Health — or any health nominees, for that matter — until the
administration puts forward a plan to lower prescription drug costs. 
What is your reaction?  And has the administration been in contact with
his office about this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, look, we see Senator Sanders as a — as a
friend.  And he has been certainly very —  
a partner — very helpful to us in pushing the President’s agenda and
lowering costs for Americans.  And so, we share the — we share Senator
Sanders’s concerns on pricing.   
  
That’s why signing — the President signing the Inflation Reduction Act
was so important.  That — that was a critical component, if you will, of
the Inflation Reduction Act, which is lowering costs for Americans,
putting a cap on insulin for our seniors.  And so, it was a
consequential piece of — of that law.  
  
And so, look, we’re — we’re always looking for ways to continue to lower
costs for Americans.  And we look forward to working with the senator to
get — to get our nominees forward and to — and confirmed, certainly. 
But this is something that we — we agree with the senator on making sure
we’re doing everything that we can to lower drug costs.  
  
But again, Inflation Reduction Act: incredibly important — when you’re
talking about Medicare being able to — to be able to lower cost and be
given that — that ability to do so.  That’s important.  Insulin costs
for our seniors capped at 30 –35 bucks.  That’s important.  
  
And so, clearly, the President and the senator are on the same page on
this.  And so, we’re continuing to have conversations with him.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  There are reports that the labor and management
have agreed to a cooling-off period at the West Coast ports after a
meeting with Acting Secretary Su.  I’m wondering if you can confirm that
development and if you’re encouraged by it at the White House.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things I want to give an update on.  I
know I was asked about this, I believe, at the end of last week.  
  
So, as you know, we’re monitoring this very closely.  We know that the
parties in the negotiation have overcome some sticky points already and
are continuing to address the most difficult issues right now.   
  
And so, we’re encouraging all parties to certainly — to continue to work
in good faith and do that in a — certainly in a mutually beneficial
resolution to ensure that workers get their fair benefits, quality of
life, and wages that they deserve.  
  
That’s why the Acting Secretary, Julie Su, is currently on the West
Coast meeting with all parties, encouraging them to reach a resolution. 
And so, she has invaluable expertise working closely with these parties
as the former California Secretary of Labor and as Department of
Secretary of Labor.  
  
Certainly, I’m not going to get ahead of conversations and where they
are currently.  But we’re going to continue to — for — in good faith,
for parties to get to stay at the table and have the conversation so
that the workers can certainly get a fair — certainly fair benefits and
a better outcome.  
  
Q    Senator Manchin said he’s opposing Jared Bernstein’s nomination to
lead the CEA.  Do you have a response to that?  And is the White House
concerned that would endanger his chances of confirmation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can’t say it better than nearly every living
economist who led the CEA under — under Republican administration.  And
this is the quote, “Dr. Bernstein has been a respected voice in economic
policy circles for decades.  He has the estab- — he has established a
reputation for producing informative, data-driven analysis and
developing creative policy ideas,” end quote.   
  
So, we look forward for Jared’s swift confirmation.  And this — again,
this is coming from Republican administrations, the quote that I just
laid out.  And so, we are going to continue to work to get Jared
confirmed.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks.  Thanks, Karine.  So, we have 4 percent inflation —
CPI inflation overall.  That’s on top of the other inflation increases
that we’ve seen for the past 26 months or so.  There’s been no overall
price reductions.  What’s the President’s plan to reduce prices for all
Americans, not just a certain category of people that fit certain
criteria?  
  
Q    I think everything that the President has done — all of his
economic policies, when you think about these historic legislation —
that’s for all Americans.  That’s to make sure that we — we continue to
lower costs — whether it’s healthcare, whether it’s energy, whether it’s
— you know, not just that but also creating good-paying jobs.  That’s to
make sure that we build an economy that doesn’t leave anybody behind.   
  
That’s why when we say “from the bottom up, middle out” — that’s not
trickle down.  That’s not a trickle-down approach that we have seen
many, many — for many decades.  That’s a different approach so that we
do include ev- — all Americans.  We include hardworking — working
families that, again, have been left behind.  
  
And so, the President is a president for people living in red states and
blue states, for all Americans.  He has said that.  He has been very,
very clear about that.   
  
He knows what he is supposed to do and how he is supposed to lead this
country.  And that’s what he’s been doing.  
  
Q    But since the President took office, real wages are down 3.4
percent.  Inflation is up.  So how does that not amount to a tax on
people making less than $400,000?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I just laid out — I just laid out — when your
colleagues asked me about inflation, I just said: One thing is that
we’re making progress.  We are fighting and infla- — inflation.   
  
If you look at the last 11 months, it has fallen.  It has fallen and is
— is less than half of what it was this past June — the June, clearly,
before this month.  
  
And so, that is important.  We’re seeing progress.  We’re seeing the
cost — we’re seeing lowering costs.  I just talked about eggs, how much
it fell and — over 13 — an ext- — additional 13 percent.  That’s
important for everyday Americans.  
  
And so, look, we’re going to continue to do the work.  We understand the
work continues.  We understand that Americans are still hurting.  But
the President has always put lowering cost at the center — at the top, I
should say, when it comes to his economic policy.  And that’s what
you’re going to continue to see.

Go ahead, Sebastian.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  One on NATO.  Sweden learned — Sweden,
yesterday, said it was going to extradite a guy that Turkey wants.  He’s
got links to the PKK.  He’s done other things.  So does the
administration see, perhaps — (laughs) — I was about to say a “thaw.” 

Does the administration —

MS.  JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, gosh.  (Laughs.) 

Q    No, I won’t.   I won’t.

MS.  JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s not do that again.

Q    Does the administration, perhaps, see a — you know, a — a
resolution of this dispute between Turkey and Sweden, maybe in time for
the summit (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  So, Sweden has fulfilled its
commitments they made under the trilateral memorandum of agreement
agreed with Finland and Turkey on the margins of the NATO Summit.  And
they did that in Madrid, just this past year — or last year, in 2022. 
This includes Sweden’s recent passage of enhanced and counterterrorism
legislation. 

So, look, Sweden is a strong, capable defense partner that shares NATO’s
values and will strengthen the Alliance and contribute to the European
security.  So, we believe, and you’ve heard from this President multiple
times, that we believe Sweden should become a NATO member as soon as
possible. 

That is what the President has said; he has shown his support.  That is
what we’ve seen from Congress as well.  And so, look, we’re going to
continue to stay steadfast on that.

Q    Are hopes rising a little bit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’re going to continue to be hopeful.  As you
know, this is a president that’s incredibly hopeful and positive about
these things.  And so, we believe that, again, they are a strong,
capable defense partner that share the — the values of the NATO — the
NATO Alliance.  And so, I think that’s important.

Q    And a very quick Trump one, if I might.  Not a — not a legal one. 
The President — as the President, he’s the president for everybody,
obviously, and he’s going to be running for reelection, asking for the
votes from everybody. 

You got — you’ve got somebody who is leading a movement, which is almost
based on saying that every single thing that is happening now in this
administration is illegal and literally — I mean, they say communists
are taking over the country, et cetera.  You can make a long list of
things they’re saying — very extreme things.

So, what is the President’s message to all of those people who are
actually Americans and, you know, he would like to vote for him,
presumably, and are being — you know, there — there’s surely a messaging
war.  What’s his message?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I just took a couple of questions from your
colleagues about the Hatch Act and 2024.  So I’m going to follow and —
follow the law and be very careful and not talk about the Hatch Act. 
And we’re going to respect it and do — and do everything that we can to
do that. 

What I will say, more broadly — and I’m going back to when the President
ran in 2020 and what he ran on.  Right?  He ran on bringing the country
together.  He ran on fighting for the soul of the nation.  And that’s
what the President has been doing for the last two years.  He believes
that that is important, to bring everybody together.

As you just stated in your question, he’s a president for everyone: red
state, blue state — it doesn’t matter.  He understand what it means.  He
was vice president.  Right?  He was — he’s been a senator.

So, he under- — understands what that means, what it means to be a
president of these United States. 

So, it’s very important that he continues to do that, continue to bring
the country together.  You’ve heard him talk about this, really make
critical, important speeches on this very point.  And so, he — that’s
going to be — continue to be his message: bringing the country
together. 

You hear him talk about possibilities.  You hear him talk about the
future of this country and how we need to continue to — to live up to
our greatness.  And so, that’s what you’re going to hear.  That’s going
to be the message to this — to the American people.  That has not
changed. 

And so, I’ll leave it there.

Q    To the back?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Oh, I’m sorry.  I’ll come to the back.

Q    Karine, thank you.  Would the President ever accept spending levels
lower than those included in the debt ceiling agreement?  And how does
he respond to criticism that other Democrats have communicated that
Speaker Kevin McCarthy is now sort of reneging on the deal by
communicating, in his words, “You always have to remember with the
appropriation levels — that’s your cap.  You can always do less”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to get ahead of the
appropriations process.  I — we expect Congress to — certainly to abide
by the bipartisan budget agreement that we came — both sides came to the
table for, and that’s including the agreed-to adjustments. 

So, certainly, I’m not going to get ahead of that.  We made a deal, and
we will uphold our end of this deal.  And so they need to uphold
theirs.  And so I’ll just leave it there. 

It’s just as simple as that.  That is what this agreement was all
about.  That is what the President signed into law.  It’s about the
American people.  It’s about delivering for — for their needs.  It’s
about making sure that we have a budget that’s fiscally responsible. 

That’s what we were able to do in a bipartisan way.  And so, we are
going to uphold our part, and we expect them to do the same.

Q    The President just met with Jens Stoltenberg in the Oval Office. 
Did the President, in their visit today — or was he expected to, perhaps
— you weren’t in there for the entire time — to ask Jens Stoltenberg to
stay on past the expiration of his term this October?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President hasn’t made any decision yet
on — on that process.  I’m certainly not going to get ahead of the
President on this.  But we’ve been very clear that we believe the
Secretary General has done a fantastic job, a really wonderful job
during this difficult time — this history-making time with the war in
Ukraine being one of them — and how NATO has come together in a way that
we haven’t seen in a very long time — the strength of NATO.

And so we appreciate his efforts and his hard work the last two years. 
I’m just certainly not — just not going to get ahead of the President.

Q    There’s reporting right now that the CIA warned the Ukrainian
government not to attack the Nord Stream gas pipelines last summer after
it obtained detailed information about a Ukrainian plot to destroy that
main pipeline between Russia and Europe right now. 

I’m not asking you to confirm that specifically.  But has President
Biden — as he said to us previously, that he spoke directly to Vladimir
\[sic\] Zelenskyy — to Volodymyr Zelenskyy and told him that the F-16s —
it was reassured that Zelenskyy would never use the F-16s to target
anything inside Russian geographic territory.   
  
Has the President ever communicated to Volodymyr Zelenskyy that he
expected Ukrainians at no time to target anything with any weapons means
inside Russian geographic territory?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President has been really clear. He spoke to
this before.  Jake has spoken to this.  The Admiral has spoken to
this.   
  
Q    About the pipeline?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not — well, the — look, I can’t confirm anything about
the pipeline.  That is not something that I can do.  That is —  
  
Q    But if it was inside Russian territory —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, that is —   
  
Q    — that would count?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is something that the CIA — certainly I would
refer you to them.  I’m not — speak to any communication that may or may
have not happened.  So I’m just going to be really clear.  But more
broadly, we’ve been very clear about — about how we see, you know, this
— the use of — of weapons that should be used within Ukraine and
certainly not in Russia.  We’ve been very clear about that.   
  
But as it relates to the pipeline, I just can’t speak to that.  That is
something that the CIA —  
  
Q    Last one.  Brittney Griner and the Pheolix \[sic\] — Phoenix
Mercury come to D.C. this Friday.  What plans does the President or Vice
President or First Lady or whomever have to meet with her or host here —
here at the White House?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — I don’t have anything to preview at
this time on any — any meeting.  
  
Q    Are there discussions that it may occur?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything for you.  As you know, and I
think we reported this out the wh- — during the White House
Correspondents’ Dinner, the President — and we did report this out — met
with — had a — had a side conversation with Brittney and Cherelle.  It
was — it was an important moment between — between — between the
families because the First Lady was there.  I just don’t have anything
beyond that to share —  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — about a meeting with Brittney.   
  
Go ahead, Annie.  
  
Q    Thanks so much.  Jared Bernstein — just following up on my
colleague’s question about Jared Bernstein.  The vote is occurring now
in the Senate.  I’m just curious, you know, if the Vice President was on
standby to break a potential tie in that — in that vote.   
  
And also, if you could just sort of speak more broadly:  Given, you
know, the kind of things that economists have said about him, why do you
think it’s — it’s so — such a nail-biter right now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, I — you would have to speak to the — you
know, the respective senators on that.  I can’t speak for them and — and
why that is.  We know that Jared — and I mentioned this yesterday — he
has worked for this President, certainly, for the last two years.  He
has worked for the President when he was vice president.  He is
well-respected amongst economists, amongst this president, and we are
going to continue to do everything that we can to make sure he gets
confirmed.    
  
He’s been to this briefing room many times before.  So you know how —
how well-versed he is in the economy as an economist.  I just don’t have
anything to share on what senators — why senators’ decision of how
they’re going to move forward.  That’s for them to speak to.  
  
Q    And just on Harris, whether she was on standby.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I — I actually don’t know her schedule for today,
so I can’t speak to that.  I would refer you to her — to her office.  
  
Q    On the — on the inflation numbers: The Fed has long set a goal of 2
percent inflation as where they would like to see the economy working. 
And I’m curious — there’s been debate about whether that’s a reasonable
goal and whether that’s the right place for inflation to wind — to end
up.  Can you say where you believe the White House thinks inflation
should be?  Like, where — what is the percentage that the White House
sees a healthy and — a healthy economy?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going — I know you mentioned the Fed. 
Going to be very careful; not going to comment on any monetary policies
that the Fed makes.  They are an independent agency, so we are
incredibly mindful of that, and we are incredibly respectful of that.   
  
As far as inflation and where it needs to be, I’m just not — that’s
something that certainly the economists can speak to.  I’m just not
going to speak to that from here at this time.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I just want to clarify your answer on the Hatch
Act.  So, until the White House Counsel’s Office makes its opinion, we
were — should we expect not to hear you use “MAGA” from the podium?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ve been very clear I don’t have anything to add.   
  
Q    You — well, you had said that you’re waiting for them to make their
opinion.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   I — I —  
  
Q    So I just wanted to know, in the interim —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have answered that question.  
  
Q    Okay.  On the exposure incident on the South Lawn, having received
the statement that the White House believes that was inappropriate,
disrespectful, is there going to be a greater effort in the future to
communicate a code of conduct for White House guests?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’ve — as you mentioned, the statement that we
put out, you heard from us earlier today, the behavior was simply
unacceptable.  We’ve been very clear about that.  It was unfair to the
hundreds of attendees who were there to celebrate their families.   
  
So, you know, we’re going to continue to be clear on that.  And that
type of behavior is, as I said, unacceptable.  It’s not appropriate. 
It’s disrespectful.  And let’s not — it really does not reflect the
event that we hosted to celebrate the LGBTQ+ families — again, hundreds
of families who were here to celebrate their community and who were here
in attendance.   
  
So, look, individuals in the video certainly will not be invited to
future events.  And this is — has not occurred before.  Right?  This is
not — this was not a normal thing that has happened under this
administration.  But we’ve been very clear about how — how we saw this
particular behavior.   
  
Q    There’s — there’s been some criticism also of the White House, the
flag placement, the Pride flag violating the U.S. flag code.  Did
anybody notice that or fail to notice that, or was it an intentional
statement?  Can you just explain what happened with that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the administration was proud, again, to display the
Pride flag.  It was a historic event at the White House.  It centered
around the love — around love and family.  And I think that’s
important.   
  
And so, you know, we’re not going to let anyone distract us from that —
what was the meaning of the day, what was the meaning of having families
here, and to celebrate a community.   
  
I’m certainly not going to get into protocols from here, or I’ll leave
that to others.  And so, you know, we’re proud of this historic event
that we were able to put together here on the South Lawn for families. 
And so I’ll leave it there.  
  
Q    And one more on the —  
  
Q    Can we go to the back?  
  
Q    — on a different subject.  Senator Chuck Grassley made some
statements yesterday on the Senate floor, saying that this foreign
national on the FBI 1023 form apparently has 15 recorded conversations
with Hunter Biden and claims to have two with the President.  Is there —
is the White House aware of any recordings in which the President might
be on tape speaking to a Burisma executive?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President spoke to this.  I think he was
shouted a question about this at the Thursday press conference.  And I’m
just going to quote him and say, “It’s malarkey.”   
  
Okay.  
  
Q    Yes?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Was the First Lady mistaken in discussing the
Trump indictment at a fundraiser?  And has anyone at the White House,
perhaps in the Counsel’s Office, talked to her about the propriety of
such statements?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have anything to add to what I just shared
with your colleague.  
  
Go ahead, Brian.   
  
Q    Thanks a lot.  Just two hours ago, former President Trump, when he
was on his way to Miami, tweeted about the classified documents found in
the — in Biden’s Penn Biden Center office.  What is the President’s
response when President Tru- — Trump — former President Trump brings up
the classified documents found in the Penn Biden Center office?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to comment.  
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead, Courtney.  
  
Q    Thank you.  The Department of Homeland Security earlier this month
said that — when they released their threat list — that LGBTQ+ events
were under heightened threat given the rhetoric that we’re seeing across
the country.  I haven’t heard you in the last couple weeks talk about
the President being briefed on that.  Given that there’s so many
different Pride celebrations happening across the country right now, can
you talk a little bit about the security surrounding that and if there’s
anything elevated, at least, coming from the federal government?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can’t speak to anything that’s been elevated. 
Clearly, you know, if there is any need for additional security, we are
certainly always available to have that conversation with state and
local officials, as you mentioned, as Pride events are occurring
throughout this month across the country.   
  
Can’t speak to if there have been any elevated instances that has — that
has ri- — that’s — that’s been flagged for us at the federal level, but,
certainly, this is something that — that — we believe that it’s
important for LGBTQ+ community to feel safe as they are celebrating
during Pride Month, which is one of the reasons why we had an event — a
historic event right here on the South Lawn on Saturday.   
  
I just don’t have anything additional to add to any elevated security or
elevated — additional assistance that we may be providing.  
  
Q    And on Acting Labor Secretary Julie Su, her nomination for the job
permanently, do you have any update?  There were five senators, last I
checked, that were undecided.  No vote is scheduled yet.  Do you have an
update on where you are on that, in terms of getting her confirmed to
the position permanently, given you’ve been without a Labor Secretary
permanently for a while now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just a couple of things.  I do want to give an
example of what we’ve been doing to assist in Julie Su’s
confirmation.   
  
So, each night, senator — senior White House officials join a war room
call to ensure we are continuing to make progress on Su’s nomination. 
This call continued throughout the negotiation over the budget
agreement.   
  
So, very recently, outside groups forcefully and vocally made the case
for Su’s nomination, including 55 labor unions, which joined together
recently on a call on senators to support Su’s confirmation.   
  
In recent days, top White House and administration officials have
launched a full-court press engaging senators whose vote will be key to
Su’s nomination, as well as House members who can help build support.   
  
And I can give you example: Chief — the Chief of Staff, Jeff Zients, and
Director of Leg Affairs, Louisa Terrell, have been speaking regularly
with Leader Schumer on the Su nomination, as well as other key senators,
multiple times a week.  This continued, like I said, during the
debt-limit fight.  
  
And so, they’re also in touch with other groups — outside groups — as
well.  
  
So, we have taken this very seriously.  We are — want to make sure that
she gets confirmed, and we feel very confident that she will be.  
  
I was going to continue going around.  Hey — you’re sitting up front.  
  
Q    Yeah, I found a seat.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I see.  
  
Q    What do you know?  It had my name right on it.  Good afternoon,
Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, good afternoon.  
  
Q    Just hours ago, Senator Tuberville tweeted, quote, “\[H\]aving
biological males in women’s sports is unsafe, unfair, and wrong.”  And
earlier this year, several — 72 elite female athletes signed an open
letter saying, “Forcing female athletes… to compete against biological
males is not only unfair, it is discriminatory and illegal.”   
  
So, in the light of this administration’s proposed changes to Title IX,
does the White House worry about the physical safety of females directly
competing against males in sports?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, this is a complicated issue.  It is.  And
there are a wide range of views, as you just laid out.  
  
The Department of Education proposed a rule that gives schools the
flexibility to establish their own athletic policies, while establishing
gra- — guardrails to prevent discrimination against transgender kids.  
  
And so, I also want to make clear that this is a proposed rule, and
members of the public have the ability to provide comment as part of the
rulemaking process.  
  
And so, any — you know, any additional questions that you may have of
this proposed rule, certainly, I would refer you to the Department of
Education.  
  
But we do understand this is a complicated issue.  
  
Q    And what would the President say to the parents out there who have
daughters — say, in high school, for example — who are worried that
their daughter may have to compete against a male, or a person born
male, and they — and there could be — or directly in physical athletic
competition — and worry about their daughter’s safety?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I — what you’re alluding to is basically
saying that transgender kids are dangerous.  It sounds like that’s what
you’re saying.  
  
Q    I — I didn’t say that.  I didn’t say that.  I don’t know how that’s
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you’re saying — you’re saying that their safety
is — isn’t — is at risk?  
  
Q    This is strictly a safety question.  This is strictly a safety
question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, but you’re — you’re — you’re laying out a broad
— kind of broad example or explanation of what could potentially
happen.    
  
Q    But —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A broad — a broad example explaining — that is
dangerous.  That is a dangerous thing to say —  
  
Q    I’m not —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that, essentially, transgender kids — we’re talking
about — are dangerous.  
  
And so, that’s something that I have to call out.  
  
Q    Okay.  But I — if I may dis- —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And that is — that is —  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is — that is irresponsible.   
  
I have just laid out how complicated this issue is.  I have just laid
out why it’s complicated.  And so, anything that you have — any
additional questions, I refer to the Department of Education.  
  
Q    Yeah, but — yes, but I may —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to move on.  I know there are other people
—  
  
Q    Just to be clear, this is —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Tam.  Go ahead, Tam.  
  
Q    — about safety.  I wasn’t insinuating anything.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I mean —  
  
Q    Okay.  All right.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — you could read you question in a transcript once you
get it.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Tam.  
  
Q    Senator J.D. Vance is saying that he is going to hold all future
nominations from the Biden department — for the Biden Department of
Justice — so all nominees to DOJ, other than the U.S. Marshal Service. 
Does the White House have a response to that?  And do you know how many
nominees are outstanding?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have a response to that.  
  
I know that we will continue to work with Congress, senators
specifically, on getting our nominations through.  It is important to
the President.  It is important to the American people.  
  
I have not really talked to the team about this particular sander- —
Senator J.D. Vance.  So, I just don’t have anything to share.   
  
We are committed.  We are very much committed in getting our nominees
through.  
  
MS. DALTON:  We have time for one more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I’m going to take some — I haven’t taken yours
in a while.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I’m just wondering — because that the event is about to
take place in South Florida that some folks may be paying attention to,
no one is actually going to see that, other than the people who are in
the courtroom.  There’s not going to be still photographers.   
  
My — so, I’m just wondering where the President stands currently on
cameras in federal courtrooms and photography in federal courtrooms.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s — that is up to the federal court.  I’m just
not going to speak to that.  
  
I’ll see you guys tomorrow.  Thank you, everybody.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
2:49 P.M. EDT  
