---
date: '2023-06-14'
published_time: 2023-06-14 18:28:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/06/14/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-40/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room   
 

2:18 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Come on, guys.  Good afternoon.  
  
Q    Good afternoon!  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, thank you.  All right.  Okay.  Give the girl
some love here.  All right.  
  
So I wanted to start with some news at the top.  Earlier today,
President Biden vetoed S.J. Resolution 11, the most recent attempt by
congressional Republicans to pollute the air our children breathe.  
  
Just think about it: While millions of Americans were taking shelter to
escape unhealthy wildfire smoke made worse by climate change,
Congressional Republicans were pushing a bill to repeal the President’s
efforts to make our air cleaner and safer.  
  
The Environmental Protection Agency put forward sensible standards to
limit the pollution our trucks and buses emit into the air we breathe. 
The standards will prevent nearly 3,000 premature deaths, more than
6,700 hospital and emergency room visits, and more than 18,000 cases of
asthma attacks.  They’ll also deliver up to tens of billions of dollars
in annual public health benefits over the next two decades.   
  
So, look, we — we just saw this month how disruptive climate change can
be to our lives, our communities, and our economy.  Schools were closed,
outdoor events were canceled, flights were grounded, masks were back
on.  And many people had to remain indoors.  That’s what we saw very
recently that you all reported on.  
  
So this is not the future we want for ourselves or our kids.  President
Biden won’t let congressional Republicans take us backwards in our fight
for cleaner air.  He vetoed this health-harming bill today, as I just
mentioned.  He just defended, as you all know, during the budget
negotiations the biggest climate protection bill in history, his
Inflation Reduction Act, from congressional Republicans who were intent
— they were intent on repealing it.  And he’s going to keep protecting
and strengthening his Investing in America agenda, which is bringing
clean energy jobs and manufacturing back to America.  
  
So another piece of good news.  I know he’s been on some of your
airwaves already.  Last night, the Sen- — the Senate confirmed Jared
Bernstein as Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers.  Our economy
continues to show progress tackling inflation, while unemployment
remains at historic lows.  
  
While there is still more work to do, which we acknowledge, but jobs are
up, wages are up, and inflation is down.  And Jared is someone who
uniquely understands that, as the President often says, a job is about
more than a paycheck; it’s about dignity.  It’s about dignity of work,
which is something that the President has been consistent on saying.  
  
So we look forward to Jared’s continued leadership as we build an
economy that works for working people.  
  
Along those lines, today we learned annual producer inflation is below
pre-pandemic levels, at 1.1 percent.  In fact, producer prices actually
fell last month, led by falling energy and food prices as well.  This is
on top of yesterday’s news, as we all discussed in this briefing room
yesterday, that consumer inflation has fallen by more than half over the
last 11 months.  And as I mentioned as well yesterday, wages rose over
the last year, and that is accounting for inflation.   
  
This is all evidence that the President’s economic plan is working to
lower costs for families, invest in America, and grow the economy from
the middle out and the bottom up, not the top down, not the trickle-down
economy that we see from Republicans in Congress.  
  
And finally, last thing for all of you.  Tomorrow, the President and the
First Lady will host a screening of Fla- — of Flamin’ — of “Flamin’
Hot.”  Guests for the evening will include Eva Longoria, who directed
the film; the cast families; Latino leaders; and members of the
community; and a special performance by Mariachi Vargas.  
  
The Biden-Harris administration continues its effort to lift up and
engage the Latino community by showcasing their stories and celebrating
their contributions to our country.  
  
With that — Colleen, I haven’t seen you in a while.  How are you?  
  
Q    I know.  I’m good.  How are you doing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  I’m hanging in there.  
  
Q    Good.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  What you got?  
  
Q    Okay, so President Erdoğan today indicated that NATO should not bet
on Turkey approving Sweden’s application before the summit.  And then
the Post was reporting that Senator Risch halted a U.S. arms sale to
Hungary as punishment over its refusal to approve Sweden’s application. 
So I wonder, is there concern over it being delayed ahead of the
summit?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  So, look, I mean, we have been very consistent
here.  We encourage Turkey to approve Sweden’s application for NATO
membership, and we have said that and been really clear.  And they
should do this without — without delay.  
  
I mentioned this yesterday; I’ll reiterate it here: Sweden has fulfilled
held its commitment they made under the trilateral memorandum of
agreement agreed with Finland and Turkey on the margins of the NATO
Summit that happened just last year in Madrid, as you all know.  
  
Sweden is a strong — we believe a strong, capable defense partner that
shares NATO’s values and will strengthen the Alliance that NATO
currently has and also contribute to European security.  
  
So, again, we believe Sweden should become a NATO member as soon as
possible, without delay.  And we’ll continue to be very — very public
about that, as the President has been for the past several months, and
continue to be very clear.  
  
Q    Do you think there’s a possibility it won’t get sorted out before
the summit?  I think the administration had sort of hoped it would be
figured out by then.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we are hope- — we are still hopeful that
this will get done.  I don’t have a timeline, certainly.  The sooner,
the better — as I said, without delay.  And so we’ll continue to be very
clear.  We’ll continue to communicate that with — with Turkey.  But I
just don’t have a timeline to share.  
  
Q    Okay.  One other question.  So, former President Donald Trump, I
think yesterday or — yesterday maybe — said that if he were reelected,
he would appoint a special prosetu- — prosecutor to go after Biden.  I
wondered if there was concern about this kind of rhetoric, especially
considering sort of what we saw from — on January 6th after a lot of
sort of inflammatory rhetoric by Trump.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, just a couple of things there.  As you know,
President Trump is a candidate, so I want to be very careful because
right now he’s speaking as a candidate, right?  So, we just don’t want
to comment on 2024.  
  
What we will focus on, what the President will continue to focus on is
delivering for the American people.  
  
I just laid out the PPI numbers and what that means for our economy,
what that means for the President’s economic policy, and how we believe
his plans and his policy has continued to work the last two years.  And
we’ve created a historic number of jobs — this President — in the last
two years than any other president — 13 million.  Unemployment is at
under 4 percent.  
  
These are all really important, and that’s what the President is going
to focus on.   
  
He’s been very clear: When he ran in 2020, it was about bringing the
nation together — right? — the soul of the country.  That’s something
that’s still a priority for this President.  He’s had multiple —
multiple, you know, remarks on that particular issue.  We know for a
fact — right? — this is something that Americans care about.  We saw
that in the midterm elections.  
  
So, the President is going to continue to be steadfast.  He’s going to
continue to focus on what the American people want to see and want us to
deliver on.  And we’re just — we’re just going to stay steady.  
  
Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    Secretary Blinken is heading to China later this week.  When his
initial trip was canceled, you all said he would go when the time is
right.  So, why now?  Why is this now the  
right time?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  I know my colleagues at NSC
and State did a 8:00 a.m. — did a on-the-record call at 8:00 a.m.  So, I
certainly would refer you to — and they spoke to — they spoke to
Blinken’s trip.  So, I’ll certainly refer you to that.  
  
And my colleague — if it hasn’t happened already — at State Department —
at the State Department — Matt Miller was supposed to give a briefing. 
And I’m sure he got a lot of back-and-forth on this particular trip.  
  
I’ll say a couple of things about this.  The administration has
strengthened America’s ability to outcompete China for the next decade
and beyond.  And we’ve done that, as I was just iterating, by building
an economy that works for all and doesn’t leave anybody behind.  
  
And we — and you see this.  You see the investments that we’re seeing in
America, especially with manufacturing.  And you see this with 800,000
manufacturing jobs — all incredibly important.  
  
So, we will — China will continue to be around and a major player on the
world stage as we are putting ourselves on that stronger footing to
compete.  They have and will continue to take provocative steps.  We
understand that.  
  
And you’ve heard the President say it’s important to have that diplomacy
with world leaders.  It’s important to have that discussion.  So, we
believe intense competition requires intense diplomacy.  And that’s what
you’re seeing from the State Department.  
  
Lastly, it is — it is a responsible way, we believe, to manage tensions,
clear up mis- — misperceptions and miscalculations even, and — and it is
in our interest to try and figure out a way to work together.  And this
is what you’re seeing — this is what you’re going to see from Secretary
Blinken’s trip when he heads out on Saturday.  
  
Q    You note that the President, you know, feels it’s important to have
this kind of in-person diplomacy.  What exactly is the President hoping
that the Secretary will be able to accomplish?  And is it the
President’s hope that these meetings pave the way for an in-person
meeting between the President and President Xi?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can’t speak to an in-person meeting with — with
— with the — with President Xi right now, with — with our President.   
  
What I can say is there are a couple of objectives that we are hoping. 
And this is something that the State Department said, so I certainly
would refer you to them.  But the three main objexti- — objectives for
the visit is: One, to establish communication channels to help manage
competition so it does not veer into conflict, which is something that
we have said — keeping those lines of communication open.  Two, to stand
up and speak for American values.  That’s something that the President
leads with and also interests.  And the last and third thing is: It is
in our interest that — we believe — to explore potential cooperation and
trans- — transnational challenges.

And so those are the three objectives that came directly from the State
Department.  I would refer you to — to the State Department on anything
more specifics about the trip.

Q    I know you don’t have, you know, any kind of future meeting to
announce, but do you view this as laying the groundwork for a potential
meeting?

MS.  JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we view this as an important part of our dipl-
— diplomacy and our — our conversation that we believe that we need to
have with China.

As we have said, you know, they’re going to be a major player for a long
time. 

We believe that we are in a right footing, especially of the work that
the President has done the last two years — when you look at the
economy, when you look at the competition, when you look at what we have
been able to do.  And so we want to continue to have those open line of
conversation.  And this is about diplomacy, which is why the — the
Secretary of State is heading — is heading to China on — on Saturday.

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Does the White House have a reaction to the
Federal Reserve’s decision to pause interest rate hikes?  And
(inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know — (laughs) —  
  
Q    — a couple more.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, we do not comment on — on — on the Fed’s
actions.  They are independent.  We respect the independence of the
Fed.  And we do not interfere in any way in their policies.

The President had made — has make it — made it very clear that he wanted
to give the Fed the space so that they can make these monetary decision
and make these monetary policy, obviously. 

And, you know, as I laid out at the top — and I actually talked about
this, as well, it’s — with the CPI data yesterday — we believe that the
President’s plan — the economic plan — is working. 

When you look at the last 11 months and you see inflation has gone down
by more than 50 percent; when you see that the wages over — wages rose
over the — this past year; when you include inflation, as well, and 13
million jobs.  I just mentioned the 800,000 jobs — manufacturing jobs,
which is incredibly important for American families.

So these are the things that the President is going to focus on: how do
we continue to create an economy that works for — for all.  But I’m just
not going to comment on the Fed — on the Fed’s response.

Q    And one question on China, as well.  Is the White House aware of
Bill Gates’s trip to China and his planned meeting with Xi Jinping?  And
have you — or has the White House advised him about it at all or
requested a readout after his meeting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t know if — I don’t know if Bill Gates has
reached out to us or if we have reached out to him.  I don’t have any
information or intel to give about any conversation with Bill.  But
certainly, I’m sure he can speak for himself about his trip to China.

Go ahead.

Q    Hey, thanks, Karine.  I wanted to give you an opportunity to
perhaps correct the record or at least respond to something former
President Trump said last night. 

Last night he called his arrest, quote, “the most evil and heinous abuse
of power in the history of our country.”  And he accused the current
president of having him arrested, effectively directing his arrest. 
Your response?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to comment to that.

Q    Okay.   
  
I wanted to ask you about Senator Tuberville, who is currently holding
up the promotions of about 250 senior officers.  He has reportedly
rejected the most recent offer by some of his Republican colleagues to
address this issue as part of the annual defense authorization bill, and
he is maintaining that he wants a vote on the Senate floor to reverse
this Pentagon policy that — that pays travel costs for service members
seeking abortion or other reproductive healthcare. 

So Senator Tuberville says that he hasn’t heard from the White House at
all on this issue.  I’m wondering why not.  And what’s the White House’s
view on what the path forward is here?  Should the Senate begin holding
individual votes on senior military promotions to start advancing some
of them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So a couple things at the top, which is, I think,
incredibly important: What the senator is doing by holding these
nomination, it’s a threat to our national security.  Period.  That’s
what he’s doing. 

These are important nominations that we need, that we — that the
American people need to keep our country safe.  And so they — and not
only that, they risk our military readiness by depriving our armed
forces of leadership and hurt our military families. 

That’s what — that’s what he’s doing by holding these DOD nominees.

All our meri- — military nominees that Senator Tuberville is blocking
need to be confirmed quickly, and we have been consista- — consistent
about that.  This is something that has come up in the briefing room
multiple times at this point.

Senators should not play politics — they should not play politics with
our military assistance, with our military readiness, and with our
military family. 

And so, look, I’m not going to get into the specifics of — of what —
what — you know, what the mechanics should be in getting this done. 
We’ve been very clear that it needs to happen.  And — and I just don’t
have anything else to share about a conversation with the senator.

Q    Well, but why hasn’t the White House spoken with him?  And what
does the White House see as the path forward here?  I mean, you guys
have said it’s a matter of national security.  I presume that means it’s
a top priority for you guys.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, it’s — first of all, it’s shameful that he’s
doing this, right?  I mean, he needs to be asked a question, is — why is
he putting our national security at risk?  That is something for a
senator to be able to answer to. 

We’re trying to do the right thing by moving forward and protecting our
military readiness and protecting our military families. 

And so, look, I can’t speak to conversations.  I have to talk to our
Office of Leg Affairs.  I do not know when the last time that they spoke
to the senator.

But what I do know is what he’s doing is putting our national security
at risk, truly.

Q    And then, very quickly on something that was brought up earlier:
Senator Risch and his blocking of a $735 million arms package to Hungary
in order to get them to approve Sweden into NATO.  Did the White House
coordinate at all with Senator Risch?  Do you guys agree with that
strategy?  And do you believe that he should maintain that hold until
Hungary approves Sweden?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I heard the question from Colleen.  I don’t have
anything to add or anything to elaborate on that.

Go ahead, Joey.

Q    Yeah, thanks, Karine.  For months, the White House has declined to
discuss a possible plan B if the President’s student loan debt
forgiveness program is overturned by the Supreme Court. 

Now, with a SCOTUS decision expected this month, perhaps in a matter of
days, several constituencies are urging Biden to be ready to act.  The
NAACP, in a letter today to Biden, wrote, “Should the Supreme Court fail
to uphold student debt relief, Black America demands that your
administration pursue all legal pathways to make a permanent solution”
on student loan debt.

Is the White House prepared to transition to an alternative method for
student loan forgiveness if the President’s plan is rejected in court?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we continue to be confident in our legal —
kind of, our legal pathway here.  So we’re — I’m going to leave it to
the Department of Justice to continue — continue protecting a plan that
the President believes is incredibly important for American families. 

And — and I want to also be clear that the President recognizes — he
recognizes the burden student debt has on tens of millions of Black
Americans.  That is something that he gets; that is something that he
certainly has talked about, and — which is why he secured the largest
increase to Pell grants in decades.  That’s something that he did very
early on in his administration.  And that is why he vetoed the most
recent attempt by congressional Republicans to block his student debt. 

That was a con- — that was — remember, that was part of the — a major
piece of contention during the budget negotiations.  And the President
protected that. 

And so — and so, he is — you know, he is — certainly understand how
important his plan is, which is why he put it forth, which is —

Q    But as for —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — why he understands —  
  
Q    Yeah —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — how much that means to everyday families, working
people who makes less than $75,000.  Remember, 90 percent of that plan
is going to help those very people.  

So we believe in our legal — kind of, legal pathway here.  And so I’m
certainly not going to get ahead of the Department of Justice.

Q    Okay.  So, as for whether there is a plan B — if it is struck down,
you still can’t say whether there —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just saying that we’re going to focus on the fight
that’s in front of us right now.

Q    Okay.  Thanks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Zolan.

Q    Local outlets in Connecticut are reporting that the President will
attend a national gun safety summit later this week.  There seems to be
little momentum in Congress for any sort of new bill that we saw
recently. 

Right now, is the White House purely in an implementation sort of phase
when it comes to gun control?  Or is there anything else the White House
can do in the meantime besides just calling on Congress for additional
action for gun control?

Q    I mean, Zolan, I appreciate the question, but let’s not forget what
this President has done that has been historic when it comes to dealing
with gun violence.  Let’s not forget that more than two dozen pieces of
executive actions that he’s taken because Congress has not acted in a
way that we fully believe that they can.   
  
We appreciated the bipartisan bill that was passed almost a year ago —
it’s going to be on — I believe on Friday will be a year ago that the
President signed that into law.  That’s great.  And it was 30 years in
the making, really, right?  It took 30 years before we got there.  But
there’s more that needs to happen.  There’s more that needs to happen to
keep our communities safe.  
And so, to your question, look, he’s going to use the bully pulpit. 
He’s going to go to Connecticut, he’s going to continue to talk about
the importance of Congress moving forward.  But also, states have taken
action.  Let’s not forget: Connecticut has taken actions.  And there’s
been — multiple states have actually done the work to ban assault
weapons, do red flags, and do other things that are incredibly important
that’s going to protect communities.  And so, we’re going to lift that
up as well.  
Now, what we’re asking for, obviously, is for the federal government to
take additional actions.  But let’s not forget what states have been
able to do over just the last several months on protecting their
community.  
Q    What we’re asking is for the federal government to take additional
actions.  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, that’s exactly right.  
Q    But can any of those actions, at this point — while noting the
legislation that was passed already and the implementation ongoing of
that package — can any of those additional federal actions at this point
be done solely through executive action?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I mean, the President is always going to
look for ways to take additional actions, obviously, right?  When you do
more than two dozen executive actions, clearly, we’re always going to
figure out what else we can do to protect communities.  So that is
something that we’re — that certainly our team is going to look at.  
But let’s not forget that states have been able to take action, which is
really important too, and that’s been just over the past several
months.  
And so, look, we’re going to continue to ask Congress to — to — to act. 
I’ve been asked what other priorities that this President has as it
relates to legislation.  That’s one of them. We’ve just got to continue
to build on what we — what he was able to sign last year.  Anything
additional, I just don’t have anything to share at this point.  
Go ahead, Tyler.  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Last night Fox News ran a chyron that referred to
the President as a “wannabe dictator,” and I’m wondering if the White
House had any comment on that.  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, there are probably about 787 million things
that I can say about this — that was wrong about what we saw last night,
but I don’t think I’m going to get into it.  
Q    There’s no comment the White House has on it.   
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think I just commented.  (Laughter.)  
Go ahead.  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  So, I — without talking about the decision
today by the Fed, obviously the hikes impact the U.S. economy.  So, can
you talk about the — the delayed effects of previous hikes and when you
think you’ll be able to have a very clear picture of how the economy and
inflation are doing?  
So I’m not — I’m just not going to get into economic forecasting from
here.  What I — what I will say, and this is something that the
President has said himself: We believe that recent data is more foo- —
proof that the economy — that his economic plan is working.   
When you think about PPI, when you think about CPI, you think about the
jobs numbers, we believe that it’s — what he is doing is creating jobs
and also helping to lower costs, and that is the most important thing
that we think the Americans — Americans want us to see.  
And so, look, fighting prices certainly continues to be a main priority
for Americans and also certainly a top priority for us.  And so, we’re
going to continue to — to do that — to — to — to do everything that we
can to lower costs.  But we are encouraged by the data.  I’m just not
going to get into forecasting any type of, you know, datapoints on — on
the economy.  I’m going to leave that to the experts.  
Q    And then, on Saturday, President Biden is scheduled to go to
Philadelphia.  So I wonder, since he’s going to be there, does he plan
to survey the I-95 collapse?   
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — anything to report at this time or
to share about a change in his schedule.  
Q    Thank you.  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, April.  
Q    Karine, this White House is recognizing Juneteenth, which is
Monday.  And with that said, the issue of reparations continues to be
something that is being parsed out on the other side of Pennsylvania
Avenue.  
And with that said, you know, the late John Conyers started with, you
know, a study.  Now you have Congresswoman Bush not just asking for
study, but she’s creating a resolution to push forward on reparations. 
What does this White House believe when it comes to this controversial
issue of repairing a wrong for the descendants of Africans in this
nation?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   So, look, as you mentioned Juneteenth, there was a
concert here yesterday, and we saw how powerful and how moved the
President was by the concert and by, kind of, the story that was laid
out through the concert about Juneteenth and how important that moment
was.  Opal, as you know, was here, and it’s always moving to hear her
and to see her.   
And — and, as you know, the President signed — signed Juneteenth to be
the most recent holiday about two years ago.   
So, I think that shows from that action — I’ll give you more — I think
that shows from that action how important the President thinks this
moment is, how important he thinks that it’s — it is important to
continue to lift up the African American community.  And he’ll continue
to do so.  
As it relates to reparations, I — I saw just moments ago the — Cori
Bush’s resolution.  We haven’t reviewed the proposal yet.  It’s a new
proposal.  So I’ll take a look at it.  So I can’t comment on that
specifically.  
But the President has been really clear when it — as it relates to
reparation, he wants to see a study of reparations, and that — and
studying the continuing impacts of slavery.  He believes that is
incredibly important.  
Q    So, after the study, if the study concludes what many thought
leaders and — and civil rights leaders have said, what next?  Does the
President support a payout?  Because the nation is divided on this. 
This has been one of the biggest issues over the decades about how to
repair the enslavement over generations of Africans brought to this
country for free labor.  
So what does the President do after?  What — what will he lean in on
after a study, which is expected to basically say what many of the civil
rights and thought lead- — Black thought leaders have said?  Does the
President believe in a financial repair for the descendants of Africans
in this nation?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I will say this.  We’ve got to let the study
move forward.  We got to let — see what the study shows.  And we got to
continue to study the impact of sla- — slavery.  That is something that
the President believes that we need to do.  So that’s incredibly
important.  
But I will say, April — and you know this; you’ve covered this since we
walked into this administration — when we think about the crises that we
see in our country, the pri- — the President called out how race — race
inequality is a problem — right? — is a crisis for us in this moment,
which is why he is taking comprehensive action.   
  
When you think about what he did on the first couple of days that he
walked in: put — signing an executive order to make sure that on a
federal level that we put equity at the center — at the center of this. 
And it is important that we continue to do this.  How do we deal with
the inequalities that we see in this country?  And he’s trying to do
that on the federal level.   
  
So let’s see what the study shows.  It is important to continue to study
the continuing impacts, if you will, on — on slavery.  And I think
because of the President’s action, he’s been very clear — he’s been very
clear how important it is, even just looking at the — his economic
policy — how important it is to leave no one behind, have equity at the
center of everything that he’s done.  If you look at every piece of
historic piece of legislation that has passed that he has signed, it has
equity at the center of that.  And that’s because the President has that
in mind — right? — to make sure that we have equality, to make sure that
we leave no one behind.   
  
I’ll keep going.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Why did the White House not inform us of the
President of Uruguay’s visit yesterday?  It wasn’t on the schedule.   
  
I presume that these bilateral meetings are planned in advance, so when
did you decide that the meeting was going to happen?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, it was a drop-by — that’s what it was — with
the President.  And I — you know, I would have to get back to — talk to
the National Security Council to talk through how the meeting actually
happened and landed.  I don’t have that information for you.   
  
But we believe it was important for this drop-by to happen, clearly.  
  
I just talked about how the President sees diplomacy — having in-person
— those in-person conversation — how critical they are.  And that’s what
you saw yesterday.   
  
I can’t speak to the process on landing this meeting.  
  
Q    Can you give us a sense of how long the meeting was?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll give you a little bit of how we saw this meeting
went.  I don’t have a timeline for you or a timestamp, if you will, on
the meeting.   
  
So, during their meeting, President Biden lauded Uruguay as a regional
and global model for democratic governance, and congratulated him for
receiving the Gold Insignia award from the Council of the Americas.   
  
President Biden and the President of Uruguay also discussed their
support for Ukraine; principled defense for fundamental freedoms in
Venezuela; and commitment to ensure the Americas partnership for
economic prosperity accelerates regional integration, inclusive economic
prosperity, and greater opportunity through sustainable trade and
investment.   
  
So the two Presidents also explored ways to expand our bilateral
economic relationship, increase joint efforts to combat climate change,
and further strengthen security operation.   
  
And that is what came out of this meeting.   
  
Q    Okay.  Thank you for that.   
  
And just on the U.S.-Iran talks, I saw the exchange with the — at the
State Department briefing yesterday, and I’m still unclear.  And I hope
you can — you can help me.   
  
Is the administration, at this point, talking to Iran, asking Tehran not
to enrich uranium above 60 percent, in return for the release of some
funds — some frozen funds and possible prisoner exchange?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I would have to refer you to the State
Department.  They had the readout.  If you — if it’s unclear to you, I
would just refer you back to them, and they can actually lay out exactly
what those conversations were.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) principle: I know that you say the JCPOA is not the
priority for the administration at this point.  So what are these
diplomatic channels that are going on with Iran?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, again, having open channels of conversation
is important.   
  
And I’ll just reiterate: Our policy on Iran has not changed.  It is — we
have been very clear about that.  We remain focused on constraining
Iran’s destabilizing behavior through pressure, close coordination with
our allies, and de-escalation in the region, obviously, right?   
  
And so, that’s including — including ensuring Iran never acquires a
nuclear weapon.  That has not changed, of course.  Right?  We’ve been
consistent about that during this past two years in this — of this
adminis- — administration.  So we’re going to always watch closely
Iran’s enrichment activities.  
  
And the United States prefers diplomacy, right?  That’s what you saw
from the State Department.  That’s what you’ll — you see from this
President.   
  
And — but we are preparing — but we are preparing for all possible
options and contingencies in full coordination with our partners and
allies.  So that has not changed.  We’ve been consistent.   
  
Go ahead, Karen.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  To get back to the Philly event on Saturday, the
President is attending a political rally hosted by union members, and
we’re told it’s not a Biden campaign event.  Should we expect the
President to take part in more of these things called “political
rallies” over the next couple of months?  And what’s this going to look
like on Saturday?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Don’t have — just don’t have anything to share on — on
that.  It is a political rally, so I would refer you to the DNC.  So I’m
not going to speak to it from here.  I’m just — I’m just going to be
very careful and not speak to that.  
  
Q    And not about this one, but will he do events like this that are
not — the White House advertised this event —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.   
  
Q    — in a release.  But other entities hosting a rally that could look
like a campaign event that the President goes to, will we see him doing
this —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share on his schedule at this
time.  I — I just don’t.  
  
Okay.  Let me see.  Go ahead, Tam.  
  
Q    Yeah.  White House officials — including you, I think — are meeting
with state legislators over the next couple of days about reproductive
rights and abortion access.  And I’m curious what you’re trying to
accomplish.  And, like, you know, they — they’re coming from Republican
states where they’re definitely in the minority in the legislature.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, Tam, we believe these conversations are
incredibly important.  That’s why they’re here — these state legislators
are here.  Let’s not forget, the one-year anniversary of Dobbs decision
is about — less than — about 10 days away, if not less.   
  
And so, we thought it was important for White House to host state
legislators to discuss the state-level attacks, as you just mentioned,
we’re seeing on reproductive rights and the work led by Democratic
elected officials to safeguard access to care.   
  
So we’re going to convene another one tomorrow.  
  
As you mentioned, I — I had the pleasure of participating in one this
morning or participating — or talking to them this morning — including
Jen Klein, the Director of Gender Policy Council; Mayor Steve Benjamin,
the Director of Office and Public Engagement here at the White House —
and it was incredibly powerful.  
  
You got to remember, these are folks who have been on the frontline
dealing with an issue that is incredibly important to their
constituency, to their — to — to the people that they work on behalf of,
but also the country.   
  
And so, you know — and we’re talking about how Republican-elected
officials in these very states have taken steps to roll back
reproductive care, to roll back of freedoms that we should have — that
women should have.   
  
And so, again, we’ll have more to share.  We’ll be convening another one
tomorrow.  And — and we thought it was important to do this as we head
to the first-year anniversary of the Dobbs decision.  
  
Q    Are you guys like producing videos out of it?  Or like what — I’m —
I guess the White House convenes all the time, but I’m just curious,
like what comes —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I don’t have any output from it besides the
fact that these are state legislators who have literally been on the
frontlines of — of a — of a freedom that has been eroded — right? — to
women, reproductive healthcare that has been taken away.   
  
And so, that’s — it’s important to bring them in and to tell them, “Hey,
we have your back,” that “We see you, we appreciate the fight that you
have been doing, and we are partners with you on moving forward.”   
  
And so, hey, we think that’s important to do, especially as we’re
talking about freedoms.  We’re talking about Americans’ freedom here.  
  
Okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you say whether the President has actually
read that letter from the NAACP on student debt relief and, if he has,
what his reaction is?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have not spoken to the President — if he has seen —
if he has read the letter or not, so I can’t — I can’t answer that
question.  But I have laid out, just in the last few minutes, about what
the President has done and how he understands how a — you know, his
student debt relief plan is important to this community.  And so he’ll
continue to fight for it, as we see DOJ doing.  And — and so, this is
something that we think is so important.  
  
If you think about what — what American families had had to deal with
the last two years — giving them a little breathing room — you hear the
President talk about this a lot — and this is what the student debt
relief is going to do.  It’s part of his economic policy to make sure
that we do everything — how we move forward on building — building back
the economy.  It deals with — it deals with it in an equitable way.  
  
Q    And I’m going to try again, one more time, on the Fed.  Is the
White House concerned that the Fed is pausing rates at a time when
inflation is still high and still above that 2 percent target?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to comment on the monetary
decisions that the Fed makes.  They are independent.  We respect that
independence.  I’m just not going to comment on their actions.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  So, also on Iran.  Since the United States
seems to be trying to ease tensions with Iran, is the White House
optimistic on the possibility of making progress to release the American
hostage?  And also, a few months ago, Siamak Namazi, one of the — of the
American hostages, made a desperate plea from the Evin prison on CNN. 
Has the President been in touch with his family since?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any update on — on any — on any
conversations that the President had with —  
with any of the family members.  
  
Look, when it comes to — when it comes to Americans being wrongfully
detained or held hostage, this is something that this administration
takes very seriously.  This is something that this administration has
made a priority.  
  
As you know, there’s been more than a dozen Americans who have been held
hostage or wrongfully detained that we have been able to bring home over
the last two years.  So, that shows you our dedication and our focus on
this.  
  
I just don’t have anything else to share.  I would actually refer you to
the State Department on anything specifics on any hos- — particular
hostage.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the Federal Reserve, without commenting on their policy —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — does the decision that they made on interest rates signal to the
President or the economic team here that any change is needed in
proposals that are putting forward, especially now as you work with
Congress on, like, the appropriations process and funding levels?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to comment on their actions
specifically.  I —  
  
Q    I’m talking about how the White House —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  Hold on.  Hold on.  Hold on.  
  
Q    — reacts to that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’ve got to — you’ve got to give me a second. 
You’ve got to give me a beat here.  Let me just say what I need to say,
and I’ll try to answer your question in the most effective way
possible.   
  
I’m going to be careful about responding to any actions that the Fed
makes.  They are independent; we respect that.   
  
But, look, we believe, again, our eco- — economic policies are working
because we have seen inflation is now the lowest in more than two
years.  And that’s over the last — that is — has fallen for the past 11
months.  And you think about wages: That has gone up — right? — which is
incredibly important — over the past — past year.  That accounts for
inflation.  
  
And so, when you think about that, that is important for American
families.  Who does that help?  American families — when you see wages
that have gone up.  Thirteen million jobs — that’s important.  And
that’s because of how this President has moved forward with the
economy.  
  
So, you’re asking me if we need to change anything.  The President has
always said: When it comes to economic policy, he’s going to put
lowering — lowering cost a priority.  And so, we’re going to continue to
do that.  We’re going to continue to find ways.  
  
I’m just not going to comment on the monetary decision that the Fed has
made.  
  
Go ahead, Ryan.  
  
Q    Thanks a lot, Karine.  You’ve described some of the accomplishments
that the President has made and the investments in the country.  And
yet, the President’s polling is still in the 40s — in the low 40s.  Does
the President believe he’s not getting enough credit for some of the
investments, like the CHIPS Act and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Act,
that are going out in the country?  And what’s he going to do in the
coming months to try to reach Americans to describe what kind of impact
that’s going to have on their communities?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, our focus is going to be the work: the work
to get this done, the work to lower costs.  And we know that there’s
more work to do.  And we know that sometimes Americans — there are some
Americans here in this country who feel — who are feeling the economy a
little bit differently, who feel like there’s — there — that there’s
more work that can be done.  
  
And so, here’s what we’re going to continue to do, right?  We’re going
to continue to take on Big Pharma to lower prescription drugs.  And that
is something that we have been able to do, and that’s cap — cap —
capping insulin at 35 bucks a month.  
  
Investing in America to lower energy costs, fuel our manufacturing
insurgence \[sic\] — reinsurgence \[sic\] and create jobs.  More than
$470 billion in private sector investments in manufacturing in clean
energy.   
  
That matters.  And so that’s what we’re going to continue to do.  
  
And look, it’s completely opposite of what — of Republicans in Congress
want to do.  They want to reward the wealthy, the corporation — give
them a tax break.  That’s what we have seen from them.  And that’s why
the — the bipartisan — bipartisan budget deal that the President was
able to do is so important, because he was able to protect — to protect
programs that are so important and critical to American families,
critical to veterans, critical to seniors.  
  
So, what they can expect from this President is a president that’s going
to continue to fight for them, and he has shown that by his actions.  
  
Go ahead, Jon.  
  
Q    Thanks a lot, Karine.  The Secretary of State’s upcoming two-day
visit to China is very noteworthy in the sense that a U.S. Secretary of
State hasn’t traveled to China  
since 2018.  What’s the overall goal —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I just —  
  
Q    — of this two-day trip?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just laid — I just — look, State Department has
talked about it.  I just spoke about it from this — from this podium
just moments ago about the objectives and the goal.  We think it’s
important.  This President is important — thinks it’s important to have
diplomacy, to continue to have those conversations with some — with a
country that’s going to be a major player on the world stage.  Right?  
  
But we’ve been very consistent.  We believe we’ve strengthened our —
America’s ability to outcompete China because of the economic actions
and policies that we have taken.  And we be- — we think it’s important
to have those open lines of conversation, those — keep those channels
open.  And so, we’re going to continue to do that.  
  
Diplomacy is important.  He is — as you just stated, Blinken is the
Secretary of State.  That is one of his jobs — right? — to have those
conversations.   
  
And so, those are the objectives.  And, you know, we’re going to
continue to move forward in that direction.  
  
Q    It’s a very complex relationship, the U.S. and China.  There’s
trade, there’s national security, there’s human rights.  I’m curious: Do
you, as the administration, view China as — as you describe, a
competitor, or are they also an adversary?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what we see right now is that they’re certainly
going to be a major p- — a player.  Right?  They’re going to be —
continue to be around.  And so, because of that, we need to do our part
— right? — and have that diplomacy, have those conversation, and
continue to strengthen our hand, you know, our — America’s ability to
out- — to outcompete China, which we believe we have put ourselves in a
good footing to do that.  
  
So, we’re going to have the conversation, open the — continue to open
the lines, the channels to have those conversations.  And I think that’s
what matters.  I think that’s what the American people want to see.  
  
Go ahead, Courtney.  
  
Q    Thank you.  What’s the status of the pandemic preparedness office
now that Dr. Jha is leaving?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, we are — we’re looking to hire a
director of that office.  That office — one of the reasons that office
exists is because it was mandatory, clearly, as you know, by Congress. 
And we think it’s important to make sure that — to make sure that
certainly we have the right person to do the job.  
  
As it relates to the COVID Response Team, there is a small team that
still very much exists.  And so, we’re going to continue to do the work
that this President has done this last two years to — to — you know, to
beat COVID back, which we have been able to see — right? — which he has
been able to accomplish.  
  
And so, I’ll just leave it there.  
  
Q    On artificial intelligence, I also wanted to ask: I know that most
of the activity at the White House on that has been going out of the
Office of Science and Technology Policy.  
They don’t have a ton of staff on AI.  Their AI advisor just recently
left.  The person under him who does AI left a while ago.  Can you talk
about who’s advising the President on this topic inside the White House,
or are you mostly relying on your agencies?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, let me just say that we are committed to
fostering responsible AI to benefit society while actively working to
mitigate the risk.  Right?  That is something that you’ve heard.  
  
We’ve been very clear about the risk associated with AI, which is why
we’ve actively engaged — you’ve seen — you’ve seen the Vice President
most recently engage with CEOs — right? — engage with companies to
ensure that we are working together.  And so — and develop and advance
AI in a responsible way.  
  
So, we have taken action.  You’ve seen the President meet multiple times
with his team.  You’ve seen the Vice President do this as well, as I
just — as I just stated.  And so, we’re going to continue to have those
conversations.  And we’re going to continue to do that work.  
  
You know, the President certainly takes advice from — from his advisors
here, his senior advisors and others who are — who are prolific in this
— in this space.  And he’ll continue to do that.  
  
I don’t have anything more to share specifically on that.  But you’ve
seen us — you’ve seen the President convene his team.  You’ve seen the
Vice President convene his team and to talk specifically about AI.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Phil.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Last week, the President said that state lawmakers who
are enacting bans on gender transition surgeries or therapies for minors
were, in his words, “hysterical” or “prejudiced.”  I’m curious, will he
withhold Medicare funds or restrict federal healthcare dollars in some
way in response?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to add to that.  I just — go
ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    And then, you know, when the President made those remarks, he was
standing next to the Prime Minister from the United Kingdom.  And
afterwards, the United Kingdom announced that they were going to be
placing a ban on puberty blockers for minors in most cases.  Will the
President raise this human rights issue with his UK counterpart?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I didn’t see those comments, so I can’t respond to
that directly.  And I’m just not going to go beyond what the President
said in that — in the press conference.  
  
Q    And then — I don’t have a question about the Fed.  (Laughter.)  But
I do have a follow-up.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m happy to take one, though.  My answer is pretty
consistent.  
  
Q    So, not about the Fed.  Has the President entrusted a message to
Secretary Blinken on his trip to Beijing, specifically to the Chinese
about that Chinese spy facility that was on the Cuban island?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to get into private
conversations that the President has with his Secretary.  And so, I’m
not going to get ahead of what’s going to come up in this visit.

I kind of laid out the objectives, which I think is really important —
right? — to have diplomacy, this is what the President has said.  And
I’ve laid out even more about how we want to move forward with out
relationship and, clearly, our competition with China.

I’m just not going to get ahead of that.  Anything specific that you
want to know about the trip, I certainly would refer you to the State
Department.

Q    Thank you, Karine.

MS.  JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Way in the back.  Go ahead.  Way in the back. 
Go ahead.

Q    Me?  Right here?

MS.  JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, yeah.

Q    Okay.  On abortion access, state lawmakers — they were here at the
White House today, more are going to be in town tomorrow.  Some say that
they want the administration to provide more support in red states to
protect access.  So what more is the White House looking to do or
considering doing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President has been pretty clear, the
Vice President has been clear — pretty clear that they are going to do
everything that they can to fight for the right for women to make the
decision on their own body — right? — and also to fight to make sure
that — and a- — and call on Congress to make Roe — you know, put
legislation forward so that he can sign Roe into — into law.  And so
that’s something that he’s been pretty clear about. 

He took actions very early on, almost a — over a year ago — right? —
when Do- — the Dobbs decision was made.  He put together — the President
Ta- — the President Task Force on Reproductive Healthcare Access is — is
working across — making sure that access is working across the federal
government to protect access to care. 

The President has signed two executive orders to protect access to
abortion and contraception, support a woman’s right to travel for
medical care, strengthen privacy measures, and address discrimination in
healthcare. 

And President Biden also issued a presidential memor- — memorandum on
what would have been the 50th anniversary of Roe v. Wade that is aimed
at protecting the safe access to medication abortion in particular. 

But the bottom line is — is what we’re seeing from Republicans: They
want to continue to ban a freedom that women should have.  They want to
do a national ban.  We’ve seen the state — the bans in states across the
country.  And the President and the Vice President have been very clear:
They’re going to continue to fight. 

You’ve heard from the Vice President multiple times.  She’s kind of led
in this space and has been incredibly powerful and, I think, impactful
in speaking on this issue.  You’ve heard the President speak on this as
well. 

And so, I think by having — we believe — not me, but we believe — by
having the state legislators here today and tomorrow to listen to them,
to hear what it is that they’re experiencing on the ground, to get a
sense of how else we can be helpful, what — in what ways we can partner
is actually really important.  And so, that’s what you’re seeing from
this administration and that’s what we’re going to continue to do. 

I think we’ve been — we’ve taken action.  We’ve been very loud and clear
about this.  And we’re continuing to do so. 

One more —

Q    Stanley Cup.  Stanley Cup.  Please, please, please.

Q    Madam, over here.  In the back.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Oh my gosh, guys.  I’m trying to call on
people I haven’t called in a while.

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Oh, me?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no.  Right — yep.

Q    Come on, let me go — Canadian.  Just one.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — I just called on you last — earlier this week.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you so much.  So just one follow-up on the abortion meetings
today.  Were President Biden or Vice President Harris in those
meetings?  And why were they or were they not there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I can say that — and I just mentioned — I
listed out who — some of the leaders of the administration who was part
of this meeting.  And so, they were inten- — in attendance in convening
this really important — important conversation that we’re having with
state leaders, as I mentioned, today and tomorrow.

I mentioned I had an opportunity to stop by.  It was incredibly
powerful.  And, you know, again, these are people who have been fighting
this on the frontlines. 

And so — but the President and the Vice President is committed to
protecting these rights.  They’re committed and doing everything that we
can from the federal government. 

So I don’t have any readouts, clearly, to offer with this event or — or
anything new about tomorrow. 

But, look, we — we believe we need to do as much as we can as we head
into the one-year sa- — one-year anniversary of the Dobbs decision.  And
so, we’ll continue to have these conversations, as we have been for the
past year.  And we think it’s important to do so.

So don’t have anything to read out about the Vice President or
President.

Q    Can I ask one more on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    — on TPS?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Turns to the TV screen behind the podium and sees a
reporter onscreen waiting to ask a question.)  Oh — (Laughter.)

Poor guy thinks —

Q    Hi, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — you’re laughing at him.  That’s terrible.

Q    (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello!

Q    Hi, Karine.  I’m Dennis House with WTNH, the ABC station in
Connecticut.  And, as you mentioned, the President is coming here on
Friday for Senator Murphy’s gun summit at the University of Hartford. 
And I’d like to know: Why is Connecticut so important to the President
to make this argument for more gun control and more gun safety?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  And yo- — Dennis House, right?

Q    Yes, Dennis House.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Good to see you, Dennis.  Thanks for — thanks
for —

Q    Nice to see you, and thanks for your time today.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, look, we were talking about, earlier —
moments ago — about the importance of the work that we need to continue
to do, to talk about the work that we need to continue to see on
protecting communities.   
  
And so, the President believes that this is an in- — criti- — a critical
trip, an important trip, as we see the anniversary — upcoming
anniversary of the bipartisan Safer Community Act, which resulted in
decades of work. 

We hadn’t seen bipartisan legislation on really dealing with gun
violence in 30 years.  And this is something that the President was able
to do.

Let’s not forget the more than two dozen pieces of executive actions
that he was taking. 

So he’s going to highlight the progress at the state level and call for
state legislators across the country and Congress to take additional
action.  That’s what you’re going to hear from the President. 

Connecticut has been a leader on gun safety legislation in the decade
following the tragedy, as you know, at Sandy Hook.  And just over a week
ago, the governor of Connecticut, Governor Lamont, signed a gun violence
prevention bill, which contains more than a dozen measures to improve
gun safety, including strengthening the state’s ban on assault weapons —
on assault weapons and secure storage requirements. 

So this is — the President believes it’s important to highlight the
states that are actually doing the work and getting this done since
we’re not seeing more action from Congress.   
  
And so, this is going to be an important — important, we think,
conversation, important opportunity for the President to highlight how
we’re — what — in what ways that we can continue to — we can protect our
communities, protect our schools, protect our grocery stores, protect
our churches, as we’ve seen continuous gun violence in our streets.

Q    Well, we welcome him to our great state.  And, Karine, thanks for
your time.  I appreciate it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much, Dennis.  Have a good rest of your
week.

Q    You too.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Okay, I think I have to go.  I’ll take one
last question. 

I haven’t seen you in the briefing room before.  Hello.

Q    Hi.  I’m wondering if you could comment on a planned endorsement
from the AFL-CIO on Friday, the earliest that that union has entered
into the endorsement business in a presidential race.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, I can’t speak on the 2024 election
because of the Hatch Act, as everyone knows in this room and we
discussed fully yesterday.  So I’m going to continue to stay focused and
steadfast on that.  So I would refer you to the DNC or the campaign. 

Thanks, everybody.  Appreciate it.

 END  3:10 P.M. EDT
