---
date: '2023-06-28'
published_time: 2023-06-28 14:18:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/06/28/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-olivia-dalton-en-route-chicago-il/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton En Route Chicago,\_\
  IL"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Chicago, Illinois

10:39 A.M. EDT  
  
MS.  DALTON:  Good morning, everybody.  How is everyone today?  You all
doing well?  Okay.  
  
Just a couple of things at the top.  So, in Chicago today, before an
audience of business and labor leaders, elected officials and community
leaders and workers, the President will make the case for Bidenomics,
his plan to grow the economy from the middle out and the bottom up, a
fundamental break with trickle-down economics, which fail- — failed the
middle class.   
  
President Biden believes that the best way to grow the economy is to
grow the middle class, and his plan is working.  We’ve had — we’ve had
the most — the strongest economic growth and the lowest current
inflation of any peer country.  We’ve added 13 million jobs, a
record-setting 10 million small-business applications, and inflation is
down by half.   
  
As the President will explain, Bidenomics has three key pillars:  
  
First, making smart investments in America, like rebuilding America’s
crumbling infrastructure; making more semiconductors, batteries,
electric cars, and clean energy here at home; and powering a resurgence
in American manufacturing.   
  
Second, educating and empowering workers.  Real incomes and household
net worth are up since the President took office, and pay for low-wage
workers has grown at the fastest pace in over two decades.  We’re
ensuring workers can get the education and training they need to get
good-paying jobs, and we’re making it easier to join a union.   
  
Third, we’re promoting small — we’re promoting competition to lower
costs and help small businesses.  That includes proposing a rule to ban
noncompete agreements, fighting to end junk fees, and providing support
and capital to small businesses.   
  
Bidenomics is proving that we can invest in the American people while
reducing the deficit, which fell a record $1.7 trillion in the
President’s first two years in office.   
  
The President has signed laws to cut the deficit an additional $1
trillion.  He beat Big Pharma to give Medicare the power to negotiate
prescription drug prices and cap insulin at $35.  And his plan cuts the
deficit even more by making billionaires and special interests like Big
Oil pay their fair share.   
  
Bidenomics is about the future, but it’s rooted in what always has
worked best in our country.  When we invest in our people and strengthen
the middle class, we can see economic growth that benefits all
Americans.   
  
The President will be joined in Chicago today by Governor J.B. Pritzker,
Senators Di- — Dick Durbin and Tammy Duckworth, several members of
Congress from the area, Mayor Brandon Johnson, and a number of other
elected officials and community leaders.   
  
And then quickly, I also wanted to take a moment to wish those
celebrating a blessed and happy Eid today.  This is a special day about
charity, selfes- — selflessness, and service.  This year, over 100 of —
100 Muslim American appointees are joining the millions of Muslim
Americans around the world to mark this great holiday.  And on behalf of
the entire Biden-Harris team: *Eid Mubarak*.   
  
Q    Quick question.  Thank you, Olivia.  A couple of quick questions on
Russia.  Eastern European NATO countries have warned of greater regional
instability, especially with Wagner Group troops moving to Belarus. 
Obviously, the President has been talking to Allies and so has senior
U.S. leadership.  But what is the U.S. really telling them, specifically
these eastern European NATO Allies, to reassure them?  
  
MS. DALTON:  Well, certainly with respect to NATO Allies, you’ve heard
us refirm — reaffirm time and again our commitment to the — you know, to
collective defense of NATO countries.  Certainly, I would start
there.   
  
With respect to any particular or individual conversations, I don’t have
anything that I’m able to read out at this time.  But I would just say
with — again, with all of the — look, zooming out to the broader recent
developments in Russia, we are just not going to, you know, engage in a
whole lot of speculation about what we’re witnessing right now.  And so
I’ll just leave it there.   
  
Q    And a quick one — sorry — one quick follow-up on the — on the Wall
Street Journal’s report that Prigozhin was planning to capture Russia’s
military leadership during last weekend’s mutiny.  This is coming from
Western intelligence officials.  Can you confirm or share anything along
those lines?  
  
MS. DALTON:  We’re not able to confirm that, and we wouldn’t speculate
about the reports we’ve seen overnight.   
  
Look, this is an internal matter for Russia, as the President has
said.   
  
We — our continued focus remains on supporting Ukraine.  You know, as
you saw yesterday, we just announced another drawdown package to make
sure that Ukraine has everything it needs on the battlefield to protect
its territory, to protect its people, and — and defend against the kinds
of brutal, tragic attacks we saw just yesterday, as Russia launched
another barrage of attacks that claimed the lives of innocent
civilians.   
  
So that’s where our focus is right now and — and will continue to be for
the time being.   
  
Chris?  
  
Q    Does the White House believe that top Russian leaders had advance
notice of Prigozhin’s mutiny?  Do you think military leaders might have
known about it ahead of time?  
  
MS. DALTON:  Again, I’m just not going to speculate on this from here. 
This is an internal matter in Russia.  We’re monitoring the situation
closely, but our focus remains on Ukraine and making sure they have
everything that they need to protect themselves.   
  
Q    Just one more question on today’s events.  Have — has the plan been
modified at all because of the air conditions in Chicago?  Any comment
from the White House on — on the conditions described, what people are
dealing with there, and what that says kind of about broader
environmental issues?  
  
MS. DALTON:  No modifications to today’s schedule that I’m aware of as a
result of this, but certainly, we are monitoring the air quality issues
across the country closely.  And federal agencies are ensuring that
federal resources are available in affected regions as appropriate.   
  
I can also tell you that the — excuse me, sorry — that the President
recently directed additional personnel and resources to — and equipment
to help combat the wildfires in Canada, and also directed the DOD to
expand the National Guard’s FireGuard program, which is the technology
that we use to zero in on wildfires in rural places and get a — get a
handle on them quickly, to Canada so that that technology is available
there and could contain other isolated outbreaks in rural areas.   
  
So we’re taking a number of actions to get a handle on this.  Obviously,
as you pointed out, this is part of a growing pattern of extreme weather
events that we’re seeing as a result of climate change and why the
President has taken such ambitious, aggressive action to tackle that
threat.   
  
Q    Olivia, why Chicago for this particular event today?  And was there
any consideration in changing to another state or another city, just
given the air quality issues that Chris mentioned?  
  
MS. DALTON:  Look, Chicago is a wonderful city.  We are really looking
forward to being here with the elected officials here today, looking
forward to being with labor, looking forward to being with a number of
top business leaders.   
  
You know, the President loves to get out into the country and talk to
the American people; talk to, you know, as I just said, labor, business
leaders, other stakeholders about the importance of coming together and
building an economy that works for everybody.  And so that’s what we’re
doing today.   
  
Q    So no consideration in terms of pulling this trip down at all?  
  
MS. DALTON:  No, no, absolutely not.  
  
Q    Over the weekend, was there any military-and-military contact with
Russia regarding the security of the nuclear weapons that they have?  
  
MS. DALTON:  So I believe my colleague is — Kirby — John Kirby spoke to
this earlier this week.  And I really don’t have any — anything to add
on that.  
  
Q    I mean, the President is going — he’s talking about the economic
situation, obviously, today.  What is the outlook on Friday’s inflation
data?  And does the President believe that the country has largely
turned the corner on — by inflation?  
  
MS. DALTON:  So I won’t — again, I won’t forecast what we might see on —
on Friday.  But I will say that we’ve continued to see inflation come
down by 50 percent over the last year.  Consistently over the last 11
months. We saw the CEA — CEA report yesterday showing that the United
States is experiencing lower inflation than any other G7 economy right
now.  And so, certainly, it’s something that we’re continuing to try and
tackle in a number of ways, something that the President is still
laser-focused on, but an area where we’re making progress.   
  
And so, you know — you know, you heard the President’s comments last
night with respect to your other question about where we are, and I
think he talked about the — he alluded to the fact that we’re already
seeing signs that Bidenomics is working, right?  You know, small
business — record small-business growth; record-low unemployment — over
the last 18 months, we’ve seen it below 4 percent; you know,
manufacturing, private — private-sector investment coming back to the
United States of America; and then we’ve seen, just in the last quarter,
disposable incomes are up by 8 percent, consumer spending is up by 3.8
percent.  So these are a lot of indicators that our economy is — is
showing signs of real resilience here.  
  
Q    And a number of air travelers are dealing with delays, especially
on the East Coast.  The three New York City airports had crowd
stoppages.  Is there anything the <s>FEA</s> \[FAA\] is doing to try to
alleviate that situation?  And do you just attribute that to — basically
the weather or is it a systematic issue?  
  
MS. DALTON:  Yeah, this is really — this is really about the severe
weather and storms that we’ve seen in recent days.  You know, anytime —
Ken, you’ve heard me say this before, actually.  But anytime we see
extreme weather storms impacting travel, safety is our top priority
here.  And that’s true for the men and women at the FAA, who are keeping
our flying public safe.  This is really a issue that’s related to the
storms and — and we hope that it — we’re optimistic, I should say, that
these residual delays will be resolved soon.   
  
Q    On the comparison with other G7 countries, what is the United
States — what has it done differently from other countries to address
inflation?  And why is inflation lower and unemployment lower here than,
say, in the UK or Germany or Japan or even Canada?  
  
MS. DALTON:  Well, look, I’m not an economic expert, but I would note
that this President came into office during the throes of a pandemic,
and took swift and decisive action not only to, you know, end the
pandemic, bring it under control, get things moving again, but he also
took a series of historic actions in terms of investing in America and
investing in growing the middle class; making sure that, you know,
through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we are positioning the United
States to lead the world in infrastructure once again, as you’ve heard
him talk about.  We used to lead — lead the world in infrastructure and
we no longer do.  And you can’t have the strongest economy in the world
when you don’t have a strong infrastructure.   
  
So he’s also invested in — he passed the CHIPS and Science Act — right?
— which is bringing entire supply chains and semiconductors and other
technologies back to the United States; passing the historic Inflation
Reduction Act, which, of course, is lowering inflation across the board,
from — on everything from energy costs for folks at home to healthcare
costs.   
  
So, across the board, the President has taken actions like these to —
that are clearly showing signs that they’re working.  
  
Q    Was that comparison something that the administration is going to
emphasize going forward, pointing out to Americans that it’s better here
than somewhere else?  
  
MS. DALTON:  Look, I think you’ll hear the President today talk about
the fact that the United States right now, after two and a half years
into this administration — that right now, you know, we are leading the
world in terms of the — the fastest, strongest economic recovery since
the beginning of the pandemic among G7 countries.  He will talk about
the fact that we are also experiencing the lowest rate of inflation. 
Certainly, we think that that is evidence of Bidenomics working.  
  
Q    What kind of updates is the President getting about the situation
in Russia?  And who was he spoken to since yesterday?  
  
MS. DALTON:  So, I don’t have any calls to read out for you in terms of,
you know, new leader calls with respect to Russia.  
  
But, as my colleagues have said, he was briefed regularly, even hourly,
over the weekend.  And those briefings continue — have continued.  So,
you know, he’s continuously being updated by his national security team
on what we’re seeing.  
  
But beyond that, we are not going to get into any sort of public
speculation.  
  
Q    And yesterday you were asked about the Russian Defense Minister’s
meeting with his counterpart in Cuba.  He called Cuba a “key ally” and
announced new military technical cooperation projects.  You said
yesterday you’d have to check with your NSC colleagues, and I was
wondering if you had anything more on that?  
  
MS. DALTON:  Yeah, I just don’t have anything more on this meeting. 
I’ll — I’ll leave that to others to discuss, you know, their bilateral
engagements.  
  
Q    So, the President is obviously taking credit for some good economic
indicators, the Bidenomics framing.  There is a chance that U.S. enters
a recession over the course of the next year.  Is that also — will be
the President’s responsibility if that happens?  
  
MS. DALTON:  Look, we’ve been hearing people forecast the possibility of
recession for 24 months and it hasn’t happened.   
  
And so, you know, again, I won’t get out my crystal ball, but I think
you heard the President speak to this last night.  And you’ve seen a
strong track record, once again, of the United States experiencing
strong job growth; strong labor market; rising wages, even when adjusted
for inflation; record small business; you know, high — growing
disposable income and consumer spending.  
  
All of these things are consistent with, you know, the resilience of our
economy.  And, right now, we’re seeing a lot of reasons for optimism.  
  
Q    But if things do — if things do take a turn, does that lay at the
President’s feet just like the good numbers are things he can take
credit for?  
  
MS. DALTON:  You know, we’ve been asked to speculate about recession
repeatedly for —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. DALTON:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — you don’t know what’s going to happen, but if it does change?  
  
MS. DALTON:  I’m certainly not going to engage in hypotheticals here.  I
think we have a strong track record.  You’re going to hear the President
talk about it today.  
  
Q    Quick follow-up to that.  Few expect the — sort of that red-hot
pace of job creation that we’re seeing in the economy to continue during
— for a third consecutive year.  So, I’m just really wondering and
trying to understand if the White House has considered the risks of
tying President Biden’s re-election pitch to the economy so closely,
especially since we are, you know, still far away from 2024.  
  
MS. DALTON:  Look, I’m bound by the Hatch Act, so I’m certainly not
going to talk about 2024 or talk about the, you know, economy in that
context.  
  
This is a president who is laser-focused on delivering for the American
people, for making sure that we came out of this pandemic, this — you
know, the — the global economic headwinds created by Russia’s invasion
of Ukraine, in a stronger position and that we rebuild an economy that
works for hardworking people and supports the middle class that was
hollowed out by decades of trickle-down policies that didn’t really
trickle down.  
  
That’s what this is fundamentally about today: making people’s lives a
bit better, giving them a bit more breathing room, making sure that, you
know, the hardworking people of America are getting a fair shake in this
economy and that we’re positioned to succeed and outcompete the world in
the decades ahead.  
  
Q    Olivia, the former President yesterday had a — put out a statement
attacking the family of the special counsel.  And I don’t even want to
get into the criminal case, but has the President considered speaking to
taking the temperature down on — on what’s been happening with — with
his statements?  
  
MS. DALTON:  I’m afraid, with respect to an ongoing federal criminal
case, I — anything related to this, I will just have to refer to the
Department of Justice.  
  
Q    The President got a lot of attention last night when he said about
abortion, “I’m not big on abortion,” and that he thought that Roe v.
Wade “got it right.”  What — what was he trying to express last night?  
  
MS. DALTON:  Look, I think the President has been quite clear and
consistent over the course of his career.  And, certainly, over the
course of the last year, we’ve experienced the fall of Roe — a
constitutional right that existed for 50 years for women in this
country.  
  
You know, the President has been resolute.  He’s been consistent in — in
saying he’s going to continue the fight to codify Roe into law and to
make sure that women continue to have the fundamental access to
reproductive rights that — that they need and that a vast majority of
Americans agree should continue to exist.  So —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. DALTON:  Good.  All right.  Maybe one more.   
  
Sarah.  
  
Q    Can you discuss how the President’s policies will actually grow the
economy from the middle out?  Is this not all just bumper-sticker talk
for more government spending and higher taxes?  
  
MS. DALTON:  Sorry, can you repeat the last piece of what you just
said?  
  
Q    Whether this is all just bumper-sticker talk for more government
spending and higher taxes for the wealthy.  
  
MS. DALTON:  So let me zoom out here.  The President’s focus is on
making sure that we are positioned to outcompete the world, that we are
investing in America, that we are empowering and educating workers.  And
he believes fundamentally that when you do that, when you grow the
middle class, you grow the economy.  That’s fundamentally what this is
about.  
  
Now, I would point out that it was Republicans who put forward $2
trillion in unpaid-for tax cuts under the last administration that they
would now like to continue adding to the deficit.  You know, this is a
hallmark trickle-down policy that — that is — under the previous
administration, exacerbated inequality, undermined our infrastructure,
and sent jobs overseas.  The President is taking action to reverse all
of that.  
  
And so, you know, this is really about making sure that we’re doing
everything in our power to, again, create opportunity here, bring supply
chains and manufacturing back home, outcompete the world in the decades
ahead.   
  
And we think there’s a strong case to be made, which he’ll make today,
that over the last two and a half years that’s exactly what we’re
starting to see.  
  
Q    Thanks.  
  
MS. DALTON:  All right, thanks, guys.   
  
10:58 AM
