---
date: '2024-11-22'
modified_time: 2024-11-22 18:04:08-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-22 18:04:07-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/11/22/a-proclamation-on-national-family-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Family Week,\_2024"
---
 
My Dad taught me that family is the beginning, the middle, and the end. 
It is everything.  During National Family Week, we celebrate the love
shared by millions of American families, and we recommit to uplifting
them, so that more families can build their American Dream together.

Since I came into office, I have been determined to give hardworking
families a little more breathing room and a fair shot at achieving their
dreams.  That work began with building an economy that would strengthen
our middle class.  My American Rescue Plan kept millions of families
afloat during the pandemic, ensuring they could stay in their homes and
put food on their tables.  It also delivered the largest-ever Child Tax
Credit, which helped tens of millions of working families with the costs
of raising children and cut child poverty nearly in half.  My Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law created jobs rebuilding our Nation’s infrastructure —
from strengthening our roads, bridges, and ports to removing lead pipes
from our homes and expanding access to high-speed internet.  My CHIPS
and Science Act is revitalizing American manufacturing, and, throughout
my Administration, we have created over 1.6 million manufacturing and
construction jobs.  And my Inflation Reduction Act made healthcare more
affordable for families, saving millions of them an average of $800 per
year on their health insurance premiums.  It will also cap the cost of
out-of-pocket prescription drug costs at $2,000 per year for seniors on
Medicare, easing their cost of care.  And through my PACT Act, we are
helping veterans exposed to toxic materials get the benefits they and
their families deserve.  And today, incomes are up almost $4,000, after
adjusting for inflation, ensuring families have the breathing room they
deserve.

My Administration has also been working to ensure families have the
support they need to thrive while keeping them safe.  I signed the
Respect for Marriage Act, protecting the right to marriage for same-sex
and interracial couples.  I signed an Executive Order that directed the
most comprehensive actions of any administration in history to make
high-quality child care and long-term care more accessible and support
caregivers.  I took a slate of historic actions to prevent children from
being placed into foster care and separated from their families without
adequate justification.  And I signed the most comprehensive gun reform
bill in nearly three decades to end the scourge of gun violence ripping
apart our families and deliver historic funding to address the youth
mental health crisis.

During National Family Week, may we hold our loved ones close, both the
family that have been there since the beginning and the family we have
made along the way.  And may we continue to fight for families — the
heart and soul of our Nation.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 24
through November 30, 2024, as National Family Week.  I invite States,
communities, and individuals to join together in observing this week
with appropriate ceremonies and activities to honor our Nation’s
families.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second
day of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
