---
date: '2024-11-18'
published_time: 2024-11-18 13:04:29-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/11/18/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-of-representatives-requesting-for-additional-funding-for-disaster-relief/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives Requesting for Additional\
  \ Funding for Disaster\_Relief"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:  
  
With the Congress now back in session, I write to request urgently
needed emergency funding to provide for an expeditious and meaningful
Federal response to Hurricanes Helene and Milton and other natural
disasters.  In the weeks since these deadly storms tore through
communities across the Southeast, members of my Administration and I
have traveled to Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina to
meet with families, business owners, farmers, local and State officials,
and first responders to stand with these communities in the wake of
these disasters and to hear firsthand what they need from the Federal
Government in order to make a full recovery.  Additional resources are
critical to continue to support these communities.  
  
Over the past month, members of my Administration have written to you
and other congressional leaders to underscore the urgent need for
additional funding to replenish key disaster response programs. Most
urgently, the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) disaster loan
program has completely exhausted its funding and the Congress must act
as soon as possible to restore this funding.  As I outlined in my
October 4th letter, my Administration has repeatedly underscored the
need for the Congress to prevent a shortfall.  SBA loans are a pivotal
lifeline for local businesses as well as individual survivors who use
these loans to repair and rebuild their homes and replace or repair
damaged property, including their personal vehicles.  SBA has already
received over 100,000 loan applications for Hurricanes Helene and
Milton, and the American people cannot afford any further delay in the
restoration of this vital funding.  
  
Urgent funding is also needed for the Disaster Relief Fund (DRF), which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) uses to help individuals
and communities across the Nation recover from disasters.  Without
additional funding, the DRF will face a shortfall this fiscal year,
which will impact FEMA’s ability to provide life-saving and
life-sustaining assistance to disaster survivors, as well as slow
recovery from ongoing and prior disasters.  Funding for the Department
of Agriculture is necessary to provide assistance to farmers, ranchers,
and rural communities across the Nation affected by natural disasters.
 Funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Community
Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery program is critical to help
communities respond to the impacts of Hurricanes Helene and Milton, as
well as the devastating fires in Maui and tornados in Mississippi, Iowa,
and Oklahoma.  My Administration is also requesting funding for the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to protect critical access to safe
drinking water, for the Department of Energy to rapidly restore power
and rebuild the electric grid to better withstand future storms, and for
the Department of Transportation to support rebuilding roads and bridges
across 40 States and Territories, including Maryland, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia.  Additional funding for the EPA
is also needed to protect drinking water infrastructure, fund water
system upgrades that would improve system performance, mitigate further
future damage from extreme weather, and improve systems for low- and
moderate-income households.  
  
Additional action must also be taken to address the severe shortage of
intravenous (IV) fluids and other critical medical products caused by
Hurricane Helene.  The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
took critical steps this month to support access to these products,
including ensuring restoration of key production sites, protecting
products, and opening imports in partnership with manufacturers,
distributors, hospitals, and other stakeholders.  My Administration is
requesting funding for HHS to build supply chain capacity and resilience
for IV fluids and other critical medical products to respond to current
needs and to better prepare for disasters in the future.  In addition,
Hurricanes Helene and Milton are expected to exhaust available funding
balances for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), forcing the
program to add to its debt to the Department of the Treasury. My
Administration urges the Congress to cancel some or all of the NFIP’s
debt to ensure NFIP policyholders and disaster survivors have a
sustainable flood insurance program that provides the assistance they
need after disaster strikes.

The Congress must also extend the deadlines for Hermit’s Peak fire
claimants to request FEMA assistance, in order to ensure all applicants
can receive compensation for losses in the aftermath of the fires in New
Mexico.  
  
The Congress has previously responded on a bipartisan basis to support
communities in the wake of natural disasters — including providing over
$90 billion in aid after Hurricane Katrina in 2005, over $50 billion
following Hurricane Sandy in 2013, and over $120 billion following
Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria in 2017.  Just as the Congress acted
then, it is our sworn duty now to deliver the necessary resources to
ensure that everyone in communities reeling from Hurricanes Helene and
Milton — and those still recovering from previous disasters — have the
Federal resources they need and deserve.  
  
From rebuilding homes and reopening critical infrastructure, such as
schools and roads — to supporting the Nation’s farmers and ranchers and
ensuring access to healthcare services — impacted communities await your
response.  There can be no delay.  I urge the Congress to act quickly to
pass a supplemental funding package to assist communities impacted by
these hurricanes — and every other disaster since the Congress last
passed a comprehensive disaster package in 2022 — so that the people,
families, businesses, and communities affected have the support they
need to respond, recover, and rebuild responsibly.  
  
Since the need for this funding arises from unforeseen and unanticipated
events, my Administration continues to request that the amounts in this
supplemental request be designated as emergency requirements pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.   
  
My Administration will be with those affected until the job is done.
This request of supplemental funds is focused on the accounts that are
most critical to aiding disaster survivors and impacted communities. My
Administration will continue to assess the full resource requirements
associated with long-term rebuilding and resilience efforts resulting
from Hurricanes Helene and Milton, including those costs related to
impacts to Federal facilities and infrastructure, and we will share
those estimates as they become available. I urge the Congress to take
immediate action, and I look forward to your partnership in delivering
this critical relief to the American people.

                               Sincerely,  
  
                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
