---
date: '2024-11-15'
modified_time: 2024-11-15 16:46:05-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-15 16:46:04-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/11/15/a-proclamation-on-national-apprenticeship-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Apprenticeship Week,\_2024"
---
 
     America’s workers are the best in the world — and that is in no
small part due to our exceptional Registered Apprenticeship programs. 
During National Apprenticeship Week, we recommit to supporting these
programs, which put so many Americans on a path to securing good-paying
jobs and helping build the industries of the future.

     I have often said that the middle class built America and unions
built the middle class, and Registered Apprenticeship programs —
including the hundreds of union-run programs — have produced some of our
Nation’s most skilled workers for generations.  Registered
Apprenticeships empower workers to hone their skills or gain new ones by
allowing them to earn while they learn and connecting them to
good-paying jobs.  These apprenticeships have given so many of our
workers the opportunity to work with dignity and care for their families
all while training our workforce to build the industries of our future,
like clean energy or cybersecurity.

     My Administration made the largest Federal investment in our
Nation’s history in Registered Apprenticeships.  Since taking office, we
have invested more than $730 million to expand Registered
Apprenticeships, leading to the hiring of more than one million
apprentices across the country.  More than $80 billion has been
committed from my American Rescue Plan to strengthen and expand the
workforce, including to expand Registered Apprenticeship and
pre-apprenticeship programs.  We are also creating opportunities for
apprentices through our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and our Inflation
Reduction Act, which provides strong incentives for employers to hire
Registered Apprentices in their clean energy projects.

     Further, my Administration is making sure that Registered
Apprentices are helping build the industries of the future and fulfill
needs in critical industries.  Our Advanced Manufacturing Sprint and
Investing in America Workforce Hubs launched intensive drives to build a
diverse, skilled pipeline of workers for advanced manufacturing jobs,
including union jobs — many of which do not require a 4-year college
degree.  To do that, we have been bringing together unions, local
governments, employers, training providers, K-12 schools, community
colleges, and other stakeholders to train and connect workers to jobs in
high-demand sectors.  For teachers, my Administration has helped expand
teacher Registered Apprenticeship programs to 46 States, to help train
the next generation of educators.  For construction workers, the
Department of Labor’s Scaling Apprenticeship Readiness Across the
Building Trades Initiative is enrolling thousands of Americans to help
rebuild our Nation’s roads, bridges, and highways.  For truck drivers,
we held a 90-Day Trucking Apprenticeship Challenge, which helped get
more drivers on the road.  And for cybersecurity professionals, we
completed a 120-Day Cybersecurity Apprenticeship Sprint, which has
helped thousands get hired in industries that protect Americans from
cyberthreats. 

     My Administration is also ensuring our Registered Apprentices
reflect the diversity of America.  Our Apprenticeship Ambassador
Initiative is working with more than 200 organizations committed to
hiring 10,000 new apprentices and recruiting people from historically
underrepresented communities for apprenticeship programs.  And through
the Department of Labor’s Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional
Occupations grant program, we are continuing to invest in women in the
skilled trades, who are too often underrepresented.  Thanks to these
efforts, the number of women in apprenticeships will soon surpass
100,000 for the first time ever.

     Supporting Registered Apprenticeships is about doing what our
Nation does best — investing in America and America’s workers.  This
week, we celebrate apprentices nationwide, whose hard work has
contributed so much to our Nation’s economy and prosperity.  May we
continue to support these programs, which have created endless
possibilities for Americans.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 17 through November 23, 2024, as National Apprenticeship Week. 
I urge the Congress, State and local governments, educational
institutions, industry and labor leaders, apprentices, and all Americans
to support Registered Apprenticeship programs in the United States of
America and to raise awareness of their importance in building a diverse
and robust workforce to strengthen our national economy.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
