---
date: '2024-11-19'
modified_time: 2024-11-19 20:38:29-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-19 20:38:28-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/11/19/a-proclamation-on-national-childs-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Child\u2019s Day,\_2024"
---
 
This generation’s young people are some of the most gifted, educated,
and talented our Nation has ever known.  They are the kite strings that
keep our national ambitions aloft.  On National Child’s Day, we recommit
to building a future worthy of their highest aspirations.

So many of our Nation’s children begin building their futures at our
public schools — that is why I am proud that my Administration secured a
historic $130 billion in funding for our Nation’s K-12 schools through
my American Rescue Plan.  That law put more teachers in classrooms and
more counselors, social workers, and other support staff in our
schools.  It also invested in high-quality tutoring and made historic
expansions in summer and afterschool programs.  My Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law is expanding access to high-speed internet so
students can access it regardless of their zip code.  And my
Administration has worked to advance a pathway to provide free, healthy
school meals for all children as a part of our national strategy to end
hunger and reduce diet-related diseases in America by 2030. 

My Administration has also worked hard to give families some
well-deserved breathing room so that they can care for their children
without worrying about how they are going to pay the bills.  My American
Rescue Plan expanded the Child Tax Credit, which helped reduce child
poverty by nearly half across the Nation.  That law also made our
Nation’s biggest investment in child care ever, helping hundreds of
thousands of child care providers keep their doors open and continue
providing care.  I signed the Inflation Reduction Act, saving millions
of families $800 per year on their health insurance premiums. 
My Administration also raised pay for early childhood educators across
the country participating in the Head Start program.  And my
Administration modernized the Thrifty Food Plan for the first time in
nearly five decades so that millions more families receiving
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits can afford nutritious
foods. 

Securing the health and safety of children has always been a priority
for my Administration.  I signed the most significant gun safety law in
nearly 30 years, working towards a future where no student or child has
to live in fear of gun violence.  That law also made the largest
investment in youth mental health ever to help schools across the
country train and hire new mental health counselors.  At the same time,
we made it easier for schools to leverage Medicaid to deliver health
care.  And we are working to support LGBTQI+ children and families by
protecting their access to health care and preventing harmful practices,
including the use of so-called conversion therapy. 

My Administration has also been dedicated to addressing the existential
threat of climate change — a critical task to secure our children’s
futures.  My Inflation Reduction Act made the most significant
investment in climate ever, which includes funding to get communities
cleaner air and drinking water, and protect them from the harmful
effects of pollution.  My Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is working to
replace every lead pipe in America, so that every family can turn on the
faucet and drink clean, safe water.  And my Administration has conserved
more than 45 million acres of our Nation’s lands and waters in an effort
to ensure they can be enjoyed for generations to come.

On National Child’s Day, we recommit to ensuring that every child in
America has the opportunity to pursue the limits of their talents and
ambitions, and we uplift them as the leaders and doers of the future. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 20, 2024,
as National Child’s Day.  I call upon all government officials,
educators, volunteers, and all the people of the United States of
America to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
