---
date: '2024-11-08'
published_time: 2024-11-08 16:54:29-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/11/08/a-proclamation-on-world-freedom-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Freedom Day,\_2024"
---
 
     Today marks 35 years since the Berlin Wall came down.  Its fall was
one of the greatest advances in human dignity in my lifetime.  As we
celebrate this anniversary, may we all remember that what brought the
Berlin Wall down and lifted the Iron Curtain is what keeps the flame of
liberty shining bright around the world:  the determination of free
people everywhere who never fail to stand up for their freedoms and
their democracy.

     I still remember when, as a young Senator, I visited West Berlin
and saw what it meant to live in a divided city, country, and
continent.  Then, in 1989, along with millions of people around the
world, I watched the 70,000 brave souls gathered in Leipzig, Germany,
crying out for freedom.  After the wall came down, some feared the
reunification of Germany would revive old hatreds and rivalries, but
leaders of America and Germany dreamed together of a much better
future.  The achievement of a Germany whole and free lives on, exceeding
everyone’s expectations, and the dream of Europe whole and free remains
the work of our time.  My Administration is committed to pushing back
against Putin’s vicious attack on Ukraine.  It is another battle in the
long struggle for freedom and against aggression and tyranny.

     Together with our partners and allies, the United States is
continuing to fight for the freedom and rights of people around the
world.  We are working to build a future where women and girls share
equal rights and opportunities in their communities; where Indigenous
groups, people with disabilities, and racial, ethnic, and religious
minorities live free from discrimination; and where LGBTQI+ people can
live lives free from fear and hate.  And we must all stay committed to
supporting democracy around the world — and at home.  I call on the
American people to stand up in defense of our democracy because every
generation must do the work of defending, protecting, and safeguarding
it.

     The future will be won by those who unleash the full potential of
their people to breathe and think freely, innovate and educate daringly,
and live and love openly and without fear.  That is the soul of
democracy — and I have seen it all around the world, from the brave men
and women who brought down the Berlin Wall to the people who are
fighting in every region for freedom, justice, and dignity.  Today, may
we strengthen our commitment to our democracy and to one another,
knowing that the darkness that drives autocracy is no match for the
flame of liberty that lights the souls of free people everywhere.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 9, 2024, as World Freedom Day.  I call upon the people of the
United States of America to remember the hope symbolized by the fall of
the Berlin Wall and reaffirm our dedication to freedom and democracy.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
