---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-17'
modified_time: 2021-06-03 21:16:40-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/17/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-is-advancing-lgbtqi-human-rights-at-home-and-across-the-globe/
published_time: 2021-05-17 11:15:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Is Advancing LGBTQI+ Human\
  \ Rights at Home and Across the\_Globe"
---
 
* “Everyone is entitled to dignity and equality, no matter who they are,
whom they love, or how they identify—and we will continue to engage with
allies and partners to advance the human rights of LGBTQI+ people here
at home and in all corners of the world.”*  
*– President Joe Biden*

The United States joins the international community in recognizing the
International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia.  The
Biden-Harris Administration is steadily implementing the [Presidential
Memorandum on Advancing the Human Rights of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual,
Transgender, Queer and Intersex (LGBTQI+) Persons Around the
World](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/04/memorandum-advancing-the-human-rights-of-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-queer-and-intersex-persons-around-the-world/).
 The below information outlines how U.S. diplomacy and foreign
assistance are working to promote and protect the human rights of
LGBTQI+ persons in line with the different areas of the Presidential
Memorandum:

**Combating Criminalization of LGBTQI+ Status or Conduct Abroad**:   The
Department of State, the Department of Labor, and the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) are leveraging diplomatic engagement
and foreign assistance to promote practices and policies that respect
human rights, including efforts which lead to the decriminalization of
consensual same-sex status.   The Department of State-managed Global
Equality Fund (GEF), which is a public-private partnership of
like-minded governments, businesses, and foundations that supports civil
society programs to protect LGBTQI+ human rights, provides assistance to
locally-owned efforts to advance law reform.  Specific activities
include human rights documentation, support for legal advocacy, and
trainings for a broad range of stakeholders including lawyers, police,
and others.  USAID also supports capacity building for LGBTQI+ human
rights organizations.

**Protecting Vulnerable LGBTQI+ Refugees and Asylum Seekers:**  The
Department of State supports the   United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR)
to increase protection for LGBTQI+ refugees overseas and to support
global resettlement of LGBTQI+ refugees. In Sub-Saharan Africa and the
Middle East, the Department is supporting civil society organizations to
protect LGBTQI+ refugees in urban environments. The Department of
Homeland Security’s Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is
continuously reviewing its policies and programs to better address the
needs of transgender persons in a fair and humane way, ensuring we are
consistent with the President’s Memorandum.

**Foreign Assistance to Protect Human Rights and Advance
Nondiscrimination:  **Since its launch in 2011, the Global Equality Fund
has provided more than $83 million in funding through small grants,
emergency and rapid response assistance, and support for more than 50
technical assistance projects in more than 100 countries worldwide. 
USAID manages the Multi-Donor LGBTI Global Human Rights Initiative,
which leverages financial and technical contributions from Sweden and
Canada to support locally-led LGBTQI+ organizations.  The Department of
Labor, the Millennium Challenge Corporation, the Export-Import Bank, and
the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation are all reviewing
their programs to more effectively include LGBTQI+ persons.

**Swift and Meaningful Responses to Human Rights Abuses of LGBTQI+
Persons Abroad:**  The Department of State has repeatedly spoken out in
defense of the human rights of LGBTQI+ persons abroad, including those
targeted in Uzbekistan, Chechnya (Russia) and elsewhere  Through the
GEF, the Department of State also provides emergency assistance to
frontline human rights defenders, including security trainings.  USAID
also supports emergency funding to LGBTQI+ people in the Caribbean,
Africa, and Asia. 

**Building International Coalitions:**  The U.S. Mission to the United
Nations has led U.S. re-engagement in the United Nations LGBTI Core
Group, including by ensuring U.S. support for every Core Group statement
since Day One of the Biden-Harris Administration.  The Department of
Justice participated in a virtual meeting at the Organization of
Security and Cooperation in Europe on gender-based hate crimes, during
which it highlighted the U.S. Shepard/Byrd Hate Crimes Prevention Act of
2009 and U.S. efforts to address the needs of LGBTQI+ community members
more broadly.  The Department of State also launched an interagency
working group to identify opportunities to incorporate LGBTQI+ human
rights in the work of the Organization of American States, the African
Union, and the Association of South East Asian Nations. 

**Rescinding Inconsistent Polices:**  This Administration has rescinded
polices from the previous administration that are inconsistent with the
President’s Memorandum on Advancing the Human Rights of LGBTQI+ Persons
Around the World.  The Department of Defense, for example, issued
interim guidance to stop any adverse personnel actions targeting
transgender individuals initiated under the previous administration. 
USAID is conducting a policy review and revisions process that includes
the Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment Policy and the Policy on
Counter-Trafficking in Persons to ensure they are fully inclusive. 
USAID and other government officials responsible for LGBTQI+ human
rights re-established close ties with programs responsible for broader
human rights and gender issues and re-engaged with missions around the
world.

\###
