---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-03'
modified_time: 2021-05-02 20:39:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/03/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-occasion-of-world-press-freedom-day/
published_time: 2021-05-03 06:00:00-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the Occasion of World Press Freedom\_\
  Day"
---
 
Thirty years ago today, in the face of constant pressure and violence,
African journalists came together to issue the Windhoek Declaration,
which asserted that, “\[t\]he establishment, maintenance and fostering
of an independent, pluralistic and free press is essential to the
development and maintenance of democracy in a nation, and for economic
development.”  Then, as now, we celebrate the courage of truth-tellers
who refuse to be intimidated, often at great personal risk, and we
reaffirm the timeless and essential role journalism and a free media
play in societies everywhere. 

Journalists uncover the truth, check the abuse of power, and demand
transparency from those in power. They are indispensable to the
functioning of democracy. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, journalists
and media workers have been on the front lines to keep the public
informed, at significant risk to their own health.  And, at a time when
the truth is increasingly under attack, our need for accurate,
fact-based reporting, open public conversation, and accountability has
never been greater. 

It is incumbent on all of us to counter these threats to a free and
independent media, including physical risk and arbitrary detention. The
Committee to Protect Journalists found that, in 2020, a record number of
journalists were imprisoned globally. Online abuse and harassment of
journalists, particularly women and journalists of color, continues to
increase. Authoritarians are striving to undermine the free press,
manipulate the truth, or spread disinformation even as a shrinking news
industry is creating more and more “news deserts,” areas without local
media, around the world. These attacks are nothing less than a threat to
democracies everywhere.    

Today, on World Press Freedom Day, we celebrate the fierce bravery of
journalists everywhere. We recognize the integral role a free press
plays in building prosperous, resilient and free societies. And we
recommit to protecting and promoting free, independent, and diverse
media around the world.

\###
