---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-13'
modified_time: 2021-05-13 08:34:54-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-to-invest-7-billion-from-american-rescue-plan-to-hire-and-train-public-health-workers-in-response-to-covid-19/
published_time: 2021-05-13 10:30:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden- \u2060 Harris Administration to Invest $7 Billion from\
  \ American Rescue Plan to Hire and Train Public Health Workers in Response to COVID-\
  \ \u2060 19"
---
 
*Funding Will Create Tens of Thousands of Jobs to Respond to COVID-19,
Prepare U.S. for Future Outbreaks, and Support Local Public Health
Officials*  
  
*As Vaccine for Adolescents Comes Online, Administration Sets Aside
Dedicated Funding for School Nurses, Who Can Help Provide Information
about Vaccinations*

  
As part of its ongoing COVID-19 response efforts, the Biden-Harris
Administration will invest $7.4 billion from the American Rescue Plan to
recruit and hire public health workers to respond to the pandemic and
prepare for future public health challenges. The COVID-19 pandemic has
reinforced that public health workers are essential, providing critical
services to keep Americans safe and healthy. The funding announced today
will allow the United States to expand its public health workforce,
creating tens of thousands of jobs to support vaccinations, testing,
contact tracing, and community outreach, and strengthen America’s future
public health infrastructure.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration will invest $4.4 billion to allow states
and localities to expand their over-stretched public health departments
with additional staff to support COVID-19 response efforts. This funding
will support a range of public health roles, including funding for
Disease Intervention Specialists to do contact tracing, case management,
and support outbreak investigations, and dedicated funding to hire
school nurses to help schools safely reopen and remain open for
in-person instruction. Additionally, funds will support the development
of the next generation of public health leaders by creating a *Public
Health AmeriCorps* and expanding CDC’s Epidemic Intelligence Service –
the renowned program that equips workers to identify and contain public
health outbreaks.  
  
Finally, CDC will use $3 billion from the American Rescue Plan to create
a new grant program that will facilitate federal investment in the
people and expertise needed at the state and local levels to expand,
train, and modernize the public health workforce for the future. In the
months ahead, CDC will work with leaders from across the public health
community to design this new grant program.  
  
All awardees of this American Rescue Plan funding will be asked to
prioritize recruiting individuals from the communities they will serve
and from backgrounds underrepresented in critical public health
professions.  
  
Today’s funding builds on the President’s announcement last week of $250
million to help community -based organizations hire and mobilize
community outreach workers and social support specialists to increase
access to vaccinations in the hardest-hit and highest risk
communities.   
  
The Biden-Harris Administration will:  
  
**Invest $4.4 Billion to Surge Public Health Staffing for COVID-19
Response**  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">  
</span>**<u>**Help States and Localities Increase their Public Health
Staffing and Expertise**: </u>** State and local public health heroes
have led the fight against COVID-19 for more than a year. Often
understaffed and lacking resources, local public health departments have
provided critical services during the pandemic, including setting up
testing sites, leading local vaccination efforts, and delivering
personal protective equipment, therapeutics, and care to those in need.
Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, CDC will fund $3.4 billion in new
hiring for state and local public health departments to quickly add
staff to support critical COVID-19 response efforts – including
vaccination outreach and administration efforts, testing and contact
tracing, epidemiologists, data scientists, and other vital public health
functions. This funding includes at least $500 million for the hiring of
school nurses, who can offer medical expertise to support parents and
teens as vaccination options for younger people expand. This builds on
resources in the American Rescue Plan’s Elementary and Secondary School
Emergency Relief Fund which can also be used to hire school nurses.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Launch Public Health
AmeriCorps:</span>** At a time of unprecedented interest in public
health, CDC and AmeriCorps (the Corporation for National and Community
Service) will launch the *Public Health AmeriCorps* – a $400 million
investment from the American Rescue Plan to recruit and build a new
workforce ready to respond to the public health needs of the nation. The
program will focus on building a diverse pipeline for the public health
workforce and providing direct service to communities across the
country. The partnership will leverage the expertise of both agencies,
capitalizing on AmeriCorps’ experience managing some of the most
prominent public service and workforce development programs in the
nation while benefitting from CDC’s technical expertise as the country’s
leading public health agency.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Recruit and Train Public
Health Leaders:</span>** CDC will expand its current workforce programs,
including the Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS). EIS is a national,
deployable, cutting-edge public health workforce that responds to local
outbreaks. Over the past seven decades, EIS officers have served as
boots-on-the-ground epidemiologists during some of the most severe
outbreaks and public health emergencies, including the Ebola outbreak,
H1N1, the Flint water crisis, Zika, and the COVID-19 pandemic. With $245
million from the American Rescue Plan, CDC will increase support for
programs including EIS, the Undergraduate Public Health Scholars
Program, and the Dr. James A. Ferguson Emerging Infectious Diseases RISE
Fellowship, which offers students from underrepresented background the
opportunity to study infectious diseases and health disparities.
Expanding these programs will support workforce diversity in public
health to help reduce longstanding health disparities and inequities. In
addition, the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information
Technology will invest $80 million to train public health professionals
to help modernize the public health data infrastructure, with a focus on
recruiting from minority serving institutions and universities.  
  
**<u>Building the Laboratory Workforce and Building Capacity for Future
Outbreaks</u>**: With $337 million from the American Rescue Plan, CDC
will strengthen the public health laboratory workforce pipeline. CDC
will expand the current public health laboratory fellowship programs for
laboratory science graduates and implement a new public health
internship program for undergraduate students to gain experiences in
public health laboratory settings. Funds will improve the capacity of
the nation’s public-private clinical laboratory infrastructure to
support rapid, large-scale responses to public health emergencies.  
  
**Invest $3 Billion to Prepare for Future Pandemics**  
  
**<u>Create a New Program to Modernize the Public Health
Workforce</u>**: CDC will create a new grant program to provide
under-resourced health departments with the support they need to hire
staff and build a strong public health workforce. This grant program
will offer community health workers and others hired for the COVID-19
response an opportunity to continue their careers beyond the pandemic as
public health professionals. CDC will convene federal, state, local, and
territorial public health experts to inform the design and focus of this
new grant program. Ultimately, the program will allow the United States
to continue to support the nation’s public health infrastructure,
particularly in lower-income and underserved communities.

\###
