---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-19'
modified_time: 2021-05-19 14:09:36-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/19/president-joseph-r-biden-jr-to-award-the-medal-of-honor/
published_time: 2021-05-19 14:09:35-04:00
title: President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. to Award the Medal of Honor
---
 
On May 21, 2021, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., will award the Medal of
Honor to Colonel Ralph Puckett, Jr., United States Army, Retired, for
conspicuous gallantry during the Korean War.  President Moon Jae-in of
the Republic of Korea will join this ceremony.  
  
Then-First Lieutenant Ralph Puckett, Jr. distinguished himself by acts
of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty, while
serving as the Commander, 8th U.S. Army Ranger Company during the period
of November 25, and 26, 1950, in Korea.  As his unit commenced a
daylight attack on Hill 205, the enemy directed mortar, machine gun, and
small arms fire against the advancing force.  To obtain supporting fire,
First Lieutenant Puckett mounted the closest tank, exposing himself to
the deadly enemy fire.  Leaping from the tank, he shouted words of
encouragement to his men and began to lead the Rangers in the attack. 
Almost immediately, enemy fire threatened the success of the attack by
pinning down one platoon.  Leaving the safety of his position and with
full knowledge of the danger, First Lieutenant Puckett intentionally ran
across an open area three times to draw enemy fire, thereby allowing the
Rangers to locate and destroy the enemy positions and to seize Hill
205.   
  
During the course of the night, the enemy launched a counterattack which
lasted four hours.  Over the course of the counterattack, the Rangers
were inspired and motivated by the extraordinary leadership and
courageous example exhibited by First Lieutenant Puckett.  As a result,
five human wave attacks by a battalion strength enemy element were
repulsed.  During the first attack, First Lieutenant Puckett was wounded
by grenade fragments, but he refused evacuation and continually directed
artillery support that decimated attacking enemy formations, repeatedly
abandoned positions of relative safety to make his way from foxhole to
foxhole to check the company’s perimeter, and distributed ammunition
amongst the Rangers.  When the enemy launched a sixth attack, it became
clear to First Lieutenant Puckett that the position was untenable due to
the unavailability of supporting artillery fire.  During this attack,
two enemy mortar rounds landed in his foxhole, inflicting grievous
wounds which limited his mobility.  Knowing his men were in a precarious
situation, First Lieutenant Puckett commanded the Rangers to leave him
behind and evacuate the area.  Feeling a sense of duty to aid him, the
Rangers refused the order and staged an effort to retrieve him from the
foxhole while still under harassing fire from the enemy.  Ultimately,
the Rangers succeeded in retrieving First Lieutenant Puckett and they
moved to the bottom of the hill, where First Lieutenant Puckett called
for devastating artillery fire on the top of the enemy controlled hill. 
First Lieutenant Puckett’s extraordinary heroism and selflessness above
and beyond the call of duty were in keeping with the highest traditions
of military service.   
  
**PERSONAL BACKGROUND**:  
  
Colonel Puckett enlisted in the Army Enlisted Reserve Corps on December
23, 1943 as a Private.  He was subsequently discharged on June 22, 1945
to attend the U.S. Military Academy.  He was commissioned as a Second
Lieutenant on June 3, 1949.  Colonel Puckett served in combat from
August 26, 1950 to November 26, 1950, as a member of the 8th Army Ranger
Company during the Korean War and from July 31, 1967 to July 3, 1968, as
a member of the 101st Airborne Division during the Vietnam War.
 Retiring from active duty in 1971, he became the National Programs
Coordinator of Outward Bound, Inc., and subsequently established
Discovery, Inc., a leadership and teamwork development program that
focused on “Personal Growth through Safe Adventure.”  In 1992, he was an
inaugural inductee into the U.S. Army Ranger Hall of Fame and, from 1996
to 2006, he served as the first Honorary Colonel of the 75th Ranger
Regiment.  Other honors followed to include an appointment as an
Ambassador of Goodwill by the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security
Cooperation, selection as a 2004 Distinguished Graduate of the United
States Military Academy, and a 2007 recipient of the Infantry’s Doughboy
Award.  
  
Still very active in military affairs and his local community, Puckett
lives in Columbus, Ga., with his wife of 68 years, the former Jean
Martin. They have two daughters, one of whom is deceased, a son and six
grandchildren.  
  
**ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  
**  
**THE MEDAL OF HONOR**:

The Medal of Honor is awarded to members of the Armed Forces who
distinguish themselves conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the
risk of their own lives above and beyond the call of duty while:

-   engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States;
-   engaged in military operations involving conflict with an opposing
    foreign force; or
-   serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in an armed conflict
    against an opposing armed force in which the United States is not a
    belligerent party.

The meritorious conduct must involve great personal bravery or
self-sacrifice so conspicuous as to clearly distinguish the individual
above his or her comrades and must have involved risk of life.  There
must be incontestable proof of the performance of the meritorious
conduct, and each recommendation for the award must be considered on the
standard of extraordinary merit.

**PRESS CREDENTIALING**:  
  
Additional information about media credentials will be released at a
later date.

\###
