---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-11'
modified_time: 2021-05-11 11:10:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/11/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-announce-additional-efforts-to-get-america-vaccinated-including-free-rides-to-vaccination-sites-from-lyft-and-uber-vaccination-clinics-at-community-colleges-and-addit/
published_time: 2021-05-11 11:10:50-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden to Announce Additional Efforts to Get America\
  \ Vaccinated, Including Free Rides to Vaccination Sites from Lyft and Uber, Vaccination\
  \ Clinics at Community Colleges, and Additional Resources for States\u2019 Community\
  \ Outreach\_Efforts"
---
 
*President Biden to Meet with Bipartisan Governors to Discuss Innovative
Ways They are Getting Their Own Communities Vaccinated*

Today, President Biden will announce additional efforts to get America
vaccinated and meet his goal for 70% of the U.S. adult population to
have one vaccine shot by July 4th so that life can start to look closer
to normal. The President will join a bipartisan group of the nation’s
governors to discuss creative and innovative ways they are working to
get people in their states vaccinated and announce additional private
and federal resources to help their efforts.  
  
Building on last week’s announcements to increase access, and vaccine
education and outreach efforts, today, the President will highlight a
new effort by the ride-sharing companies Lyft and Uber to provide free
rides to anyone going to a vaccination site to get vaccinated. He will
also announce that some of the nation’s largest community colleges will
host vaccination sites for students, staff and local communities
throughout May and June. Additionally, he will announce funding
immediately available through the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) for states to fund more on-the-ground efforts to promote
vaccinations in their communities, including phone banking, door-to-door
canvassing, and pop-up vaccination sites in workplaces and churches.  
  
Today, the President will announce the following actions to help in the
effort to administer at least one shot to 70% of the U.S. adult
population by July 4th:  
  
**Free Rides for Anyone to Get Vaccinated: **The President will
highlight a new program from the ride-sharing companies Lyft and Uber,
which will offer free rides to anyone going to a vaccination site to get
vaccinated. As part of this historic commitment, Lyft and Uber will
promote rides to and from tens of thousands of vaccination sites through
their apps. People will be able to simply select a vaccination site near
them, follow simple directions to redeem their ride, and then get a ride
to take them to and from a nearby vaccination site free of charge. The
feature will launch in the next two weeks and run until July 4. By
helping Americans get a free ride to a vaccination site, Lyft and Uber
are eliminating a potential barrier and driving America closer to the
President’s goal of getting 70% of the U.S. adult population with at
least one shot by July 4th.  
  
**Community Colleges Nationwide to Host Vaccine Sites:** The President
will announce that as part of ongoing efforts to reach students to get
vaccinated, the Administration will launch partnerships between federal
retail pharmacy partners and high-enrollment community colleges to
provide on-site clinics for students, staff, and local communities.
These community colleges will work to get word out to students, staff,
and local communities to make use of these clinics, especially for
students who are on or nearby campus this summer. The program builds on
the strong success of the federal pharmacy program in reaching local
communities, including through over 6,000 mobile vaccination clinics
across the program to date. Community colleges are key anchors in our
communities, with significant reach into the geographies they serve and
a great diversity of students enrolled.  
  
**Additional Support for Grassroots, Community Efforts to Get People
Vaccinated:** The President will announce that funding is immediately
available to state territorial, Tribal, and local governments for
community outreach and engagement to connect people to vaccinations,
including through engagement of community-based organizations and
faith-based organizations. State, local and community leaders can use
FEMA assistance to fund the cost of in-person, phone, and online
community engagement – including personnel and other costs. Community
outreach workers supported by this funding can conduct a variety of
critical missions, including: educating community members in-person, by
text, and by phone about the availability, safety, and efficacy of
COVID-19 vaccinations; filling vaccination appointments in partnership
with community vaccination centers, community health centers,
pharmacies, and other vaccine providers; working with employers to
facilitate vaccination of their employees, either by arranging for
employees to get vaccinated off-site or to help set up a pop-up
vaccination clinic at a work site; conducting outreach to doctors and
other health care providers to encourage and facilitate them vaccinating
their patients; participating in – and growing participation in – the
COVID-19 Community Corps; and developing partnerships with faith-based
and community organizations.

\###
