---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-25'
modified_time: 2021-05-25 13:56:14-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/25/fact-sheet-biden-administration-opens-pacific-coast-to-new-jobs-and-clean-energy-production-with-offshore-wind-development/
published_time: 2021-05-25 14:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Opens Pacific Coast to New Jobs and Clean\
  \ Energy Production with Offshore Wind\_Development"
---
 
*White House Marshals Departments of the Interior, Defense, and Energy
to Advance California Offshore Areas for Wind Energy Development and
Good-Paying, Union Jobs*

Today, the White House convened National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy,
California Governor Gavin Newsom, Interior Secretary Deb Haaland, and
Under Secretary for Defense for Policy Dr. Colin Kahl to announce an
effort to advance areas for offshore wind off the northern and central
coasts of California – opening up the Pacific Coast to its first
commercial scale offshore clean energy projects. This significant
milestone is part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s goal to create
thousands of good-paying, union jobs through the deployment of [30
gigawatts (GW) of offshore wind by
2030](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/29/fact-sheet-biden-administration-jumpstarts-offshore-wind-energy-projects-to-create-jobs/).
These initial areas for offshore wind development in the Pacific Ocean
could bring up to 4.6 GW of clean energy to the grid, enough to power
1.6 million American homes.

More specifically, the Department of the Interior, in coordination with
the Department of Defense, has identified an area (“the Morro Bay 399
Area”) that will support three gigawatts of offshore wind on roughly 399
square miles off California’s central coast region, northwest of Morro
Bay. The Department of the Interior is also advancing the Humboldt Call
Area as a potential Wind Energy Area, located off northern California.
These identified areas will enable the build out of a significant new
domestic clean energy resource for years to come.

Because the Defense Department engages in significant testing, training,
and operations off the coast of California that are essential to
national security, the Defense Department played a critical role in
identifying these new areas for offshore wind development. The
Department of the Interior acknowledges the critical nature of current
and future military testing, training, and operations and that the
operational integrity thereof is a national security imperative. It will
work closely with the Department of Defense to ensure long-term
protection of military testing, training, and operations while pursuing
new domestic clean energy resources.

Because the outer continental shelf falls away much more quickly into
much deeper waters in the Pacific than it does in the Atlantic Ocean,
new floating offshore wind technology will be deployed in offshore
California waters. Notably, and as a further demonstration of the Biden
administration’s whole-of-government approach to clean energy
development, the. Department of Energy, through its Office of Energy
Efficiency and Renewable Energy and ARPA-E, has invested more than $100
million in researching, developing, and demonstrating floating offshore
wind technology. These investments have helped position the United
States as a leader in the emerging global floating offshore wind market.

Today’s announcement comes after the Biden Administration announced a
[set of bold actions to catalyze offshore wind
energy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/29/fact-sheet-biden-administration-jumpstarts-offshore-wind-energy-projects-to-create-jobs/)
as part of the President’s commitment to building new American
infrastructure and a clean energy future that creates good-paying, union
jobs. And, it follows the Administration’s [approval of the first major
offshore wind
project](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-approves-first-major-offshore-wind-project-us-waters)
in U.S waters advancing the construction and operation of the Vineyard
Wind project in Massachusetts.

*Administration leaders shared their perspective on today’s announcement
and collaboration:*

**National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy:** “Today’s announcement again
demonstrates that by taking a whole-of-government approach, the U.S. can
smartly develop our nation’s world-class offshore wind energy resources,
deploy new technologies that our government has helped to advance, and
create thousands of good-paying, union jobs – all in the service of
combating the climate crisis. I salute the Departments of the Interior,
Defense, and Energy, and our partners in California, for all they have
done to make this possible.”

**California Governor Gavin Newsom:** “Developing offshore wind to
produce clean, renewable energy could be a game changer to achieving
California’s clean energy goals and addressing climate change – all
while bolstering the economy and creating new jobs. This historic
announcement, which could provide clean power for up to 1.6 million
homes over the next decade, represents the innovative approach we need
for a clean energy economy that protects the coasts, fisheries, marine
life, and Tribal, and cultural resources we value so much as
Californians.”

**Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland:** “I believe that a clean
energy future is within our grasp in the United States, but it will take
all of us and the best-available science to make it happen. Today’s
announcement reflects months of active engagement and dedication between
partners who are committed to advancing a clean energy future. The
offshore wind industry has the potential to create tens of thousands of
good-paying union jobs across the nation, while combating the negative
effects of climate change. Interior is proud to be part of an
all-of-government approach toward the Biden-Harris Administration’s
ambitious renewable energy goals.”

**Under Secretary for Defense Policy Dr. Colin Kahl:** “Tacking the
climate crisis is a national security imperative and the Defense
Department is proud to have played a role in this important effort. The
Defense Department is committed to working across the U.S. government to
find solutions that support renewable energy in a manner compatible with
t essential military operations. Throughout this effort, the Defense
Department has worked tirelessly with the White House, the Department of
the Interior, and the State of California to find solutions that enable
offshore wind development while ensuring long-term protection for
testing, training, and operations critical to our military
readiness. The Defense Department applauds this step and looks forward
to continued coordination to address the climate crisis.”

\###
