---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-17'
modified_time: 2021-05-17 18:42:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/17/statement-of-president-joe-biden-on-american-rescue-plan-oversight/
published_time: 2021-05-17 18:42:18-04:00
title: "Statement of President Joe\_Biden on American Rescue Plan\_Oversight"
---
 
Since I signed the American Rescue Plan (ARP) in March, the law has
delivered shots in the arms and money in the pockets of the American
people — stabilizing our economy after the worst crisis since the Great
Depression, and helping families keep their heads above water as we
begin to build back better.

As I said after signing the law, fastidious oversight is critical to
ensuring that relief arrives quickly, equitably, and efficiently. I
appreciate the stepped-up actions the Department of Justice has already
taken to address criminal abuse of the COVID-19 relief programs put into
effect last year.  I am also pleased that my White House ARP
implementation team has taken quick and thorough action to ensure
transparency and accountability in the relief programs funded by the
ARP, and that they have fully and cooperatively engaged the oversight
community. This is the type of open, meticulous approach that I employed
when President Obama put me in charge of implementing the Recovery Act —
and it is what I made clear that I expected of both my ARP
implementation team and my Cabinet officials.

There is perhaps no oversight issue inherited by my Administration that
is as serious as the exploitation of relief programs by criminal
syndicates using stolen identities to steal government benefits. Last
year, this type of criminal behavior robbed American families of
billions of dollars that should have gone to support small businesses
and workers who had lost their jobs. To combat that threat, I welcome
the Department of Justice’s announcement today of the creation of an
interagency COVID-19 Fraud Enforcement Task Force. Through this task
force, the Justice Department will work with other agencies to
investigate and prosecute domestic and international criminals intent on
exploiting relief programs for personal and financial gain — and recover
stolen funds.

In addition, I have directed my ARP Implementation Coordinator to build
on his team’s ongoing efforts by launching a new Initiative on Identity
Theft Prevention and Public Benefits.  Together with the Office of
Management and Budget, this team will bring a whole-of-government
approach to develop recommendations to help stop these criminal
syndicates *before* they can prey on relief funds that belong to the
American people. In developing these recommendations, they should seek
out the full engagement and guidance of the Pandemic Response
Accountability Committee, the Government Accountability Office, and the
relevant agency inspectors general and State auditors — consistent with
the independent oversight status of those officials. My Administration
is committed to ensuring that the ARP relief goes where it’s supposed to
go: into the bank accounts and mailboxes of American families, local
businesses, and schools.

\###
