---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-27'
modified_time: 2021-05-27 16:30:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/27/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-launches-a-call-to-action-to-the-private-sector-to-deepen-investment-in-the-northern-triangle/
published_time: 2021-05-27 17:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Harris Launches a Call to Action to the Private\
  \ Sector to Deepen Investment in the Northern\_Triangle"
---
 
***12 companies and organizations announce commitments to support
economic development in the Northern Triangle, as part of the Call to
Action launch***

In her role overseeing diplomatic efforts within El Salvador, Guatemala,
and Honduras (the “Northern Triangle”), and with Mexico, Vice President
Kamala Harris announced today a *Call to Action* for businesses and
social enterprises to make new, significant commitments to help send a
signal of hope to the people of the region and sustainably address the
root causes of migration by promoting economic opportunity. As part of
this *Call to Action* launch, 12 companies and organizations announced
commitments to support inclusive economic development in the Northern
Triangle, including: Accion, Bancolombia, Chobani, Davivienda, Duolingo,
the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Mastercard, Microsoft,
Nespresso, Pro Mujer, the Tent Partnership for Refugees, and the World
Economic Forum.

Our comprehensive strategy to address the root causes of migration will
involve significant commitments of U.S. government resources to support
the long-term development of the region—including efforts to foster
economic opportunity, strengthen governance, combat corruption, and
improve security. This approach will leverage commitments and resources
from the governments in the Northern Triangle, as well as partnerships
with multilateral development banks and international financial
institutions.

Supporting the long-term development of the region, and in the Western
Hemisphere more broadly, will require more than just the resources of
the U.S. government. For this reason, Vice President Harris is calling
on the private sector to draw on its unique resources and expertise to
make commitments to support inclusive economic growth in the Northern
Triangle. Together, we can work to overcome obstacles to investment,
promote economic opportunity, and support long-term development in the
region.  The Administration looks forward to increased collaboration
with private companies—U.S., foreign, and local in the Northern Triangle
and Latin America more broadly—to build upon this *Call to Action* in
the months and years to come. 

**U.S. Government Long-Term Commitments and *Call to Action* Focus
Areas**

This *Call to Action* is one component under the U.S. government’s
comprehensive, long-term strategy to address barriers to investment and
to promote economic opportunity in the Northern Triangle. Just as
government action alone will not be enough to achieve meaningful
outcomes, private sector commitments will be facilitated and supported
by strong U.S. government initiatives to address longstanding
impediments to investment-led growth. Under our broader strategy,
near-term private sector commitments will be mutually reinforced by
sustained U.S. government efforts to foster a business-enabling
environment, increased private sector investment, and sustainable
economic growth and opportunity. As part of the broader strategy,
this *Call to Action *aims to generate new commitments from businesses
and social enterprises in six focus areas with an emphasis on supporting
vulnerable populations, including women and youth, in the Northern
Triangle region. These focus areas include:

-   **Reform Agenda –** Commitments to support greater transparency,
    predictability, and stability in the business enabling environment
    by facilitating regional government efforts to adopt international
    best practices in licensing, permitting, procurement, regulation,
    and taxation.  
-   **Digital and Financial Inclusion –** Commitments to expand
    affordable internet access and participation in the digital economy;
    facilitate access to financial technologies and capital for small
    businesses, particularly women- and indigenous-owned businesses; and
    ensure that the most vulnerable and the most likely to migrate have
    access to basic public services and financial institutions.

<!-- -->

-   **Food Security and Climate-smart Agriculture** **–** Commitments to
    combat food shortages by increasing agricultural productivity and
    crop resilience.

<!-- -->

-   **Climate Adaptation and Clean Energy –** Commitments to support the
    region’s resilience to climate change through adaptation and
    mitigation efforts; support industries impacted by climate change;
    and transition to clean energy.

<!-- -->

-   **Education and Workforce Development** – Commitments to expand
    job-training programs; support greater access to technical and
    secondary education; and create higher paying formal sector jobs,
    especially for women and in rural areas.

<!-- -->

-   **Public Health Access** – Commitments to support regional
    governments in addressing the impact of COVID-19 on their
    populations; build robust and resilient health economies to confront
    future health challenges; support access to clean water and
    sanitation; and ensure inclusive access to healthcare. 

**How to Join the Call**

The State Department, in coordination with the [Partnership for Central
America](https://www.centampartnership.org/), will manage follow-up to
this *Call to Action,* which will involve:

-   Connecting businesses with relevant U.S. interagency partners, such
    as the U.S. Agency for International Development, U.S. International
    Development Finance Corporation, Department of Commerce, Department
    of Labor, among others; non-governmental organizations (NGOs);
    multilateral development banks; UN agencies, other international
    organizations; and relevant government officials from the region to
    facilitate potential new partnerships and commitments;
-   Coordinating private sector partners to ensure sustained progress
    through strategic and high-impact initiatives aligned to social
    impact goals, and facilitating joint ventures between new and
    existing partners across global public, private, and social sectors;
-   Offering feedback on potential private sector initiatives, based on
    an assessment of potential migrants’ needs in the region;
-   Working with partner governments and institutions to promote reforms
    that address impediments to investment and foster a
    business-enabling environment;
-   Establishing metrics to measure the impact of commitments made in
    response to the *Call to Action*, to track program effectiveness and
    identify key trends across key economic and social impact metrics;
    and
-   Convening public forums and facilitating discussions on challenges,
    trends, and progress toward aspired social impact goals.

The [Partnership for Central
America](https://www.centampartnership.org/) is a non-profit
organization that was developed in support of the Vice President’s *Call
to Action*. The Partnership aims to coordinate practical solutions to
advance economic opportunity, address urgent climate, education and
health challenges, and promote long-term investments and workforce
capability in support a vision of hope for Central America.

The Administration and the Partnership welcome additional commitments to
join this initiative and promote economic opportunity in the Northern
Triangle. ***Vice President Harris invites*** ***interested parties to
get involved by contacting the State Department Bureau of Western
Hemisphere Affairs at***
[***jointhecall@state.gov***](mailto:jointhecall@state.gov)***. In
addition, the Partnership for Central America can be reached at***
[***support@centampartnership.org***](mailto:support@centampartnership.org)***.***

**Founding Participants in the *Call to Action***

The following 12 companies and organizations join the Vice President
today in supporting the Administration’s *Call to Action*. All are also
founding members of the Partnership.

*These companies and organizations put forth summaries of their work to
date and new initiatives to invest in the Northern Triangle, as
follows:*

**<u>Accion</u>**

Founded in 1961, Accion is a global nonprofit working to advance
economic opportunity through microfinance and impact investing. Accion
works with financial service providers across Latin America that are
expanding the reach, quality, and affordability of financial services
for low-income and underserved people. Over the next three years, Accion
will provide advice, guidance, and consulting services to organizations
that serve micro and small business owners in the Northern Triangle
region, ultimately benefitting more than 400,000 people. Accion aims
to connect small business owners to new markets and grow their
businesses by improving their management, financial, and digital
capabilities.  Accion will help businesses shift from cash to digital,
while expanding local access to finance through branchless banking. The
effort aims to reduce barriers that have prevented women from accessing
economic opportunities and boost the productivity of small-holder
farmers. Accion will enable lenders that already serve the poor to make
greater use of technology to reach more clients, supporting them more
effectively and with greater security. Ultimately, Accion’s work will
empower business owners and their families to recover from the COVID-19
pandemic, as well as build the financial health, resilience, and
prosperity sorely needed to address the root causes of migration.

**<u>Bancolombia</u>**

Grupo Bancolombia is one of Latin America’s major financial institutions
with operations in El Salvador and Guatemala. To further its commitment
to sustainable development in Central America, Grupo Bancolombia will
commit to expanding its financial inclusion efforts to reach the
Northern Triangle’s unbanked and vulnerable populations through digital
banking accounts, focusing on remittance-receiving families, women-led
businesses and other small enterprises to increase investment and
improve living conditions, and strengthen ties to their local
communities, adding more than 400,000 new account holders by 2025. As
part of this work, Grupo Bancolombia will work with its partners to
expand access to credit and connect more than 50,000 small shopkeepers
with suppliers, distributors and retail customers.

**<u>Chobani</u>**

Chobani’s mission is to make delicious, nutritious, and natural food for
all people because access to good food is a right – not a privilege.
Chobani will now extend its impact to the Northern Triangle and bring
its incubator program to Guatemala, where local food entrepreneurs will
get expertise and support to help them set up and scale their
operations. Chobani will use knowledge from its global incubator program
to determine how to best create and execute a program in Guatemala that
will support local startups and contribute to regional economic
empowerment. In the U.S., the Chobani Incubator has helped support the
growth of 47 different companies in the food and beverage industry since
its inception in 2016. Founders are given a monetary grant and have
access to resources across the ecosystem, from retailers to investors
and everything in between. The Incubator has also run programs
internationally in both Australia and Turkey. Each program has its own
unique operating model, but all serve Chobani’s mission of bringing
better food to more people.

**<u>Davivienda</u>**

Davivienda is a multi-national, Colombian bank with a presence in the
United States, Honduras, El Salvador, Costa Rica and Panama. To date,
Davivienda has worked to expand financial inclusion by expanding its
digital payment system, DAVIPLATA, and by increasing access to credit,
particularly for women.  In Colombia, Davivienda has connected nearly 13
million individuals to its digital services, 5 million of whom were
previously unbanked. As part of this *Call to Action*, in collaboration
with public and private sector partners, Davivienda will commit to
connecting 1 million unbanked individuals in the Northern Triangle with
financial services, including via its DAVIPLATA platform. Davivienda
will also commit to contributing $500 million in loans to support
low-income housing, small- and medium-sized businesses, renewable energy
projects, and women entrepreneurs.

**<u>Duolingo</u>**

Duolingo is an education app with over 500 million downloads. In the
Northern Triangle, the app is used by over 500,000 people to learn
English in order to improve their education and job prospects. Duolingo
will commit to ensuring that its content remains free so that everyone
has access to high-quality education through mobile devices. The company
recently created Duolingo ABC, an app designed to teach early literacy
skills to children. In order to reduce high levels of illiteracy in the
Northern Triangle, Duolingo will commit to developing Duolingo ABC in
Spanish. Duolingo will also commit to providing fee waivers for the
Duolingo English Test to high-achieving, low-income students to reduce
barriers to higher education. Combined, these efforts will expand access
to education in the region through the use of technology, helping to
improve people’s livelihoods and prospects for a better future.

**<u>Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health</u>**

Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health brings together dedicated
experts from multiple disciplines to produce powerful change to improve
the lives and health of people around the globe. The Harvard Chan School
will commit to adding an evidence-based lens by harnessing scientific
data to maximize capacity to measure and report systems-wide impact of
the partnership; improve access to health care; and train and enable
workers to manage pipeline healthcare issues in the Northern Triangle.
Harnessing qualitative and quantitative metrics, the School will provide
partners and managers with the means to pilot and scale activities that
support data-sharing in order to foster transformative change across all
communities, platforms, and sectors. 

**<u>Mastercard</u>**

Through its work in financial inclusion, Mastercard has brought over 500
million individuals globally into the digital economy. In
collaboration with public and private sector partners, the company aims
to bring 5 million people in the Northern Triangle into the financial
system and digitalize 1 million micro and small
businesses, leveraging its innovation and technology to improve access
to vital services and drive inclusive economic growth. This includes
enabling individuals to pay and get paid digitally, securely, and
efficiently, and reaching previously underserved communities with
technology that works on mobile phones and in rural, low-connectivity
areas. Mastercard can also provide marginalized individuals with access
to services like healthcare and agricultural marketplaces, and help
small businesses grow with affordable tools and services. With access to
financial and digital tools, and the ability to use them, Mastercard can
help close the digital divide and improve livelihoods for generations to
come.

**<u>Microsoft</u>**

Microsoft’s purpose is to ensure that technology helps promote inclusive
opportunity, protects fundamental rights, and supports a sustainable
future. Microsoft will build on its long-standing presence in El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras to bring connectivity, skills, and
greater opportunity to their citizens. First, with local partners
including Albavision, Microsoft will expand internet access to up to 3
million people in the region by July 2022, as part of the Microsoft
Airband Initiative. Microsoft will also expand its work with partner New
Sun Road to establish community centers to provide internet, digital
skills, devices, educational experiences and mentorship to women and
youth in rural and high-migration areas. Second, Microsoft will build on
its global skills initiative to provide access to digital skills
learning paths to connect people to skills and certifications. Third,
Microsoft is investing in technology to increase the transparency and
accountability of government spending, and exploring the use of data
science to evaluate the efficacy of interventions to address community
needs.

**<u>Nespresso</u>**

By working directly with over 120,000 coffee farmers in 15 countries,
Nespresso, which offers high quality portioned coffee to consumers,
unlocks the potential of coffee for producers through its unique
sustainable quality coffee sourcing approach by addressing the key
social, economic and environmental challenges they face with practical
solutions, focusing on improving yields and quality to drive revenues,
paying higher prices for high quality coffee and driving activities to
improve livelihoods, providing free agronomy support, promoting human
rights protection and gender equality, and building resilience to
climate change through regenerative agricultural practices and
agroforestry. Nespresso is committed to improving livelihoods in the
Northern Triangle by expanding its existing sourcing activities in
Guatemala, and by starting to source quality coffees from El Salvador
and Honduras from this year on, creating new economic opportunities for
smallholder farmers and replicating the social and environmental impact
of Nespresso’s programs in more communities. The company aims to support
the local economy with a minimum of $150 million spent across coffee
purchases, price premiums and technical assistance by 2025, more than
doubling both the number of coffee farms it works with and total coffee
volumes.

**<u>Pro Mujer</u>**

For over 30 years, Pro Mujer has been driving inclusive economic
opportunities for women in Latin America by providing millions of
families with access to finance, healthcare services, entrepreneurship
support, and digital inclusion. Pro Mujer will commit to reaching three
million people in the Northern Triangle by bringing these
services directly, and with the collaboration of local partners,
to vulnerable communities, including low income families, rural and
indigenous populations. In addition, Pro Mujer will commit to
structuring and launching blended finance vehicles that provide capital,
technical assistance and capacity building support to micro, small and
medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the Northern Triangle. This critical
support to MSMEs and the services Pro Mujer intends to bring to
individuals and families will together have a transformative effect on
these communities and directly address the root causes of migration from
the region.   

**<u>Tent Partnership for Refugees</u>**

The Tent Partnership for Refugees mobilizes the business community to
improve the lives and livelihoods of refugees displaced from their home
countries. Tent pledges to share best practices and lessons learned with
the Partnership for Central America from working with its network of
over 150 major businesses to implement commitments in support of
refugees around the world. In addition, Tent will leverage its business
network to raise awareness of the root causes of migration and how
companies can help improve conditions in Central America, for example by
supporting education outcomes, creating jobs and entrepreneurship
opportunities in the region, as well as sourcing more products from the
Northern Triangle.

**<u>World Economic Forum</u>**

The Forum has been actively engaged in Latin America for decades,
developing and supporting the implementation of a strategic agenda to
address the region’s most pressing challenges and ensuring a robust
participation of leaders in its various projects, activities and events.
In response to this *Call to Action*, the World Economic Forum will
convene a network of committed actors over time, with a special focus on
the role that long-term, sustainable investment can play in transforming
the lives and well-being of citizens throughout the area. To do so, the
Forum would facilitate collaboration between governments, civil society,
business, development institutions and others, to address the root
causes of migration and for the Northern Triangle countries to realize
their potential towards sustainable and inclusive growth and for quality
job creation. 

\###
