---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-04'
modified_time: 2021-05-04 14:22:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/04/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-announce-goal-to-administer-at-least-one-vaccine-shot-to-70-of-the-u-s-adult-population-by-july-4th/
published_time: 2021-05-04 14:22:07-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden to Announce Goal to Administer at Least One Vaccine\
  \ Shot to 70% of the U.S. Adult Population by July\_4th"
---
 
*New Efforts Will Increase Walk-In Appointments, Pop-Up Clinics, and
Mobile Units to Make Vaccines More Readily Available to Every Person in
the U.S.*

*Additional Funding Going to States and Rural Communities to Support
Vaccine Education and On-the-Ground Outreach Efforts*

As we continue our path out of the COVID-19 pandemic, today, President
Biden will announce a goal for 70% of the U.S. adult population to have
one vaccine shot and 160 million U.S. adults to be fully vaccinated by
July 4<sup>th</sup> so that life can start to look closer to normal.

In the next phase of the vaccination campaign, the Administration will
make getting vaccinated more accessible than ever before, continuing to
increase people’s confidence in the vaccines and ensuring that everyone
is reached in the response. Today, the President will announce that he
is directing tens of thousands of pharmacies in the federal pharmacy
program to offer walk-in appointments; redirecting Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) resources to support more pop-up clinics,
smaller community vaccination sites, and more mobile clinics; shipping
new allocations of the vaccine to rural health clinics across the
country; and providing additional funding to help communities do
outreach and engagement to help get people vaccinated.  

The President will announce an effort to get the nation’s adolescents
vaccinated as soon as possible, if a vaccine gains authorization for
this age group from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and is
recommended for use by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC). The Administration will also deploy the expertise of the Office
of the Surgeon General, CDC, National Institutes of Health (NIH) and
other clinical leaders to help answer questions parents and teens may
have about vaccination.

Today, the President will announce the following actions to help in the
effort to administer at least one shot to 70% of the U.S. adult
population by July 4<sup>th</sup>:

**Make Access to Vaccinations Even More Convenient.** The President will
announce new efforts to make vaccinations more convenient and more
accessible for Americans across the country by:

**<u>Increasing Walk-In Vaccinations at Local Pharmacies Across the
Nation</u>:** The Administration will direct federal pharmacy partners,
including national and independent pharmacies across the country, to
offer walk-in vaccinations. The Administration will also encourage all
states to offer walk-in options at state vaccination sites to make it
easier to get vaccinated. 

**<u>Moving to Smaller, Community-Based and Mobile Vaccination
Clinics</u>:** FEMA will support smaller pop-up vaccination clinics and
increase the number of active mobile units to meet people where they
are—with a focus on the hardest-to-reach individuals. The agency will
couple those efforts with federal support for community engagement to
continue to increase uptake. These efforts build on landmark
accomplishments over the course of the Administration’s first 100 days,
in which the federal government set up vaccination infrastructure and
capacity that did not previously exist.

**Support Community Vaccine Education and Local Outreach Efforts.** The
President will announce additional support for community-based
organizations as well as states to educate local communities about the
vaccine and vaccination availability by:

**<u>Expanding the Workforce of Community-Based Organizations</u>:**
ThePresident will announce nearly $250 million in two funding
opportunities for community-based organizations to hire and mobilize
community outreach workers, community health workers, social support
specialists, and others to increase vaccine access for the hardest-hit
and highest-risk communities through high-touch, on-the-ground outreach.
These workers will build confidence by answering individual questions
about vaccination, help make vaccine appointments, and assist with
transportation, child care arrangements, or other needs to get to
individuals to their vaccination appointments. The President has
committed to support hiring workers from the vulnerable communities they
will serve to ensure they create trust and are as effective as possible
in addressing persistent racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic health
inequities. The first of two funding opportunities will be released
today and will leverage organizations with broad geographical reach to
support vulnerable and medically underserved individuals. The second
funding opportunity will be released in mid-May and will focus on
smaller community-based organizations.

**<u>Supporting Underserved Communities with the Tools Needed to Get
Vaccinated</u>:** The President will announce more than $130 million to
improve vaccine education and information, and reduce health disparities
in underserved communities. Funding will support organizations with deep
relationships and a long track record of commitment to support racial
and ethnic minorities, rural populations, and people with disabilities,
including national organizations as well as community-level
organizations. Activities will include developing and disseminating
accessible educational materials and toolkits; identifying barriers to
vaccine uptake and opportunities for improving vaccination availability,
accessibility, and acceptability; identifying and equipping trusted
influential messengers through efforts like the COVID-19 Community
Corps; and building partnerships between vaccination providers and the
community to increase opportunities for vaccination.

**<u>Support the Next Phase of State and Local Vaccine Outreach
Efforts:</u>** The President will announce that nearly $250 million will
be immediately awarded to state, territorial, and select large city
governments to power their next phase of outreach efforts. The
administration will deploy a number of tools and resources with these
funds including: a rapid Community Assessment Guide to identify and
respond to vaccine education needs and develop targeted strategies for
uptake in specific communities; vaccine messages and toolkits to support
vaccine education and outreach; research on subpopulations; visuals for
TV, print, digital advertisements; and survey data.

**Provide Easier Access to Those Living in Rural Communities and Bolster
Efforts to Reach Rural Americans in the Response.  **The President will
announce new steps to vaccinate rural Americans, including:

**<u>Shipping New Allocations of Vaccine to Rural Health Clinics</u>:**
The Administration will send vaccines directly to rural health clinics
in some of our most underserved communities. This initiative will
include clinics in areas with a limited number of other vaccination
sites, and enhance vaccine access in rural communities across the
country.

**<u>Increasing Vaccine Education and Outreach Efforts in Rural
Communities</u>:** The President will announce over $100 million in
American Rescue Plan (ARP) funding to approximately 4,600 rural health
clinics across the country to support vaccine outreach in rural
communities. This funding will be used to assist rural residents in
accessing vaccinations as well as education and outreach efforts around
the benefits of vaccination.  

**<u>Increasing Funding for Rural Health Clinics and Hospitals to
Respond to COVID-19 with Testing and Mitigation Measures</u>: ** The
Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) is providing nearly
$860 million in ARP funding to help rural health clinics and rural
hospitals broaden their COVID-19 testing and mitigation to slow the
spread of the virus in their communities.  HRSA will provide up to
$100,000 per clinic to each of the 4,600 federally designated rural
health clinics and up to $230,000 per hospital to 1,730 small rural
hospitals to increase COVID-19 testing, expand access to testing in
rural communities, and broaden efforts to respond to and mitigate the
spread of the virus in ways tailored to community needs.

**Launch a comprehensive plan to vaccinate the nation’s adolescents,
should the FDA authorize a vaccine for younger ages.** The
Administration has directed states to make adolescents eligible for
vaccination immediately, should the FDA choose to issue an Emergency Use
Authorization of the Pfizer vaccine for individuals age 12-15. The
President will challenge states to get as many adolescents vaccinated as
possible with one shot by July 4, so that they can be fully vaccinated
by the time school begins in the fall. To advance that effort, the
Administration will launch a comprehensive strategy to make vaccinations
available in more places—with a focus on pediatricians and family
physicians—and to continue to build trust with teens and their parents,
beginning by providing families with the medical information they need
to make informed choices.

\###
