---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-27'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/27/statement-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-on-senate-republicans-infrastructure-proposal/
published_time: 2021-05-27 11:58:38-04:00
title: "Statement by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki on Senate Republicans\u2019 Infrastructure\_\
  Proposal"
---
 
We are grateful for the work of Senator Capito and her colleagues on
this proposal. It is encouraging to see her group come forward with a
substantially increased the funding level—nearing $1 trillion. We
appreciate the hard work that went in to making this proposal and
continuing these negotiations. Senator Capito told the President that
her team would provide us with more details later today, and we look
forward to getting that information. At first review, we note several
constructive additions to the group’s previous proposals, including on
roads, bridges and rail. At the same time, we remain concerned that
their plan still provides no substantial new funds for critical
job-creating needs, such as fixing our veterans’ hospitals, building
modern rail systems, repairing our transit systems, removing dangerous
lead pipes, and powering America’s leadership in a job-creating clean
energy economy, among other things. Lastly, we are concerned that the
proposal on how to pay for the plan remains unclear: we are worried that
major cuts in COVID relief funds could imperil pending aid to small
businesses, restaurants and rural hospitals using this money to get back
on their feet after the crush of the pandemic.

As for the path forward, the President called Senator Capito thank her
for the proposal, and to tell her that he would follow-up after getting
additional detail. We are also continuing to explore other proposals
that we hope will emerge. Though there are no votes in Congress next
week, we will work actively with members of the House and Senate next
week, so that there is a clear direction on how to advance much needed
jobs legislation when Congress resumes legislative business during the
week of June 7.

\###
