---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-20'
modified_time: 2021-05-21 07:47:00-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/20/fact-sheet-president-biden-directs-agencies-to-analyze-and-mitigate-the-risk-climate-change-poses-to-homeowners-and-consumers-businesses-and-workers-and-the-financial-system-and-federal-government/
published_time: 2021-05-20 17:30:31-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET:  President Biden Directs Agencies to Analyze and Mitigate the
  Risk Climate Change Poses to Homeowners and Consumers, Businesses and Workers, and
  the Financial System and Federal Government Itself'
---
 
*Agency Actions Will Better Protect Workers’ Hard-Earned Savings, Create
Good Jobs, and Position America to Lead the Global Economy*

Today, President Biden took action to address the serious threat that
the climate crisis poses to our economy. Extreme weather related to
climate change can disrupt entire supply chains and deprive communities
of food, water, or emergency supplies. Snowstorms can offline entire
power grids. Floods made worse by rising sea levels destroy homes and
businesses. As the United States builds a modern and equitable clean
energy future that creates millions of good-paying jobs and advances
environmental justice, the agency actions spurred by the President’s
directive today will help safeguard the financial security of America’s
families, businesses, and workers from the climate-related financial
risks they are already facing.  
  
The President’s *Executive Order on Climate-Related Financial Risk* will
help the American people better understand how climate change can impact
their financial security. It will strengthen the U.S. financial system.
And it will inform concrete decisions that the federal government can
take to mitigate the risks of climate change.  
  
From signing a loan for a new home or small business to managing life
savings or a retirement fund—it is important for the American people to
have access to the information needed to understand the potential risks
associated with these significant financial decisions. We know that the
climate crisis, whether through rising seas or extreme weather, already
presents increasing risks to infrastructure, investments, and
businesses. Yet, these risks are often hidden.  
  
With so much at stake, this Executive Order ensures that the right rules
are in place to properly analyze and mitigate these risks. That includes
disclosing these risks to the public, and empowering the American people
to make informed financial decisions.  
  
The Executive Order will also ensure that the federal government takes
concrete steps to mitigate these risks itself. Together, these steps
will protect workers’ life savings, spur the creation of good-paying
jobs, and help position the United States to lead the global economy.  
  
Specifically, the Executive Order on Climate-Related Financial Risk
will:  
  
**Develop a Whole-of-Government Approach to Mitigating Climate-Related
Financial Risk. **The Executive Order requires the National Climate
Advisor and the Director of the National Economic Council to develop,
within 120 days, a comprehensive government-wide climate-risk strategy
to identify and disclose climate-related financial risk to government
programs, assets, and liabilities. This strategy will identify the
public and private financing needed to reach economy wide net-zero
emissions by 2050 – while advancing economic opportunity, worker
empowerment, and environmental mitigation, especially in disadvantaged
communities and communities of color.  
  
**Encourage Financial Regulators to Assess Climate-Related Financial
Risk. **The Executive Order encourages the Treasury Secretary, in her
role as the chair of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, to work
with Council members to assess climate-related financial risk to the
stability of the federal government and the stability of the U.S.
financial system. Additionally, in her role as the chair, she should
work with member agencies to consider issuing a report, within 180 days,
on actions the Council recommends to reduce risks to financial
stability, including plans that member agencies are taking to improve
climate-related disclosures and other sources of data, and to
incorporate climate-related financial risk into regulatory and
supervisory practices.     
  
**Bolster the Resilience of Life Savings and Pensions. **The Executive
Order directs the Labor Secretary to consider suspending, revising, or
rescinding any rules from the prior administration that would have
barred investment firms from considering environmental, social and
governance factors, including climate-related risks, in their investment
decisions related to workers’ pensions. The order also asks the
Department to report on other measures that can be implemented to
protect the life savings and pensions of U.S. workers and families from
climate-related financial risk, and to assess how the Federal Retirement
Thrift Investment Board has taken environmental, social, and governance
factors, including climate-related risk, into account.

**Modernize Federal Lending, Underwriting, and Procurement. **The
Executive Order directs the development of recommendations for improving
how Federal financial management and reporting can incorporate
climate-related financial risk, especially as that risk relates to
federal lending programs.  It also requires consideration of new
requirements for major federal suppliers to disclose greenhouse gas
emissions and climate-related financial risks and to ensure that major
federal agency procurements minimize those risks.

**Reduce the Risk of Climate Change to the Federal Budget. **The
Executive Order ensures that the federal government is taking steps to
be fiscally responsible in response to the significant risk that
unmitigated climate change poses to the federal budget through increased
costs and lost revenue. The Executive Order directs that the federal
government develop and publish annually an assessment of its
climate-related fiscal risk exposure. It also directs the Office of
Management and Budget to reduce the federal government’s exposure
through the formulation of the President’s Budget and oversight of
budget execution.

\###
