---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-02'
modified_time: 2021-05-02 12:19:03-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/02/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-10th-anniversary-of-the-osama-bin-laden-raid/
published_time: 2021-05-02 12:19:02-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the 10th Anniversary of the Osama bin\
  \ Laden\_Raid"
---
 
Ten years ago, I joined President Obama and members of our national
security team, crowded into the Situation Room to watch as our military
delivered long-awaited justice to Osama bin Laden. It is a moment I will
never forget—the intelligence professionals who had painstakingly
tracked him down; the clarity and conviction of President Obama in
making the call; the courage and skill of our team on the ground. It had
been almost ten years since our nation was attacked on 9/11 and we went
to war in Afghanistan, pursuing al Qaeda and its leaders. We followed
bin Laden to the gates of hell—and we got him. We kept the promise to
all those who lost loved ones on 9/11: that we would never forget those
we had lost, and that the United States will never waver in our
commitment to prevent another attack on our homeland and to keep the
American people safe.   
  
Now, as a result of those efforts, as we bring to an end America’s
longest war and draw down the last of our troops from Afghanistan, al
Qaeda is greatly degraded there. But the United States will remain
vigilant about the threat from terrorist groups that have metastasized
around the world. We will continue to monitor and disrupt any threat to
us that emerges from Afghanistan. And we will work to counter terrorist
threats to our homeland and our interests in cooperation with allies and
partners around the world.   
  
I want to give my enduring thanks to the service members who executed
the raid at great personal risk and the public servants across our
government who made our mission a success ten years ago. We will
continue to honor all the brave women and men, our military, our
intelligence and counterterrorism professionals, and so many others, who
continue their extraordinary work to keep the American people safe
today. They give their best to our country, and we owe them an
incredible debt of gratitude.

\###
