---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-12'
modified_time: 2021-05-12 18:04:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/12/fact-sheet-president-signs-executive-order-charting-new-course-to-improve-the-nations-cybersecurity-and-protect-federal-government-networks/
published_time: 2021-05-12 18:30:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President Signs Executive Order Charting New Course to Improve\
  \ the Nation\u2019s Cybersecurity and Protect Federal Government\_Networks"
---
 
Today, President Biden signed an Executive Order to improve the nation’s
cybersecurity and protect federal government networks. Recent
cybersecurity incidents such as SolarWinds, Microsoft Exchange, and the
Colonial Pipeline incident are a sobering reminder that U.S. public and
private sector entities increasingly face sophisticated malicious cyber
activity from both nation-state actors and cyber criminals. These
incidents share commonalities, including insufficient cybersecurity
defenses that leave public and private sector entities more vulnerable
to incidents.   
  
This Executive Order makes a significant contribution toward modernizing
cybersecurity defenses by protecting federal networks, improving
information-sharing between the U.S. government and the private sector
on cyber issues, and strengthening the United States’ ability to respond
to incidents when they occur.  It is the first of many ambitious steps
the Administration is taking to modernize national cyber defenses. 
However, the Colonial Pipeline incident is a reminder that federal
action alone is not enough. Much of our domestic critical infrastructure
is owned and operated by the private sector, and those private sector
companies make their own determination regarding cybersecurity
investments. We encourage private sector companies to follow the Federal
government’s lead and take ambitious measures to augment and align
cybersecurity investments with the goal of minimizing future
incidents.  
  
Specifically, the Executive Order the President is signing today will:  
  
**Remove Barriers to Threat Information Sharing Between Government and
the Private Sector.** The Executive Order ensures that IT Service
Providers are able to share information with the government and requires
them to share certain breach information. IT providers are often
hesitant or unable to voluntarily share information about a compromise. 
Sometimes this can be due to contractual obligations; in other cases,
providers simply may be hesitant to share information about their own
security breaches. Removing any contractual barriers and requiring
providers to share breach information that could impact Government
networks is necessary to enable more effective defenses of Federal
departments, and to improve the Nation’s cybersecurity as a whole.  
  
**Modernize and Implement Stronger Cybersecurity Standards in the
Federal Government.** The Executive Order helps move the Federal
government to secure cloud services and a zero-trust architecture, and
mandates deployment of multifactor authentication and encryption with a
specific time period. Outdated security models and unencrypted data have
led to compromises of systems in the public and private sectors. The
Federal government must lead the way and increase its adoption of
security best practices, including by employing a zero-trust security
model, accelerating movement to secure cloud services, and consistently
deploying foundational security tools such as multifactor authentication
and encryption.  
  
**Improve Software Supply Chain Security.** The Executive Order will
improve the security of software by establishing baseline security
standards for development of software sold to the government, including
requiring developers to maintain greater visibility into their software
and making security data publicly available. It stands up a concurrent
public-private process to develop new and innovative approaches to
secure software development and uses the power of Federal procurement to
incentivize the market. Finally, it creates a pilot program to create an
“energy star” type of label so the government – and the public at large
– can quickly determine whether software was developed securely. Too
much of our software, including critical software, is shipped with
significant vulnerabilities that our adversaries exploit. This is a
long-standing, well-known problem, but for too long we have kicked the
can down the road. We need to use the purchasing power of the Federal
Government to drive the market to build security into all software from
the ground up.  
  
**Establish a Cybersecurity Safety Review Board.** The Executive Order
establishes a Cybersecurity Safety Review Board, co-chaired by
government and private sector leads, that may convene following a
significant cyber incident to analyze what happened and make concrete
recommendations for improving cybersecurity. Too often organizations
repeat the mistakes of the past and do not learn lessons from
significant cyber incidents. When something goes wrong, the
Administration and private sector need to ask the hard questions and
make the necessary improvements. This board is modeled after the
National Transportation Safety Board, which is used after airplane
crashes and other incidents.  
  
**Create a Standard Playbook for Responding to Cyber Incidents**. The
Executive Order creates a standardized playbook and set of definitions
for cyber incident response by federal departments and agencies.
Organizations cannot wait until they are compromised to figure out how
to respond to an attack. Recent incidents have shown that within the
government the maturity level of response plans vary widely. The
playbook will ensure all Federal agencies meet a certain threshold and
are prepared to take uniform steps to identify and mitigate a threat. 
The playbook will also provide the private sector with a template for
its response efforts.  
  
**Improve Detection of Cybersecurity Incidents on Federal Government
Networks**. The Executive Order improves the ability to detect malicious
cyber activity on federal networks by enabling a government-wide
endpoint detection and response system and improved information sharing
within the Federal government. Slow and inconsistent deployment of
foundational cybersecurity tools and practices leaves an organization
exposed to adversaries. The Federal government should lead in
cybersecurity, and strong, Government-wide Endpoint Detection and
Response (EDR) deployment coupled with robust intra-governmental
information sharing are essential.  
  
**Improve Investigative and Remediation Capabilities.** The Executive
Order creates cybersecurity event log requirements for federal
departments and agencies. Poor logging hampers an organization’s ability
to detect intrusions, mitigate those in progress, and determine the
extent of an incident after the fact.  Robust and consistent logging
practices will solve much of this problem.

\###
