---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-18'
modified_time: 2021-05-18 07:13:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/18/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-sign-presidential-memorandum-to-expand-access-to-legal-representation-and-the-courts/
published_time: 2021-05-18 07:13:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden to Sign Presidential Memorandum to Expand Access\
  \ to Legal Representation and the\_Courts"
---
 
Today, President Biden will sign a Presidential Memorandum to expand
access to legal representation and the courts.  As President Biden knows
from his experience as a public defender, timely and affordable access
to the legal system can make all the difference in a person’s
life—including by keeping an individual out of poverty, keeping an
individual in his or her home, helping an unaccompanied child seek
asylum, helping someone fight a consumer scam, or ensuring that an
individual charged with a crime can mount a strong defense and receive a
fair trial.  But low-income people have long struggled to secure quality
access to the legal system.  Those challenges have only increased during
the public health and economic crises caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
At the same time, civil legal aid providers and public defenders have
been under-resourced, understaffed, and unable to reach some of the
people in greatest need of their services.   
  
The federal government has a critical role to play in expanding access
to the nation’s legal system and supporting the work of civil legal aid
providers and public defenders.  President Biden’s executive action
today will reinvigorate the federal government’s role in advancing
access to justice, and help ensure that the Administration’s policies
and recovery efforts can reach as many individuals as possible.  
  
The Presidential Memorandum is the Biden-Harris Administration’s latest
action to protect vulnerable Americans, reform the justice system, and
advance racial equity. On his first day in office, the President issued
an executive order establishing a government-wide initiative to put
equity at the heart of each agency’s priorities and management agenda.
His discretionary budget request called for $1.5 billion in funding for
grants to strengthen state and local criminal justice systems, including
by investing in public defenders. Improving access to counsel in civil
and criminal proceedings builds on each of these efforts.  
  
Specifically, President Biden is directing the following actions:  
  
**The Attorney General will, within 120 days, submit a plan to expand
the Department of Justice’s access to justice work**.  During the prior
administration, the Department of Justice’s access to justice work,
formally launched as an initiative in 2010, was effectively shuttered. 
To restore the Department of Justice’s leadership in this area,
President Biden is directing Attorney General Garland to submit a report
to the President within 120 days that outlines the Department’s plan to
expand its access to justice work.  As Attorney General Garland will
make clear in a memorandum that he will issue today, the Justice
Department will start this work immediately.  
  
**The Biden-Harris Administration will re-establish the White House
Legal Aid Interagency Roundtable to prioritize civil legal aid and
expand access to federal programs**.  The Biden-Harris Administration is
re-committing to the mission of the White House Legal Aid Interagency
Roundtable, which was initially established in 2015 to raise federal
agencies’ awareness of how civil legal aid could increase employment,
family stability, housing security, consumer protection, and public
safety.  The White House Legal Aid Interagency Roundtable will be
co-chaired by the Attorney General and the Counsel to the President, or
their designees, and will convene federal agencies to identify ways to
address some of the most pressing legal services challenges that we face
today—including those posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.

\###
