---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-10'
modified_time: 2021-05-10 15:23:34-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/10/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-additional-steps-to-help-americans-return-to-work/
published_time: 2021-05-10 14:02:33-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Additional Steps to Help Americans\
  \ Return to\_Work"
---
 
Over the first three full months of the Biden-Harris Administration, the
economy added more than 1.5 million jobs, or more than 500,000 jobs per
month on average. That compares to an average of 60,000 jobs per month
in the three previous months. These three months have seen the strongest
first three months of job growth of any administration.

Despite this progress, there’s more work to do to climb out of the
economic crisis brought on by the pandemic. The Biden-Harris
Administration is acting aggressively to ensure that the millions of
Americans who remain unemployed, through no fault of their own, can find
safe, good-paying work as quickly as possible. That’s why the President
is announcing today that the Administration will take steps to remove
barriers that are preventing Americans from returning safely to
good-paying work and take steps to make it easier for employers to hire
new workers.

And, the President and the Administration will reaffirm the basic rules
of the unemployment insurance (UI) program. Anyone receiving UI who is
offered a suitable job must take it or lose their UI benefits. A core
purpose of the UI program is helping workers get back to work, and UI
provides laid-off workers with temporary assistance to help pay bills
and relieve hardship. By reaffirming these rules and purposes, the
Administration will ensure that the UI program continues to support
workers and facilitate hiring.

Specifically, today the President is:

**REMOVING BARRIERS THAT ARE KEEPING AMERICANS FROM RETURNING SAFELY TO
GOOD-PAYING WORK**

**Accelerating the Provision of Assistance to Hard-Hit Child Care
Providers to Get More Parents Back to Work**

Between February 2020 and March 2021, 520,000 mothers and 170,000
fathers between ages 20 and 54 left the labor force and have not
returned. Many need or want to work but cannot because of child care
disruptions. At the same time, early childhood and child care providers
– nearly all small businesses, overwhelmingly owned by women and
disproportionately owned by people of color – have been hit hard by the
pandemic. According to one survey, as of December, about [one in
four](https://www.cnbc.com/2020/12/30/many-child-care-centers-nationwide-still-remain-closed.html) child
care providers open at the start of the pandemic were closed, hindering
access to care, especially for [families of
color](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/early-childhood/news/2020/06/29/486977/child-care-disruptions-hurt-parents-color/).
Child care providers that have stayed open have gone to enormous lengths
to do so and are struggling to stay open: [two in
five](https://www.naeyc.org/sites/default/files/globally-shared/downloads/PDFs/our-work/public-policy-advocacy/naeyc_policy_crisis_coronavirus_december_survey_data.pdf) providers
report taking on debt for their programs using personal credit cards to
pay for increased costs and [three in
five](https://www.naeyc.org/sites/default/files/globally-shared/downloads/PDFs/our-work/public-policy-advocacy/naeyc_policy_crisis_coronavirus_december_survey_data.pdf) work
in programs that have reduced expenses through layoffs, furloughs, or
pay cuts. And, there are 150,000 fewer child care jobs today than there
were at the beginning of the pandemic.

The American Rescue Plan provides funding to address the child care
crisis caused by COVID-19 to help parents who need or want to work to
return to their jobs. This includes funding to stabilize the child care
industry so that parents can send their children to safe, healthy,
stable child care environments and additional funding to help families
access affordable, high-quality care, including by providing subsidized
care to more than 800,000 families with the greatest need and by
providing resources for hard-hit child care providers.

Today, the Department of Health and Human Services is releasing guidance
to states, tribes, and territories so that states can start getting the
child care stabilization funding to providers immediately. The guidance
will encourage states to get funding out quickly and to make it as easy
as possible for hundreds of thousands of child care providers, including
centers and family-based providers, to receive the funding. It will also
encourage states to allow the funds to be used broadly to meet the
unique needs of providers so they can reopen or maintain essential
services. It will explain, for example, how they can use the funds to
bolster their workforce, cover expenses like rent and utilities, and pay
for goods and services needed to stay open or reopen. And, it will
provide guidance on ways providers can use funds to help them operate
according to [CDC
guidelines](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/schools-childcare/guidance-for-childcare.html),
so that as parents return to work, they can have peace of mind their
children are in a safe and healthy learning environment. In all, these
funds will support child care providers in keeping their doors open,
benefiting the parents of more than 5 million children who rely on them
to stay in or return to the labor force.

And, thanks to the historic expansion of the Child and Dependent Care
Tax Credit (CDCTC) in the American Rescue Plan, families can rest
assured that they can receive up to half of their child care expenses
this year when they file taxes for 2021. A median income family with two
kids under age 13 will receive a tax credit of up to $8,000 towards this
year’s expenses, compared with a maximum of $1,200 previously.

**Directing the Secretary of Labor to Safely Expand States’ Reemployment
Services and Workforce Development Boards’ Jobs Counseling for
Unemployment Beneficiaries**.

States receive federal funding for Reemployment Services and Eligibility
Assessments (RESEA) of UI beneficiaries to help them find employment
while ensuring they remain eligible for benefits. These services shorten
workers’ time on unemployment benefits by helping them match with good
jobs and confirm their eligibility for benefits. States significantly
and appropriately slowed in-person RESEA meetings in the midst of
historic unemployment and the COVID-19 pandemic. With the economy and
jobs growing again, the President will direct the Secretary of Labor to
issue guidance to states to quickly and safely – consistent with CDC and
OSHA guidance – expand their RESEA programs so that more UI
beneficiaries can return to work. 

Similarly, the public workforce system’s Workforce Development Boards
(WDB) collectively receive hundreds of millions of dollars they can use
to provide individualized career counseling, called “individual career
services,” to job seekers. However, because of the pandemic’s risks,
many WDBs stopped providing in-person services and had to quickly
transition to remote services. Now that tens of millions of Americans
have been vaccinated, and we know how to operate physical locations
safely, the President will direct the Secretary of Labor to work with
the public workforce system to provide the maximum level possible of
individual career services to UI beneficiaries and other unemployed
workers using existing resources, and in a manner consistent with CDC
and OSHA guidance.

**MAKING IT EASIER FOR EMPLOYERS TO HIRE NEW WORKERS**

**Supporting Hard-Hit Restaurants and Bars**  
  
Restaurants, bars, and other small businesses offering on-site food and
beverages are vital to our communities and economy. From big cities to
small towns, these restaurants and bars offer communities a place to
gather, celebrate, and share ideas. They also employed nearly 12 percent
of all workers prior to the pandemic. Despite their importance,
restaurants and bars have suffered severely during the pandemic. The
leisure and hospitality sector, which includes restaurants and bars, had
17 percent fewer jobs this April than in February 2020.  
  
Though we have seen significant progress under the Biden-Harris
Administration – leisure and hospitality added 331,000 jobs in April, by
far the most of any industry and more than it added in March – there is
still more work to do to help this critical sector recover. Established
through the American Rescue Plan, the Biden-Harris Administration
recently launched the Restaurant Revitalization Fund (RRF) – a program
to aid restaurants, bars, food trucks, and other food and drink
establishments. These grants will give restaurants and bars the
flexibility to hire back workers at good wages. In the first two days of
the program, 186,200 restaurants, bars, and other eligible businesses in
all 50 states, Washington, D.C., and five U.S. Territories applied for
relief.  
  
Today, the Administration is sending the first grants under the program
to 16,000 hard-hit restaurants. These include restaurants in states and
territories throughout the country, and restaurants owned and controlled
by women, veterans, and socially and economically disadvantaged
individuals.  
  
**Providing States and Localities with the Resources They Need to Help
Return Americans to Work**

The American Rescue Plan delivered flexible Coronavirus State and Local
Fiscal Recovery Funds that will help state and local governments hire
back public sector workers; ramp up the effectiveness of their COVID
response and vaccination programs to make return to work, school, and
care safer; and bolster efforts to help workers negatively affected by
the pandemic to train for and secure good-paying jobs. With today’s
announcement, the U.S. Department of Treasury is making the first
segment of these funds available to states and localities and laying out
how these funds can be used to address pandemic-response needs and
support the communities and populations hardest-hit by the COVID-19
crisis.

State and local employment remains 1.3 million jobs down since before
the pandemic.  Learning from the mistakes of the Great Recession, when
state and local government budget cuts were a drag on GDP growth for 23
of the 26 quarters following the crisis, the funds will provide these
governments with the resources needed to help address challenges in
returning Americans to work. This includes in the public sector, where
state and local employment remains down over one million jobs since the
start of the pandemic. Fiscal Recovery Funds will help bring
firefighters, teachers, school staff, cops, and other public servants
back to work.

**Helping Employers – Especially Small Businesses – Rehire and Retain
Workers Through the Extended and Expanded Employee Retention Credit**  
  
To help hard-hit employers rehire and retain workers, President Biden
extended and expanded the Employee Retention Credit (ERC) in the
American Rescue Plan. This year, the ERC offers eligible employers with
500 or fewer employees a tax credit of 70 percent of the first $10,000
in wages per employee per quarter. In other words, this refundable,
advanceable credit will cover up to $7,000 in wages per quarter or
$28,000 per year for each employee. For example:

-   A small independent retailer in Milwaukee, Wisconsin with 25
    employees has $130,000 in payroll expenses per quarter (all for
    employees earning less than $10,000 in the quarter), and experiences
    a 25 percent decline in gross receipts in the first quarter of 2021
    compared to the first quarter of 2019. The retailer is eligible for
    the Employee Retention Credit in the first quarter since it
    experienced a greater than 20 percent decline in gross receipts. The
    retailer is also eligible for the ERC in the second quarter because
    of the decline as compared to 2019 in the immediately preceding
    first quarter.  The retailer can claim a tax credit of $91,000 in
    both the first and second quarters (for a total of $182,000).  The
    amount of the tax credit would be applied against the retailer’s
    quarterly federal payroll tax amount, and then, assuming that the
    $91,000 was in excess of the total liability for the quarter, the
    excess would be advanced (or paid by the government directly to the
    retailer).  If the retailer experienced declines in gross receipts
    in the third quarter as compared to 2019, it could claim an
    additional tax credit (in a similar amount) for the third quarter
    and the fourth quarter. *The small retail business could use this
    advance – which could amount to tens of thousands of dollars – to
    rehire workers, raise wages, improve facilities, and purchase new
    inventory.*

While more than 30,000 small businesses have already claimed more than
$1 billion in ERCs this year, the Biden-Harris Administration is working
to increase awareness of and participation in this beneficial program.
Specifically, this week, the Treasury Department will disseminate clear
and concise steps on how businesses can determine their eligibility and
claim the ERC. These and other efforts will help businesses bring
employees back sooner and keep them on the job as the economy
recovers.  
  
**Helping Employers Ramp Back Up**  
  
As businesses ramp back up without knowing how many workers they will
need to operate as the economy recovers, some will look to bring workers
on part-time. The UI system offers options for these employers and their
returning workers.  Workers shouldn’t have to choose between losing
their full UI benefits to take part-time work that represents only a
portion of their original salary. The Department of Labor will announce
this week how unemployed workers who are rehired part-time don’t have to
face that choice.  They can work part-time while still receiving part of
their UI benefits so they can work and still make ends meet.

There are two programs that can help and the Department of Labor this
week will help highlight them:

-   **Short-Time Compensation: **Short-time compensation was designed to
    help prevent layoffs by allowing workers to remain employed at
    reduced hours and still collect a portion of their UI benefits. But
    it can also be used to help employers rehire their already laid off
    workers. If an employer brings a laid-off employee back part-time
    and participates in the short-time compensation program, that worker
    will receive pro-rated UI benefits to help cover reduced
    compensation for not working full time, as well as the $300 weekly
    supplement until that supplement expires September 6th.   
      
    The Biden-Harris Administration will highlight this program to help
    employers rehire their laid-off employees in the coming weeks and
    work to make it as easy as possible for employers and workers to
    participate. Short-time compensation programs are currently
    available in [more than half the
    states](https://oui.doleta.gov/unemploy/docs/stc_fact_sheet.pdf).
    These benefits are fully federally funded through September 6 for
    those states.  
     
-   **Partial UI: **Another overlooked option for helping employers ramp
    up is the partial UI program, which allows workers to return to work
    at a new employer at reduced hours while still receiving some
    unemployment benefits. This is a good option for workers who may not
    qualify for short-time compensation because they are not returning
    to their previous employer. States can enhance the capacity of
    partial UI by raising the income threshold where workers can both
    work and receive some UI benefits, and the Department of Labor will
    be encouraging states to do so.

**CLARIFYING RULES OF THE UI PROGRAM**

This week, the Department of Labor will reaffirm longstanding UI
requirements to make sure everyone, including states, employers, and
workers, understands the rules of the road for UI benefits. These
clarifications will also help ease a return to work. Specifically, the
Secretary of Labor will issue a letter to states to reaffirm that
individuals receiving UI may not continue to receive benefits if they
turn down a suitable job due to a general, non-specific concern about
COVID-19.  In addition, the President is directing the Secretary of
Labor to work with states to reinstate work search requirements for UI
recipients, if health and safety conditions allow.

-   **Clarifying Rules of UI Programs: **The Department of Labor will
    clarify that, under all UI programs including the Pandemic
    Unemployment Assistance (PUA) program put in place last year,
    workers may not turn down a job due to a general, non-specific
    concern about COVID-19 and continue to receive benefits. Under the
    PUA program, a worker may receive benefits if the worker certifies
    weekly that one of the few specific COVID-related reasons specified
    by Congress is the cause of their unemployment. These reasons
    include, for example, that the worker has a child at home who cannot
    go to school because of the pandemic or that the worker is offered a
    job at a worksite that is out of compliance with federal or state
    health requirements. Moreover, workers may not misreport a
    COVID-related reason for unemployment.  The President is directing
    the Department of Labor to take concrete steps to raise awareness
    about these and other requirements.  
     
-   **Directing the Secretary of Labor to Work with States on Work
    Search Requirements: **The President is directing the Secretary of
    Labor to work with states to reinstate work search requirements for
    UI recipients, if health and safety conditions allow.  As part of
    the Families First Coronavirus Response Act signed into law last
    year by the previous Administration, states receiving certain
    federal relief funds were required to waive their requirements that
    workers search for work in order to continue receiving unemployment
    benefits. While 29 states have already reinstated their work search
    requirements, the President is directing the Department of Labor to
    work with the remaining states, as health and safety conditions
    allow, to put in place appropriate work search requirements as the
    economy continues to rebound, vaccinations increase, and the
    pandemic is brought under control.

A core purpose of the UI program is helping workers get back to work. UI
keeps workers connected to the labor market during spells of
unemployment by providing workers with income that allows them to look
for a job match commensurate with their skills or prior wages. UI
recipients also gain access to crucial reemployment services to help
with job search or retraining where necessary. Ensuring a good job match
is good for workers, as well as employers who want the best candidates
for their jobs.

Returning to work during a pandemic is more complicated than searching
for work in ordinary times. The COVID-19 pandemic remains a genuine
challenge for our country, with infections, hospitalizations, and deaths
down substantially when compared with last year, but still at
unacceptably high levels. While vaccinations are on the rise with over
half of American adults having received at least one shot, around a
quarter of those aged 18 to 29 and around a third of those aged 30 to 39
are fully vaccinated. There is a great deal more to do.

At the same time, our economy is growing again at an annual rate of more
than 6% and more than 1.5 million jobs have been created over the last
three months. Many more workers would like to return to work if they can
overcome the barriers that stand in the way. We can and will continue to
ensure workers and their families are protected from COVID-19, while
also helping those who are able and available to search for good jobs in
safe and healthy workplaces.

\###
