---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-21'
modified_time: 2021-05-21 20:44:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/21/u-s-rok-leaders-joint-statement/
published_time: 2021-05-21 20:43:59-04:00
title: "U.S.-ROK Leaders\u2019 Joint\_Statement"
---
 
Over seventy years ago, the alliance between the United States and the
Republic of Korea was forged on the battlefield, as we stood
shoulder-to-shoulder in war. Bonded in common sacrifice, our partnership
has helped to keep the peace in the decades since, allowing both of our
countries and our peoples to thrive. The linchpin for stability and
prosperity, our alliance has continued to evolve as the world around us
has changed. Now, as the regional security environment in the
Indo-Pacific grows more complex, and existential issues, from the
COVID-19 pandemic to the threat of climate change, reshape the globe, we
recommit ourselves to an ironclad alliance.

The United States and the Republic of Korea share a vision for a region
governed by democratic norms, human rights, and the rule of law at home
and abroad. We seek a partnership that continues to provide peace and
prosperity for our peoples, while serving as a linchpin for the regional
and global order. Above all, we are united in our determination to
reinvigorate and modernize our ties for a new era.  President Joseph R.
Biden, Jr. is honored to welcome President Moon Jae-in of the Republic
of Korea to Washington to begin a new chapter in our partnership.  
  
***The Alliance: Opening a New Chapter***

President Biden and President Moon reaffirm their mutual commitment to
the defense of the Republic of Korea and their combined defense posture
under the ROK-U.S. Mutual Defense Treaty, and President Biden affirms
the U.S. commitment to provide extended deterrence using its full range
of capabilities. We commit to strengthening the alliance deterrence
posture, share the importance of maintaining joint military readiness,
and reiterate our firm commitment to a conditions-based transition of
wartime operational control. We also agree to deepen cooperation in
other domains, including cyber and space, to ensure an effective joint
response against emerging threats. We welcome the signing of a
multi-year Special Measures Agreement, which enhances our combined
defense posture and represents our dedication to the alliance.

The two sides reaffirm that close coordination on all matters related to
global nonproliferation and safe, secure, and safeguarded uses of
nuclear technology remain key characteristics of the alliance, and the
United States recognizes the ROK’s global role in promoting
nonproliferation efforts.  Following consultations with the United
States, the ROK announces the termination of its Revised Missile
Guidelines, and the Presidents acknowledged the decision.

President Biden and President Moon emphasize their shared commitment
to the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and their
intent to address the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s (DPRK’s)
nuclear and ballistic missile programs.  We call for the full
implementation of relevant UN Security Council resolutions by the
international community, including the DPRK. President Moon welcomes the
conclusion of the United States’ DPRK policy review, which takes a
calibrated and practical approach that is open to and will explore
diplomacy with the DPRK to make tangible progress that increases the
security of the United States and the Republic of Korea. We also
reaffirm our common belief that diplomacy and dialogue, based on
previous inter-Korean and U.S.-DPRK commitments such as the 2018
Panmunjom Declaration and Singapore Joint Statement, are essential to
achieve the complete denuclearization and establishment of permanent
peace on the Korean Peninsula. President Biden also expresses his
support for inter-Korean dialogue, engagement, and cooperation. We agree
to work together to improve the human rights situation in the DPRK and
commit to continue facilitating the provision of humanitarian aid to the
neediest North Koreans. We also share our willingness to help facilitate
the reunion of separated families of the two Koreas. We also agree to
coordinate our approaches to the DPRK in lockstep. We underscore the
fundamental importance of U.S.-ROK-Japan trilateral cooperation for
addressing the DPRK, protecting our shared security and prosperity,
upholding common values, and bolstering the rules-based order.

The significance of the U.S.-ROK relationship extends far beyond the
Korean Peninsula: it is grounded in our shared values and anchors our
respective approaches to the Indo-Pacific region. We agree we will work
to align the ROK’s New Southern Policy and the United States’ vision for
a free and open Indo-Pacific and that our countries will cooperate to
create a safe, prosperous, and dynamic region. The United States and the
ROK reaffirm support for ASEAN centrality and the ASEAN-led regional
architecture. We agree to expand regional coordination on law
enforcement, cybersecurity, public health and promoting a green
recovery. We agree to work closely together to promote greater
connectivity and foster digital innovation within ASEAN, while
developing deeper people-to-people ties among Americans, Koreans, and
the people of Southeast Asia. We will also consider opportunities for
joint efforts to promote sustainable development, energy security, and
responsible water management in the Mekong sub-region. The United States
and the ROK also reaffirm support for enhanced cooperation with Pacific
Island Countries and acknowledge the importance of open, transparent,
and inclusive regional multilateralism including the Quad.

The United States and the Republic of Korea oppose all activities that
undermine, destabilize, or threaten the rules-based international order
and commit to maintaining an inclusive, free, and open Indo-Pacific. We
pledge to maintain peace and stability, lawful unimpeded commerce, and
respect for international law, including freedom of navigation and
overflight in the South China Sea and beyond. President Biden and
President Moon emphasize the importance of preserving peace and
stability in the Taiwan Strait. As democracies that value pluralism and
individual liberty, we share our intent to promote human rights and rule
of law issues, both at home and abroad.

We resolutely condemn violence by the Myanmar military and police
against civilians, and commit to continuing to press for the immediate
cessation of violence, the release of those who are detained, and a
swift return to democracy. We call on all nations to join us in
providing safe haven to Burmese nationals and in prohibiting arms sales
to Myanmar.  
  
***The Way Forward: Comprehensive Partnership for a Better Future***

President Biden and President Moon acknowledge that contemporary threats
and challenges require us to deepen our partnership in new areas. We
commit to forging new ties on climate, global health, emerging
technologies, including 5G and 6G technology and semi-conductors, supply
chain resilience, migration and development, and in our people-to-people
relationship.  
  
President Moon welcomes U.S. leadership to enhance global climate
ambitions through its hosting of the Leaders’ Summit on Climate on April
22, 2021. President Biden looks forward to the Republic of Korea’s
contributions to achieve inclusive, international green recovery and net
zero greenhouse gas emissions by hosting the P4G Seoul Summit on May
30-31. The United States has submitted an ambitious Nationally
Determined Contribution, and welcomes the Republic of Korea’s plan to
release early in October its provisional enhanced 2030 target, and by
COP 26 its final enhanced 2030 target, aligned with efforts to limit the
global average temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius and with the
global goal to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions no later than
2050. We will cooperate to enhance our efforts to achieve our 2030
targets and 2050 goals, including long-term strategies, set examples
among the world leaders in reducing carbon emissions, conserve and
enhance natural carbon sinks such as oceans and forests, and expand
much-needed collaboration on technology and innovation to help achieve
our long-term goals.  

Building on President Moon’s declaration to end public financing for new
overseas coal fired power plants and President Biden’s Executive Order
on Tackling the Climate Crisis, the Republic of Korea and United States
will work together at the OECD and in other international venues to end
all forms of new public financing for unabated overseas coal-fired power
plants. 

The Republic of Korea and the United States will align official
international financing with the global achievement of net zero
greenhouse gas emissions no later than 2050 and deep emission reductions
in the 2020s. The Republic of Korea looks forward to joining with the
United States and other countries in contributing climate finance
towards the new post-2025 mobilization goal under the Paris Agreement. 

The United States and the Republic of Korea have been critical allies in
the COVID-19 pandemic and on longstanding global health challenges, and
President Biden expresses his gratitude for the ROK’s donation of
critical medical supplies to the United States at its time of dire need.
Against this backdrop, we agree to establish a comprehensive KORUS
Global Vaccine Partnership to strengthen joint response capabilities for
infectious disease through international vaccine cooperation, including
focus areas on global expansion of production and related materials, as
well as scientific and technological cooperation. Drawing on each of our
strengths, Korea and the United States will work collaboratively to
expand manufacturing of vaccines that have been demonstrated safe and
effective, as assessed by Stringent Regulatory Authorities and/or the
World Health Organization, for global benefit.  The United States and
Korea will partner to meet increasing demand for safe and effective
COVID-19 vaccines in a timely manner.  Based on the partnership, we will
actively cooperate on greatly scaling up global COVID-19 vaccine supply,
including through COVAX and in coordination with CEPI, to countries
around the world toward ending the pandemic in the nearest future and
preparing for the next biological threat. To this end, we will launch a
senior-level experts group, the KORUS Global Vaccine Partnership Experts
Group, to implement the partnership, comprised of scientists, experts
and officials from our governments. Both countries will actively work
together to ensure the success of COVAX, and the ROK commends the United
States on its bold $4 billion contribution this year.  To this end, and
in recognition that we are both leaders in this fight, the ROK will
increase its pledge to COVAX AMC substantially this year.

We agree to work together to strengthen and reform the World Health
Organization by strengthening its ability to prevent pandemics through
early and effective prevention, detection, and response to potential
health emergencies, and by increasing its transparency and ensuring its
independence. We will also support a transparent and independent
evaluation and analysis of the origins of the COVID-19 outbreak and for
investigating outbreaks of unknown origin in the future. We resolve to
take decisive action to help the Indo-Pacific build better regional
pandemic preparedness, and will work together and multilaterally to
build the capacity of all countries to prevent, detect, and respond to
infectious disease outbreaks. To move towards this goal, the ROK commits
to increase its engagement in the Global Health Security Agenda Steering
Group and Action Package Working Groups, and the ROK pledges a new $200M
commitment for 2021-2025 period to support the GHSA target and help
partner countries fill their gaps.  The United States and the ROK will
also work together with likeminded countries to create a new
sustainable, catalytic health security financing mechanism.

The United States and the ROK are among each other’s largest trading and
investment partners, and these strong economic ties, particularly the
U.S.- Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA), are a bedrock. The
Presidents agreed to cooperate closely on the reform of the WTO and
expressed their shared commitment to oppose unfair trade practices.

With the technological landscape rapidly changing, we agree to
strengthen our partnership on critical and emerging technologies to
promote our shared security and prosperity. We agree on the importance
of careful screening of foreign investments and cooperation on export
controls on critical technologies. Recognizing the importance of
telecommunications security and vendor diversity, President Biden and
President Moon commit to work together to develop open, transparent, and
efficient 5G and 6G network architectures using Open-RAN technology. To
this end, we agree to cooperate to increase resiliency in our supply
chains, including in priority sectors such as semiconductors,
eco-friendly EV batteries, strategic and critical materials, and
pharmaceuticals. We also agree to work together to increase the global
supply of legacy chips for automobiles, and to support leading-edge
semiconductor manufacturing in both countries through the promotion of
increased mutual investments as well as research and development
cooperation. President Biden and President Moon commit to work together
to develop a future-oriented partnership by leading innovation in the
areas of clean energy, such as next generation batteries, hydrogen, and
carbon capture and storage, and in the emerging technologies including
Artificial Intelligence (AI), 5G, next generation communications network
(6G), open-RAN technology, quantum technology, and bio-technology.

President Biden and President Moon also commit to strengthening their
partnership in civil space exploration, science, and aeronautics
research and will cooperate towards the ROK signing the Artemis Accords.
Moreover, we commit to develop cooperation in overseas nuclear markets,
including joint participation in nuclear power plant projects, while
ensuring the highest standards of international nuclear safety,
security, and nonproliferation are maintained.

President Biden and President Moon welcome the chance to strengthen
development ties between the United States and the ROK. We are pleased
to expand our partnership to facilitate closer collaboration between the
U.S. Agency for International Development and the Korea International
Cooperation Agency. We also recognize the importance of addressing the
root causes of migration from Central America’s Northern Triangle
countries to the United States. To this end, the ROK pledges to increase
its financial commitment to development cooperation in the Northern
Triangle countries to $220 million for the 2021-2024 period. The United
States also welcomes the ROK’s initiatives to increase cooperation with
the countries in Latin America and the Caribbean region, including
digital and green cooperation.  
  
The enduring friendship between the United States and the Republic of
Korea is fed by our vibrant people-to-people ties. Over 1.7 million
Korean students have enrolled in United States educational institutions
since 1955. More than two million ROK citizens visit, work, or live in
the United States, and over 200,000 U.S. citizens reside in the ROK.
More than 10,000 U.S. and ROK citizens have participated in sponsored
exchange programs, including ROK political leaders. We take great pride
in celebrating the 60th anniversary of the first Korean and American
Fulbright grantees to visit each other’s countries, which demonstrates
the depth and strength of the longstanding ties between the people of
the United States and the ROK. Our extensive exchange programs promote
common purpose between our countries; we agree to increase two-way
exchanges of young environmental leaders to strengthen our ability to
cooperate in this critical area. Moving forward, we place particular
emphasis on supporting greater interaction between experts in science,
technology, engineering and mathematics and empowering women and girls
in these fields, to build a solid foundation for secure and sustainable
innovation and economic resilience in both countries.

President Biden and President Moon also agree to redouble their
commitment to democratic values, and the promotion of human rights at
home and abroad. The strength of our democracies depends on women’s full
participation in them. Together we will strive to end the abuse of women
and girls, including domestic violence and cyber-exploitation, and to
exchange best practices to close the gender wage gap–a challenge both
our countries share. We agree to expand cooperation to combat
corruption, and ensure the freedoms of expression and religion and
belief. Finally, we join voices in condemning violence against the
Asian-American and Pacific Islander community, and pledge to work
together to ensure that all Americans, including Korean-Americans, are
treated with dignity and respect.

At a time of considerable international hardship and rapid global
change, President Biden and President Moon are cognizant of the hurdles
facing the United States, the ROK, and the world. We recognize that,
with our cooperation, the U.S.-ROK alliance will play an increasingly
global role, allowing us to rise to these defining challenges. For over
seven decades, and thanks to its reciprocity and dynamism, our alliance
has been a source of steadfast national strength; we look forward to
working closely together to ensure it remains one for decades to come.
President Moon expresses his gratitude to President Biden for the warm
hospitality and extends an invitation for President Biden to visit the
ROK.

\###
