---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-05-26'
modified_time: 2021-05-28 12:36:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/26/president-biden-announces-more-key-administration-nominations-2/
published_time: 2021-05-26 12:35:00-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces More Key Administration\_Nominations"
---
 
Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following six individuals to serve in key Administration roles.

-   Brian Nelson, Nominee for Under Secretary for Terrorism and
    Financial Intelligence, Department of the Treasury
-   Lisa Brown, Nominee for General Counsel of the Department of
    Education
-   Matt Olsen, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General, National
    Security Division, Department of Justice
-   Elizabeth Rosenberg, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Terrorism
    Financing, Department of the Treasury
-   Gwynne Wilcox, Nominee for Member of the National Labor Relations
    Board
-   Arun Venkataraman, Nominee for Director General of the United States
    and Foreign Commercial Service and Assistant Secretary for Global
    Markets, Department of Commerce

**<u>Brian Nelson, Nominee for Under Secretary for Terrorism and
Financial Intelligence, Department of the Treasury</u>**

Brian Nelson is the chief legal officer of LA28, the organizing
committee for the 2028 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Los Angeles.
Before joining LA28, Nelson served in a number of senior roles in the
California Department of Justice, overseeing key initiatives, including
Attorney General-led efforts to combat transnational criminal
organizations, dismantle human trafficking networks, and build state and
international partnerships to stop money laundering and high-tech
crimes. Before that, Nelson served in the U.S. Department of Justice as
the National Security Division’s deputy chief of staff, supporting the
managerial, policy and operational work of the Division. Nelson was a
law clerk on the Ninth Circuit and the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
and received his bachelor’s degrees from UCLA and his J.D. from Yale Law
School.

**<u>Lisa Brown, Nominee for General Counsel of the Department of
Education</u>**

Lisa Brown is currently Vice President & General Counsel of Georgetown
University, where she provides legal counsel to the University’s
President, Board of Directors, and senior academic and administrative
officers; serves in the President’s Cabinet; and mentors first
generation college students and students interested in law and social
justice.  Ms. Brown also serves on the Board of Trustees of the Center
for Law and Social Policy, DC Theatre Lab and SMYAL (Supporting and
Mentoring Youth Advocates and Leaders).

Ms. Brown has spent extensive time in public service.  She served in the
Administration of President Obama, first as Assistant to the President
and Staff Secretary in the White House, and then as Acting Chief
Performance Officer at the Office of Management and Budget.  She had
previously served as Co-Director of Agency Review for the Obama-Biden
Transition Project. During the Administration of President Clinton, Ms.
Brown began as a career lawyer in the Office of Legal Counsel at the
Department of Justice and then became Counsel to Vice President Gore,
where she also served as a member of the Executive Board of the
President’s Committee for Employment of People with Disabilities. 
Between the two administrations, Ms. Brown was Executive Director of the
American Constitution Society for Law and Policy.  Before entering the
government, Ms. Brown was a partner at the Washington law firm of Shea &
Gardner.  Ms. Brown clerked for the Honorable John C. Godbold on the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit in Montgomery, Alabama.

Ms. Brown graduated magna cum laude from Princeton University with a
degree in political economy, and earned her law degree from the
University of Chicago Law School where she graduated with Honors and
served as Editor-in-Chief of the University of Chicago Legal Forum.  

Ms. Brown lives in Bethesda, Maryland with her husband, Dr. Kevin
Cullen, and their son Philip.

**<u>Matt Olsen, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General, National
Security Division, Department of Justice</u>**

Matt Olsen served for over two decades as a government official on
national and homeland security, law enforcement, and intelligence
matters. Olsen served for three years as the Director of the National
Counterterrorism Center under President Obama. Prior to leading NCTC,
Olsen was the General Counsel for the National Security Agency. Olsen
worked at the Department of Justice in a number of leadership positions.
He served as an Associate Deputy Attorney General for national security
and was Special Counselor to the Attorney General, overseeing the
interagency review of Guantanamo detainees. Olsen helped establish the
National Security Division and served as the first career Deputy
Assistant Attorney General for National Security, managing intelligence
activities for the Division. For over a decade, Olsen was a federal
prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia.
He also served as Special Counsel to the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation. Olsen began his public service career as a career
trial attorney in the Civil Rights Division of the Department of
Justice.

Olsen currently is the Chief Trust and Security Officer at Uber. After
leaving government service, Olsen joined with the former director of NSA
to found and lead IronNet Cybersecurity, Inc. Olsen has taught national
security law at Harvard Law School and the University of Virginia.  He
is an adjunct senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security
and the Center for American Progress, and is a member of the board of
Human Rights First. Olsen graduated from Harvard Law School and the
University of Virginia.

**<u>Elizabeth Rosenberg, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Terrorism
Financing, Department of the Treasury</u>**

Elizabeth Rosenberg currently serves as Counselor to the Deputy
Secretary of the Treasury. In this role she advises senior Treasury
officials on national security matters. Prior to taking on this role she
served on the Biden-Harris Transition Team. Rosenberg was a Senior
Fellow and Director of the Energy, Economics, and Security Program at
the Center for a New American Security. In this capacity, she published
and spoke on the national security and foreign policy implications of
the use of sanctions and economic statecraft as well as energy market
shifts. From May 2009 through September 2013, Ms. Rosenberg served as a
Senior Advisor at the U.S. Department of the Treasury, to the Assistant
Secretary for Terrorist Financing and Financial Crimes, and then to the
Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence. In these
senior roles she helped to develop and implement sanctions, anti-money
laundering and counter-terrorist and counter-proliferation financing
policy, and oversee financial regulatory enforcement activities.
Previously, Rosenberg was an energy policy correspondent at Argus Media
in Washington D.C., analyzing U.S. and Middle Eastern energy policy,
regulation, and trading.

A native of Middlebury, Vermont, Rosenberg holds a master’s degree from
New York University and a bachelor’s degree from Oberlin College.

**<u>Gwynne Wilcox, Nominee for Member of the National Labor Relations
Board</u>**

Gwynne A. Wilcox is a senior partner at Levy Ratner, P.C., a New York
City union-side labor and employment law firm.  Prior to joining Levy
Ratner, Wilcox worked as a Field Attorney at Region 2 of the National
Labor Relations Board in New York City.  Wilcox’s practice is devoted to
representing unions before the NLRB and other administrative agencies,
in arbitrations and contract negotiations, and advising unions regarding
internal matters.  Gwynne currently serves as Associate General Counsel
of 1199SEIU United Healthcare Workers East and also serves as a labor
representative to the NYC Office of Collective Bargaining, deciding
cases involving NYC agencies and unions representing City employees. 

 Wilcox is a Fellow of the College of Labor and Employment Lawyers and a
member of the Labor and Employment Law sections of both the American Bar
Association and NY State Bar Association, serving in leadership roles
that have, most recently, focused on Diversity initiatives. Wilcox
serves on Boards of several organizations, including the Scheinman
Institute on Conflict Resolution of Cornell University’s ILR School and
the Peggy Browning Fund.  She is a recipient of numerous awards,
including, Syracuse University’s Chancellor’s Citation for Distinguished
Achievement “in honor of an exceptional career in law and dedication to
advancing diversity,” and the Peggy Browning Fund’s Lifetime Achievement
Award. Wilcox has a J.D. from Rutgers University School of Law-Newark
and a B.A. from Syracuse University.  

**<u>Arun Venkataraman, Nominee for Director General of the United
States and Foreign Commercial Service and Assistant Secretary for Global
Markets, Department of Commerce</u>**

Arun Venkataraman has over 20 years of experience advising companies,
international organizations and the U.S. government on international
trade issues. He is currently Counselor to the Secretary of Commerce,
advising the Department on trade and other international economic
matters. Before joining the Biden-Harris Administration, Arun was a
Senior Director at Visa, leading global government engagement strategy
on a range of international policy issues including digital economy,
trade, tax and sanctions. He previously served as Trade & Investment
Policy Advisor at Steptoe & Johnson LLP, where he counseled
multinational firms and other organizations on e-commerce, intellectual
property rights, and U.S. and foreign trade policies.

As the first ever Director of Policy at the Department of Commerce’s
International Trade Administration under President Obama, Venkataraman
helped shape the US government’s responses to critical challenges faced
by firms in the US and in markets around the world, including China and
India. While at the Office of the US Trade Representative (USTR), he led
the development and implementation of US-India trade policy as the
Director for India, for which he received the agency’s Kelly Award for
outstanding performance and extraordinary leadership. Arun also served
as Associate General Counsel, representing the United States in
litigation before the World Trade Organization and in negotiations on
international trade agreements. Before joining USTR, Venkataraman was a
Legal Officer at the World Trade Organization, advising the organization
on a wide range of issues raised in appeals of trade disputes between
countries. He began his career as a Law Clerk for Judge Jane A. Restani
at the U.S. Court of International Trade. Venkataraman holds a J.D. from
Columbia Law School, a Master of Arts in Law and Diplomacy from the
Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, and a B.A. from Tufts University.
