---
date: '2024-09-23'
modified_time: 2024-09-23 16:45:13-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-23 16:45:12-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/23/white-house-press-call-by-senior-adviser-to-the-president-and-director-of-communications-ben-labolt-national-climate-adviser-ali-zaidi-and-senior-adviser-to-the-president-for-international-climate-p/
tags: press-briefings
title: "White\_House Press Call by Senior Adviser to the President and Director of\
  \ Communications Ben LaBolt, National Climate Adviser Ali Zaidi, and Senior Adviser\
  \ to the President for International Climate Policy John Podesta Previewing Climate\
  \ Week\_Speech"
---
 
Via Teleconference

9:47 A.M. EDT

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Hi.  Good morning, everyone, and thank you for
joining today’s press call to preview President Biden’s speech at the
Bloomberg Global Business Forum tomorrow and on the pre- — and on the
Biden-Harris administration’s historic efforts to combat climate change.

As a reminder, this call will be on the record and embargoed until today
at 1:00 p.m. Eastern.

The call will begin with on-the-record remarks from Senior Adviser to
the President and White House Director of Communications Ben LaBolt,
White House National Climate Adviser Ali Zaidi, and Senior Adviser to
the President for International Climate Policy John Podesta.

Afterwards, we will have an — a question-and-answer period.

With that, I will turn it over to Ben.

MR. LABOLT:  Thanks, Angelo, and good morning, everybody.

President Biden is fresh off his Quad Summit, where he showcased his
continued leadership on the world stage by bringing our allies together
to cooperate on — on major cross-border issues.  He just delivered a
major speech last Thursday on the economic progress we’ve seen under —
under this administration.  And later today, he’s heading to New York to
the U.N. General Assembly.

He’s got a busy schedule in New York, and you’ll see him lay out his
vision for continued U.S. leadership on the world stage, including
renewed cooperation to address shared global challenges such as
confronting the climate crisis.

And as the president continues to sprint to the finish line, tomorrow,
as part of Climate Week, he’ll deliver remarks highlighting his and Vice
President Harris’ leadership to tackle the climate crisis.

His speech tomorrow at the Bloomberg Global Business Forum will showcase
just how transformational this administration has been in helping to
meet all of our climate, conservation, and clean energy goals — from
reducing emissions and moving in the long term to a net-zero economy, to
mobilizing private-sector investments in domestic manufacturing, to
protecting our lands and waters, and so much more.

And of course, through each of those important goals, also making
significant in pro- — progress along the way to lower families’ energy
costs; create good-paying union job; and ultimately leave for our
children and grandchildren a stronger, healthier planet.

Ali and John will share a bit more about the president’s domestic and
international climate legacy in just a moment, but I want to take a
moment to highlight how important the stakes are and why the president’s
efforts have been essential in making sure we stay on track for our
climate goals.

If, as the science demands, we are going to meet the president’s goal of
achieving net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by no later than 2050 and of
limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, then we’ve got to keep
the pedal to the metal on our climate efforts.  We cannot afford to
delay or to go back. 

We’re seeing the impacts the climate crisis is having on our communities
every day.  Yet as cities are flooding or on fire or under extreme heat
watches or trapped in a cloud of smog, many congressional Republicans
continue to deny the very existence of climate change.

And it’s not just talk.  Congressional Republicans are taking action
right now that would roll back investments in climate, clean energy, and
public health.

In this session alone, congressional Republicans’ efforts to gut climate
protections are being pushed through a variety of avenues, including
appropriations bills, Congressional Review Act resolutions, and other
legislative actions, which would have a devastating impact on families,
the economy, and the environment. 

From undermining clean vehicle tax credits to attacking cost-saving
efficiency standards, they continue to side with special interests to
keep consumer energy prices high.

During this session, congressional Republicans have advanced legislation
to repeal new programs from President Biden’s Investing in America
agenda that are helping families save hundreds of dollars each year on
energy costs, including attacking new rebate programs for
energy-efficient home upgrades and programs that support residential
solar projects in low-income communities.

After the president’s historic work to enhance public health protections
and strengthen pollution standards, congressional Republicans are
working to weaken those protections, which would harm their
constituents’ lives and livelihoods.

They’ve introduced resolutions that would roll back the administration’s
rules that protect communities from coal plants’ water pollution, air
pollution, and waste disposal.  They’re working to overturn lifesaving
rules under the Clean Air Act that reduce pollution from power plants,
cars, trucks, and indus- — and industrial sources.  And they’re failing
to protect the health of mine workers, including by trying to block new
rules that protect coal and other miners from toxic exposures.

With more than 42 million acres already conserved, President Biden is on
track to conserve more lands and waters than any modern president has in
four years.  But congressional Republicans are attempting to roll back
protections for our nation’s outdoor treasures and open up our lands and
waters to increased irresponsible development.

They’re trying to eliminate presidential authority to establish national
monuments altogether.  They’re also trying to dismantle President
Biden’s America the Beautiful initiative, which is supporting locally
led conservation efforts across the country, and to overturn the
administration’s Public Lands Rule that will help conserve wildlife
habitat, restore places impacted by wildfire and drought, expand outdoor
recreation, and guide thoughtful and balanced development.

They’re supporting legislation and other appropriations vehicles that
would undo protections for 13 million acres of special areas in the
Western Arctic and dismantle efforts to protect the U.S. Arctic Ocean
and Arctic National Wildlife Refuge from new oil and gas leasing.

The Biden-Harris administration successfully finalized the first updates
in decades to hold oil and gas companies accountable and ensure they
provide fair returns to taxpayers, but congressional Republicans are
seeking to overturn these overdue reforms.

And just to put a finer point on it: Since President Biden signed the
Inflation Reduction Act, congressional Republicans have voted more than
50 times to repeal all or parts of the largest and most impactful
climate legislation in history.

Yet even though most Republicans are in lock- — lockstep in this
approach, some are starting to change their tune.  Last month, 18 House
Republicans sent a letter to Speaker Johnson asking him not to repeal
the Inflation Reduction Act.

Perhaps it’s because President’s Biden’s policies are leading to more
than 330,000 new clean energy jobs already created, more than half of
which are in Republican-held districts.

It also might be because they’re starting to realize that jacking up
families’ energy prices, weakening pollution protections, and slowing
our clean energy transition are unpopular back home.

Whatever the reason, it’s obvious that the contrast between President
Biden and Kamala Harris’ policies with those of congressional
Republicans couldn’t be clearer.

This coming Climate Week and for every week thereafter, this president
and his team will continue to work on behalf of the American people to
protect our planet, lower energy costs, create good-paying jobs, and do
what’s needed to ensure that our grandchildren can experience a planet
with clean air and drinkable water.

And with that, I’ll turn it over to the president’s national climate
adviser, Ali Zaidi.

MR. ZAIDI:  Thanks so much to everybody for joining.

We are five years into what the UNFCCC declared as the “decisive decade
for climate action.”  Tomorrow, President Biden will deliver the
decisive decade halftime report.  And what he will show is how the
United States has changed the playbook fundamentally — not focused on
the doom and gloom, focused instead on the massive economic opportunity,
a chance to build U.S. manufacturing and infrastructure, and a chance to
build the American middle class.

The president will talk about what we’re seeing on the scoreboard. 
Since the start of the administration, 100 gigawatts of clean energy
built in the United States — 25 million homes’ worth of power.  You see
off our coast an offshore industry, where before there was none. 

In rural America, the largest investment in clean energy electrification
since FDR — one in five rural Americans seeing the benefits of that
clean energy. 

A nuclear industry revitalized — plants that were slated to be shut down
put back into use; plants retired coming back to meet surging demand.

In transportation, electric vehicles now quadrupled in sales, chargers
doubled on our roads and highways, the postal service going fully
electric, and all of that being made in America — batteries being made
in America; anodes, cathodes, the very critical minerals necessary for
tackling climate change being sourced here in the United States of
America.

And, of course, we’re seeing this translate into benefits for
consumers.  The standards the president has finalized or more efficient
appliances saving a trillion dollars for consumers over the next several
decades.

And just last year, millions of Americans taking advantage of the
Biden-Harris clean energy tax credits to retrofit their homes, put in
upgrades that will save them money, lower utility bills and costs. 

He’s done all of this while protecting the environment.  As Ben noted,
42 million acres conserved by tackling the <s>scrooge</s> \[scourge\] of
environmental injustice, meeting pollution where it is in fence-line
communities, and delivering solutions that take effect right away.

He’s made sure that we are leaning into the manufacturing opportunity in
all of this.  He’s going to talk about how we invented a lot of these
technologies, but over the last several years, we’ve now started to
actually make these technologies — $900 billion in manufacturing.

So, you see because of these historic efforts under President Biden,
Vice President Harris, capital coming off the sidelines, jobs coming
back, and America leading on climate.  And, you know, core to that —
core to that is the president delivering on his fundamental conviction.

When he was running for office, the president often said, “When I see
climate, I see jobs.”  Since the beginning of his administration, he’s
made that a focal point in climate.  It’s what’s helped us put all these
points on the board.  Even today, governors will come together to
announce a goal to train another million folks into registered
apprenticeships that deliver on the climate workforce that we need to
build this clean energy future.

Tomorrow is an opportunity to deliver that decisive decade halftime
report to show the progress we’ve made, the points we put on the board,
and the path ahead.  And President Biden will do that eloquently and in
a way, I think, that will hopefully activate and animate accelerated
action not just here but around the world.

And for that, let me hand it over to my partner in all of this, the
president’s international climate adviser, John Podesta.

MR. PODESTA:  Thanks, Ali.  And — and thanks to everyone for joining at
the beginning of this action-packed Climate Week.  And if you’re
actually in New York, the traffic-packed Climate Week.

Over the past four years, President Biden and Vice President Harris have
pursued the most ambitious and successful climate agenda in history,
both domestically and internationally.

We know that the climate crisis is a global problem and that no one
country alone can solve it but that U.S. leadership on this issue is
critical for bringing the world together.

That’s why President Biden rejoined the Paris Agreement on day — day
one.  It’s why he set a bold goal to cut U.S. emissions by 50 to 52
percent below 2005 levels by 2030 and backed that goal up with action
through the Inflation Reduction Act, the largest investment in climate
and clean energy in the world, as Ali just went through.  And it’s why
he convened three leaders summits on climate, ratified the Kigali
Amendment to the Mo- — Montreal Protocol to phase down super-polluting
hydrofluorocarbons.

Over the past four years, this resurgence of U.S. leadership on global
climate action has yielded real results.

We’ve raised ambition from countries and companies around the world
through the Global Methane Pledge to reduce global methane emissions 30
percent by 2030, with now 158 countries and the EU signing on.

At COP28 in Dubai in December 2023, the United States successfully
galvanized the world to commit, for the first time, to transition away
from unabated fossil fuels; to stop building new unabated coal capacity
globally; to triple renewable energy globally by 2030, to double the
level of efficiency by 2030, and to triple nuclear energy by 2050.

We’ve remained focused on climate finance, which is the biggest topic of
discussion at this year’s COP29 in Azerbaijan.

President Biden pledged to work with Congress to quadruple U.S.
international public climate finance to over $11 billion per year by
2024.  And we’re on track to deliver on that commitment.  That includes
over $3 billion per year for adaptation under the president’s Emergency
Plan for Adaptation and Resilience, or the so-called PREPARE program,
which will help a half a billion people worldwide adapt to and manage
climate impacts, including sea level rise, storms, droughts, and food
insecurity. 

The next few months are crucial for our international climate agenda —
from COP16 on biodiversity in Cali to the G20 in Rio to COP29 in Baku,
and, of course, this week in New York.

This week and throughout this fall, we’ll continue to work with our
allies and partners around the world to raise ambitions; unlock
additional climate finance from the private sector, multilateral
development banks, and public sources; accelerate the deployment of
clean energy by driving innovation and lowering costs; reversing and
finally ending deforestation; and help more vulnerable countries and
communities adapt to a changing climate.

Here’s the bottom line: Thanks to President Biden and Vice President
Harris, we’re on the right path here in the U.S. and around the world. 
We have to accelerate our progress toward our collective climate goals,
and I think the president will be calling on other leaders of the world,
as he did over the weekend in the new announcements on clean cooling and
the clean energy industrial fellowship we entered into with India, to
get that job done.

Thank you.  And I’ll turn it back over to Angelo.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thanks, John.  And we will move to the
question-and-answer portion.  Please use the “raise hand” function on
Zoom, and we will call on you.  As you are called on, please identify
yourself and your outlet.

Okay, we will begin with Lisa.  You should be unmuted now.

Q    Hi, everyone.  Thank you so much for doing this this morning.

John, you mentioned that the president will be calling on — on other
leaders.  You know, this is a very international audience this week. 
Already, countries have seen the United States leave and join and leave
and join global efforts to fight climate change.  What will the
president’s message be to world leaders who are worried about what a
Trump administration would bring on climate and maybe don’t know whether
the U.S. can be trusted to be a long-term partner?

I guess, related, do you expect President Biden to — to speak directly
about former President Trump?

MR. PODESTA:  Lisa, you know, in my current role, I can’t talk about
politics.  (Laughs.)  But I think it’s clear that the track record from
the previous administration vers- — which pulled out of Paris, abandoned
the — the partnership that we had around the globe, reversed a number of
actions that President Obama had taken on climate change versus the
record that we just laid out is clearly of concern and interest to
people around the world.

All I can tell you is the president has demonstrated that you can
produce strong economic growth, create good-paying jobs, reach all areas
of the country in this — in this task of decarbonizing our economy. 

And that’s the message I think he’s sending to global re- — leaders:
This is doable.  We can invest in the — these new technologies.  We can
put people to work doing the work that needs to be done, and it’s going
to be good for your publics.

So, I think that in — in his speech to — to UNGA, he will, I think,
reflect on that record, and I’m sure the — the alternatives will be
implicit.

MR. ZAIDI:  Look, what I’d add to that — this is Ali — is you’ve seen
the politics of climate inaction deteriorate in Congress.  House
Republicans have put up nearly 50 votes to roll back President Biden and
Vice President Harris’ historic climate efforts.  They failed.  They
failed even within their own caucus: Now a dozen and a half members
calling on their own leadership to wrap up these efforts, to go in a
U-turn direction, because they see the economic case for climate action.

Part of the reason the president has been successful — and as he speaks
to this tomorrow, he will point out — is this new formula on climate
action, which is focused on driving investment in U.S. manufacturing and
U.S. infrastructure, and that has resulted in unprecedented and
successful job creation all across the country in blue districts and in
red.

So, the politics of inaction are deteriorating.  The case for a U-turn
is weak and fragile and falling apart.  But the haste to go bold and
accelerate climate action, we’re seeing the results from that; that’s
strengthening.

And, you know, Lisa, you mentioned, there are a lot of leaders from
around the world here in New York.  There are also a lot of leaders from
industry and big investors here in New York, and they’re paying
attention to one thing and one thing only, and that is: In the United
States, the case for investing in clean energy has never been stronger. 
The economics for climate action are irresistible here in the United
States.  And that’s going to cascade around the world as we accelerate
progress in this decisive decade.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thanks, Ali.  We will go to Kemi next.  You
should be unmuted now.

Q    Hello.  Can you guys hear me?  Hello?

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Yes.

Q    Okay.  Thank you.  Sorry.  En route to New York. 

I wanted to ask if you can talk about the multilateral (inaudible)
boosting climate financing for developing countries as well as how the
U.S., the administration will work with China, the number one polluters
in the world.  As — and your initiative also working with African
nations. 

Thank you.

MR. PODESTA:  Well, thanks — thanks for the question.  I — at the
bilateral level, I laid out a — at the front end of my remarks, the
president’s commitment to increasing climate finance across the board
and reach communities across the globe. 

We’ve succeeded in — in meeting the targets that the president did at —
in his UNGA speech in 2021.  I want to underscore that.  That’s where he
said we will quadruple our climate finance from the historically high
level that President Obama produced.  It was actually substantially more
than that if you compare it to the last years under President Trump. 
And we’re on track to do that.

Where I’m engaged in events here to try to track additional
private-sector investment into the adaptation space, noting — I noted
the PREPARE program that the president has put forward, which is going
to provide a — help and service to half a billion people across the
globe. 

We’re engaged, I think, with the — the i- — the discussion right now to
increase the national cumulative qualified goal that’s, as I noted, part
of what’s most important on the agenda in Baku.  Those conversations are
continuing, but we’ve seen a substantial increase in climate finance
coming through the multilateral development banks and other sources. 

It’s going to take the effort of all of us to go from the billions of
dollars of — hundreds of billions of dollars of public support that
we’ve seen to, really, the trillion dollars of need that are necessary
to build sustainable energy systems across the globe. 

And so, I think, again, in his conversations with — with global leaders,
he hosted President Ruto of Kenya earlier this year, created a
commitment to a bilateral partnership with the government of Kenya to
build out supply chains there.  We’re working with India and Tanzania to
do the same thing across new supply chains in Africa. 

So, I think the president is r- — is quite focused on this and will get
a chance to speak to it both in the meetings that he’s holding on the
side as well as in his main UNGA speech.

Q    Okay.  If I can just quickly follow up on that.  A lot of these
developing countries are looking into carbon market.  What is your
response?  What is your view regarding that? 

MR. PODESTA:  You know, earlier this summer, we issued a joint statement
from the U.S. government on our views on the fact that those
high-integrity carbon markets are a potentially strong source of finance
for countries both to decarbonize the power sector.  Secretary Kerry did
a tremendous work on creating a new instrument, if you will, in that
space as well as in — in agriculture and forestry. 

But as we noted in that statement, there’s — there needs to be high
integrity both on behalf of the sellers of carbon credits as well as on
behalf of buyers in order to make these — these markets work and — and
see those — that ability for carbon finance to flow through that
channel.  Without that, I think the market and — and I think we saw this
in the last couple of years — it begins to lose faith that those — that
the emissions reductions are real.  In which case, I think people back
off from making the commitments. 

So, I think it’s really critical to make sure that these markets are —
have strong integrity, and we laid out the principles to make that
happen. 

MR. ZAIDI:  I just want to add a little bit on how domestic action is, I
think, enabling more ambition around the world.

First, there has been analysis, including from the Boston Consulting
Group, on the impacts of the Inflation Reduction Act in terms of
technology cost reduction that actually improve the odds of scale-up
around the world — everything from battery technology to clean hydrogen
production through electrolyzers. 

That technology is being de-risked as a result of the generational
investment that President Biden has marshaled to take on the climate
crisis here in the United States. 

That’s going to have very significant implications around the world. 
One modeling projection done by the Rhodium Group shows that for every
ton reduced here, we will see two or three reduced around the world,
again, as the result of that technology de-risking. 

The second is the platform de-risking.  John talked about the voluntary
carbon markets and the principles we laid out earlier this summer to
help high-integrity scale-up of that platform. 

The investment the United States is making, for example, through the
Department of Agriculture in measurement, monitoring, and verification
regimes, or through the EPA and the Department of Energy in the
utilization of satellite data to track methane leaks from industrial
sources — those investments in satellite, in harnessing machine learning
and artificial intelligence to take on climate change — those platform
investments will de-risk those platforms for the rest of the world and I
think help bring additional resources to the Global South. 

And then there’s the role of the capital markets more broadly.  In the
United States, we are building muscle memory around new asset classes,
and that’s going to accrue benefits to capital formation and project
development all around the world. 

So, look, there is the — there is the effort, I think, underway by G20
countries.  The\*28:59 — when the president was out at the last G20, he
said, “I passed an Inflation Reduction Act.  You should copycat that.” 
So, there are a lot of countries that are downloading the U.S. playlist
on how to jam out on climate. 

But there’s a second piece of it, which is the actions we’re taking here
in the United States are de-risking technologies, they’re de-risking
platforms, and they’re building the muscle memory to accelerate capital
formation project development around the world. 

Obviously, that all complements the very important development finance
and multilateral work — work John talked about, but I do think this work
domestically is going to echo around the world.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thanks, Ali. 

And our final question will come from Robin.  You should be unmuted now.

Q    Hi.  Can you hear me?

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Yes. 

Q    Thanks so much for taking my call.  I wondered if you could tell us
— I know the president told his Cabinet to “sprint to the finish.”  I
wonder if you can tell us what that’s going to mean on climate, if
there’s anything else we can expect — big announcements on climate
before the end of the term, and also how he’s thinking about climate
when he’s approaching his legacy?

MR. ZAIDI:  Robin, I think the president is thinking about climate the
same way he has been from day one.  When he thinks climate, he thinks
jobs.  And I know that sounds simple, but I think that’s been the driver
of the political economy and the investment case around the country, and
that continues to be the case. 

You know, you’ll — you’ll see from the administration what you’ve seen
from day one: a concerted focus on a sector-by-sector basis, each part
of the economy.

In terms of developing new standards and rules that provide certainty to
business and improve the investment climate around clean energy
technologies, you will continue to see robust implementation from our
agencies on the infrastructure law and the Inflation Reduction Act.  On
the broader investment agenda, making sure that those investments are
turning in to impacts on the ground.

And you’ll see us do the important work of blocking and tackling to make
sure our projects are getting built.  Permitting, citing execution has
been a focal point for the Biden-Harris administration from day one. 

You know, this Cabinet meeting, the president talked about sprinting
through the finish line, making sure that we’re building an irreversible
momentum behind climate action.  But I remember the last Cabinet meeting
when he reminded the Cabinet that these laws, these standards, these
investments were only as good as the impact they were making on the
ground.  So, he continues to be relentlessly focused on implementation,
on execution, on getting things built. 

And that goes to the point I made at the top.  This is no longer a
theoretical playbook.  You could see it as points on the scoreboard
today: A hundred gigawatts of clean energy built in the United States
under the Biden-Harris administration.  That’s going to be our focus. 
That’s where we continue to spend our time.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thanks, Ali. 

And that is all the time we have today.  Thank you, again, to our
speakers and to all of you for joining.

As a reminder, this call and the materials you all received over email
or will receive over email will be embargoed until 1:00 P.M. Eastern
today.

Thanks again for joining us. 

10:20 A.M. EDT
