---
date: '2024-09-20'
published_time: 2024-09-20 16:21:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/20/a-u-s-framework-for-climate-resilience-and-security/
tags: press-briefings
title: "A U.S. Framework for Climate Resilience and\_Security"
---
 
Around the world today, our people and economies are increasingly
impacted by the severe consequences of the climate crisis.  Coastal
communities and military bases are threatened by storms and flooding.
Extreme heat, now a regular phenomenon with each passing summer, costs
lives, reduces productivity, and damages critical infrastructure.  Vital
breadbaskets face historic droughts, and are no longer able to regularly
deliver on the food security needs of their regions.  Record-breaking
fires ravage forests, spill into communities, and pollute the air.

The U.S. national security community has long understood climate change
to be a “threat multiplier,” intensifying existing security threats and
vulnerabilities, and decreasing resilience.  But today, the devastating
impacts of the climate crisis increasingly are themselves the new direct
threats from which we must protect our communities.  We are witnessing
cycles of cascading climate impacts and increasing instability, at home
and across the globe.

**U.S. national security requires addressing the growing impacts of the
climate crisis.**

As described in our recent U.S. National Climate Assessment, growing
climate vulnerabilities have profound impacts for U.S. national
security, economic, and strategic interests.  As our military is
increasingly called upon to respond to disasters, we risk stretching
defense resources.  At the same time, our critical
infrastructure—including relatively new infrastructure resulting from
the increased investments in the clean-energy transition—risks being
degraded more rapidly by the changing environment.  Around the world,
changing temperature, precipitation, ecosystems, and ocean conditions
threaten supply chains, increase prices, affect the affordability and
availability of insurance, and strain public coffers, forcing all levels
of government to shift funds away from other priorities.  And alongside
these strains, we are witnessing vicious cycles of fragility, where
communities may have limited capacity to recover from one disaster to
the next.  Simply put, climate hazards are threatening the long-term
stability of our governments, our economies, and our global security.

The United States has prioritized the need to both mitigate and build
resilience to these strategic threats.  This new U.S. Framework for
Climate Resilience and Security prescribes three actions for turning
this prioritization into implementation.

1.  **Assess Climate-Related Threats and Opportunities**: Without
    assessment of the impacts of climate change on our security and
    defense, it is difficult for our leaders to adapt to a rapidly
    changing environment or to plan strong responses.  The United States
    has state-of-the-art scientific capabilities, and thanks to this
    strategic edge, we are able to predict where climate impacts will
    exacerbate threats–and act effectively in advance.  
2.  **Partner for an Integrated Approach**: Each federal department and
    agency has unique capabilities and comparative advantages in our
    response to climate hazards, but coordination is critical to
    efficiently and effectively meet the needs of our communities. 
    Similar partnerships must also extend to partners overseas at the
    national, regional, and local levels, civil society, the private
    sector, philanthropies, and international organizations, to enable
    the effective use of resources and information, and to incorporate
    and respond to the needs of those who are impacted most.  
3.  **Invest in Collective Resilience**: Increasing the resilience of
    our own investments—including those in our supply chains, physical
    installations, or the provision of emergency assistance when
    challenges arise—advances national security objectives and yields
    economic results.  As our deployment of mitigation resources
    intensifies through the clean energy transition, we must protect
    them with commensurate consideration for and investment in
    resilience that can not only protect lives, and livelihoods, but
    avoid or lessen future humanitarian and economic assistance needs.

Ultimately, these are the investments for which Americans across the
country, and our partners across the world, are asking.  These are not
just about the rising threats of the climate crisis, but ultimately they
are critical ingredients for ensuring  economic security.  Realizing
these goals will protect lives and property, prepare first responders
and defense forces, and improve livelihoods globally.

We will bring to bear the leadership of the United States to confront
these threats, and bring our cutting-edge analysis, partnership, and
investment to partners globally.  In doing so, we will be able to turn
many of these growing vulnerabilities into strategic opportunities. 
**Through these efforts, we will build a more resilient and sustainable
global security—one that asserts that projecting and withstanding
climate shocks and disruptions is better done through partnership and
investment.**

Signed,

**John Podesta**  
**Senior Advisor to the President for International Climate Policy**

**Jake Sullivan**  
**Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs**

The full U.S. Framework for Climate Resilience and Security can be found
[here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/US_Framework_for_Climate_Resilience_and_Security_FINAL.pdf).
