---
date: '2024-09-26'
modified_time: 2024-09-26 22:19:27-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-26 12:17:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/26/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-fema-administrator-deanne-criswell-4/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and FEMA Administrator\
  \ Deanne\_Criswell"
---
 
James S.  Brady Press Briefing Room

12:45 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everybody. 

Q    Hi.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon.  Sorry.  Somebody — we’ve been gone
too long.  Somebody has been messing with this stuff.

Okay.  So, the president has been briefed on Hurricane Helene, and at
his direction, administration officials are in contact with their local
and state counterparts to ensure that they have everything they need. 

This week, the president approved emergency disaster declaration request
from the governors of Florida, North Carolina, and Georgia, when
unlocked additional federal resources to — which unlock additional
federal resources to help these states respond to the storm.

And the entire Biden-Harris administration stands ready to provide
further assistance to impacted states as needed. 

We continue to urge residents, especially those who have been instructed
to evacuate, to heed the warnings of local officials. 

With that, I have — I have here to my right, the FEMA administrator,
Criswell.  Come on up. 

Deanne, thank you so much for — for being here. 

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah.  Thank you, Karine.  Good afternoon,
everybody. 

As you heard, I did just finish briefing President Biden on the impacts
that we are expecting to see from Hurricane Helene.  And as I told him,
we have been preparing for this storm for a number of days, and we began
moving resources into Florida on Monday. 

I just want everybody to know that this is going to be a multi-state
event with the potential for significant impacts from Florida all the
way to Tennessee, and the president wants to make sure that everyone is
paying attention to the potential life-threatening impacts that this
storm may bring.  And he has directed me to travel there tomorrow to
assess the impacts. 

The entire state of Florida is under some type of warning right now,
whether that’s a hurricane warning or a tropical storm warning, and we
expect life-threatening flash flooding in the state’s north as the storm
continues to move north. 

And so, I need everybody to pay attention to their local officials. 
They are going to have the best information on the specific risks where
you are at.  We’re already seeing impacts in Florida, and the forecast
indicates that we could see up to 20 feet of storm surge. 

So, just think back two years ago to Hurricane Ian.  The peak storm
surge from that was 14 feet, and we saw the amount of destruction and
150 people lost their lives, the majority of them from drowning.  So,
please take this threat from storm surge seriously. 

Residents that are in these areas, they can still take action.  They can
take action now to move out of harm’s way.  And remember that you may
only need to go 10 or 15 miles inland to get away from the threat of the
storm surge itself, because water is the number one reason that we see
people lose their lives in these storms.  So, please don’t underestimate
what the impacts could possibly be. 

So, at the president’s direction, we have over 1,100 personnel so far
across the federal government supporting the preparedness efforts for
this storm.  We also have an additional 700 personnel from FEMA that are
already in these states supporting other disasters that we can quickly
pivot to support any of the response needs as needed. 

Some of the resources that we have already deployed include eight search
and rescue teams across Florida and Georgia, as well as resources from
the Coast Guard, the Department of Defense to immediately support any
lifesaving operations as needed. 

Now, the Army Corps of Engineer has power restoration teams and debris
specialists who are going to be able to help restore power and support
debris removal operations as soon as it is safe to do so. 

We have health and medical task forces from Health and Human Services to
evaluate the impacts to medical facilities. 

We have food, water, generators, and tarps that are deployed to staging
locations across the region, and so they are easily accessible and
movable post-storm. 

And the Red Cross is actively standing up shelters in areas that are
expected to see and feel the impacts from Helene. 

My regional administrator is currently embedded in the Florida Emergency
Operations Center, as well as Incident Management Assistance Teams in
Florida, Georgia, and Alabama, and we have one currently moving to North
Carolina today so we can ensure seamless communications between the
federal government and the needs of the states.

I’m very grateful, as you heard, President Biden quickly approved
prelandfall declarations for Florida, Georgia, and North Carolina, and
this allows us to immediately provide any of that lifesaving support in
the coming days. 

And I’m grateful for the rest of the federal family that is there on the
ground, working with us side by side, as we pr- — prepare to support the
American people for what is to come over the next several days.

I just want everybody to know that the Biden-Harris administration — we
are ready for this event.  We have aggressively predeployed resources. 
We are postured for whatever response might be needed. 

And so, let me just say one more time before I take any questions: Take
this storm seriously.  People in Hurricane Helene’s path, you need to
listen to your local officials.  If they tell you to evacuate, please do
so.  And if they tell you to shelter in place, then that’s what you
should do.  They’re going to give you the best information that you can
do for your specific situation.  Those decisions can save lives.

And with that, Karine, I’ll take questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Deanne.  So, this is likely to be the 21st
billion-dollar weather or climate disaster this year.  So, does FEMA
have the resources to keep on responding to disaster after disaster like
this?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  So, we have absolutely enough resources to
continue to support the lifesaving response that we need to for this
event.  I think everybody is aware that we went into Immediate Needs
Funding as our Disaster Relief Fund, the — the funding was running low. 
But the reason we do that is to make sure we have enough money for an
event just like this.

And so, I want everybody to know that we have exactly what we need, and
there are no limitations to our ability to support the response for this
disaster.

As we continue to go through the recovery, though, for all of these
disasters, that also takes personnel, and we’re going to continue to
work through with our states about what they need and how we can best
adjudicate those resources.  But we are seeing an increase, and we’re
seeing a strain on our staff, with more of them deployed for longer
periods of time, helping to support these communities recover.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Trevor.

Q    And just also related to the — the money here.  Some pretty
substantial losses projected in terms of the crop insurance, in terms of
the flood insurance.  Is there — and there’s no new money in the CR as
far as this is concerned.  Is there any expectation that you’re going to
have to go back with a supplemental —

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  So, we —

Q    — request?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah.  So, we did put a supplemental request in
with the CR.  It does not give us a supplemental at this time, but it
gives us the ability to spend the money that was put forth in the
president’s budget.  But we’re already, through INF, $9 billion — close
to $9 billion in projects that we have put on hold that we can’t
reimburse communities for.

Once we lift INF and once the CR goes into effect, we’ll be able to pay
those, but without a supplemental, we’ll — we will be back in INF
probably in the January time frame.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Weijia.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you talk more about how widespread you think
prolonged power outages will be and what those power restoration teams
are doing to prepare?  Is there anything they can do proactively, you
know, before the storm?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  So, Florida has a really robust plan, and they
have really aggressive targets to try to get the majority of people — I
forget what the exact percentage is; I think it was 85 or 90 percent
within 48 hours — back up.  And they have several thousand resources
that have been prepositioned to come in and support Florida Power &
Light or the other utilities to help them get the power back on.

We expect widespread power outages from this.  When we think about
Tallahassee, it’s got a lot of tree canopy, so those trees are going to
come down and impact those power lines, and the debris and the ability
to detangle the debris from the power lines is what could take a long
time.

The power restoration teams, they do a couple of things from the Army
Corps.  One, they can help us put generators in on critical facilities
to help make sure that those facilities have power, but they can also
make assessments on how to prioritize some of the work so we know where
we need to put our efforts to help the — the private-sector pr- —
utility companies get the power restored as quickly as possible.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Colleen.

Q    Could you talk a little bit about how the response has changed
based on the severity of the storms?  I think we’re seeing an increasing
— storms with increasing severity.  So, how does that change the
response for you?  I mean, I know it’s more manpower, but what — what
else?  How else does it change?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  I think the biggest thing is that we want to
get things in place early.  This is why we’ve been moving resources into
the area since Monday and having — we know there’s a large population
that’s really vulnerable in Florida, and so that’s why we have so many
search and rescue teams that are able to come in and augment the really
im- — impressive amount of teams that Florida already has within the
state, right?  So, this is on top of what they already have. 

And so, for us, it’s making sure that we are sending more than we think
that we’ll need.  And if I don’t need them, I can send them home.  What
I don’t want to do is be short.  I want to make sure that I have enough
that can support whatever the states might request.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, M.J.

Q    You said that you are headed down there tomorrow.  Did you discuss
with the president whether it might be possible for him to make the trip
down in the coming days? 

And secondly, is there a single piece of advice or warning that you
wish, in these kinds of situations, people would heed more seriously
that you might want to emphasize in this setting?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah.  So, the purpose of my visit is to assess
the impacts, and I’ll be briefing him on what those impacts are.  I’ll
leave it to Karine to talk with him about what, you know, actions he
might take. 

But I think the — the message is: Take this seriously.  I mean, we look
at the cone, and the cone is the wind, but the water is what kills
people.  And so, we need to really look at where this storm surge is
going to be in Florida. 

But Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, and those Appalachians,
they’re going to have up to 20 inches of rain in an area that can have
significant flash flooding.  And that is really life-threatening, and it
comes so much faster than what we see from a storm surge, right? 
They’re going to have less warning once the rain starts there, so they
need to know what they’re going to do now, put those plans — plans in
place today for where they’re going to go, how they’re going to contact
their family and their friends, what they’re going to need to take with
them — like medicine or power devices for medical reasons. 

Ha- — it’s not too late.  They should be able to put those plans
together today so they can take the actions that their local officials
tell them to do.

Q    Thanks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you.  You keep talking about the need to follow evacuation
orders if local officials give them.  We know from past storms that
people don’t always heed that not because they don’t want to but because
they can’t afford to leave the area, don’t have anywhere to go, don’t
have family members to help them.  Is FEMA doing anything to work on
that particular issue, given what you’re talking about with water and
the danger that can come from that if people stay in place?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah.  So, part of the prelandfall emergency
declaration is specifically to reimburse states and local jurisdictions
for any of the costs that they incur to do sheltering and evacuation
because we want them to have the resources to put in place whatever
measures that they need. 

I think the important thing on the evacuation to remember is, if you’re
told to evacuate, especially from the storm surge area, it doesn’t mean
you have to go to a whole other state.  And I think we — we often think
of those pictures of contraflow lines and — and backed-up traffic, but
you really sometimes only need to go a few miles to get out of harm’s
way. 

And so, the local officials should be able to tell you where there’s
local evacuation centers that you can go to until the threat of the
storm has passed.  And then when we get to the point where if they are
displaced, then we have the long-term sheltering concerns that we’ll
have to work with.  But the initial sheltering concern is just getting
out of this storm’s path for right now, then we can work on what those
long-term needs are. 

And that’s why the prelandfall declaration is so incredibly important —
that the president approved — is to make sure that those states have the
resources to stand up those shelters and to help people get to safety. 

Q    And do you feel that the state is ready to stand up those
shelters?  I mean, you’re talking about how you’re going to reimburse
them, but is Florida ready to do that?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Florida has stood up many shelters, and the
American Red Cross is also there supporting that.  I just need people to
evacuate and go to them. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  We’re going to wrap it up. 

Go ahead, Jon.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  What resources are available, not only to families
but also to small business, in the aftermath of this storm making
landfall — resources coming not only from FEMA but also from the SBA?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah.  There’s a number of programs that are
available.  For FEMA, we specifically made some changes into our
disaster declaration — the Stafford Act — recently, which allows people
that work from home to actually get compensated for some of their
business losses if they work from home, like if they had a computer or
other equipment that they needed to do their personal — if they’re a
photographer and they lost their cameras.  So, we just made that change
recently, in March, to be able to compensate small-business owners that
work from home. 

SBA can speak specifically about their programs, but they’ve also made
some really amazing changes this year, which increases the dollar amount
that people can borrow from the SBA.  It extends the time where they’re
going to delay the interest until they have to pay it — or to start to
repay that loan.  And it’s a tremendous resource to really help small
businesses get back on their feet. 

Q    And how do you decide where to position yourself tomorrow with the
storm making landfall?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  So, we’re looking at where we think the biggest
impact is going to be, and right now, it looks like it’s a dead-on hit
to Tallahassee.  And so, we’ll fly as close to Tallahassee as we can
get, and then I’ll meet up with the governor and his team so I can see
what the impacts are, hear what the — the team is thinking.  And then we
will assess, right? 

I’ve got staff on the ground that will have the intel as to where the
hardest-hit areas are.  And then, typically, we like to either get an
aerial view, so I can fly over and see what some of those damages are,
or on the ground, if need be. 

But I’m also prepared to move up to Georgia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, as we start to see what those impacts are and assess that. 

And because me being on the ground helps me validate some of the damages
more quickly, so we can get major declarations in place faster. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Last question.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  At the start of this year, you wrote out reforms to cut
some of the red tape for the individual assistance program.  Now that so
many people are in the path of this storm, can you give an update on how
quickly you expect survivors to be able to tap into that, given those
changes that were put in effect more than six months ago at this point?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah.  We’ve seen some really tremendous,
positive impact from the changes that we have made.  In fact, one of the
changes we made was we decoupled the requirement to apply for an SBA
loan in order to be eligible for our programs, and it’s really saving
people several days in the process.  And we’re getting a large number of
people that wouldn’t have come back to us, which is great. 

We’re also seeing people get funding quicker, right?  We have Serious
Needs Assistance that can get them a very small amount of money to help
with some of their immediate costs but, also, the Individual and
Households Program that can help them with if they’re underinsured. 

And so, it really all depends on what their specific need is.  The money
that they will see the fastest typically is that initial $750.  Any
damages to their home, we still have to assess and see what those
damages are and then can make that determination. 

But we have teams that go right out in the field.  They can register
them in the field.  And that really helps to speed up the process. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  Thank you so much, Administrator. 

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Thank you, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Appreciate it.  Thank you. 

Q    Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, thank you.

I just wanted to add, the president asked to have the administrator come
to the podium today because of how serious we want to make sure that
people out there are taking this.  They need to take this very
seriously. 

And also, obviously, we wanted to lay out our federal response posture
so that folks know that we are there for them, and we will obviously be
there on the ground as the FEMA administrature — administrator just laid
out. 

So, please, please take this very, very seriously and listen to your
local officials.  Just want to reiterate that once more.

I have one more thing.  It’s a busy day here at the White House.  One of
the other things that we’re going to be doing: As you all know, today,
the president and the vice president are announcing new actions to redu-
— to reduce gun violence and save lives.

From the American Rescue Plan to the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act to
issuing more executive actions to reduce gun violence than any other
administration, the president and the vice president have continued to
use every tool available to protect people from epidemic — from the
epidemic of gun violence. 

Homicide rates are down 17 percent compared to the same — this — the
same time last year, and the number of mass shootings this year is 20
percent lower.  But more must be done. 

So, President Biden is going to sign an executive order to accelerate
progress on two key priorities, combating emerging — emerging firearms
threats and impr- — improving school-based active shooter drills.  

Additionally, federal departments and agency will be announcing a range
of additional actions to reduce gun violence, from promoting safe gun
storage and red flag laws to improving the background check system. 

The Biden-Harris administration will continue to do everything it can to
put an end to this senseless, senseless violence, while calling on
Congress to fulfill their duty and pass commonsense gun safety
legislation.

With that, Colleen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Democratic Mayor of New York City Eric Adams has
been charged with bribery, wire fraud, and seeking campaign funds from a
foreign government.  Does the president believe he should resign? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to comment on any ongo- — on this
ongoing — particular ongoing matter.  I’m going to let the DOJ speak to
this. 

Q    Okay.  And then two other quick things.  Does the president hope
that Vice President Kamala Harris, should she be elected president —
will she continue the Office of Gun Violence Prevention?  Is he hoping —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to speak for the vice president or
get ahead of — of ourselves here. 

But what I will say is, as you know, the vice president has been a
leader on this issue — she leads the Office of — of Gun Violence — and
has taken this seriously, not just as a vice president but throughout
her career, and has been, obviously, a key partner in all of the — all
of the actions that this president has done and has taken.

So, I could assur- — I — I think it’s safe to say that she will continue
to lead on making sure that we deal with this epidemic.  Gun violence is
an epidemic.  We need to continue to protect our communities, protect
our schools. 

And so, I could assure you that she’s going to continue to stay
laser-focused on this issue.

Q    Okay.  One other quick thing.  As you know, Ukraine wants to fire
long-range weapons into Russia, and some Republicans today backed the
idea.  I wondered why the White House doesn’t share that same
assessment.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, I think we can expect that one of the
conversations that the two leaders will have would be on this topic. 
And so, you know, there will be also a broader discussion on the
significant amount of military aid we are providing Ukraine.  You saw
our announcements this morning. 

Although I’m not expecting there be any new announcements on this
particular action or a decision coming out of this meeting.  I expect
the leaders will discuss the weapons system the president announced, as
I just stated. 

And I do want to take a little bit of a step back here.  I want to
remind everyone watching the briefing how the United States, how this
president has mobilized a massive — a massive amount of military
equipment and capability to help Ukraine really fight back, push back
against Mr. Putin and his aggression.

It’s been almost three years — almost three years, and this president
has been there day one.  He has been able to bring more than 50 nations
together to support Ukraine in their fight for their democracy.  And so,
that’s what you can expect.

And the president is very proud of the impact of that support, what it’s
had, and is proud of that coalition. 

And so — and certainly, you’ll see more of that in Germany.  As we
announced, the president is going to be going to Germany. 

And so, I will leave it there and not go any further.

Go ahead, Selina.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Mayor Eric Adams suggests that he’s being targeted
by the Biden administration over his criticism of the migrant crisis. 
Now, this is the kind of accusation that’s similar to what we’ve heard
from former President Donald Trump.  So, what is the president’s
reaction to that kind of language being used from a Democrat?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we have been always very clear.  The president
was clear, even when he was running in 2020, that he was going to make
sure that DOJ is independent, and the DOJ is handling this case
independently.  I’m not going to go beyond that.

Q    And Adams was also at a reception last night with the president at
the Met.  Did they talk?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can confirm to you that the president did not see
the mayor and they did not speak.

Go ahead, M.J.

Q    You just mentioned that, obviously, you expect the two leaders
today to discuss the issue of the use of long-range missiles into
Russia.  Do you know if the president has any openness to changing his
policy stance on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — look, I said it’s going to be one of a range of
topics that they’re going to discuss.

And let’s not forget, the president and — both presidents saw each other
recently, just yesterday.  They’ve had multiple bilateral engagements. 
This is a continuation of that — a continuation of the — the support
that you have seen from the United States and, obviously, what the
president has been able to do in the past two-plus years in bringing
nations together to continue to give support to — to Ukraine.

What I said is I could expect this con- — this to come up as a topic,
but I wouldn’t expect any new announcements.  I’m just not going to go
beyond that.  You all will see the president momentarily and President
Zelenskyy in a — in — in there — in this pool spray, as you know, in the
Oval.  And so, you’ll have an opportunity to hear directly from both of
them.

I just don’t have anything beyond — there’s no announcement that I would
expect coming out of this —

Q    Okay.  And just —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — new announcement.

Q    Just separately on this Lebanon ceasefire proposal that was
released last night.  I’m sure you saw the prime minister’s office said,
“The news about a ceasefire is incorrect.”  What is the disconnect
here?  You know, we had senior U.S. officials saying last night —
suggesting really strongly that they expected the two sides to agree to
this proposal.  And here we are, however many hours later, and the prime
minister’s office is saying no.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  As you mentioned, the joint
statement last night, you saw that.  We and our allies, partners don’t
believe in an all-out war.  That’s not the answer here.  That’s not what
we want to see.

And that is something that we’ve been pretty consistent about throughout
the past several months.  Our joint statement was a clear call — it was
a call for a temporary ceasefire to open up space — open up space for
diplomacy to achieve a deal that allows civilians on both sides of the
border to return to their homes safely and securely.  And I would add
that the statement was indeed coordinated with the Israeli side. 

There are now discussions ongoing today in New York.  Our teams are
continuing to have discussions, and so you’ll probably hear more later —
later in the day.  But those discussions are ongoing.

Q    If it was coordinated with the Israeli side and the expectation
last night, as it was shared by senior U.S. officials, was that the two
sides would agree to this imminently, why are we hearing from the prime
minister’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would —

Q    — office today —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would have to refer you to the prime minister’s
office. 

I — I’m just laying out the facts and what we know and what we want to
avoid.  We do not believe an all-out war is the answer, and we’ve been
very clear about that.  The president has been very clear about that. 

I just laid out the facts and what we’re trying to do.  This is a clear
call for a temporary ceasefire.  We want to provide space.  We talk
about how di- — diplomacy is — is the way to move forward.  That’s what
the president believes. 

I laid out that — that the statement was indeed coordinated with the
Israeli side. 

I can’t speak for them.  They will have to speak for themselves. 

I — I’m just laying out what we know, how this came together, and what
we — what our end goal is — right? — is that — is what we want to see. 

Q    Do you still expect an agreement to come out imminently? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As I — as I just mentioned, we have our teams who are
in New York right now.  They’re currently having those discussions,
currently negotiating or discussing this further in New York.  And so,
I’m — I’m sure that we will have more to share later in the day. 

Go ahead, Francesca.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  The president never had a direct conversation with
the Israeli prime minister about this.  Do you expect that he’ll call
him today or that he’ll speak with him tomorrow about this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, they have spoken many, many times —
probably more than a dozen times, easily — in this past several months,
almost a year now, since October 7th.  They have decades-long
relationship, and so they know each other very well.  And when they have
discussions, they are very honest and — and frank. 

I don’t have a conversation to read out, a call to preview at this
time. 

As I stated — and I’ve said this before; we have said this before — our
teams talk pretty regularly, practically on a daily basis.  And so, that
certainly continues as we’re talking about this — this ceasefire, the
statement that you saw from the G7 plus our key Middle East partners
overnight. 

Q    So, essentially, he di- — he did not feel that he needed to talk
directly with the prime minister because his team was talking to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, their teams talk regularly, as — as they’re
doing right now in New York today.  And so, that is something that will
continue to — continue to be the case.  But they have spoken mu- —
multiple times. 

As a conversation between the prime minister and the president, I just
don’t have anything to preview at this time.

Q    And one quick question on Ukraine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    His approval today of the long-range bombs, should we take that as
a sign that he is more open to allowing Ukraine to strike deeper into —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —

Q    — Russian territory?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, our policy has not changed.  They’re going to
talk on a range of issues today. 

What we can say and what we can commit to is that we will continue to
support Ukraine as they — as they continue their fight against Mr.
Putin’s aggression into Ukraine.  And so, that is our commitment. 
That’s what the president is focused on.  I don’t have anything else to
add.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, on the — the long-range missile issue.  Is — does the White
House have a reaction to Putin’s comments that that would invite a
nuclear response on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s what —

Q    — on the United States?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we have — we say this all the time: Mr. Putin
can end this war today.  He can.  He started this war.  He started this
war.  Not the Ukrainians — he started this war.  It could end today.  It
could end today if he decides to stop the aggression that he started
into Ukraine. 

And so, we have been very clear about that, and we’ll continue to do
so. 

Q    And there’s been no change on the administration’s policy on NATO
membership for Ukraine since the — the NATO Summit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to share be- — beyond what
we’ve been pretty clear on as it relates to that. 

Q    And then one more is: Was there any reaction to former President
Trump’s comments that Ukraine’s cities are gone, questioning giving more
aid to the country while they refuse to make a deal, or this comment
that he wants them to win, kind of suggesting that Demo- — he wa- — that
he — they want —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look —

Q    — Zelenskyy wants Democrats to win the election?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I am not going to respond to everything that the
former president says, especially since he’s a candidate in this
election. 

The president has been very clear to his commitment — not just him but
more than 50 nations that are supporting Ukraine in their efforts to
fight for their democracy, to fight against Mr. Putin’s aggression. 

And let’s not forget, the president was able to make NATO stronger so
that we can be able to continue to do the work that NATO is supposed to
do.  And — and an example is what is happening in Ukraine.  And so, that
is his focus.  That’s going to be continued. 

What he is going to — you’ll see this today in the bilat that he has
with President Zelenskyy.  You saw that this week at the U.N. assembly,
when he’s — he met with mult- — he saw multiple leaders, obviously.  He
was with multiple leaders and had a couple of opportunities, as we read
out to all of you, to — to meet with some of them. 

And so, this is what the president is going to co- — going to focus on,
and that’s what we- — I’m going to speak to. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  On the Zelenskyy meeting, why is it that
President Biden and Vice President Harris are holding these meetings
separately?  Is the suggestion that one would say something different
than the other and that there might be some dueling diplomacy there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s no dueling diplomacy.  It’s not unusual.  The
vice president has met with President Zelenskyy separately many times. 
Nothing new here. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I wouldn’t read too much into it.

Q    And then critics have said that Zelenskyy’s trip to Pennsylvania
was a political stunt.  Did the administration communicate at all with
Ukraine on who would be attending that trip or make any effort to make
it a bipartisan event?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just lay this down, because I know that
there’s been a lot of talk about this.  So, the Ukrainians asked to
visit the facility which employs American workers, as you know, who are
manufacturing critical supplies that the Ukrainian military is using
every day on the front lines of freedom because of its centrality of the
— of their — to their country’s continued existence. 

This came from Ukrainian, not us.  This is something that they wanted to
do.

After they made that request, DOD did what it has done for years: figure
out how to provide transportation for foreign leaders traveling on U.S.
soil, which is common, which happens when they come to the U.S.  And the
whole world knows this is someone Putin wants dead.  He’s made very
clear when it comes to President Zelenskyy. 

Also, just two months ago, President Zelenskyy traveled to Utah and held
an event with the Republican governor, a very similar event, and
Republican officials were there at that event in Utah.  And there wasn’t
a single demand — not one, not one single demand — for an investigation
when that occurred a couple months ago in Utah. 

So, this was business as usual for a Ukrainian request during wartime —
during wartime.  And so, I — I would encourage — we would encourage the
House Republicans to drop this, these kind of — this is a political
stunt.  They need to drop this.  And — and anything else, any — I think
I gave a lot here, a lot of layou- — good layout of how this all
occurred, but anything else specific I would for- — I would certainly
refer you to DOD.

Q    Just clarifying, though, that the administration didn’t — or the
campaign, I guess, didn’t play a role in determining the guest list,
because they’re — they’re claiming that having no Republicans there in a
battleground state made it effectively a campaign event.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — this is something that Ukrainians asked for.  They
did this a couple months ago in Utah — in Utah with a Republican
governor, and Republican elected officials were there as well.  We
didn’t hear any type of investigation request when we went to a
Republican state.  We didn’t.

Q    On the gun event today.  What kind of gun does the vice president
have, and when did she buy it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s something for her office to speak to. 

Q    The reason I’m asking is because you have this event today, but the
VP, as district attorney, sponsored Proposition H in 2005.  It would
have banned handguns within San Francisco city limits and required that
residents turn in the handguns that they already owned by a certain
deadline or face mandatory jail time.  But she’s out on the campaign
trail now saying that she’s a proud gun owner and is not going to take
away your guns.  So, can the White House get us an answer on that? 
Because she hasn’t and her — her campaign officials also haven’t
answered that question, even on television. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, a couple of things here.  When it comes to the
VP and — and owning a gun, she can speak for herself.  The campaign
could speak for that.  Her office can speak for that.  I’m not — that —
that’s for — for them to speak to. 

It is not in co- — there is no conflict here when we’re saying that we
want to see responsible gun ownership.  That’s what we want to see:
responsible gun ownership.  I think that is what’s important here. 

At the end of the day, gun violence is an epidemic in our — in our
country.  Think about our schul- — schools, our grocery stores.  It’s an
epidemic. 

We have done the work.  We have seen violent crimes go down because of
the work that this president and this vice president has done.  There is
an office to prevent gun violence, and that is something that she
leads. 

But we’re not — we’re asking for responsible gun ownership.  That’s what
we want to see.  That’s what’s impartant — important here. 

And if people don’t — don’t want to — don’t understand that, I don’t
know how to further even explain that to them. 

Our kids, our schools — there’s an epidemic here.  There’s an epidemic. 
There are drills happening in our schools right now — that’s something
that the president is going to speak to — that is traumatizing some of
our kids because of this epidemic. 

And so, that should be the focus: How do we make sure that we end this
epidemic?  We want to see responsible gun ownership.  That’s what we
want to see. 

Q    I think the question is not about responsible gun ownership,
though.  It’s about, you know, her past position, saying that —
supporting a measure that would have required that non-law enforcement
or military residents of a city turn in their handguns, so no gun
ownership or face possible mandatory jail time, versus what she’s saying
now.  And then also not answering the question of her gun ownership.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, that’s something that she’s going to have to
speak to.  What I can speak at this moment in this time, what we’ve been
trying to do for the last three and a half years is making sure that we
are dealing with an epidemic that is existing in our communities, that
we see in our schools, that we see in — in grocery stores. 

It is an epidemic here, and what we’re trying to do is prevent gun
violence.  And we have seen that go down — we have — because of this
work, because of the executive actions, because of a bipartisan
legislation that was able to be done under this administration to deal
with gun violence, something that we hadn’t seen in 30 years. 

So, there is some bipartisan support here to deal with a responsible way
of having gun ownership.  We need to do more here.  We need to do more.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Back on the long-range missiles into Russia. 
Our latest reporting is that President Biden has not changed his
position on this in part because the Pentagon has assessed it would do
very little to change the trajectory of the war.  So, does the president
plan to be blunt with Zelenskyy about that assessment today and to give
him a yes-or-no answer at least as far as it stands today? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, I’m not expecting any new announcements. 
That is something that I’m going to be clear about.  What our focus here
is is that we are focused on ensuring — ensuring that Ukraine has what
it needs to prevail in this war.  That is the president’s focus. 

That’s what they’re going to continue to discuss about.  That’s what
they’re going to — the president is going to continue to support Ukraine
on — not just us, the 50-plus countries that the president was able to
get together to support Ukraine, making NATO stronger. 

I’m not going to get into any reporting about this.  I’ve been very
clear.  And you’re going to see both presidents momentarily in the — in
the bilat.  You’ll hear directly from the president.  And so, I’ll just
leave it there.

Q    Okay.  And then, following up again on the ceasefire deal in
Lebanon.  You said that the statement was coordinated with Israel.  Are
you saying that the U.S. has any reason to believe that, despite what we
are seeing and despite the public comments, Israel agrees with the
U.S.? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I am saying is that they’re g- — discussions
continue in New York.  I laid out the facts as they were — as they are
and wanted to be very clear about that. 

Let me just — really just read out a couple of things from the joint
statement that you all saw from the G7, plus key partners — Middle East
ca- — partners:

“The situation between Lebanon and Israel since October 8th, 2023 is
intolerable and presents an unacceptable risk of a border — of a broader
regional escalation. This is in nobody’s interest, neither of the people
of Israel nor of the people of Lebanon. 

It is time to conclude a diplomatic settlement that enables civilians on
both sides of the border to return to their homes in safety. 

Diplomacy however cannot succeed amid an escalation of this conflict.” 

So, we want to see a ceasefire — a 20-day ceasefire.  Those discussions
continue.  It was something that we laid out, right?  It was a — a plan
that we laid out.  And so, we want to certainly see that move forward
and those discussions continue in New York with our teams.

Q    And you’ve made that abundantly clear, but I guess my question is,
Israel is not on the list of countries that came up with the proposal or
has agreed to it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, you’re right.  It was a G7 —

Q    So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — G7, plus the key Middle East partners that — that
put — put forward this — this joint statement last night. 

Q    So, why do you have any reason to believe that they’re going to
agree to this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As I stated, and you put — pointed this out when you
asked me your question: Israel was aware of this statement.  And now —
what I can tell you right now, we are having continued discussions. 
That is happening with our teams in New York. 

And I’m not going to get into private diplomatic engagement, but I can
assure you, these conversations are continuing. 

Q    Thank you, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Just a quick follow-up on that statement that you read.  It refers
to the situation as a “situation,” “a conflict,” and an “escalation.” 
Do we agree at the White House that what we’re witnessing between Israel
and Lebanon right now is, in fact, war?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into semantics from here.  What
we know and what we are seeing is that this cannot continue, and we want
this to end.  Right?  We want a peaceful solution here. 

I’m no- — I’m just not going to get into semantics from here.

Q    I guess I asked because we’ve heard the president say, as he said
multiple times this week, that he wants to avoid a full-scale war —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — an all-out war.  He said it remains a “possibility.”  That’s why
they’re pursuing this diplomatic solution. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    But, I guess, just for our understanding of what — what that — what
an all-out war looks like, versus what we’re witnessing now. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I’m not going to get into — here’s —
here’s what we want to see.  We want to see a 21-day ceasefire to give
us the space to have that conversation so that we can have a negotiation
to end this.  That’s what we want to see. 

And so, we believe this gives us an opportunity to do this by calling
for a 21 ceasefire — 21-day ceasefire, to be more clear. 

And so, it’s important.  It is intolerable what’s happening.  It cannot
continue.  For both sides, it cannot continue.  And so, we’re going to
do everything in our power.  The president has been very clear to get to
that point. 

I think it was important.  It was important to see a joint statement
from the G7 and key Middle East partners.  I think it was important to
see that.  It is — you see — you see countries coming together and
seeing what’s happening.  The tensions need to stop.  We need to get to
a ceasefire. 

And so, that is what we’re trying to get to here.  We’re going to
continue to have this discussion on getting to that 21-day ceasefire. 
That’s continuing in New York.  As you know, UNGA continues — right? —
even though we’re back here.  And so, our teams are there.  They’re
having those discussion.  They’re doing these diplomatic conversation. 

You hear us talk about it all the time: Dipl- — diplomatic resolution is
key, and that’s what we’re trying to get to.  And that’s what I think
you can see, the type of movement that you have seen from this president
— right? — when he was at UNGA, having conversations with other
leaders.  And now we’ve come to a place where we have put this forward,
and this is what we believe.  We see this 21-day ceasefire — it gives us
the space — it gives us the space to have that conversation. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I’m going to have another go at the ceasefire. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    So, the White House said that you don’t want to see a wider war,
and you wanted to see this 21-day ceasefire.  But yesterday, a senior
administration official described this proposal as a “breakthrough.”  So
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A — a “breakthrough”?

Q    Yeah.  So, what makes you believe that (inaudible) is listening to
you when they did not listen to you over maybe 10 months and the White
House failed to secure a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas?  The — the
party changes.  Now it’s Israel and Hezbollah, as opposed to Israel and
Hamas.  So, where do you get this optimism?  When the president always
say we are two days away from securing the ceasefire, we’re three days
away — until now, you’re unable to secure a ceasefire and release U.S.
hostages.  So, where is this optimism coming that both Hezbollah and
Israel can listen to the White House? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here’s the thing.  As I stated, our teams have
been in discussion.  The president certainly has been engaging our
teams, in particular, with Israel and Lebanon throughout this week.  And
based on those conversations — right? — we have had with Israel and
Lebanon, and we have had with our partners as well, we felt comfortable
in releasing this statement because of those ongoing dialogue, that
diplomatic conversation — resolution that we’re trying to get to calling
for a ceasefire.

And it is up to the parties to respond.  I mean, it is.  It is up to the
parties to respond. 

But we felt comfortable in releasing that statement last night because
we have been having those discussions with Lebanon and Israel.

And — but to your point, it is up to the parties to respond.

Now we put out the statement — the joint statement last night. 
Conversations continue, discussions continue in New York, and so we’re
going to continue to move that way.  But we have to do something,
right?  We have to continue to act.  And diplomacy is the way to deal
with what we have been seeing. 

Q    I understand.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.

Q    But does the White House have leverage over either party so we
don’t go to a wider war? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re trying to prevent a wider war.  That is what
we’ve been working towards for some time, and we have had these
discussions with both Israel, with Lebanon, with our — our partners, and
we felt comfortable enough to release this statement.  We believe that
diplomatic resolution is key here, and we — we can’t stop.  We got to
continue to try, right?

But it is up to our partners to respond.  It truly is. 

But just because we released the statement, it doesn’t stop there.  It
doesn’t.  So, we’re going to have diplomatic discussions as it’s
happening in New York.  It doesn’t stop from last night — releasing this
joint statement.  And we’ll see where we get.  We’ll see where we get
to.

Q    One — one last question.

Q    Karine —

Q    The number would be in — the people who are being killed in Lebanon
is over 600 now, 2,000 wounded.  Do you believe that these are
legitimate target, including that the — the number of the dead also are
women and children?  And do you believe that Israel still operate within
international law?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s what I can say.  We want to see the tensions
end.  We want to see a ceasefire.  That is what we’re — it is — it is
not — it’s — what we’re seeing right now — and this is in our statement
— it is intolerable, what’s going on right now.  It cannot continue, and
it’s not good for either side.  It is just not.  This is why we’re
trying to get to a diplomatic solution here. 

And you mentioned children and women.  Nobody wants to see that.  We
don’t want to see that.  And so, we’re trying to get to a diplomatic
solution.  That’s why we called for — you know, we laid out a path, a
call for a 21-day ceasefire, and that’s why we’re continuing to have
these diplomatic solutions — right? — diplomatic conversations. 

We have to do this.  We have to.  That is the way out of this.

And I know we have to wrap pretty soon.  Go ahead, Gerren.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  In response to a criminal complaint filed against
Donald Trump and J.D. Vance, Congressman Clay Higgins of Louisiana, in a
social media post, described Haitians as, quote, “gangsters” and Haiti
as, quote, the “nastiest country in the western hemisphere.”  He has
since deleted that post.  CBC Chairman Steven Horsford tried to censure
him in the House yesterday.  It was blocked by Republicans.  But what is
the White House’s reaction to Higgins’ post and the failed effort to
hold him accountable?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — look, I’m not going to speak to House actions and
how they go about their business.  That is for them to decide how
they’re going to deal with individual congressional members. 

What I will say more broadly — and we have been very clear from here,
the president has been clear, the vice president has been clear — I
think what we are seeing right now, what we have heard from national
leaders about what is going on in Springfield, Ohio — the baseless,
baseless lies and conspiracy theories — it’s dangerous and it is false. 
And to go after immigrants in that way who have — who are — who are
there legally, helping a community economically, who are welcomed in
that community, and saying these baseless lies is dangerous. 

And so, what this president and this vice president believes is that we
cannot pull apart our communities.  They want to bring together our
communities.  That is what you have been seeing over the last three and
a half years. 

And conspiracy theories like this are harmful.  And we have seen this
already, how dangerous this is, how dangerous this is to go after, in
this particulars instance, Haitian migrants who were welcomed in that
community.  And it has not just been denounced from us — denounced from
the governor of Ohio, denounced by the police department — local police
department, the city manager of Springfield.  I mean, on and on, by
Republicans, who have denounced this. 

And so, it’s unfortunate that we have national leaders who are playing
political stunts and political games.  And so, that is what we’re going
to continue to speak to.  We are about bringing our communities
together, not tearing them apart. 

Q    Just one more question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    Death row inmate Marcellus Williams was executed in Missouri on
Tuesday, despite concerns about evidence and jury selection process in
his 1998 case.  Despite the St. Louis County prosecutor and the victim’s
family requesting that he live, Missouri’s governor, attorney general,
and the Supreme Court ultimately failed to intervene. 

Considering this and the president’s stance against the death penalty,
what does he personally think of Williams’ execution?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, I can’t speak to this case spe- —
specifically.  I can’t do that from here. 

But the president has long talked about his serious concerns about the
death penalty as currently implemented and whether it is consistent with
the values fundamental to our sense of justice and fairness.  He
supports the at- — the attorney general’s decision to issue a moratorium
on federal executions while the Department of Justice conducts a
comprehensive review of policies and procedures governing the federal
death penalty. 

And so, I’ll leave it there. 

I know I got to go.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Just to follow up again on the Lebanon.  Is the
administration meeting at all with Prime Minister Netanyahu while he’s
in the U.S.?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any meetings to preview.

What I can tell you, as I’ve said multiple times, our teams in New York
are meeting.  And so, I will just leave it there.  And — and they’re in
regular conversation as it re- — as it relates to the Israeli
government.  Our teams here are in regular conversations on a daily —
practically daily basis.  And so, the teams are in New York having —
having meetings about this particular ceasefire call that we put
forward. 

Q    And you mentioned that the efforts doesn’t stop with the
announcement last night. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.

Q    You mentioned that the diplomatic efforts —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it hasn’t.

Q    — has not stopped.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, it’s happening right now in New York.

Q    Right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.

Q    My question is: In order to make it different than, you know, the
announcement that obviously President Biden was comfortable in
announcing a few months ago on the Gaza ceasefire — in order to make
that different than the announcement he made last night with other
leaders, would he consider conditioning aid to Israel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to — to lay out beyond the
statement that you saw from not just us, the G- — the G7 leaders and
also key Middle East partners as well.  Don’t have anything beyond
that. 

That has that — we have not changed, obviously, our position on that. 
We want to have a diplomatic resolution.  That is what we have been
saying for some time now, and this is one of the ways that we want to go
— move forward on this.

Q    Just very briefly also on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — on Afghanistan.  The Taliban have formally sought to join the
upcoming BRICS Summit.  What is the administration’s stance on the
Taliban’s bid to join BRICS?  And how do you assess the geopolitical
implications of Taliban’s growing ties with China and Russia?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’ll let the Taliban speak for themselves
here.  But we have been very clear that we judge the Taliban by what
they do, not by what they say.  We’ve been very consistent about that. 

The Taliban want international legitimacy, to be removed from sanction
lists, and foreign financing to restart the Afghan economy.  These
aspirations require the Taliban to live up to their commitments.  At
minimum, Afghanistan cannot strengthen its economy unless women are able
to participate in all aspect of society without limitations. 

So, we will continue to engage with the Taliban on matters of our
interest, for example, on respect for the rights of women and girls and
the return of wrongfully detained U.S. citizens.  And that’s how we’re
going to move forward with them. 

All right.  We got to go?

AIDE:  Yeah.  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, guys. 

Q    Thank you, Karine.

1:37 P.M. EDT
