---
date: '2024-09-13'
modified_time: 2024-09-13 21:06:54-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-13 15:05:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-september-13-2024/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, September 13,\_2024"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:53 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Good afternoon, everyone.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Happy Friday.

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  We all feel the same way.  Although,
tomorrow is another workday.

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, I have a couple things at the top. 

So, yesterday, a North Dakota judge struck down the state’s near-total
abortion ban.  The law makes it a felony for doctors and other health
care providers to provide women the care that they need.  It is extreme,
dangerous, and terrifying and has left North Dakota without any abortion
providers.

And that was made possible when the former president handpicked three —
three Supreme Court justices to overturn Roe v. Wade.  As a result, more
than 20 states have abortion bans currently in effect.

And it’s not stopping at the state level.  Republican elected officials
in Congress have proposed four national abortion bans while refusing to
protect nationwide access to IVF and contraception. 

President Biden and Vice President Harris believe that women in every
state must have the right to make deeply personal decisions about their
health.  They continue to call on Congress to restore the protections of
Roe v. Wade into federal law and fight efforts by Republican elected
officials to undermine our fundamental freedoms.

Next, I want to — I wanted to also quickly recognize all of the amazing
Team USA athletes who participated in this year’s Paralympics in Paris
that le- — that ended this past weekend.  Team USA showed incredible
resilience and strength.  This year’s athletes brought home an
impressive 105 — including 36 gold — medals. 

From the president on down, we have all been cheering you on here at the
White House.  We are so proud of all of you.  As a president — as the
first lady said — pardon me — and I quote, our athletes “carry more than
just our flag.  They carry our nation’s heart and our hopes with them
too.”

And finally, as you all know, the president joined a — a brunch in
celebration of Black excellence on the South Lawn this afternoon.  Over
the coming days, President Biden will participate in a celebratory
engagement centered on the triumphs and legacy of Black Americans and
the institutions they have created. 

In addition to today’s brunch in celebration of Black excellence,
Presidents — President Biden will deliver remarks at the 2 — 2024
Phoenix Awards dinner on Saturday and address the National HBCU Week
Conference in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on Monday.  These events will
focus on speaking directly to the community about the Biden-Harris
administration’s accomplishment for the Black community. 

As — as a proud Black American myself, I — I must say that I am
incredibly proud to be working for a president and a vice president who
have d- — who has certainly delivered for Black Americans.  His t- — his
time in office is marked by significant wins for the Black community,
including achieving the lowest Black unemployment rate on record,
nominating Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court, and
investing a historic $16 billion into HBCUs.

We are looking forward to traveling to Philadelphia this coming Monday.

And with that, Darlene.

Q    Hi.  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.

Q    Two questions.  So, the administration had promised to use the full
extent of the law to make sure that pregnant patients got emergency care
after Roe v. Wade was overturned.  We — the AP is reporting today that
none of the hospitals that have denied care to pregnant patients since
Roe v. Wade was overturned have been fined.  Do you know why?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I would have to talk to the Department of
Justice.  I don’t have — I’m just now learning this reporting that the
Associated Press has.  So, I would have to go back to Department of
Justice and also refer you to them, as well, to get a better sense of
how they’re operating that particular — that particular policy.

But I would have to say, and I said this at the top, we would not be in
this position if the former president did not appoint three — three
Supreme Court justices with — with one of the — obviously, one of the
goals that they were successful at was making sure the Dobbs decision
was done, which overturned Roe v. Wade, which was a constitutional right
that women had for nearly 50 years. 

And that is why the president had to step in.  That is why the president
had to sign an executive order.  That is why we have been very forceful,
very clear about what Dobbs decision has done.  And we don’t even have
to — it doesn’t have to come from us; we could see what has happened
across the states: 21, 22 states that now have abortion bans.  And now
that is affecting, as we know, 27 million women who are now affected by
this who — who their reproductive freedom has been taken away.  Those —
that decision to make those really personal decisions for themselves has
been taken away.

But as it relates to that specific question, I would have to refer you
to Department of Justice.

Q    And since the — the president mentioned Springfield, Ohio, in his
remarks — he did- — he didn’t actually say Springfield, but we knew what
he was talking about — is the administration considering any help for
Springfield?  They’ve been facing bomb threats.  Some schools were
evacuated today.  Is there any —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as it relates to that, certainly we are
aware of the evacuations.  Local police are investigating what is
happening on the ground, the situation.  We encourage everyone to please
— please follow the — the advice and the direction of the public safety,
follow their guidance.

I’m going to be mindful and not speculate on the evacuations, but I —
again, to — to your point on what the president said and what we have
said from here, from this podium, it is that it is extremely sad and
concerning that a community is facing this type of danger and vitriol. 
And as the president said today — I think very forcefully — this needs
to stop, and there is absolutely no place — absolutely no place in this
country, in our — certainly in our <s>prolitical</s> \[political\]
discourse, for this type of vitriolic, smearing, hateful language.

And certainly, as we have done in the past three and a half years, and
the president has done throughout his career and the vice president as
well, we’re going to continue to call that out and condemn that type of
vitriolic behavior. 

We will certainly offer any assistance, if needed, on the ground by the
local — the local police.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Selina.

Q    And just to bounce off the question about Springfield, the Ohio
governor said that the federal government needs to give Springfield some
help to deal with the influx of migrants.  What’s the president’s
reaction to that?  And does the White House have plans to provide some
funding to the state?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things — and I’m glad — I’m actually
glad you asked this question, because there are a couple things I do
want to lay out that the administration has been able to do. 

Again, this is conspiracy theory, what we’re hearing, that has been
debunked by the Ohio — the — the Ohio police department, the Springfield
mayor, the city manager.  And so, we have to make sure that we put that
out there — that this has been debunked.  And spreading this type of ha-
— hateful conspiracy theories is indeed very dangerous.  It’s very
dangerous. 

So, since day one, our priority has been ensuring communities across the
country have the support they need.  So, we’ve delivered resources to
Ohio, as well to cities, states, and non-for-profits across the
country. 

Since the spring, DHS has been directly engaged with the city of
Springfield and local officials to make sure they have the support they
need.  And we want to do more.  We would like to do more. 

That’s why we did the bipartisan proposal with the Senate early — at the
end of last year — obviously, early into this year.  And it was
stopped.  It was stopped because the former president said that bill —
that particular proposal would hurt him and help Joe Biden.  And so,
Republicans in Congress stopped that.  It would have given more — it
would have given more resources to cities like Springfield, Ohio. 

But I don’t want it to — to miss the point here that the administration
has indeed provided more than $1.3 billion in grant funding t- — in
jurisdur- — in jurisdiction around — around the country to help — to
help with — with the influx and what they’re dealing with.  We want to
do more, but we’ve been blocked in doing so.

Q    So, are there any new conversations that the president is trying to
start right now for —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wh- —

Q    — further assistance?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We want to fix this problem — we want.  We did $1.3
billion.  That’s something that this administration has been able to
do.  We want more funding. 

Republicans are getting in the way in Congress.  We were able to put
forward, again, a bipartisan deal that would have been the toughest and
the fairest law if the president had an opportunity to sign it. 
Republicans got in the way. 

Now, if Republicans want to work with us in a good faith — they did. 
They actually did, and then they turned their backs on what they wanted,
on what they thought — they believed would be the right way to move
forward in dealing with the immigration system and dealing with the
border challenges.  And they walked away from it. 

And I — we need them to come to the table again.  We need them to
actually want to move forward to deal with this issue. 

Q    And just shifting gears to Boeing.  30,000 workers are on strike
for the first time in 16 years at Boeing.  And Boeing’s CFO said this is
going to impact production, deliveries, operations, and will jeopardize
their recovery.  So, how is the president reacting to this?  And what’s
his message to those workers?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’re — administration officials are indeed in
touch with Boeing and the machinists.  So, we encourage them to
negotiate in good faith, which is something that we say when — when
situations get to this level.  And we believe that they need to
negotiate, yes, in good faith and work towards an agreement that gives
employees benefits and that they deserve.  You know, that — and it would
make the count- — and it would make the company stronger as well. 

So, we’re in touch with the parties and, again, continue to n- — to
encourage them to negotiate in good faith. 

Go ahead, Weijia.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  First, two points of clarification on
Springfield.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Conspiracy theories aside, the governor says that this influx of
migrants has caused a significant strain on the health care and public
safety system in Springfield.  Does the administration acknowledge that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — w- —

Q    Or — or have you talked to them about it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we — and I said this in my answer prior.  We’ve
been in touch with — with Springfield from — since the spring, we’ve
been in touch with them.  DHS has, and we’ve been offering assistance to
them.  And — and that is something that we’ve taken very seriously. 

And we have been able during — in 2023, this administration, we’ve been
collaborating with states and cities across the country.  And we
launched this one-stop clinic — one-stop-shop clinics to — to help
eligible noncitizens get work permits and decompress their re- —
respective shelter systems. 

And today, those clinics have served more than 37,000 people.  So, that
shows how we’ve been working with different jurisdictions across the
country.  And we’ve provided, I just mentioned, more than $1.3 billion
to address the concerns that — for example, that the governor has,
mayors have in — obviously, in cities and towns.

And so, we’ve done that.  We’ll — we want to continue to help, but we
also need Congress to get involved.  And that’s why the president took
very seriously the negotiations that were happening.  He tried to try to
get the toughest, fairest border — border deal, and we were able to do
that.  Republicans got in the way. 

But $1.3 billion to help cities across — cities and states across the
country is nothing to — to sneeze at.

Q    So, short of a deal, are you saying that currently there is no more
federal resources to give to Springfield?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We ne- — we need more federal resources.

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And we have been working with Springfield, Ohio, in
particular, since the spring — since the spring.  We need more funding. 
We need more. 

And that is why the president and his team got together with Republicans
and Democrats in the Senate to come up with this border deal. 

Donald Trump, the former president, told Republicans in Congress to not
move forward with it.  They voted against their own bipartisan deal.

Q    And then, turning to tariffs. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    During the debate, the vice president described Trump’s proposed
tariffs as a sales tax on middle-class families.  Today, the Biden
administration announced new tariffs on about $18 billion worth of
Chinese goods that will go into effect in two weeks.  So, can you talk
about whether these new tariffs are fundamentally different from what
Trump has proposed and how?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the 301 tariff — the tariffs? 

So, look, we made an announcement this morning, as you just — that went
out early this morning.  And I think the president, when he — back in
May, when he was announcing that he was going to take action, he said
very clearly he was going to do that to protect Americans, workers, and
businesses from China’s unfair trade practices.  And that’s something —
a commitment that he made and he spoke to back in — in May. 

And the comparison, as you’re asking me — the Trump administration, the
last administration, their trade deal with China failed to increase —
boost American manufacturing.  And what the president’s economic agenda
— what we’ve been trying to do for almost four years now, and we’ve seen
some results here — is nearly $1 trillion of new investments here in
America, manufacturing investment has hit record highs, and factory
construction has doubled to a record high. 

The annual trade deficit with China is the lowest in a decade, and that
is because of the president’s economic agenda — lower than any year
under the last administration. 

And so, the president is going to take — continue to take action to
protect American workers and manufacturing and encourage China to
eliminate its unfair practices.

As it goes to the specifics of it, obviously, USTR will have more
information on that.  But the president made a commit- — he’s keeping to
his commitment.  And if you can see what his economic agenda has
actually done — manufacturing, businesses — and how that — how that
lines up with China and what China — what it — what China has — how his
— how his agenda has affected China’s behavior, and I think that
matters. 

Q    I’m sorry.  I should have been more clear. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    How is it not a sales tax on all the goods that people buy every
day?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what we’re trying to do is making sure that
we’re protecting American workers and businesses.  That’s what we’re
doing.  USTR can certainly get into more details and specifics to your
question.   
  
But our — you know, our commitment — and I think it shows in the
president’s economic policy, as I just laid out.  And what — how — how
the annual trade deficit with China is the lowest — is the lowest in a
decade, lower than any year during the last administration. 

And so, what we’re trying to do is eliminate China’s unfair practices,
and we’ve seen the results of that.  That was the commitment that this
president made in May, and that’s the commitment that will continue. 

This is about American workers and businesses, and we’re going to
certainly continue to deal with China’s unfair trade practices, and
that’s what you’re seeing. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just back to the Boeing strike.  Does the White
House believe that there is an immediate economic impact from the
strike?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’re in touch with — with officials.  And this is
something that, as I said all — as I say all the time when I get asked
this question, we’re going to monitor very, very closely.  I don’t have
a specific question to you on that — on — on a yes or a no, but this is
something that we’re certainly going to monitor. 

What we want to see is all parties to come together in good faith and
come up with a deal that helps the workers, the hard work — right? —
continues to really respect the hard work that the workers do day in and
day out for companies.  But I — but I don’t have any — anything
specific.  We’re going to monitor.  We’re going to keep an eye on it.

Q    Not even a general assessment on the economic impact, immediate or
otherwise?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This is something that we’re going to monitor. 

Q    Okay.  And just staying on that topic and stepping back a little
bit.  You’ve obviously gotten a number of Boeing-related questions in
this job: the door that blew off the plane, a number of compliance
issues, there are two astronauts who are literally stuck in space.  What
do you think is going on with the company?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t speak for what’s going on inside of a
company.  That is for them to — to certainly speak to. 

As it relates to the strike that is currently happening, we’re certainly
in touch with Boeing and the machinists.  We want them to come together
in good faith.

As it relates to the safety concerns that Americans should have, rightly
have, obviously, the Department of Transportation has been on top of
that, dealing with — dealing with ways to — to make sure there’s
transparency and they deal with those safety issues.  FAA has been on
top of that as well.

But I can’t speak to what’s going ins- — going on with Boeing.  That is
something for them to speak to. 

Q    Okay.  Just one more on a separate topic.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    Pope Francis today said about the upcoming presidential election
that voters here have to choose the lesser of two evils.  He pointed to
Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant positions and then the vice president’s
support of abortion rights.  Do you know if the president is aware of
these comments, if he has had any reaction?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, obviously the pope speaks for himself, and I
don’t have any — any more comments from here.  I have not spoken to the
president about the pope’s specific comments on the up- — on this coming
election.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Just to follow up on Boeing.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure. 

Q    So — so, we understand that admin officials, including Julie Su,
are in touch with both sides.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    But is there someone specific, like a liaison like Gene Sperling
was in the UAW talks, that the White House has appointed for this
particular —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — I don’t have a specific person to point to
from the White House.  White House officials, including the Department
of Labor, as you just mentioned, the secretary — the acting secretary
has been in touch with Boeing and the machinists on this particular
matter, but don’t have a poeson — a person to point out to you.  But
White House officials here have — have been in touch. 

Q    And — and are the president or the vice president planning to join
any of these workers on the picket line?  Have any discussions taken
place?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, the president was the first president to
— to go to Michigan and be with UAW workers when they were striking, and
he was very proud to do that.  Has been named the — the most pro- —
pro-union president ever, and so he’s proud to — to hold that title.  I
don’t have — or acknowledgement.  I just don’t have anything to share on
either of their schedules. 

Q    Has the president spoken to the union?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a — a call to speak to at this time. 

Q    And — and one quick one on the U.S. Steel-Nippon Steel deal.  The
Washington Post was reporting that the White House may push a decision
on the deal until after the election.  We did say — we did see some
pushback from the White House saying that there was no timeline around
this.  But is there any other — is there any clarity you can offer on
what the reporting was?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ve been very clear.  The president has been
very clear.  He wants to make sure that — and it is vital that U.S.
Steel is to remain an American steel company and — that is domestically
owned and, obviously, operated. 

The president told our steelworkers, as — he has their backs, and he
meant that.  You remember when he was — on Labor Day, he was in
Pennsylvania and said that.  The vice president said that as well — or
made that very clear in her remarks as well.

And — and so, we have not received any recommendations from CFIUS. 
There’s a process.  CFIUS has to make a recommendation, has to be
transmitted to the president.  The president then makes a decision. 
That has not occurred.  That has not happened.  CFIUS is independent,
and they’re going to make those decision. 

I believe, last week, the White House provided a statement that we have
not received any recommendations.  So, that continues to be the case. 
And so, don’t have any- — anything.

And I — and I — and so, I just don’t have anything to share if this is
imminent on — on a decision.  They are — they are independent. 

Q    Would the White House recommend that CFIUS expedite the review
process?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s their process.

Q    I mean, CFIUS — CFIUS has been looking at the deal for a while now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  For some time, I know.

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And it’s — it’s their process.  They are independent. 
And the process is they make the decision, their recommendation; it’s
transmitted to us; and the president, obviously, makes a decision.   
  
But that has not occurred, and they ha- — we have to allow them to have
the space to make that decision.  
  
Q    So, you’re saying that the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  To — the process to play through.   
  
Q    So — so, you’re saying the proc- — saying that this — the decision,
it could land only after the election?  Is that accurate —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —  
  
Q    — or not?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m saying to you — how the process works.  We
have not received any recommendations yet from CFIUS; therefore, it
could not be im- — imminent if we have not received any
recommendations.  That’s all I’m saying.   
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hey.  Thanks, Karine.  Former President Trump this afternoon said,
if elected, he would do, quote, “large deportations from Springfield,
Ohio,” and would send them to Venezuela.  These Haitian migrants are in
Ohio legally and, of course, aren’t from Venezuela.  Does the White
House have a reaction to this pledge of the former president?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — obv- — obviously, he was speaking as a
candidate, and that is the upcoming elections.   
  
But I will say more broadly, if Republicans were serious about fixing
what is happening at the border — the border challenges, which majority
of Americans care about — if they were serious about it and they truly
cared about this issue, they truly cared about fixing an immigration
system that has been broken for decades, they would get back to the
table — or they don’t even have to.  There’s a deal.  There is a border
deal — a bipartisan border deal.  They can vote on it.  And we would
have the toughest, fairest deal that we’ve seen in some time coming out
of Congress that would become law because the president would sign it,
because he was — his team was part of, certainly, deliberating on that
deal.   
  
If they were very serious about it, they would move that deal forward
and help — help us make it into law.  And it would deal with issues that
cities like Springfield, Ohio, are dealing with right now.   
  
Q    But doesn’t the — I mean, the White House opposes any mass
deportation of Haitian migrants from Springfield, right?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean —  
  
Q    That’s what I was —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Is that the question?  
  
Q    My question is that, yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The ques- —  
  
Q    I mean, that’s what he —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Obviously.  Obviously, yes. 

But also, if they really wanted to deal with — I mean, I think the — the
real, I think, core of the question is: Okay, there’s legislation out
there.  There’s a policy.  There’s a bipartisan legislation that would
deal with issues that they have concerns about at the border and
actually deal with an immigration system.   
  
Obviously, we do not — we do not support mass deportation of a community
that is not — is not part of a country that they came from.  That
doesn’t make any sense.  That is not something that we would support.  
  
But there’s a deal out there.  There’s a deal — a bipartisan deal.  They
keep getting in the way.  They’re voting against their own deal.  That
doesn’t make any sense.  Where’s sense — where’s the sense in that? 
Where’s the sense in that?  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    The president spoke about the issue affecting Springfield today. 
Why today?  And — and he did reference the former president directly. 
Is his message intended for Donald Trump?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think the — what the president said speaks for
itself.  I think he was very clear.  He saw it as an opportunity.  He
had 1,200 people celebrating Black excellence, and he saw it as an
opportunity.   
  
We keep hearing from the Republicans who keep lifting this up, even
though it’s been debunked — this hateful smear.  It’s been debunked by
the Springfield mayor.  It’s been debunked by the city manager.  It’s
been debunked by the Ohio department — police department.  And we hear
Republicans — national Republicans continue to spread that hateful
conspiracy theory.   
  
And so, the president took an opportunity to address it head on.  I
think his words and what he said very powerfully — -fully landed very
well, and people got the message.  
  
Q    And in the meeting with the prime minister today, do you — how much
do you think their — what will the approach be concerning threats that
Putin has made about expanding his concerns to the west if weapons are
made available for Ukraine to go deeper into Russia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  His comments about NATO and the U.S. more
specifically — look, that kind of rhetoric certainly is dangerous and —
but it’s not new.  It’s not new for Russia.  Matter of fact, it has been
the mainstay of Russian propaganda throughout this war that they’ve
had.  This is their war that they’ve had in Ukraine.  This is their
aggression.  This is what they have done.  This is what Mr. Putin has
done, to be more specific.  And it — and that’s how it started.   
  
And this war can end.  This war — the war that we’re seeing in Ura- — in
Ukraine, the aggression from Russia, can — can er- — can end today — can
end today.  Russia can move their troops out of Ukraine, and it can
end.   
  
So, that type — again, that type of rhetoric is incredibly dangerous,
but it’s not new.  It’s certainly not new.  
  
Q    Should we expect any announcement about the president’s support for
munitions being used inside Russia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I wouldn’t expect any big announcement today.  Look,
the president certainly is looking forward to meeting with the prime
minister.  It is — he believes it’s an important conversation that
they’re going to have and a varied conversation, a wide range of
conversation about Indo-Pacific; Ukraine, obviously; the Middle East. 
And so, I would just leave it for there — there.  And our policy
certainly hasn’t changed.

  
Go ahead, Jacqui.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  What is the holdup on a decision allowing
Ukraine to use long-range missiles inside Russia?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to go — I — I got this question
yesterday.  I’m not going to deliberate here.  I’m not going to get into
specifics from here.

  
I — as I said to Kelly O, I would not expect there to be any
announcements on this coming out of this meeting.  That’s not something
that I would expect.  There’s been no policy change.  But I — what I can
continue to make sure that you all know and you see it for yourself is
that the president is committed to make sure that Ukraine has what its
needs to defend itself against Russia’s aggression, to defend — to
defend and fight for their democracy. 

Q    One —

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get in- — I’m not going to deliberate
from here.  
  
Q    One of the bigger criticisms of this administration has been that
on everything that’s ultimately given to Ukraine, the answer was first a
no — on ATACMS, on HIMARS, on Patriots, on fighter jets — and that if
this had just been given to them on day one, maybe there wouldn’t be the
funding fatigue that Congress now has to grapple with the next time they
need help, and that the aid that you guys promote has been slow-walked
in the form of a decision to use it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me just — let’s step back for a second.  This
president — what this president has been able to do in the past two
years — really, in his whole — his entire administration — is fix the
reputation of this country that was — that was tainted by the last
president.  We have to remember how we started, where we started, and
what this president has been able to do. 

People thought NATO was going to be weaker.  The president made NATO
stronger.  We have two more — two more countries that are now members of
NATO.  That’s because of this president’s — this president’s
leadership. 

We have 50-plus countries who are now backing Ukraine and continue to do
so because of this president’s leadership.  Ukraine is fighting for
their sovereignty; they’re fighting for their freedom and against Mr.
Putin, who decided that he wanted to invade.  The president has been
very clear how important it is — how important it is — is to stand with
Ukraine in this time.

We’re talking about democracy.  We’re talking about freedom.  And if
anything, this president’s actions and what he’s been able to do has
shown just that, because it’s not just about, you know, Ukraine and NATO
and Europe; it’s also about our national security as well.  It’s all
connected.  And the president is always going to do what is important
for the — for the American people.  And I think that is what you’ve
seen, and that is what the president is going to focus on and continue
to do. 

Q    I just remember sitting here, you know, a couple of years ago,
splitting hairs with Jen Psaki over whether drones are offensive or
defensive weapons.  I mean, this has been a struggle of this
administration that has been a topic of criticism. 

And now, you know — for instance, this week, in the debate, the vice
president was promoting what this administration has done in terms of
giving Ukraine what it needs, but the — there’s plenty of criticism
outside of that to say that it’s also effectively blocking a victory by
slow-walking these decisions. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think if you were to ask those 50 nations, if you
were to ask NATO leaders, if you were to ask President Zelenskyy itself
— himself their thoughts on the president’s leadership, I don’t think
they would have the words that you just said to me.  I think they would
say that the president has been a leader during this time and has had
their backs.  And I think that’s what the president has shown.

As it relates to what Ukraine needs to continue to defend themselves, we
are in regular touch.  My colleagues here at NSC, at State, at
Department of Defense are in regular touch with the Ukrainians on their
needs and what they — what they need to continue to fight against this
aggression.  So, I’ll leave it there. 

Go ahead.

Q    Can I just circle back to the U.S. Steel thing that Nandita
raised?  Putting aside the timing piece of it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — a lot of the question right now is essentially whether the
president is reconsidering his position or not –right? — separate from
the timing of what his decision will be.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    He said in the past that U.S. Steel should be U.S.-run and
U.S.-owned. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, and I said it at the top —

Q    Right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — earlier —

Q    Right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — moments ago.

Q    And, quote, “guaranteed.”  So, I guess, my — the core question is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And he said he has their backs.  He said that on — on
Labor Day.

Q    But does he still plan on killing this deal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — we have to see the recommendation from CFIUS. 
That is the process.  The president is waiting to see what CFIUS
recommends.  That hasn’t happened.  There is a process.  They’re going
through their process.  I know that it has been some time, but they’re
independent.  They’re going to go as slow as — as fast as they choose. 

And so, we’re going to let that process happen.  We are — the president
is not going to say any more than what he has said until CFIUS transmits
their recommendation, and it hasn’t happened yet.  And so, not going to
get ahead of that. 

And what I will say — and this is — I know you didn’t ask me about the
timeline, but we put a statement last week saying that it happened — it
hasn’t happened yet; so, therefore, it cannot be imminent. 

Q    Well, we’ve reported that the existing CFIUS ta- — timeline is
September 23rd.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —

Q    So, that’s not too far away from now. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, and I — I’m just not going to — I’m not going to
get into it from here about a timeline, their deadline.  We’re — I’m
just saying to you: We have not received their recommendation.  And so —

Q    Does —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — Joe Biden’s previous statements on this U.S. Steel remaining
domestically owned and run guaranteed still stand?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Still stand.  I literally mentioned it in a question
that I received from one of your colleagues, and I said his position
continues.  It is vital.  It is vital for U.S. Steel to remain American
steel company that is domestically and — and certainly owned and
operated.  That stands. 

He said that on Labor Day, which was not too long ago, when he was in
Pennsylvania.  He said to the steelworkers, he has that — their back,
and that stands. 

As far as — as far as CFIUS, they have — they haven’t made their
recommendation.  It has not transmitted over yet, so the president — I
can’t say anything until that happens.

Q    And very quickly with respect to the meeting this afternoon.  We’ve
reported that the Europe — or European countries believe that Iran has
begun providing ballistic missiles to Russia to be used in attacks on
Ukraine.  Can you speak to whether the U.S. also believes that those
shipments have begun, or is it unclear?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I would refer you to NSC.  I believe they did a —
a gaggle earlier today.  So, I refer you to their — those comments. 

Q    All right.  Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you. 

Go ahead.

Q    I just want to go back to the long-range missile.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    Just one more.  It’s just that, I mean, considering the tone of the
Russian president, the fact that you would take this as a direct
participation of NATO members, and considering Article 5 of NATO
charter, how — what type of — of conversation has the president had with
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — his colleagues — Canadian prime minister, for instance, one of
them —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — just to — to have everybody ready for a potential attack on a
NATO country?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m — I’m not going to get ahead of any
conversations.  What I can say, our — certainly, our policy has not
changed.  I don’t want to speak to hypotheticals here.  I just am not
going to go into “What if this happens, then what?”  I’m not going to
get into hypotheticals. 

What I can say: This is incredibly dangerous type of rhetoric that we’re
hearing from — from Russia.  Not unusual.  This is the — this is the
type of propaganda that we’ve heard from Russia throughout this war. 
But — and when asked, we’re going to be very clear about that. 

And then, when also asked, we’re going to also be very clear that this
war can end.  Mr. Putin can end his aggression that we have seen in
Ukraine.  It is his war that he started.  He can end it, pull the troops
out — pull his troops out.  He could end it. 

Yeah.

Q    No new conversations with leaders — NATO leaders —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any —

Q    — on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t —

Q    — the gravity of the comments? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any new conversations to — to share.  As
I’ve said, this is not new for Russia.  We have seen this throughout the
war, making this type of dangerous comments, dangerous rhetoric.  Not
new.  And there is a way to fix this.  This is for Russia to end its
war. 

Q    A personal question, actually, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah. 

Q    Because I was listening to you this morning — well, at noon — and
you refer to yourself as a proud Haitian American. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  That’s not — that’s not new.

Q    That’s not new, no.  But do you — do you take this personally when
a com- — the community is a target of attack, as it is at the moment in
Spr- — Springfield?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I take it personally when any community, any
vulnerable community, is attacked — not just — not just a community that
I belong to, and proudly belong to, but any community — any vulnerable
community that is attacked wrongfully so in a hateful way. 

I — one of the things that I’m proud about in being part of this
administration is that we condemn that type of stuff.  We condemn that
type of hateful language.  That’s what I’m — that’s what I’m going to
continue to do, and I get to do that on behalf of President Biden, who
also condemns that type of hateful rhetoric, as you have heard him today
and many times before when a vulnerable community is attacked. 

That’s not what national leaders should be.  Political leaders should
not be attacking vulnerable communities.  That’s not who we should be. 
And if they’re going to fall for conspiracy theories online, maybe they
shouldn’t be our leaders.  Maybe they shouldn’t be.

But it is on all of us.  It doesn’t matter if you’re a Haitian
American.  It doesn’t matter if you’re Jewish American.  It doesn’t
matter if you’re M- — it doesn’t — Muslim American.  All of us should
come together.  When we hear that type of hateful rhetoric, we should
come together and have each other’s backs and call it out, because it’s
not okay.  It is dangerous.  It is dangerous.  It puts people’s lives at
risk,

and this president is going to continue to stand up and speak against
it.

Q    Are there any invulnerable communities?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Patsy.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  One last try on the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s — it’s not funny.  I — I know you want to make —

Q    I’m just asking a question.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — e- —

Q    You’re talking about “vulnerable communities.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait — wait a minute.  Hold on.

Q    You’re making a distinction.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on.  Wait.  Hold on.

It’s not funny.

Q    I didn’t make a joke.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait — no, y- — it is not —

Q    I asked a question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  I’m answering.  Let me answer.  If you stop —

Q    Are there any invulnerable communities?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not everybody wants to hear the sound of your voice,
sir.  Give me a second, and I will tell you my answer. 

It’s not funny. 

Patsy.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Following up on — one last try on the
long-range —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.

Q    — weapons.  Can you just give us a sense of what might be the
president’s biggest concern at this point?  Is it the risk of escalation
with a nuclear power?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m not going to get into hypotheticals here. 
We’re going to call it out.  W- — oh, you mean, like, with — with —

Q    With Russia.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — with Russia making the comments about NATO and U.S.?

Q    I mean, we’ve been trying to get you to give us more details on
what’s the holdup on providing long-range missiles —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I see.

Q    — missiles to Ukraine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I see.  I — I don’t have anything else to share.  Our
policy has not changed.  We are going to be in regular touch with the
Ukrainian people as they continue to fight this — a fight against this
aggression from Russia.  No change in policy.  I just don’t have
anything to add. 

The president has been a leader when it comes to giving Ukraine the
support that they need.  Fifty-plus countries, that is important to
note.  Making NATO stronger, that is important to note.  And that is
because of this president’s leadership.

I just don’t have anything else to share behind that. 

Q    And can we stay on Russia, Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    The — the State Department just announced new sanctions on Russian
state media RT laying out its disinformation campaign operations to
destabilize various governments, including the government in Argentina;
creating tensions between neighboring countries.  Does the
administration have a specific strategy to try to stop RT’s efforts in
the Western Hemisphere or other places in the world?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to let, certainly, the State Department
and the Department of Justice speak to their announcement.  You heard
from the State Department today.  You heard from the Department of
Justice last week.  We are taking this very seriously.  They are taking
it very seriously.  I’m not going to get into what’s next.  Certainly,
they will make announcements on their own if they feel that there’s more
to share. 

Q    Can I just indulge with a response that RT has given out on social
media saying RT “lives rent free in the State Department’s head.” 
“We’re running out of popcorn, but we’ll be here live, laughing hard.” 
I mean, kind of mocking the administration’s steps on sanctioning them
at this point.  Do you have a response?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, let’s not forget, last week, the Department
of Justice — and I just mentioned the Tr- — the Treasur- — the Treasury
and State — they took some actions to disrupt Russia’s covert
information operations to undermine our democratic institution in the
homeland.  We do not laugh at that.  That is very serious, and we take
that very seriously. 

And State’s announcement today make it clear that the U.S. — and want to
be clear — is not only targeting RT’s covert operations.  We learned
that, in fact — in fact, RT covert influence efforts extended to places
like Europe and Africa.  That’s what we learned. 

Anything more than that, I would have to refer you to the State
Department and the Treasury to speak to that, as they made that
announcement t- — today.  Just don’t have anything else, but we take
this very seriously.

AIDE:  Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  Trinity?

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I was — I told — I was told you were going to be in
the briefing room today.  Howard University?

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  Nice to see you. 

Q    Nice to see you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Want to say a little bit about yourself?

Q    Yeah.  Hi, everyone.  I’m Trinity Webster-Bass.  I’m a senior
honors broadcast journalism major, Afro-American studies minor attending
Howard University.  And I had the pleasure of meeting Karine at the
White House Correspondents’ Association Dinner, from which I won a
scholarship.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Congratulations again.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you. 

I just wanted to go back to the event held today on the South Lawn.  Why
was it important for the Biden administration to hold this event today? 
And are future events coming of the same nature?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I — I want to start off by quoting what the
president said — and I think it’s important

today — when he was addressing the crowd on the South Lawn: “We
recognize that this nation would not exist without the blood, sweat, and
tears, without the determination, dreams, and contributions of Black
Americans.”  And he felt that it was fitting to do this on the same week
of the Congressional Black Caucus week.  It was a really special event. 
I think you felt that out there if you participated. 

And so, he wanted to host this brunch for a couple of reasons: to show
his personal gratitude to the community and celebrate their progress —
the progress we’ve made under the Biden-Harris administration — you
heard him talk about that in his remarks — and — and wanted to make sure
that we didn’t forget, that we continue to speak to why Afri- — Black
Americans and African American history is really part of American
history.  And that is something that we cannot forget.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to take one last one.  Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Big political news earlier this week when Taylor
Swift endorsed the vice president.  (Laughter.)  I’m not going to ask
you about the endorsement —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)

Q    — because you’re not going to answer that.  But the voting
registration site that she drove people to from her post, in that first
24 hours, there were more than 400,000 visitors from that link. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Is the president aware of that traffic and — and the interest in
the registration?  And does he think that that kind of influence can
make a difference in driving turnout, getting people to get more engaged
in elections?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think it’s important for people to exercise their
sacred right to vote.  And that is something that the pers- — the
president finds it incredibly important to continue to do and to protect
that right to vote. 

I do want to say — as it relates to Taylor Swift, what I can say is
there are a lot of Swifties here in the White House.  And so, I can say
that.  I hear that a lot.  (Laughs.)

But, look, one of the things that he did is, very early on in his
administration, he signed an executive order to do everything that we
can from the feder- — federal level to make it easier for Americans to
vote.  And so, that is what you saw. 

The link that you mentioned, obviously, is a way to make it easier for
Americans to register, certainly, to vote. 

It is a sacred right.  Many people have fought for that right to vote,
and it is certainly our — part of our democracy.  And so, it’s
incredibly important. 

I have not spoken to the president beyond — beyond an en- — the
endorsement that occurred.  I have not asked him about — specific about
the — the link and — and the amount of people have — who have gone on it
to — to register.  I think that’s great. 

It’s important — outside of this election, I think it’s important for
people to be able to register and vote.  That’s why this administration
has done everything that we can to give people that opportunity and
protect that right.

All right.  Thanks, everybody. 

(Cross-talk.)

Thanks, everyone. 

3:37 P.M. EDT 
