---
date: '2024-09-18'
modified_time: 2024-09-19 11:19:41-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-18 17:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/18/background-press-call-by-chief-of-staff-jeff-zients-national-economic-adviser-lael-brainard-and-white-house-officials-to-preview-the-presidents-remarks-at-the-economic-club-of-washington-d-c/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Chief of Staff Jeff Zients, National Economic Adviser\
  \ Lael Brainard, and White\_House Officials to Preview the President\u2019s Remarks\
  \ at the Economic Club of Washington,\_D.C."
---
 
Via Teleconference

4:19 P.M. EDT

MR. EDWARDS:  Hello.  My name is Jeremy Edwards of the White House Press
Office, and thank you for joining us today.

Soon, you’re going to hear from Chief of Staff Jeff Zients and National
Economic Adviser Lael Brainard to preview the president’s remarks
tomorrow at the Economic Club of Washington, D.C., where he will discuss
the important moment we’ve reached where inflation and interest rates
are falling while the economy remains strong. 

Opening remarks from the two speakers I just mentioned will be on the
record, and then we will switch to a background Q&A, during which those
remarks — during the Q&A section — will be attributable to “White House
officials.” 

As a reminder, this call, the remarks, and any other materials will be
embargoed until tomorrow, September 19th, at 5:00 a.m.  That’s, again,
this call is embargoed until tomorrow at 5:00 a.m. on September 19th. 

With that, I’m going to kick it over to Chief of Staff Jeff Zients.

MR. ZIENTS:  Hey.  Hi, everybody. 

Tomorrow, as — as Jeremy said, at the Economic Club, President Biden is
going to speak to a new milestone: Inflation and interest rates are
falling.  At the same time, employment, wages, and GDP are rising.

I want to be really clear.  This is not meant to be a declaration of
victory.  It’s meant to be a declaration of progress — significant
progress.  The president believes it’s important to mark this moment for
the country by laying out how far we’ve come, while also outlining the
work we still have to do.

From day one of this administration, there’s been three pillars to the
president’s economic playbook. 

First, the president delivered a historic response to a historic
crisis.  When we came into office, we faced a once-in-a-generation
pandemic and an unprecedented shutdown of the economy, and there really
was no plan or path forward.   
  
In less than two months, the president devised and led a strategy and
negotiated the most significant recovery package in decades, the
American Rescue Plan, which delivered shots in arms, provided direct
payments to families and businesses, prevented a wave of evictions, and
revved up job creation. 

Second, the president acted quickly to address global inflation.  As
inflation increased around the world, caused by the pandemic, primarily;
broken supply chains; and Russia’s war against Ukraine, President Biden
took on the roots of the challenge.  He worked with the private sector
to untangle snarled supply chains, getting goods back on shelves again. 
The president coordinated with allies and partners to address food and
energy prices as a result of Putin’s decision to invade Ukraine,
including historic releases of oil reserves to stabilize global energy
markets. 

The president has always respected the Federal Reserve’s independence to
bring down inflation.  That’s in stark contrast to his predecessor. 
And, you know, bottom line, this was a time that many economists
predicted a recession was necessary to bring down inflation.  And I
think that the approach has proved them wrong, with a record 16 million
jobs created, historic job creation for Black and brown workers, and
workers receiving higher paychecks now than they did pre-pan- —
-pandemic. 

Third, the president has really led and written a new economic playbook
for the country that invests in all of America — all parts of America,
red and blue — and all Americans.  And that’s going to have an impact
for decades to come.  The central piece here is to export American
products, not American jobs, and to create good-paying jobs right here
at home.  So, he — the president threw out the old economic playbook of
exporting American jobs, importing foreign products. 

And in less than four years, the president has led — working with
Congress — legislation to be passed that has resulted in the biggest
bipartisan investment in infrastructure ever — investing in our roads,
bridges, ports, trains, and so much else; the largest climate investment
in history, creating American jobs, driving clean energy — really a
clean energy revolution across the country, with America leading the
world in clean energy; tens of billions of dollars to build new chip
factories, reversing America’s decades-long reliance on foreign
countries for chips manufacturing; and after a half century of failed
attempts, negotiating with Medicare to lower prescription drug bills and
capping insulin at $35 per month and prescription drug costs at $2,000
per year for seniors. 

So, in closing, I want to talk about the work ahead.  The president
knows this is no time for a victory lap, which is why he will talk about
the work ahead.  
  
Every single day, the president and vice president push on what more can
be done to make the economy stronger, create more jobs, and,
importantly, lower costs.  The president will lay out how we build on
the progress that we’ve made across these three and a half years and
what’s at stake as we move into this new phase in the economy. 

As I said, the president and vice president want to lower housing costs,
grocery prices, and make childcare more affordable.  So, again, focused
on lowering costs. 

The president and vice president want to keep investing in all of
America and all Americans in communities left behind, from Milwaukee to
Scranton, from red cities and states to blue cities and states across
the country. 

The president and vice president want to keep America the safest and
most secure nation to invest, maintaining rule of law in our democracy. 
We all know and business people know, and other leaders across the
country, that our economic dynamism depends on it and makes us the envy
of the world.  So, I think it’s really important, but some of us can
take for advantage — take for granted, at times, that maintaining who we
are, rule of law, and democracy make America the envy of the world and
where people want to invest. 

So, make sure you tune in tomorrow afternoon — early afternoon to hear
the president speak to this in more detail.

And with that, I will turn it over to Lael.   
  
Lael.

MS. BRAINARD:  Well, thank you, Jeff.  And thanks to all of you for
joining us this afternoon.

The president’s speech marks an important milestone.  Today’s actions
send a clear signal that inflation has come back down, interest rates
are coming down, and the focus now is on sustaining the important gains
on employment and income.

Inflation has fallen 95 percent of the way back to target, and it is now
at the same level as the month before the pandemic began.  Now interest
rates are following inflation down as well, lowering costs for American
consumers. 

Americans have been through a lot, and the declines in interest rates
and in inflation will provide relief by making things more affordable,
from refinancing a home to buying a car.  The price of gasoline has
fallen close to $3 a gallon, below $3 in many states, and is at the
lowest level we’ve seen in nearly three years. 

Prices are down over the last several years for purchases like cars and
appliances and electronics.  Food prices are down over the last year in
areas like potatoes and chicken breasts, and grocery prices overall are
barely growing. 

Wages are higher than they were before the pandemic after accounting for
inflation, so working families have more purchasing power. 

Now mortgage rates are moving down.  The mortgage rate reductions we’ve
already seen will save the average new home buyer $5,000 a year, and
those savings will increase as mortgage rates come down further. 

In addition, refinancing applications are at their highest level in two
years, which will help provide relief for existing home borrowers.  For
the average new car buyer, a one percentage point decline in the
interest rate will save up to nearly $1,100 on the life of the loan. 

The president will note this hard-won progress but emphasize that we
must continue to work together to tackle long-standing affordability
challenges for middle-class families.   
  
America needs more housing.  That’s why it’s critical to move forward on
ambitious plans to bi- — to bring housing costs down by building
millions of new, affordable homes and providing incentives for states
and localities to remove outdated obstacles to building. 

It’s essential we continue to enable more workers to participate in the
labor force and to make it easier and more affordable to raise a
family.   
  
Investing in children improves both their well-being and their future
employment opportunities.  And supporting childcare expands access to
better employment opportunities for parents of young children.  That’s
why it’s critical to move forward on expanding the Child Tax Credit and
ensuring childcare is affordable and accessible. 

We have the highest employment rates for working-age people in decades
and the highest on record for women.  We’ve seen continued strong
growth, with our economy growing faster than our comparable countries,
and it’s even higher than forecasts from before the pandemic.

The declines in inflation and interest rates are welcome, but no one is
declaring victory.  The focus now has to be on sustaining the gains
we’ve seen for middle-class families, workers, and small businesses,
while continuing to address those long-standing affordability challenges
in areas such as housing, health care, and raising children. 

Let me hand it back to Jeremy. 

MR. EDWARDS:  Thank you, Lael.   
  
With that, we’re going to switch over to our background portion of the
call for Q&A. 

Please use the “raise hand” function if you have a question.  We’re
going to have about 15 minutes here, so we’ll try to move through the
queue as quickly as possible. 

As a reminder, while those opening remarks from Chief of Staff Zients
and NEC Director Lael Brainard were on the record, this portion will be
on background attributable to “White House officials.” 

So, I’ll let the queue fill up for a second, and then we’ll call on
folks, and we will get underway. 

And, again, as a reminder, the background call, including this section
of the call, is going to be on embargo until tomorrow at 5:00 a.m.

All right.  We will take our first question from Rob Wile at NBC
News.   
  
Rob, you should be able to unmute yourself now. 

  
Q    Thanks, all.  I’m wondering if the White House can comment on what
impact, if any — you know, positive, negative — the surge in immigration
that we’ve been seeing over the last couple of years has had in, you
know, shaping employment or unemployment, as well as inflation.  Thank
you. 

WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  Look, I think a number of things have been very
important in seeing the great rebound in labor participation.  What’s
very important to recognize is that for American citizens, participation
rates in the labor force are actually at very high levels, and the
employment rate for American citizens has also gone up to near record
levels. 

That said, this administration has also emphasized the importance of
legal immigration and its contribution to our economy and has worked
hard to improve visa processing times and generally to make sure that
our legal immigration system is working as well as it possibly can. 

MR. EDWARDS:  Thank you.   
  
Our next question will come from Courtenay Brown from Axios.  You should
be able to unmute yourself now. 

Q    Hey, it’s Courtenay.  Thanks for taking our questions. 

I’m trying to understand how we should interpret the administration’s
touting of lower interest rates.  I know you all have said that you have
been very respectful of the Fed’s independence, but are you worried by
bragging that lower interest rates are coming down you’re putting the
Fed in a tough spot?

And then, just quickly, one of the reasons the Fed cut rates today is
because the Fed is worried about the health of the labor market.  How
are you planning or how is the president planning to address the rise in
unemployment that we’ve seen in recent months?  Thank you. 

WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  So, I think the president took a very clear
approach.  He said publicly that he would respect the independence of
the Federal Reserve in fighting inflation.  He has kept that vow, and we
continue to think that that is absolutely central to solid economic
management. 

That’s a big contrast from his predecessor, who repeatedly criticized
the Federal Reserve on his watch and undermined the independence of the
Federal Reserve. 

What this milestone really marks is that inflation, which is associated
with the pandemic and with Putin’s invasion of Ukraine, is now back down
to the same level that we saw the month before the pandemic began.  And
that’s really the basis on which broader market interest rates have been
coming down, and so it is an appropriate time to mark this milestone. 

The president took a number of very important actions throughout his
administration — I think you heard about those earlier — that have
contributed to that.  And it is important to mark a moment at which
Americans will be getting relief from both the decline in inflation and
declining interest rates at a time when the labor market remains very
robust. 

With regard to the labor market, I think you heard today in the press
conference references to the labor market remaining solid, and we also
would just note that unemployment has remained the lowest on average of
any administration in 50 years.

MR. EDWARDS:  Thank you for that response.  We have time for a couple
more questions.  I have seen some people join during this portion of the
call, so I do just want to remind folks that we are in the background
portion of the call.  Attribution for answers during this portion is
“White House officials.” 

And with that, we will go over to Skylar Woodhouse from Bloomberg.   
  
Skylar, you should be able to unmute. 

Q    Hey.  Thanks, guys.  Thanks so much for doing this.  Just wanted to
— so, this mo- — today kind of feels like a celebra- — a celebratory
time for the White House and — you know, with interest rates coming down
a little bit, you all saying, you know, inflation is coming down as
well.  But what do you — what is the White House’s re- — comment or a
reaction to those, you know, in the American public who still say, you
know, that cost of living is still way too high?   
  
And I guess my question is, what would you all like to continue to see
from — I guess, from the Fed and continuing to accomplish and how that
relates to the goals that the Biden administration wants to accomplish
throughout the rest of its term?  Thanks.

WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  So, I think I’ll start.  This is \[White House
official\].  The president — Jeff said at the top of his remarks that
this is not meant to be a declaration of victory; it’s meant to be a
declaration of progress.  And I think that you will definitely hear that
from the president tomorrow, recognizing that int- — interest rates and
inflation falling is a new milestone and a important one, but costs are
still too high.  And he will talk about his — his agenda to lower costs
for our American families. 

MR. EDWARDS:  All right.  Thank you.   
  
And before we go to our last question, a reminder for folks who have
just joined: This is the background portion of the call.  Attribution
during this portion is to “White House officials.”  And as a reminder,
both the background portion of the call and the remarks at the top are
on embargo until tomorrow at 5:00 a.m.

With that, we will take our final question from Andrea at Reuters.   
  
Andrea, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Thank you so much.  Thanks for taking my question.  I wanted to ask
you about two things that are different.  So, do — two different factors
that could affect prices going forward.   
  
One is the rising concerns about a broader regional war in the Middle
East, and whether you’ve done any modeling about what that could do to
inflation going forward and whether that could be, you know, a setback
on this road to progress that you’ve mapped out. 

Then the other thing is the persistence of high housing costs and the
percentage that they, you know, account for in people’s monthly budgets,
which are much higher than they used to be.  Can you just walk us
through where you think you see, you know, possible improvements and how
long the efforts to create more affordable housing will take?  Like,
when will there be a sort of substantial decrease in housing costs? 
Thanks.

WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  Thanks for that.  It’s \[White House
official\].   
  
On the first question, look, I think that where we are in the macro
economy right now is a general point of labor market in balance, a
strong labor market; inflation having come down significantly.  You
note, kind of, the geopolitical risks that we consistently monitor, but
our assessment, you know, right now, is that the economy is in a healthy
place, and that the kind of range of risks, while we continue to monitor
them, do not pose a significant risk to the — to the outlook. 
Obviously, as you — we’re consistently monitoring energy markets,
consistently monitoring a range of risks. 

On your second question about housing costs.  Look, this is a place
that, you know, you’ll hear the president continue to emphasize where we
need to take more action as a country to continue to bring down housing
costs.   
  
Part of that — part of the importance of the economic milestone that we
find ourselves at right now is that folks will see some relief on
housing costs.  New homebuyers saving thousands of dollars a month,
compared to — excuse me, thousands of dollars a year, compared to where
rates were just a year ago.  Folks who bought homes in the last couple
of years now able to refinance and bring down their monthly payments. 

But we very much understand and know that in order to really durably
bring housing costs down and address the housing affordability
challenges that folks are facing across the country, we need to build
more housing in this country, and that means really a substantial
investment in affordable housing.  It means incentivizing state and
local governments to reduce barriers to build that we know holds supply
back and raises housing costs.  So, that will continue to be an area of
focus for the president and for the administration. 

MR. EDWARDS:  Thank you.  That is all we have time for today.  Thank you
all for joining us on this call, and thank you to our speakers.

As a reminder, this call is embargoed until tomorrow at 5:00 a.m. 
That’s September 19th at 5:00 a.m., the embargo lifts on this call and
its contents.  And another reminder is that the Q&A portion was on
background, attribution to “White House officials.” 

Thank you again for joining us, and please follow up with me if you have
any questions.  Have a good afternoon.

4:41 P.M. EDT
