---
date: '2024-09-12'
published_time: 2024-09-12 09:51:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/12/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-27/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

10:08 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks for joining.  Kirby has a few words
here at the top, and then we’ll get through as many questions as we
can.  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Good morning, everybody.

As you all know, the Biden administration has repeatedly warned of the
deepening security partnership between Russia and Iran since the outset
of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

One specific threat we have consistently exposed and warned about is the
potential transfer of Iranian missiles to Russia for use in Ukraine. 
Secretary Blinken mentioned this morning.  Here’s the current state of
play.  I just want to rehash it for you:

As has been reported recently, dozens of Russian military personnel have
been trained in Iran to use the Fateh 360 close-range ballistic missile
system.  Russia has received these shipments of Iranian Fath-360
close-range ballistic missiles and will probably employ them within
weeks against Ukraine, which will, of course, lead to the deaths of even
more Ukrainian civilians, particularly because of the way they use
ballistic missiles against civilian infrastructure. 

Moscow possesses an array of its own ballistic missiles, of course, but
the supply of these Iranian missiles, which have a maximum range of
about 75 miles, could allow Russia to use more of its arsenal for
targets beyond the front line, while employing Iranian warheads for
closer-range targets.  This is obviously deeply concerning, and it
certainly speaks to the manner in which this partnership threatens
European security and how it illustrates Iran’s destabilizing influence
now reaches well beyond the Middle East. 

Russia’s support for Iran is destabilizing as well, as Moscow is sharing
technology that Iran needs, including on nuclear issues.  And, of
course, we know that Russia also shares some space information with
Iran.  And we’ve been working with our allies to ensure that there is a
significant consequence to this action. 

Later today, the United Kingdom, France, and Germany will announce their
intent to suspend certain lucrative commercial ties with Iran and their
state-owned business.  We will supplement their rea- — I’m sorry — we
will supplement their action with our own sanctions that the Department
of Treasury and the Department of State will be announcing later this
morning, including additional measures against Iran Air.  And we expect
allies and partners will be announcing their own measures against Iran
as well. 

But this is a clear message from the E3 and the United States that if
Iran continues to support the war in Ukraine, there will be significant
economic costs. 

The new Iranian president and the foreign minister have repeatedly
claimed that they want to engage with Europe and garner sanctions
relief.  Destabilizing actions like this just fly in the face of that
rhetoric and ultimately hurt their own economy. 

With that, I can take some questions. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Trevor with
Reuters.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing this.  Could you talk a little bit more about
possible targets for sanctions, and, you know, also this kind of idea
about threats to European security?  You know, there’s obviously
Ukraine, but broader than that, what do you see as kind of the risks to
Europe right now?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, these are close-range ballistic missiles, again, with
a range of about 75 miles, so they don’t have a huge range.  And we
fully expect that Putin will use them, again, inside Ukraine.  But we’ve
also seen — I got asked about it yesterday, you know — drone and missile
fragments falling outside of Ukraine.  And you just never know in terms
of the potential for miscalculations, for poor accuracy, for the effect
on outside of Ukraine.  So that’s a concern.

But the larger concern — and I tried to hint at this in the opening
comments — is that both Iran and Russia get better because of this
partnership.  They share technology.  They share tactics and
procedures.  They share intelligence.  They share geostrategic ways to
better cooperate. 

And when you have two destabilizing actors like this getting closer and
reinforcing one another in terms of their — what they believe they need
to do militarily, that does increase the level of danger.  Russia will
get — has already benefited from the provision of drones by Iran. 
They’ll benefit more from this ballistic missile technology.  And I
think we can all agree, or at least I think we all should agree, that a
Russian military that has more capability available to it, to kill
innocent Ukrainians, is unsafe for all of us, certainly for our European
partners. 

And the same is true in the Middle East, Trevor, when you have Iran,
that already has a growing and increasingly effective ballistic missile
capability, is now available to — they can avail themselves of Russian
technology to improve their capabilities.  That, too, is dangerous in
the Middle East. 

So it’s dangerous on both ends of this, not just to Europe, but to the
Middle East.  And that’s why we’re issuing the sanctions that we’re
issuing today. 

As for additional details, I’d have to refer you to the Treasury
Department on that.  I don’t have anything more outside of the
announcement of the sanctions to speak to today. 

I would also say — and, obviously, you know we don’t pre-announce
anything in the future — but we’ll continue to monitor this.  And if we
feel additional actions, including additional sanctions, are warranted,
well, you know, we’ll take action in that regard as well.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Aamer with the AP.

Q    Hi.  Thank you both.  How many short-range ballistic missiles did
Iran transfer?  And why did Iran move forward with it now?  As you
pointed out, you guys have been warning about this and concerned about
this for months and months now.

And then, separately, does the administration want to see an independent
investigation into the death of the young U.S. Turkish citizen in the
West Bank? 

And then finally, I just wanted to ask if you had any reaction to that
House Republican report on the Afghanistan withdrawal, particularly the
suggestion that the White House and NSC was resistant to taking input
from agencies and outside.  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Hey.  There’s a lot there.  I don’t have the number of
missiles for you, Aamer.  I really don’t have information to go beyond
the downgraded intelligence that Secretary Blinken announced this
morning.  But we know these missiles have been delivered.  But that’s
really as far as I’m going to be able to go right now.

On the death of Ms. Eygi: You’ve heard us talk about this.  You
certainly, I hope, heard Secretary Blinken’s comments in London earlier
today.  We continue to mourn and grieve with the Eygi family about what
happened here.  And we note that the Israeli Defense Forces have
completed their preliminary investigation in which they found they were
at fault.  And we also note that they have called for now a criminal
investigation to pick up where they left off and move forward. 

So we’re going to be watching that very, very closely.  We know that’s
an unusual step for the IDF.  That’s not something that they do
typically.  So, again, it’s noteworthy.  We’ll continue to watch where
it goes and stay in touch with Israeli leaders as that moves forward,
because obviously this is just a tragic, tragic outcome, and as
Secretary Blinken said, it should not occur for an innocent bystander to
be killed in a protest. 

So, again, very, very deeply concerning to us, and we’ll be watching
this investigation very closely.

I don’t have anything beyond that to speak to in terms of whether there
should be something independent.  I think we’re going to want to see
where it goes now in terms of the criminal investigation and what they
find, and if and how anyone is held accountable, before we move beyond
that.

Q    On Iran — why now?  After months of worrying that this could
happen, why do you believe it happened now?  Why did they make the
decision to move forward?

MR. KIRBY:  I wish I could get inside the head of the Supreme Leader
here and figure out why he’s doing what he’s doing.  I can’t do that. 
All I can tell you is that this is something that we had warned about
for months, publicly said we were concerned about the possible tren- —
transfer of ballistic missiles and ballistic missile technology and
expertise to Russia. 

We made that — we downgraded that and put that out in the public, and
we’ve been watching it ever since.  And now we have seen, in fact, this
deal get consummated, and so we’re making that public and doing
something about it. 

But as for the exact timing, it’s difficult for us to know how they
executed on this particular timeline.  The timeline is — and I’m not at
all picking on your question, Aamer.  It’s a fair — absolutely fair
question.  But the timeline itself is not the most relevant piece. 
What’s most relevant is that now Russia will have available to it
additional ballistic missiles to rain down on the Ukrainian people and
Ukrainian infrastructure.  And that’s exactly how this guy is going to
use these things now. 

I mean, I’m not saying he’s not going to target military units; he might
do that.  But what he has been known for doing in the past is using
ballistic missiles, because they’re incredibly fast, to hit civilian
targets with obviously little or no notice. 

And that’s why it’s so important for us to continue to do what we have
to do to improve Ukrainian air defenses.  And you saw in the last
drawdown package of $250 million, there was additional air defense in
there.  Secretary Austin just met with the Contact Group last week in
Germany, working hard to get additional air defense, like additional
Patriot systems, to Ukraine to help them with this exact threat. 

So while we wa- — while we monitored this deal as it formed, we also did
and we’ll continue to do everything we can to help Ukraine defend
against it. 

On your last question on the report: I mean, I talked a little bit about
the report yesterday, you know.  But this idea that the NSC just
dictated withdrawal policy and did so without any input from the
interagency is just flat-out not true. 

From the President on down, the NSC, led by Mr. Sullivan, ran a very
robust and thorough policy process.  And I can tell you, without
question, it reflected the input of all the departments and relevant
agencies across the government, including military commanders in Kabul,
as well as State Department diplomats in Kabul.  They were wrapped up
into that process and participated. 

In fact, throughout the whole spring and summer of ’21, the NSC convened
dozens of high-level planning meetings for the withdrawal, including
senior leaders, again, from across the government.  They coordinated
formal rehearsals of the withdrawal and convened tabletop exercises for
the interagency — exercises that explored all kinds of different
scenarios, including the potential evacuation, not only of diplomats and
military personnel, but of civilians. 

And of course, there was — there were preps put in place to make sure
that we could deal with a rapid deterioration of the security
situation.  That’s why Secretary Austin pre-positioned military assets
in the region, nearby, for that very eventuality.  That all came out of
these tabletop exercises and drills that we conducted in that spring.

In fact, just to foot-stomp it even more, even before the President made
his final decision about whether to leave Afghanistan, that planning for
those kinds of eventualities began in March, before the President made
his decision.  And again, it included the top leaders across the
government.  And that planning included, again, withdrawal planning and
an account for a full range of contingencies. 

I would add one more point here, if you’ll allow me. 

Throughout that entire time, the NSC solicited input, again, from key
officials across the government and on the ground in Kabul, including
military commanders with whom NSC leaders spoke personally multiple
times, to ensure that we fully understood their views. 

So, again, an awful lot of effort across the interagency and early on. 
And this idea that it was reckless and rushed and not inclusive of an
interagency process is just bogus. 

Thanks for the opportunity.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Barak with Axios.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for this.  Kirby, Secretary of State Blinken said
again today that the U.S. will present, he said, “in the coming time,
very soon,” a new bridging proposal for the Gaza hostage and ceasefire
deal.  And at least what I hear from White House officials is a
different message that says there’s nothing imminent, that there’s no
new proposal that is ready to be presented, and it seems that there’s
some sort of a contradictory message coming out from different parts of
the administration. 

So, I’m a bit confused, so if you can explain what’s going on.

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Barak.  I — it won’t surprise you, but I’m going to
say exactly today what I’ve been saying in the last few days: We still
have a shoulder to the wheel, and we’re still trying to arrive at a
proposal — bridging proposal, if you will — that will get this thing to
conclusion and get both sides to agree and get us started into phase
one.  We are still working at that diligently. 

Now, we’re not doing it in the case of, you know, formal negotiation
talks at this point.  They ended without effect, of course, but the
conversations are continuing. 

What’s not clear to us, certainly in the wake of the execution of those
six hostages, is whether we’re going to be able to get there.  What’s
not clear to us is whether Hamas will ever be able to come to the table
in sincerity and sign on to something.  And so, that’s the complicating
factor here.  It doesn’t mean that the work is not continuing.  It is. 
Secretary Blinken is right; we’re still working on this.

But I just have to say: All that work has been made much more difficult
by the events of last weekend and — or the weekend prior to last
weekend.

Q    But do you agree with what he said, that “in the coming time, very
soon,” you will present a proposal?  Because he said it also last
Thursday, I think, or last Friday.  And CIA Director Burns said the same
thing on Saturday.  But, again, it seems that the White House is in a
different place.  So are you or aren’t you planning to present something
in the next few days?

MR. KIRBY:  (Inaudible) — give you a prediction of the day it’s going to
happen or what it’s going to look like.  I can tell you that we’re still
committed to trying to put something forward. 

If I could, before you go to the next question — on Trevor’s question
about sanctions, I did get some additional information.  I just wanted
to pass on that in addition to the Iran Air actions that I did mention
we and our allies are taking — that those actions were taken — we’re
going to be designating individuals and entities in Iran and Russia that
are involved in the actual delivery of weapons components and weapons
systems, including UAVs and, again, these close-range ballistic
missiles. 

So I apologize for my incomplete answer to Trevor, but I wanted to go
ahead and flesh that out.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Alex with CNN.

Q    Thanks, guys.  John, just following up a little bit on Barak and
what you said yesterday in terms of Hamas changing the terms of the
deal: Is that — did they do it implicitly because, of the six hostages,
there were three of whom were going to come out in the first phase and,
therefore, the deal necessarily changes?  Or did you actually get new
terms, new demands, like more prisoners from Hamas, in the wake of the
execution of those six prisoners?  How did it change?

MR. KIRBY:  My understanding is it was new demands.

Q    They wanted additional Palestinian prisoners?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m just going to go as far as saying it was new demands put
forward by Hamas.

Q    So after the six were executed, you then received new terms to be
put into a new agreement?

MR. KIRBY:  That is correct. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Kellie with
NewsNation.

Q    Hey, John.  Thanks for taking my question.  I just have two here. 
The first one: Just wanted to ask you about these claims that some
Republicans are repeating, including Vance this morning, that Haitian
migrants are eating cats and ducks in Ohio.  Officials are saying
there’s no evidence.  Just how dangerous are these kind of comments?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, yeah, as you rightly said, the Springfield Police
Department actually did, in fact, push back on this absolute nonsense to
say it’s not happening. 

And what’s deeply concerning to us is you’ve got now elected officials
in the Republican Party pushing, you know, yet another conspiracy theory
that’s just seeking to divide people based on lies and, let’s be honest,
based on an element of racism. 

I think all Americans should expect more and better from the people that
they’re electing to represent them.  And I think what we need to have
is, instead of complete BS being pushed out there, is a more meaningful
discussion about how we can develop legal pathways for people to come
into this country and fair opportunities for them if they come in
legally.  And that’s what we’re focused on. 

It’s dangerous.  This kind of language — this kind of disinformation is
dangerous because there will be people that believe it no matter how
ludicrous and stupid it is, and they might act on that kind of
information and act on it in a way where somebody could get hurt.  So,
it needs to stop. 

Q    Thank you.  And then, just really quickly, if I could ask you: Just
— you know, with the debate happening tonight, we’re moving towards the
election, can you speak to if and how preparations are being made for —
within the NSC for a transition?

MR. KIRBY:  You know, look, I’m not going to get into discussions about
the politics of it, but, clearly, we all know that no matter how the
American people vote in November, there’s going to be a transition to a
new administration here come January.  And so, as you would expect, it’s
a little early, but it’s actually not that early for us to begin to
start thinking through what that transition looks like and developing
plans and preparations so that the next administration, whoever that
might be, has available to it the information, the context, the history
of the decisions that we’ve made, why we’ve made them, how we’ve made
them, and that they can avail themselves of all that information and
corporate knowledge as they come in. 

So those plans are — I’m sorry — those preparations are in swing, as you
would expect them to be.  We’ve got a lot of work ahead of us,
obviously, and still some time to do that, to have all those
preparations complete. 

At the same time, we’re laser-focused on continuing to execute on the
national security interests, prerogatives, and priorities of this
administration.  And you will continue to see us do that every day, all
the way up until the 20th of January, and you will continue to see the
President, as Commander-in-Chief, lead those efforts. 

And so, I expect you’ll also see quite a bit of activity on advancing
our national security interests in this administration over the next
four months as well.

Q    Are you preparing for the possibility of the other, potentially,
one candidate not accepting the results?  And then, you know, how do you
— and not accepting that this is — you know, that the security — you
know, just how they’re going to go forward with the national security if
one person doesn’t accept?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get into hypotheticals, and that wouldn’t
be a place for the NSC to comment anyway, one way or the other. 

Look, there’s an election coming up in November.  Somebody is going to
win, and that person is going to be the head of the new administration. 
And we, here at the National Security Council, take seriously our
obligations to make sure that whoever that is and whoever their team is,
that they — when they fall in, they fall in on as much context and
information that we can provide them to make their decision-making
easier.  That’s what we’re focused on. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Lara with the Wall
Street Journal.

Q    Hello.  Can you hear me?

MODERATOR:  We can.  Yep.

Q    Great.  I have two questions.  One on Ukraine.  With Secretary
Blinken in Kyiv this week, are there any new efforts by the
administration to encourage Ukraine to the negotiating table?  Is now
the time for negotiations with Putin?

And then secondly, on Afghanistan — and, Kirby, I know you were at the
Pentagon during that time, I believe — how involved was the Vice
President in the Afghanistan withdrawal discussions?  Can you talk a
little bit about her role there?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  So on your first question, Lara, Secretary Blinken is
looking forward to getting into Kyiv to get an update from President
Zelenskyy and his team about what’s going on on the battlefield; to
certainly talk to them about the kinds of capabilities they’re going to
need for battlefield success in the coming weeks and months as winter
approaches; to reaffirm America’s support for their efforts to defend
themselves and to claim back and claw back territory that the Russians
have taken, particularly in the northeast part of the country.  And I
think, as you would expect, he’ll also talk to them about moving
President Zelenskyy’s just peace proposal forward and doing what we can
to support that. 

He will make it clear, as we have been consistently saying, that it’s
going to be up to President Zelenskyy, if and when he wants to negotiate
an end to this war.  Certainly, a negotiated end is the most likely
outcome here.  But when that happens, and under what conditions and
circumstances, that’s going to be up to President Zelenskyy.  And the
point that Secretary Blinken will make is that we’re going to do
everything we can to make sure that he, if and when he’s ready to make
that decision, that he does so from the best possible position. 

And so, that’s what this trip is really about.  It’s not an arm
twisting.  It’s about learning, it’s about listening, and it’s about
making sure that the Ukrainians know that we’re going to continue to do
what we can to support them and, again, put them in the best possible
position to negotiate if and when they’re ready.

On your second question: As the Vice President, she was involved in
participating in all — and still does — in all major foreign policy
decisions of the administration, and that includes the decision to leave
Afghanistan, and interagency discussions that I just was talking about
earlier on the withdrawal and the execution.  She’s the Vice President
of the United States, so she was absolutely a participant in all those
discussions.  So, I’d leave it there.

Q    Just on — just a follow-up on Ukraine.  Is Secretary Blinken
expecting to be briefed on this victory plan that we’ve heard about? 
And do you or any other NSC officials have any details about it?

MR. KIRBY:  You’d have to talk to Ukrainians about what they want to
bring up with Secretary Blinken specifically.  That’s going to be up to
them if they have a, quote, unquote, “victory plan” that they want to
talk to them about.  I don’t know for sure whether that itself will come
up. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Gabe with NBC.

Gabe, you’re on mute.  You’re unmuting yourself and then muting
yourself.  You’re on mute.  Now you’re on mute. 

Okay, we’re going to — we’re going to move on and try back to you
later. 

We’re going to now go to Asma with NPR.

Q    Hey.  Thanks for doing this.  I have two quick questions.  One is
on the sanctions around Iranian Air.  John, can you spell out what that
means?  I’m a little confused, because my understanding is the U.S.
doesn’t have flights to Iran.  Are you talking about coordination of
flights being stopped to European cities?  If you could just spell that
out. 

And then, secondly, on the young woman who was killed in the West Bank,
can you also clarify for me why — I know you said that, at this point,
there’s not plans for a U.S. or independent investigation.  Can you help
us understand why you do not believe that that is necessary?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, so let me take your second one first. 

What I said was we’re going to watch and see what their now criminal
investigation says before we make any determinations one way or
another.  So, I think we believe that it’s noteworthy that they’ve moved
now from a purely military investigation to a criminal investigation. 
And we believe it’s prudent to let that investigation run its course and
see where it goes before we make any follow-on decisions. 

I didn’t say absolutely no call for an independent investigation.  It’s
just that we don’t believe that there’s a need to call for that at this
moment.  We want to see how this criminal investigation goes forward.

And on the Iran Air, and I’m sorry if I wasn’t more clear about that,
but this is basically about the UK and E3 partners canceling bilateral
arrangements with Iran and those — canceling those bilateral
arrangements, which will restrict Iran Air and their services into the
UK and into Europe.  So it’s about restricting their movement into
(inaudible).

Q    So, flights.  So, commercial flights, (inaudible).

MR. KIRBY:  And we are sanctioning them as well. 

Q    Got it.  Okay.  So — sorry, commercial flights would be stopped,
you’re saying, between — on this airline — between some European cities
and Iran.  Is that what you’re saying?

MR. KIRBY:  That is my understanding, yes.

Q    Okay.  And when you say that the U.S. is also sanctioning, what
does that mean?

MR. KIRBY:  It’s — you know, I’d have to refer you to the Treasury
Department for more specifics.  But we are sanctioning Iran Air as well.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Rafael with La
Nación.

Q    Thank you very much for taking my question.  John, you said
yesterday at the briefing, when asked about Venezuela, that you are
constantly looking at options going forward, depending on the decisions
that Maduro makes.  Does this mean that you’re holding back on any new
sanctions, waiting to see if there’s a new move by the Maduro regime? 
Are there any — are you waiting to see the results of the negotiations
between regional governments and the Maduro regime?

MR. KIRBY:  What we’re waiting to see is whether Mr. Maduro is going to
do the right thing and release the election data to the public so that
the Venezuelan people can see the degree to which their will was
actually met.  That’s what we’re waiting to see.  But — and we want to
see it now.

What I’m — I’m not — this isn’t about holding anything back.  We
actually have issued sanctions on the Maduro government, and we won’t be
bashful about doing it in the future if we feel we need to do it.  But
what needs to happen right now is Mr. Maduro needs to do the right
thing, stop intimidating and falsely charging his opponents, and release
the election data.

Q    What makes you think that there’s going to be a change in attitude
from the Maduro regime or that, you know, the talks between Maduro and
Brazil, Colombia, Mexico are going to yield results, you know, towards a
democratic transition?

MR. KIRBY:  (Inaudible.)  And again, the sanctions that we’ve issued,
and whatever potential sanctions might be coming, will be done in
accordance with our national interests, and they’ll be appropriately
calibrated.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’ll try again to go to Gabe with NBC.

Q    Hey, this is Gabe’s producer here.  Gabe went to the event.  I just
wanted to see if we could get any confirmation on these reports that the
Quad Summit was going to be held in Wilmington this year, and any
information on why it would not be in India.

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything with respect to this — a potential
meeting to talk about today.  Nothing to announce.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And that is all the time we have today.  As
always, if we weren’t able to get to you, reach out to the distro and
we’ll try to get back to you as soon as we can.  Thank you. 

10:41 A.M. EDT
