---
date: '2024-09-09'
modified_time: 2024-09-09 22:43:07-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-09 15:38:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/09/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-communications-adviser-john-kirby/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Communications Adviser John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:04 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everybody.  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon. 

Okay.  I have a couple things at the top.  Please bear with me. 

So, on Saturday, a suspect shot and injured five individuals along
Interstate 75 in Kentucky and is still at large.  We’re praying for
those who were injured and wishing them a speedy recovery. 

The president was briefed over the weekend, and he urges residents to
remain vigilant and listen to local officials as they continue to
investigate.  The administration is in touch with state and local
officials, and federal law enforcement is supporting the local
investigation and efforts to apprehend the suspects.

Next, we are praying for the thousands of Americans under mandatory
evacuations under orders out West.  Senior administration officials are
monitoring the fires, including the Line fire in California and the
Davis fire in Nevada, and are in close touch with state and local
leaders to ensure they have the resources they need. 

Over 7,000 federal personnel are supporting local firefighting efforts
across multiple states.  Residents in the affected areas should remain
vigilant and heed the warnings of local officials, especially those who
have been ordered to evacuate. 

President Biden and Vice President Harris believe that health care is a
right, not a privilege, and that mental health care is health care,
period.  But for millions of Americans, care for mental health and
substance use conditions is still hard to find and hard to afford. 

Today, the Biden-Harris administration is taking a step forward,
changing that by placing new requirements on health plans that will
improve and strengthen access to mental health care for 175 million
Americans with private health insurance. 

For the president, it’s simple.  If you have a mental health crisis, you
should be able to access the care that you need the same way you acc- —
access care for a broken bone or a heart attack. 

Addressing mental health crisis is a key priority for this president,
for this administration.  And the steps being taken today will
dramatically expand access to mental health care in America. 

And finally, later this afternoon, the president will — will be joined
by elected officials and advocates to celebrate the 34th anniversary of
the Americans with Disability Act and mark Disability Pride Month.

One of the president’s first acts — acts as a U.S. senator was
cosponsoring the Rehabilitation Act, which banned discrimination on the
basis of disability by any entity funded by the federal government and
paved the way for the Americans with Disability Act. 

Since taking office, President Biden and Vice President Harris have
carried the same commitment to ensuring disabled Americans are treated
with dignity, respect, and inclusion to live and thrive in their
communities.

Under the president — under this administration, the Biden-Harris
administration, Americans with disabilities have seen historic increases
in employment and earnings, and the administration has taken significant
steps to protect civil rights and promote full participation in
society.  And that work will continue. 

With that, I will turn it over to my colleague, Admiral John Kirby, who
is here to take some questions on the House Foreign Affairs Committee’s
report released yesterday on the Afghanistan withdrawal.

With that, Admiral.

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Karine.

Good afternoon, everybody. 

Q    Good afternoon.

MR. KIRBY:  As you saw today, House Republicans released their
investigation report into Afghanistan withdrawal.  This comes, of
course, two years after their first report, and this one says little or
nothing new.

We’ve already issued comment about the one-sided, partisan nature of
this report, so I’m not going to belabor that right now, but I do think
a brief rundown of actual facts is important. 

First, on the very day this administration took office, the Taliban was
in the strongest position it had been in years, and the Afghan
government the weakest.

The Trump administration cut a deal called the Doha Agreement that
mandated a complete U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan, and, yes, that
included Bagram Air Base by the end of May 2021.  That deal also
released 5,000 Taliban fighters from prison — 5,000 fighters. 

In return, the Taliban agreed not to attack U.S. troops, which is a good
thing because the former president reduced our presence in Afghanistan
from about 14,000 down to 2,500.

As General Frank McKenzie, former commander of U.S. Central Command,
said himself in testimony, the Doha — Doha deal had a, quote, “really
pernicious effect,” unquote, on the Afghan government and military.

As we saw, it demoralized them and it disenfranchised them.  They knew
right then and there that America was on its way out. 

Indeed, in October of 2020, then-President Trump ordered his military to
rush the exit from Afghanistan and have everybody leave by Christmas of
that year. 

President Biden, for his part, faced a stark choice when he came to
office: abide by the flawed agreement and end America’s longest war or
blow up the deal, extend the war, and see a much smaller contingent of
American troops back in combat with the Taliban. 

He chose the former, and he was able to buy additional time to prepare
for that withdrawal all the way into the summer, and we as a nation are
safer for it. 

Any and every discussion about what happened in Afghanistan has to start
right there.  Sadly, the report does not dwell on it. 

Now, there’s some other falsehoods — too many to mention, but a few do
stand out, and I would like to tick them off if you don’t mind. 

One, there was, in fact, planning for evacuations — planning that
started in the spring of 2021 and included all the requisite agencies. 
In fact, the Department of Defense pre-positioned military units in the
region so that once a decision had been reached to evacuate, they would
be poised to respond in a timely fashion. 

Two, there was no fine-tuned assessment of how fast things would unfold
in August of 2021.  It all moved a lot faster than anyone anticipated. 
As the Taliban moved in, Afghan forces stopped fighting, and the Ghani
government fled. 

As then-Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Mark Milley said,
quote, “Nothing that I saw indicated a collapse of this army and this
government in 11 days,” end quote. 

Two — or, I’m sorry, three, there was no point in securing Bagram Air
Base for use during the evacuation.  Doing so would not only have
required thousands of additional U.S. troops but also would have
required a dangerous trek by evacuees over Taliban-controlled territory,
making the evacuation even more difficult to execute than it already
was.

Four, there was no handover of U.S. equipment to the Taliban.  That
equipment had been provided to Afghan Security Forces, appropriately and
with congressional approval, over the course of two decades of war. 
That equipment was left by those Afghan forces when they surrendered or
stopped fighting.

And five, there was no deception, lying, or lack of transparency by this
administration either during or after the withdrawal.  We did the best
we could every day to keep the American people informed of what was
happening.  We conducted our own after-action reports and shared those,
too, with the public.  And, as I mentioned, we cooperated extensively in
this investigation and to contin- — and we continue to work with the War
Commission.

Ending wars is more difficult than starting them.  President Biden knew
that; he acknowledged that.  But it doesn’t mean that the decision to
end this one was wrong or that the withdrawal wasn’t conducted as
professionally and as bravely as was humanly possible given the
circumstances.

It doesn’t mean we don’t grieve and mourn with the families of those
whose lives were tragically taken during the withdrawal, especially at
Abbey Gate on the 26th of August of that year.

And it doesn’t mean that we don’t still look with awe and admiration at
the many thousands of men and women who waged this war over the course
of 20 years — troops, diplomats, intelligence experts, contractors, and
civilian employees from this and dozens of other nations.  They
accomplished the mission for which they were sent to Afghanistan.  They
helped make us a safer nation. 

Sadly, 2,461 of them did not make it home.  And many of those who did
still struggle with the wounds of war, seen and unseen.  As the
president has said, we owe them and their families a debt of gratitude
that can never be fully repaid.

But now that the war is over, our nation can better focus on other
pressing national security interests around the world.  We would do well
in all this partisan rancor over the withdrawal to remember that.

I’ll take some questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead, Selina.

Q    Thanks, Admiral.  It’s been reported that Iran has sent short-range
ballistic missiles to Russia for use in Ukraine.  Can you confirm that
this transfer happened?  And how concerning is this?

MR. KIRBY:  I cannot confirm the reports that the transfer has happened.

But I would point you to what we have said in the past that — that any
such provision of that kind of technology

would not only have a deleterious effect on the Ukrainians’ ability to
continue to defend themselves — and certainly on the lives and
livelihoods of Ukrainians — but could, depending on what the deal — how
it’s consummated, have — have equally deleterious effects on the Middle
East. 

An — an Iran that already has an improving ballistic-missile program, we
— we could only assume, would — would want to stand to gain from some
sort of partnership with Russia to improve their — their capabilities in
the region.  And, of course, given all their destabilizing activities,
that’s a dangerous outcome. 

Q    And is the White House prepared to increase pressure on Netanyahu
to accept a ceasefire deal, potentially doing something similar as the
United Kingdom in terms of withholding more weapons?

MR. KIRBY:  I can’t think of anything we haven’t put more pressure on
ourselves than to try to get this deal.  And we still — I think I just
drew on myself.  I think — I think

we — we know how urgent this is, and we’re working night and day to try
to see if we can get a deal in place.  Hamas is the main obstacle to
this right now. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Danny.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Admiral.  A couple of things.

Firstly, on Afghanistan.  So, are you — would you argue that the
withdrawal is a success?  Or do you admit that there were failings
involved in that?

MR. KIRBY:  We have — I’d point you to the after-action report, where I
think we’ve been very clear about the planning efforts and the execution
of the — of the plan.  No plan of any operation whatsoever ever goes
exactly according to the dictates by which you laid it out. 

Clearly, there were moments of great violence and there were moments of
— of mission execution that didn’t go exactly the way we wanted it to
go.  I mean, I’m not — nobody has walked away from that.

But in the main, we were able to get 120-some — 120,000-some-odd folks
out of there safely with an airplane taking off about once every hour. 
And, again, we’ve laid it all out in our after-action report that the
State Department did, that the Department of Defense did, that we did
here. 

Q    And, sorry, just very briefly on — on the point about Keir
Starmer’s visit and — and Gaza.  Is the president going to be pressing
Prime Minister Starmer to perhaps reverse his decision on the arms
sales?  Or — or, conversely, might he be seeking some advice about m- —
you know, about how, you know, the U.S. might do that and (inaudible) —

MR. KIRBY:  We’re looking forward to the visit.  There’s an awful lot to
discuss.  I think you can expect the prime minister and the president to
talk about what’s going on in Ukraine, let’s talk about the Middle East,
even in the Indo-Pacific. 

This isn’t about twisting arms or trying to change minds.  The British
government has made their determination about arms provisions to — to
Israel.  We respect that.  That’s for them to speak to. 

This is about how we move together as principal allies and — and good
friends on a range of foreign policy issues.  And I think it’s fair to
say that — that as part of this meeting on Friday, it will focus heavily
on an extended agenda of foreign policy issues — expanded agenda. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ed.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Admiral, there have been requests — or there have
been signals from congressional Republicans they’d like to continue this
investigation into what happened in Afghanistan.  Has the White House
received any more requests for people to testify?  Would they entertain
them?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware of any additional requests for more
testimony. 

Q    Has anyone from the White House or the prior administration been
invited to tomorrow’s Gold Medal ceremony for the families of the 13
service members who died?

MR. KIRBY:  There will be — there will be quite a few from the
Department of Defense, both in terms of active-duty admirals and
generals and civilian political appointees in high leadership positions
that will be there.

Q    And on the — going back to, sort of, accountability and — and
after-action.  Was anyone ever held accountable by the president
directly for what happened with the withdrawal in Afghanistan?  And, if
not, remind the audience why not. 

MR. KIRBY:  We have all held ourselves accountable for the progress of
the withdrawal across the administration.  And it was a true interagency
effort to get those 120,000 people out and to make sure we removed our
diplomats and our military personnel safely. 

As I said, Ed, not everything went according to plan.  Nothing ever
does.  And we mourn the loss of — of those 13 lives at Abbey Gate every
single day here.  Their sacrifice doesn’t — doesn’t — is not forgotten.

But, again, we — we hold ourselves all accountable for that.

Q    One other part of the world, because there’s been some movement
regarding Venezuela just in the last day.  The opposition candidate,
Edmundo González, is now in Spain seeking — or expected to be granted
political asylum. 

There’s been a lot written reporting in the last few days about what the
administration may or may not be trying to do to get Maduro to leave by
the end of the year before his next term would begin, even though U.S.
and others don’t necessarily think he has. 

What is the latest on what the U.S. is trying to do, and would they ever
help González come back to Venezuela?

MR. KIRBY:  I won’t get into hypotheticals one way or another about Mr.
González and what his future might — might be.  He wouldn’t have had to
seek political asylum if he wasn’t accused of trumped-up, ridiculous
charges and — and forced in that manner to — to flee his own country.

What needs to happen next is Mr. Maduro needs to heed the call of the
international community — and, quite frankly, the Venezuelan people —
and release the data so that the whole world can see what the Venezuelan
people — who they voted for and that their democratic aspirations are
met.

We have, in the past — you’ve seen — levied sanctions against Mr. Maduro
and his regime.  I don’t have any announcements today, but I can tell
you we’re constantly looking at what our options could be going forward,
depending on the decisions that Maduro makes.

Q    And does the White House anticipate any surge in illegal border
crossings or attempts to do so because of the instability in Venezuela
(inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  Haven’t seen that play out.  I mean, obviously we’re
watching this as closely as we can.  As you well know, the numbers at
the southern border have reduced and reduced significantly in the past
months.  But have not seen any indications of the surge coming out of
Venezuela.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    John, China said that they’ll be holding joint naval air drills
with Russia starting this month.  What’s the level of concern from the
administration that these two countries are — are cooperating?  Is this
a sign of deepening cooperation?

MR. KIRBY:  I think it is, sure.  We’ve been watching this defense
relationship grow and deepen over the last couple of years to include
the — the exercise of their militaries in both the air, at sea, and even
on the ground. 

So, we’ll watch it like we all — like we watch all exercises, but I
don’t — look, these are two nations that don’t have a long history of
working well together, certainly not militarily.  These are two nations
that don’t necessarily fully trust one another in the region or beyond,
arou- — around the world.

So, I see no reason for us to change our own military posture or
deterrent posture as a result of this exercise.  This is a long-planned
exercise.  It’s a part of their — their regimen.  So, we’ll watch it and
— and monitor, but — but there’s no — you know, there’s no dramatic,
imminent concern about it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Just a couple more.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, John.  Firstly, on China.  There are a raft of bills up
for a vote in Congress this week that have to do with keeping China from
accessing the Inflation Reduction Act funding, that limit their EV
market, that try to counter their influence on culture. 

Are these things that the administration supports, and do we expect to
see these carried through in — in the Harris administration?

MR. KIRBY:  Let’s see where it goes.  I don’t talk — I don’t like to
talk about draft legislation one way or the other.

Q    Okay.  Well, let’s talk about Afghanistan, then.  Chairman McCaul
drew a direct line and countered something you just said, which is he
said, “They helped make us a safer nation.”  He believes that the
withdrawal from Afghanistan —

(A reporter swats an insect in the room.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible), Jacqui.  (Laughs.)

Q    Do you need a minute?

He argues that the withdrawal from Afghanistan has, in fact, made the
United States more susceptible to terrorism because of those prisoners
released from Bagram. 

What can you say to the American people to assure them that this
administration is trying to keep them safe?  And how safe are they?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, just go on CENTCOM’s website; look at the press
releases that they send every time they take out a leader of ISIS or an
al Qaeda leader. 

We have proven the case about over-the-horizon counterterrorism
capability to a fare-thee-well.  Now that doesn’t mean we’re sitting
back, resting fat, dumb, and happy.  That’s the kind of capability you
have to keep working at and keep trying to improve.  And we are.

I think it’s also important to look at what else is going around the
world.  You know who — who would have loved for us to be stuck in
Afghanistan for another 20 years is President Putin, President Xi.  They
would have loved that.  But now, because we’re not in a ground war in
Afghanistan — a ground war for which the original mission had long since
been accomplished — we’re able to focus on those more — those more
modern and relevant threats to our national security posed by — by
nation-states and non-nation-states around the world.

But as for counterterrorism capability, again, we have proven time and
time again that we are able to monitor the threat and deal with the
threat — sometimes in near real time, if need be.  Not taking it for
granted, not saying we don’t always have to keep sharpening it, but,
believe me, we’re focused on it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Just a couple more.  Go ahead.

Q    Administration officials have said that after the six hostages were
killed earlier this month that Hamas changed the terms of the deal.  Did
Hamas explicitly tell mediators that there are new terms, that they want
more prisoners released?  And would you still characterize negotiations
as on the verge of a ceasefire and hostage deal?

MR. KIRBY:  To your first question, yes, Hamas did change some of the
terms of — of the exchange, and that has made it more difficult for us
to get there.

I’m sorry.  And your second question was?

Q    Would you still characterize the deal as “on the verge”?

MR. KIRBY:  We still believe that, even for the — the new amendments
that Hamas has made, that — that it’s still worth an effort to try to
see if we can’t get back into a ceasefire negotiation.  But we’re not
there right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Kelly.

Q    Sir, there’s a report that the president is convening his national
security team on this issue today.  Obviously, it’s not on his public
schedule.  Is there anything more you can say about who he’s bringing in
or what he’s doing, or is this part of the ongoing conversation?

MR. KIRBY:  I think that was a little bit of a — a miscommunication,
Kelly.  What — what was being referred to was his normal presidential
daily briefing, where he’s presented with the intelligence of the day
and has a chance to speak to some members of his national security team
when he does that.  It was not a major NSC meeting.

Q    Thanks, John.  The American citizen killed in the West Bank on
Friday, Aysenur Eygi.  Has the president had a chance to speak to her
family at all?  And do you have any sense of where the investigation
stands?  I know that you all had asked for the ball to get rolling on an
investigation into her death.  Do you know if there are any updates on
that?

MR. KIRBY:  He has not spoken to the family as of yet.  I don’t have a
call to s- — to talk about today.  Obviously, we continue to mourn with
— with her family, of course.

The Israelis have reached out, made sure that we knew that they were
promptly investigating this.  As I understand it, from just before I
came out here, they are moving swiftly on this investigation and will
soon, we think, in coming days, be able to present their — their
findings and conclusions.  We’ll obviously withhold our judgment until
we see that.  We’ve called for a complete, thorough, swift, and
transparent investigation.  We’ll — we’ll see — we’ll see what they
learn.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Final question.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Oh.  Hi.  Thank you.  Do you have any response to Russian drones
violating NATO member states Latvia and Romania over the weekend?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think you talk about reports that parts of drones, I think
—  
  
Q    Parts.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — have landed in Allied territory, if you will.  This is,
unfortunately, not a new development, as it happened over the course of
the war in Ukraine where missile fragments or drone fragments sometimes
get caught up in the combat and the air combat and land in a neighboring
nation.   
  
We watch that closely, as you might imagine.  We’re in close touch with
our Allies and partners about that.  But — but it’s just — it just
underscores the — the danger that Mr. Putin’s war in Ukraine has now
caused to the whole European continent and the fact that the security
landscape has changed — not is changing, not will change, but actually
has changed — which is why we’re doing everything we can to make sure
Ukraine can defend itself.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you so much, Admiral.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you.  
  
Q    Thanks, John.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, guys.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  
  
Hi, Chris.  It’s been a while.  It actually has been a while.  Right?  
  
Q    It actually has been.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.   
  
Q    Question, first, on the war in Gaza.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    The UN secretary-general said the UN was willing to monitor any
ceasefire deal.  Is that something the White House is interested in,
perhaps taking them up on that offer?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.  
  
Q    The UN secretary-general said —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.  
  
Q    — the UN would monitor any ceasefire deal.  Is the White House
interested in taking them up on that offer?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, as you know, there is — and the admiral just
spoke to this as well — we’re continuing to have those conversations. 
We continue to want to make sure — right? — that we get these hostages
home.  We want to make sure that we have an end to this war.  That’s
what the president has said.   
  
And so, we are pursuing, certainly, all efforts — this is something that
the president said — to secure a deal that would release, again, the
hostages that are being held by Hamas.   
  
We cannot forget that the murder of the six hostages by Hamas and — has
actually put us in a place where this is incredibly — even — the urgency
is even more clear, right?  And the new demands they’ve made have called
into questions — right? — Hamas’s readiness to do any deal at all and
the sincerity of the negotiations.  And that’s what we see.   
  
So, even so, even though we’re hearing that, we want to continue to — to
talk about the next steps with our co-mediators — this is Egypt and
Qatar — and that’s what we’re doing.  That’s the focus.   
  
That’s what the president believes.  In order — the pa- — the best path
forward is to get this hostage deal, and that’s what the president wants
to see.   
  
Q    The vice president is preparing for a debate tomorrow night with
Donald Trump.  Has the president spoken to the vice president about the
upcoming debate?  And also, is he planning to watch it tomorrow night?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can say — and I think I — I confirmed this last
week in either a gaggle or at the briefing — which is that the president
is going to watch the debate.  He’s looking forward to watching the
debate.   
  
As — I’m not going to preview or — or confirm any conversations between
the president and the vice president.  As you know, they speak often.   
  
The president is incredibly proud of the vice president.  I just don’t
have anything to share beyond that.  But he will be watching.  We’ll be
watching in — in New York tomorrow.  
  
Q    Yeah, but is he wa- — what is he watching for?  I mean —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m — I’m not going to get into — into details. 
But he’ll be watching.  He’ll be, obviously, supporting the vice
president in her debate.  I just don’t have anything else to add to
that.   
  
Thank you.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Can you confirm reports that the president is hoping to
establish a U.S. sovereign wealth fund?  And do you have any estimated
time of announcement for that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have — certainly don’t have anything to —
to announce from — from here.  But, look, the president has worked to
unlock investments here at home and abroad that benefit our economic —
our economy — right? — the economy and also our national security.  That
is something that the president has worked to do for — in the past three
and a half years.   
  
I just don’t have anything to announce at this time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  With Congress back today, can you just give us the
broad White House view on the state of government funding negotiations? 
And obviously, you issued the veto threat on the House Republicans’
proposal, but with that dead on arrival in the Senate —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  I think the SAP — I think the
SAP went out, so certainly would — would

direct you to that — that came out of the — this administration.   
  
But with the end of the fiscal year rapidly approaching, obviously, by
the end of this — of this month in September, Congress needs to pass a
short-term continuing resolution to provide more time to pass full-year
funding bills.   
  
We urge Congress to do this quickly — to pass this quickly — to keep the
government open.  It is really easy.  It’s like their number one job. 
They know how to do this, to keep the government open, and provide that
emergency funding for disaster needs — I just talked about that at the
top, about the needs that we’re — we’re having just right now out West —
as they have done on a bipartisan basis.  
  
They’ve done this before many times in the past.  They need to get this
done.  
  
The proposal from House Republicans is not a solution.  It’s just not. 
It contains a partisan poison <s>bill</s> \[pill\], would erode our
national defense, undermine our competition with China, fail our
veterans and seniors, abandon communities struck by disasters, and hurt
programs that support small businesses while making <s>healthy</s>
\[wealthy\] tax cheats pay what they owe.  
  
So, House Republicans should stop wasting time — I’ve said this many
times before — repeated at this podium — and to do their jobs for the
American people by keeping the government open.  It is a simple job. 
It’s their number-one job as Congress is to keep the government open. 
And we believe it should be with a short-term CR.  
  
Go ahead, Selina.  
  
Q    On that point about government funding.  How is the White House
engaging with the Hill on this?  And does the president have any plans
to meet with congressional leaders in the coming days?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll take your — the first question.  OMB, Leg
Affairs Office are in close touch with House and Senate leadership on
the need to pass a short-term CR to keep the government open.  And I
laid out what it would do if we didn’t and what it would erode —
example, for our national security, as we — we just had the National
Security Council rep here.   
  
We’re coordinating with Democratic leadership on the best path forward
for a short-term CR.  And so, this is something that, again, they need
to do right away.  They — they’ve done it before — many times before in
a bipartisan way.  It is their number-one job.  Again, OMB and our Leg
Affairs Office.  
  
And to your second question, the president speaks regularly with
congressional leaders and gets updated regularly as well from his
staff.  And Congress knows how to do this.  They do.  They know how to
do this.  This is the most basic thing — most basic part of their job is
to keep the government open.  So, they know this.   
  
They don’t need to hear from the — from the president on this directly. 
They know this.  They know this, and they can do it in a bipartisan way,
as they have in the past.

Q    And on the debate.  When’s the last time that President Biden spoke
to Vice President Harris?  And do they plan to speak again before she
takes this stage tomorrow night?  And just anything you could share
about the advice or words of encouragement —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)

Q    — or just what those conversations have been like?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to — I’m not going to detail any private
conversation that the president and the vice president has, whether it’s
debate or not debate.  That’s not something that I’m going to do at
all.  But I don’t — and I don’t have a readout of the last conversation
that they’ve had. 

What I can say is that he’ll be watching.  He supports, obviously, the
vice president; is very proud of her. 

And I just don’t have anything else to add.

Q    And will the president be watching with staff or his family
tomorrow night?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The president will definitely be watching.  I know I
will.  I know you all will.  I don’t have anything beyond that.

Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thank you, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    Thirty-one percent of —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good job on —

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)

Q    It had wings, and now it’s dead.  (Laughter.)

Thirty-one percent of —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)  (Laughs.)

Q    I killed a bug, and you’re welcome.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It was very dr- —

Q    Anyway.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It was very dramatic.  (Laughs.)

Q    Someone had to do it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know, and the job was done.  The job was indeed
done.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You got the job done, for sure.

Q    Thank you.

Thirty-one percent of registered voters said in a New York Times/Siena
poll that they still need to learn more about Vice President Harris. 
So, why is she spending so much time trying to define Trump and link him
to Project 2025 rather than define herself?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, those questions — obviously, those are
campaign questions.  You would have to ask the campaign and that is for
them to speak to. 

And what I will say is — what I can say is that as far as contrast, the
contrast can’t be more clear — couldn’t be more clear.  If you think
about four years ago, America was reeling.  It was reeling in a
once-in-a-generation pandemic.  It was isolated from the world stor- —
stage.  Crime was up.  The middle class was sidelined.  We saw an
insurrection — an insurrection on January 6th in 2021 that the former
president led. 

And so — and you think about today — where we are today: Three and a
half years later, we have — we’re leading the strongest economy in the
world.  You hear the comeback stories in places like Milwaukee to Dayton
to Scranton, Pennsylvania.  And so, we are — we have done what people
said we couldn’t do, which is turn the economy around, turn the country
around, be a leader on the world stage. 

And I think it’s important for Americans to know and to be reminded
where we were and where we are.

And look — and the president certainly agrees with her.  He agrees with
her — you know, her — her leadership, her policy decisions.  He agrees
with her when it comes to making sure that — you know, we need to make
sure that we stop what MAGA- — MA- — MAGAnomics, right?  When you think
about the $4,000 ta- — tax and — tax hike on working Americans. 

You mentioned Project 2025.  That’s something Republicans support.  Is a
radical — radical idea — a rag- — radical policy agenda that’s going to
— that’s going to do more harm to the American people —

Q    Trump has — Trump has repeatedly disavowed it, distanced himself
from it.  I mean, you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I said Republicans.  That’s something that
Republicans support. 

Q    So, this is not anymore being cast as something that Trump
embraces?  Let me just get that straight. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, you’re — you — you asked me a couple
things.  You asked me about the contrast, why she continues to make the
contrast.  You have to talk to the campaign on what — on her strategy
and how they’re moving forward. 

I laid out for you the contrast could not be more clear: where we were
when we walked into this administration — when the president walked in
to the administration; where we are today.  And that’s because of this
leadership of this administration, the Biden-Harris administration.

Project ‘25 is something that Republicans — not going to speak to the
president — the former president on this, but that Republicans are
pushing.  It’s a radical idea. 

We’re talking about more radical abortion bans, cuts to law enforcement,
cuts to education, repealing Affordable Care Act, re- — and repealing
the Inflation Reduction Act, which, by the way, beats Big Pharma, which
is something that — that many elected officials tried to do and couldn’t
get done.  The Biden-Harris administration tried to get it done. 

That’s what I can speak to, and that’s just a reality.  That’s what’s in
that agenda.  That’s what Republicans are pushing.  And that’s what I
can lay out for you.

Q    Well, I know you’ll refer us to the campaign, but the campaign is
not holding regular briefings.  They don’t have a forum — a Q&A forum
like we have here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, then, talk to them about that.

Q    And you’re the spokesperson for the Biden-Harris administration.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t — I literally just — I just answered your
question —

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — on why the contrast couldn’t be more clear. 

Q    I have one more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just answered your question about Project ‘25 and
what it’s trying to do and what Republicans are supporting.  I just laid
that out.

Q    I don’t think it was the question I asked, but I do appreciate the
answer.  But —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, you asked me — you asked me why the — the vice
president’s campaign — the Harris campaign —

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — is not doing X, Y, and Z. 

I said to you, you’ve got to — you’ve got to talk to the — the vice
president’s campaign.  And that is — there’s the Hatch Act.  I’ve got to
be mindful to that.

Q    I understand.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know that.

Q    I understand.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is — I can’t answer that question, but —

Q    How about I try one different way?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I can talk to contrasts.  You asked me about
contrasts, and I just laid it out.

Q    Thank you.  I appreciate that. 

Does President Biden define Vice President Harris as a progressive
Democrat?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the vice president has been a critical partner —
a critical partner to this president.  All you’ve got to do is look at
the record and what we have been able to do in the past three and a half
years — the Biden-Harris administration has been able to do.  You think
about the economy, you think about health care, and you think about
these really important, generation-changing legislation that are now
laws, obviously.

I just talked about beating Big Pharma.  That’s important.  That was the
Inflation Reduction Act that only Democrats voted for.  Now Republicans
want to repeal.  They want to take that away — take that away — taking
away lowering costs for the American people.  And so — to be clear,
lowering costs on medical care and — and pharmaceutical drugs and also
energy bills, right?  That’s two really big part of the Inflation
Reduction Act. 

The president — the president is not going to be labeling the vice
president.  She has her policies that she — obviously that he’s in line
with that they — that she has put forth in the past week or so.  He
supports her.  He believes in her leadership.  And that’s what I can
share with you.

Q    So, we are allowing for a contrast with Trump but not a contrast
with other Democrats?  Because Senator Bernie Sanders, for instance —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — said that he still views her as a progressive Democrat.  He said
she’s, in fact, not abandoning her ideals but making a pragmatic play
toward the center to win the election. 

And that sends a chill down the spine of some people who might be in the
middle or to the center-right —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — considering her and when she’s been trying to position herself —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — as a more moderate figure now than she was in 2020.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Where — where does she stand exactly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first of all, the senator is going to speak for
himself.  That’s for him to speak to.  I’m not going to get into a “I
agree or disagree with him.” 

What I can tell you is this president believes in her leadership and
believes in her bold policy agenda.  That is something that the
president is in line with her on, right?  And we’re talking about
strengthening the middle class.  That’s what we believe her pol- — her
bold policy agenda continues to do, and that’s important. 

You hear the president talking about building a — building the economy
from the bottom up, middle out, and strengthening the middle class. 
We’re in line.  More oc- — economic opportunity — the president wants to
see that. 

And we’re thinking — we’re talking about the tax cuts for working
people, fighting corporate pricing gag- — gouging, lowering costs,
having the wealthy pay their fair share.  We’re in line.  We’re in line
with — with what the vice president is putting forth: her bold policy
agenda to make sure that we do not leave people behind. 

I’m not going to stand here and label the vice president.  The senator
has every right to say whatever he wants to say.  What I can say is the
president agrees with her bold policy an- — agenda and — and her
leadership. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait — wait, did I just — didn’t I just call on you?

Okay.  Let me just try and get other people.  (Laughs.)   
  
Go ahead, Gerren.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Gerren.

Q    The Congressional Black Caucus today released its Corporate
Accountability Report on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion that asks
corporate organizations to reaffirm their commitments to DEI, update on
racial equity investments, and work with the CBC to create legislative
solutions that will help close the racial wealth gap.  Does the admin- —
administration have a reaction to this report?  Have they engaged with
the CBC or advised them about this report at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, it just came out.  We hadn’t had a chance to
review the report.  But you know this is something that this p- — this
administration believes: how diversity is our strength.  You hear the
president say this, and that is something that the president believes. 
And that is true whether it’s in schools, our military, our businesses. 
It is important.

And it is true for our government, where he has assembled the most
diverse presidential administration in history.  That is something that
this president and this vice president has done. 

And just a couple of things.  In June, when senior White House officials
— they were able to welcome business executive and civil rights leaders
to the White House for a dis- — a discussion on ensuring how Americans
have access to economic opportunities.  That wasn’t that long ago, just
a couple of months ago.  And at that event, business leaders joined
civil rights leaders and congressional staff to share best practices and
actions that will protect and create pathways to opportunities. 

So, this is an administration that understands that it is important to
not leave any communities behind.  And I think what we’ve been able to
show these three and a half years: how those communities who have felt
behind, like they were left behind, are now included in the process. 
They’re included in our policies.  They’re included in our legislation. 
They’re included in how we move forward, even in executive actions,
right? 

And this is a president that takes that very seriously.  He also
believes it’s important to have those different voices at the table,
hence having a very diverse — the most diverse administration. 

And so, while we haven’t — we haven’t gone through the study, what we
can say: We believe diversity is indeed our strength.  It is important
to continue to do that work, and that’s what you’re going to see from
this administration. 

Q    And one other topic.  CBC is also, as you know, hosting their
Annual Legislative Conference this week, and the president is hosting a
Black Excellence brunch on Friday. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Was that intentionally planned for this week with CBC?  And was
this event — was — what can you share about the president’s remarks that
he will be giving?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, not going to get ahead of his remarks.  The
president is looking very much forward to holding that brunch here, the
Black Excellence brunch here on the South Lawn on Friday, as you just
said. 

But I — I could share a little bit, just more broadly.  You can expect
the president to speak about the enormous contribution that Black
Americans have made to this nation — you’ve heard the president say that
before as well — and — and continuing our efforts, as I just stated
moments ago, about making sure that there are opportunities for all
Americans — for all Americans, including Black Americans. 

So, that is something that the president certainly, I think, will touch
on, and he — you’ll cer- — you will hear more from him on Friday.

Q    Is the president or vice president attending the Phoenix Awards and
giving remarks this year —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll have more to share —

Q    — like they did in previous years?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — in a couple of days.  We’ll have more to share. 

Go ahead, sir.

Q    (Inaudible) one on ADA.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, sir.  Go ahead, sir.

Q    Yeah.  On mental health parity.  Enforcement has long been an
issue, and, you know, many plans haven’t complied with requirements over
the years.  Does the administration plan — plan to be more aggressive in
terms of enforcement going forward on this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, anything that might be the legalities of it, I’m
just not going to get into hypotheticals.  It’s obviously an issue
that’s very important to us.  It’s a great step forward when you — when
we talk about the mental health parity.  And it is.  It’s a parity,
right?  Health care — mental health should be health care. 

And so, we’re going to certainly continue to — to make sure that effort
is a key part of this administration in the next four or five months.   
  
Any legal stuff, I’m just not going to get into hypotheticals or
anything like that.  But this will continue to be a priority that I can
continue to be very clear on.

Go ahead, Kelly O.

Q    How would you describe the way in which, in briefings and in other
White House communications since July 21st, you reference the vice
president more?  We hear now more “Biden-Harris administration,” when,
if we look back, it would have been much more focused on just the
president.  So, as you do that, how do you describe the importance of,
you know, in this official way —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — talking about her and — and linking her to the accomplishments? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I think it is important for Americans to know
that the vice president has played a very big role in the success of
this administration over the last three and a half years.  And we have
said this before, even before July 21st, how much of a partner she’s
been — a critical partner.  It is not the first time that we’ve said
it.  Maybe we’re saying it more, to your point. 

But we’ve been pretty consistent in saying that their partnership is
important and how — how she has had even a critical role, if you think
about some of these historic pieces of legislation, where she was the —
you know, she was that vote — the vote that she made in the Senate —
helped pass that legislation and turn it into law — the Inflation
Reduction Act, for example. 

And so, you know, I — I think it is important to note how much of a key
partner that she’s been, and that’s something that the president wants
us to do.  He wants us to — to make clear to the American people that
Vice President Harris has been here from day one, obviously, and has had
a — a leadership role and will continue to do that.   
  
Q    And do you see that as a part of her introducing herself to the
country, which is something her campaign has talked about —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — but, again, in this official lane —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I get the official lane.  Look, I — I don’t want
to get into murky — murky waters here by — by getting into her s- — her
own strategy.  That is certainly something for — for her to speak to. 
But we want to make sure that people understand, the American people
understand that this continues to be a partnership.  This is a
partnership.  And we’ve said that before.  We’ve said that throughout
the last three and a half years.   
  
And — and, you know, the president respects her leadership.  He respects
her bold policy ideas, as I was speaking to Jacqui about back and forth
moments ago.  And he supports that.  And — and I think it’s important
for the American people to be very — understand that, to be very clear. 
And that’s one thing that we want to be very clear about from here.  
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    The Office of Management and Budget has asked federal agencies to
start thinking about the transition, that regardless of where we are in
a couple months —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — and who wins, there’s going to be some kind of transition.  How
are you all thinking about that?  How is the president thinking about
that — especially given I know at the beginning of this administration,
a frequent refrain from your office was, “We didn’t have a lot of help
during the transition from” —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — “agencies within the government, people within the government.” 
How are you all thinking about what you want that to look like?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just state this first so that folks who are
watching understand, because I know you all understand this.  What is
happening right now is common.  It is not unusual.  It is something that
every administration at this point, who are clearly coming to the end of
their administration, have to do.  So, it’s a — a common process,
nothing — nothing unusual there.   
  
I’m sure we will have more to share, to your question.  But, you know,
the president — look, when it comes to the job that he has had for the,
you know, last three and a half years, almost four years, he takes that
very seriously.   
  
He takes everything that he does, everything that comes out of this
administration, very seriously because it’s about the American people;
it’s not about him.  And in order to have a — a successful government,
he has to have that leadership to make sure it’s a successful
government, right?  It doesn’t matter for him or whoever is next.   
  
So, I’m certain we’ll have more to share.  But, again, it’s not
unusual.  The president — president is always going to do what’s right
for the American people, and this is part of that.

  
Q    The last transition was — you’re talking about how it’s not unusual
for government to start thinking about that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    But the last transition was anything but usual.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I agree with you.  I’m not disagreeing.  
  
Q    (Laughs.)  Not disputed.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But that’s not going to be th- — what this president
does.   
  
Q    Has he given any specific guidance?  Has your colleagues begun
thinking about how you want to make it different?  I mean —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — four years ago —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re —

Q    — was not normal —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re — we’re —

Q    — for a lot reasons.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You are exactly right.  I’m not disagreeing with you. 
And we do not want to go back there.  Right?  We do not want that.  We
do not want to repeat what we saw the last time around in the last
administration.  It’s not — it should not be about someone’s personal
agenda.  It should be about the American people.   
  
And I think if you’ve seen anything, especially these last pa- — past
couple of months from this president, is that he cares.  He puts the
American people first.  And that’s how — in your question, that’s what
he’s going to do.  He’s going to do what’s right for the American people
and how do we move forward in the way that we put them first.  That’s
the best that I can answer that for you. 

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No — no problem.

  
Q    Hi, Karine.  Good to see you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good to see you.  
  
Q    I’m wondering what the White House makes of former President
Trump’s comments over the weekend, saying, “When I win, those people who
cheated” in elections in 2020 and 2024 “will be prosecuted to the
fullest extent of the law.”  Have you seen those comments?  Has the
president seen those comments?  And what do you make of them?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I can say I have not spoken to the president
about those types of comments.  And, look — and I want to be careful
because obviously he’s saying it as — in his campaign capacity.  But
those — that type of rhetoric is dangerous.  This is not who we are as a
country.  This is a democracy.  And — and so, that’s what the president
believes.  That type of rhetori- — rhetoric is — coming from, you know,
a former president is dangerous.   
  
I mean, we saw what happened on January 6 in 2021.  Two thousand people
went to the Capitol.  You all — some of your colleagues reported on
this.  Some of your colleagues were there.  Law enforcement members were
attacked.   
  
It was a dark day in our country because our democracy was attacked. 
And they went there because they were told that they should overturn an
election — a free and fair election where dozens — dozens of Republican
judges said that it was indeed a free and fair election.   
  
And so, that type of rhetoric is dangerous and unacceptable, and that is
not what this president believes.

  
Q    Just a quick question —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.  
  
Q    — on voters, in particular.  As the president makes some outreach
to Black lawmakers, I wonder if he’s going to make some outreach to
Black voters.  Specifically, th- — the campaigns — both campaigns are
working to do that in states like Georgia —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — and perhaps some of that economic message is getting lost with
some Black voters.  If you talk to them, they have a different picture
of the Trump economy than they do the Biden economy, so to speak.  How
is the president and the vice president going to talk directly to Black
voters about the economic issues at hand?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I got to be careful, because you’re asking me
about —

Q    Sure.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — a strategic play, a campaign play, when you’re
saying voters — Black voters, in particular, in your question here.  So,
you would have to ask the campaign specifically on how they’re going to
do that, what their outreach are going to — is going to be —  
  
Q    But in terms of the record and (inaudible) —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I — and I hear the question.  So, I just want to —
I just have to be really clear. 

Q    Sure.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We respect Hatch Act.  We respect the law here.  So, I
can’t speak to a strategy here.  
  
But it is — what you have seen this president, this administration do —
cabinet secretaries, this president, obviously, the vice president in
her official ca- — capacity — is that we try to go out there, right?  We
go out there.  We meet the American people where they are.  We talk
about what this — what we have done in this administration over three
and a half years.  We talk about how we’ve been able to rebuild the
economy.  We talk about how we’re leading the economy in — in the world
— right? — the strongest economy in the world.   
  
And it is not done by accident.  It was not by accident, right?  It is
because the president — and Democrats in Congress, when we think about
the American Rescue Plan, which helped turn things around, put checks in
pockets — right? — were able to do that — put shots in arms — right? —
so we can deal with a once-in-a-generation pandemic.  It was not easy,
but we were able to get this done.

Now, do we understand that some Americans are not feeling that?  Yeah,
we get that.  We understand.  That’s why the president is going to
continue to talk about ways to lower cost.

You saw the president and the vice president recently, a couple of weeks
ago — or just last week — no — no, a couple weeks ago — talk about how —
you know, the drugs that are going to be lowered in cost because they
were able to beat Big Pharma.  And so, now Medicare is able to do those
negot- — that matters.  That matters to Americans.  So, we’re just going
to have to continue to talk about it, let Americans know.

I can’t speak to the campaign strategy.  That’s something that they’ll —
they’ll speak to.  But the president believes it’s also his job to
communicate directly with the American people and to let them know what
we’re doing: the economy, health care, climate change, even on the — on
the world stage and how we’re being — and our leadership and how we’re
leading in that way. 

And so, you know, it’s continued.  We’re going to continue to do that,
be out there.

Go ahead.

Q    Recently, the U.S. identified the first case of H5N1 in a person
that had no known animal contact.  And I wonder if that changes the
posture of the White House’s pandemic office, or if there’s any updates
as to how the administration is tackling this outbreak.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we take all of this very, very seriously. 
So, what we’re going to continue to do is continue to monitor and help
states where it’s needed — right? — assist — assist where it’s needed. 

I don’t have an update for you, but obviously our number one priority
when it comes to the pandemic office and also other — other White House
offices and what we’re trying to do here is we want to make sure that
American people feel safe in communities out there.  And so, we’re going
to monitor it.

I don’t have an update for you at — here at this time.  But we take this
very, very seriously. 

I think we’re going to start wrapping up. 

Go ahead. 

AIDE:  Time for (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ed.

I know.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I want to ask you about jobs.  So, the
Biden-Harris administration —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry. (Laughs.)

Q    Yeah.  (Laughs.)  The Biden-Harris administration has been touting
manufacturing jobs —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, yeah.

Q    — for the pa- — for past year.  But the last jobs report showed
that manufacturing lost 24,000 jobs.  And the trend over the past three
months has been a loss of 11,000 jobs per month on average in
manufacturing.  So, why is it going the wrong direction?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we pay attention, obviously, to all these
reports. 

What we — what we also want to do — yes, we pay attention to reports, we
pay attention to data, but we also want to make sure it’s taken into
context.  And so, we can’t lose that as well. 

A couple of things.  You know, manufat- — manufacturing investment has
hit all-time highs for six consecutive quarters.  That’s important. 
Factory construction has more than doubled to an all-time high.  And it
— also, it takes time for factories to build and — to be built and,
also, manufacturing jobs to be created. 

And so, what we — what we created — but we’ve created over 1.6 million
jobs in manufacturing and construction.  So, you’ve got to put this all
into context. 

And we’ve seen businesses invest more than $900 billion in manufacturing
and clean energy.  And a — one analyst said, and I quote them, “After
years of inaction, America is now building factories at a rapid rate.” 
And that is because of what we’ve been doing, which is investing in
America. 

And there’s always more work to be done, and that’s one — something that
you can see from this administration. 

Q    So — so, you need more time?  Is there a time frame as to when
those jobs would materialize?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Loo- — I — I don’t have a time frame for you.  But
what I can say is we got to take them all into context, right?  We do. 

Like, data is important; we pay attention to reports.  But we can’t miss
what we’ve seen the last six months — right? — consecutive six months as
well.  We can’t discount the investment that this administration has
been able to make into manufacturing, right?  We can’t discount the 1.6
million jobs that have been created.  That is important. 

The $900 billion in investment — we can’t discount any of that, right? 
That has to be put into the context as we’re looking at that — this
particular question that you’re asking me about manufacturing jobs. 

All right, everybody.  Thank you so much. 

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much.

2:58 P.M. EDT
