---
date: '2024-09-21'
modified_time: 2024-09-21 18:03:05-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-21 07:49:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/21/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-29/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
10:08 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey, good morning, everyone.  Sorry for starting a little
bit late.  I’m going to turn it over to John Kirby for a topper, and
then we’ll take your questions. 

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, guys.  Not much to talk about today.  Just a reminder
that the President will be heading up to Wilmington this afternoon to
kick off a weekend with the leaders of the Indo-Pacific Quad.  That’s
Prime Minister Kishida of Japan, Prime Minister Albanese of Australia,
and Prime Minister Modi of India. 

The first individual meeting will be this evening with Prime Minister
Albanese.  We’ll provide a readout of that, of course.

Tomorrow morning, he will meet individually with Prime Minister Kishida
and then early in the afternoon meet with Prime Minister Modi.  Again,
we’ll provide readouts of those discussions. 

The plenary session begins in the afternoon at four o’clock, where
they’ll talk about a range of issues of interest to all four of our
nations, particularly when it comes to fostering a free and open
Indo-Pacific region. 

And then, after the plenary session, they will gather together for the
Cancer Moonshot event later in the evening, and then that will be
followed by a dinner. 

So, a busy weekend up in Wilmington.  The President is very much looking
forward to it, excited about it.  Great way to head into next week,
which will be, of course, the U.N. General Assembly up in New York. 
I’ve already previewed that, so I won’t belabor that with you this
morning. 

I’m happy to take some questions. 

MODERATOR:  First up, we’ll go to Aamer Madhani.

Q    Hey.  Thanks, John and Eduardo.  Was the White House given a heads
up by the Israelis about today’s strikes that happened near Beirut?

MODERATOR:  Aamer, so sorry, could you repeat the question? We had some
(inaudible).

Q    Sure.  Hopefully you can hear me now.  Was the White House given
any heads up by the Israelis about today’s strikes on Beirut?

MR. KIRBY:  Aamer, we’ll let the IDF speak to their operations.  I am
certainly not aware of any pre-notification of those strikes.  And that,
of course, as you know, is not atypical.

Q    Has the President or any senior aides in the administration had
contact with Netanyahu or senior Israeli officials this week about the
electronic device explosions?  And if so, have any concerns been
conveyed to the Israelis about these incidents?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m simply not going to comment any more on those incidents
than I already have, Aamer.  All I can assert to you is that there was
no U.S. involvement, and that’s really as far as I’m going to go. 

Q    So at this point, has the President and administration’s influence
on Israel’s approach to Hezbollah reached its limit?

MR. KIRBY:  Aamer, we continue to speak every day with our Israeli
counterparts about what’s going on in Gaza and certainly about the
increased tensions along the Blue Line; that’s the border between Israel
and Lebanon.

You know, as you know, Amos was just there recently.  So, our intensive
diplomacy efforts continue.  We believe — continue to believe that a
diplomatic solution is the best way forward vice escalating any of the
military conflict.  I’ll leave it there. 

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to Danny Kemp.

Q    Thanks, Eduardo.  Thanks, Admiral.  Sad not to be spending the
weekend in Wilmington, but what can you do.

Just a couple of things, if I may.  Firstly, there are apparently some
Democratic lawmakers pushing a bill to restore funding to UNRWA, which
was suspended after allegations by Israel that some members were
involved in the October the 7th attack.  Is that something that the
White House would support, or anything you know about that?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, I think our position has been very consistent since we
paused funding to UNRWA earlier this year.  And of course, as you know,
that pause was following allegations that a number of their employees
were involved in the October 7th Hamas attack.

In light of the fact that there is still an ongoing crisis in Gaza and
the central role that UNRWA does play in the distribution of lifesaving
assistance, we continue, as we have said before, continue to support
funding for UNRWA, of course with appropriate safeguards, with
transparency measures built in, and obviously with accountability also
baked into that.

We believe that all of those efforts should include, for example, a
requirement that the executive branch certify to Congress that UNRWA has
implemented the proper policies and procedures to include the vetting of
their personnel and any plans that they have for investigating credible
reports of violations of those policies and procedures.

I would remind that we did support a provision back in March of — I’m
sorry — we supported a provision in the March 2024 Appropriations Act,
to that effect, but it was not included in what became law. 

So, bottom line: Been consistent.  Continue to support the essential
role that UNRWA plays, and therefore support funding for UNRWA — but
again, I want to stress, with the appropriate safeguards, with
transparency measures built in, and certainly with a provision for
accountability.  And we’re going to look forward to working with other
partners — Japan, UK, Italy, Sweden, Germany, Canada, others — to ensure
that those appropriate safeguards are adequate to the task and to help
secure appropriate funding levels for UNRWA’s humanitarian mission. 

Q    Okay, thanks.  And on a similar note, or similar topic, do you have
any comment on the Wall Street Journal report that the administration
has effectively given up hope of getting a ceasefire by the end of
President Biden’s term?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, man — I mean, I talked about this the other day at the
podium.  Nobody is giving up hope.  Nobody is going to stop working
towards this.

As we’ve said so many times, we believe the best chance at getting the
hostages home is through the ceasefire deal.  We’d be the first ones to
recognize, as I did the other day, that it’s hard, it’s daunting, and
that we are not closer to achieving that than we were even a week or so
ago. 

But ain’t nobody giving up.  We’re still going to keep the shoulders to
the wheel.  We’re still going to keep trying on this.  The President has
directed his team to continue to try to find a way to see if we can get
a proposal that both sides will agree to so that the fighting can stop,
we can get the hostages home, and we can start to really work towards a
surge of humanitarian assistance in Gaza for the people that are
suffering and in such dire need of it.

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  Next up, we’ll go to the line of Haley Bull.

Q    Hey, thank you.  Curious if there is any consideration of updating
guidance for Americans in Lebanon, or if you’re sending any specific
instructions to Americans who may be there in light of the escalating
tensions on the Blue Line.  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Haley — I’m not aware, Haley, of any additional guidance.  I
think the State Department has already spoken to this and issued travel
warnings and advisories with respect to being in Lebanon.  I’m not aware
of anything additional.

I do want — and so I would refer you to the State Department, but I’m
simply not — I’m not tracking anything new.  But I do think it is — this
provides an important reminder that Americans should not travel to
Lebanon.  It is at “Level 4: Do Not Travel.”  And so, we strongly urge
all American citizens not to go there, and if they are there, to think
about leaving seriously.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to Nadia Charters.

Q    Thank you.  A couple of questions.  In addition to what happened
with the pagers yesterday in Lebanon, today Israel’s attack on Dahiyeh
has killed a senior Hezbollah military leader.  How can you not see this
but an escalation?

I know you keep saying that you wanted — you prefer a diplomatic
solution, but at this stage, when Israel said there’s no red lines, do
you believe that the diplomatic solutions has failed and the military
solutions is taking place on the ground? 

And I have another question.

MR. KIRBY:  No.  No.  No, we don’t.  Amos was just there.  We still
believe that there is time and space for a diplomatic solution.  We
think that that is the best way forward.  War is not inevitable up there
at the Blue Line, and we’re going to continue to do everything we can to
try to prevent it.

Q    Okay.  Second is: Israel Channel 12 has obtained material that have
not been seen before, and they’re basically saying that Prime Minister
Netanyahu has played a role to sabotage a hostage deal.  Do you believe
that Netanyahu has been obstructing the hostage deal?  Hamas aside, do
you believe that he’s responsible for that too?

MR. KIRBY:  Nadia, I haven’t seen this report.  I haven’t seen this
alleged video.  So, obviously, I can’t comment on any of that.  All I
can comment on is how diligently we continue to try to get this
ceasefire deal in place.  And as I have said numerous times, in order to
get there, you got to be able to compromise and you got to have some
leadership, and that means on all sides of the equation here.  You need
compromise and leadership on all sides. 

I will also finish this answer by repeating again what I have said
before: that Mr. Sinwar remains the main obstacle to pushing this
forward.  And I’d leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to Nick Schifrin.

Q    Hey, John.  Thanks very much.  First, a very easy one, I think, and
then a question that you can answer.  Just making sure: None of these
attacks that either Israel is claiming credit for, or not, in Lebanon,
has anything — any involvement of U.S. intelligence, is that right?

MR. KIRBY:  There is no U.S. involvement in these incidents. 

Q    Okay, great.  All right. 

And then, I know you can’t say very much on the strike in Beirut just
over the last hour, but it is the 40th anniversary today of the attack
on the embassy annex that killed 24.  The deputy leader of Hezbollah,
who has been targeted by Israel today, participated in that embassy
attack.  What does the United States say in general, even if you can’t
say any specifics on this, on what happened?  What would the U.S. say if
that person was targeted and, in fact, killed?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Nick, you’re just — you’re not going to be happy with me on
this one, but there’s really just not a lot I can say about these
reports today.  They just came in before we started the gaggle.  I’m in
no position to confirm any of the details of them.  I certainly would
point you to the IDF to speak to their operations. 

I’m not trying to dodge you.  I promise you that.  It’s just I don’t
have enough information or context to comment here in this particular
gaggle right now.  I mean, it just — we just got the reports, and so I
think it would be foolish for me to weigh in with any level of
specificity.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to Asma Khalid.

Q    Hey.  Thanks, John, for doing this.  I have a quick question about
the pager/walkie-talkie attacks.  I know you’ve said you can’t really
speak broadly to it beyond the fact that there was no U.S. involvement,
but I want to ask sort of more of a broader, big picture, strategic
question about what the U.S. position is about this tactic as a
mechanism of war.  And do you have concerns at all for it being used, in
terms of other mechanisms and ways, in countries in the supply chain
that the U.S. relies on for many of its own technologies?

MR. KIRBY:  I do appreciate the question, Asma.  I’m afraid I’m just not
going to have anything more to say about this.  The United States was
not involved in these incidents at all, and I’m going to leave it
there. 

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to the line of Lalit.  You should be able
to unmute yourself.

All right, we’ll move on to the line of Michael Hernandez.

Q    Thanks, Eduardo.  Thanks, John.  I do have two quick questions. 
First, I wanted to see if NSC has any reaction to videos purporting to
show Israeli forces throwing the bodies of potentially dead Palestinians
off of buildings near Jenin. 

And then, separately, I wanted to just follow up on Nadia and Aamer’s
questions and just kind of ask very explicitly if this strike in Beirut,
which the IDF has publicly claimed credit for, is in keeping with your
appeals to reduce tensions in the region and avoid escalation.  Thank
you.

MR. KIRBY:  So, on your second question, again, I’m going to refer you
to the IDF to speak to their operations.  I don’t need to tell you that
there have been strikes back and forth across the Blue Line now for many
months.  And from the very beginning, we have sought to try to prevent
an escalation of this conflict, certainly to the north, and we are
involved in intense diplomacy to that end. 

As I’ve said earlier in this gaggle, we believe that there’s still time
and space for diplomacy to work, and we’re going to continue to give it
a shot, and that’s where we are. 

But as for this particular strike, again, just heard the reports
ourselves.  Refer you to the IDF. 

But I do want to stress: We don’t want to see escalation.  We don’t want
to see a second war — a second front in this war opened up at the border
with Lebanon.  And everything we’re doing is going to be involved in
trying to prevent that outcome. 

As I also said earlier, there is no reason for an expanded military
conflict in Lebanon to be inevitable.  We don’t believe it.  We’re going
to keep working to that end.

On your first question, yes, we’ve seen that video, and we found it
deeply disturbing.  If it’s proven to be authentic, it clearly would
depict abhorrent and egregious behavior by professional soldiers.  And
we reached out immediately to our Israeli counterparts about it, and we
pressed them for more details.  They have assured us that they’re going
to investigate this and that there will be proper accountability if it’s
warranted.  We’re going to be very eager to see what the IDF
investigation finds, and as always, we expect that investigation be done
thoroughly and transparently.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to the line of James Rosen.  James, you
should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hey.  Can you all hear me, I hope?

MODERATOR:  Yes.

Q    Thank you both.  Admiral, two questions on the Middle East, if you
would.

One, you have now, as the war approaches its first-year anniversary, the
benefit of enough experience to look back on last November, when you
were able, with your partners in the region, to finalize a ceasefire for
a hostages deal that went into effect for some time and produced
tangible results, and the subsequent failure over many, many months of
different iterations of proposals and negotiations. 

So I wonder if you could, with the benefit of that hindsight, assay for
us what conditions were present, do you think, in November that made a
breakthrough possible at that time that apparently are no longer
present.  Or how do you account for the fact that you were able to do it
once and just have not been able to do it again?  What are the
conditions that have created that disparity?

MR. KIRBY:  James, it’s a really thoughtful question, and I would say,
first, we’re not sitting down and doing that exact analysis.  We’re
focused on the deal at hand and the one before us and trying to find a
way to get it across the finish line. 

The only thing I would add in terms of context to your question is that
war evolves over time.  Conditions change on the ground over time. 
Operations have an effect.

And you were right: Early on in this, we were able to have some success
in terms of at least getting a temporary ceasefire in place so we could
get a small number of hostages out.  Well, actually, not all that
small.  It was not insignificant, the number that we were able to get
out.  But that was early on.  And over time, you know, the war evolved
in many different ways, and conditions on the ground changed in many
different ways, and the outlooks and the perspectives of the two sides
changed as the conflict and the violence wore on.

And all of that — all of that context affects the decision-making
process of leaders involved.  That’s the best I can do in answering your
question.

But I do want to come back to where I started.  I mean, we’re not
looking a lot in the rearview mirror here.  We’re really looking ahead
and trying to find a way forward that has proven difficult — as I said
the other day, daunting, in fact.  But it doesn’t diminish the energy
that we’re applying to the problem set.  And quite frankly, it doesn’t —
though we’re looking at this pragmatically and certainly with no
rose-colored glasses — I mean, we know what’s before us; we know how
hard this is going to be — it doesn’t diminish our hope that we can
actually get there.  And so, that work continues.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to Lucas Tomlinson.

Q    John, Secretary Blinken, when he was in the region, did not visit
Israel.  And now, Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin is not visiting
Israel next week.  What message is the administration sending to
Israel? 

MR. KIRBY:  There’s no message being sent to Israel.  First of all, I
don’t believe the Defense Department announced any kind of a trip for
Secretary Austin. 

This isn’t about message-sending to Israel.  I think Israel knows pretty
darn well where President Biden and this administration comes down in
terms of supporting their efforts to defend themselves.  And we’ve been
nothing but clear and candid with them about the challenges of improving
humanitarian assistance in Gaza and the need to be discriminate and
precise in how they’re going about defending themselves so as to pay
more heat to civilian casualties.  All of those conversations continue. 
I would not read anything into visits or no visits to Israel.

MODERATOR:  Our last question will go to the line of Hiba Nasr.

Q    Thanks, Eduardo.  Hi, John.  John, I know that you’ve been asked
this question many times, but I would try again.  I mean, what does a
broadened war would look like for you?  I mean, except for the thing of
a ground military operation.  I know you said you don’t have enough
information about the strike today. 

And my second question: I appreciate if you get back to me on this,
because you said you don’t have information.  Does the strike tonight,
today in Beirut — do you consider it as a targeted strike?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know that I’m going to promise you that I’m going to
get back to you on that one.  We have been scrupulous in not defining
every single military event over there, and I think it’s best to have
the IDF speak to their operations. 

And so, I don’t want to get into the habit and I don’t want to start
with your question in terms of having us characterize every single
event.  You should really talk to the IDF about it, about their
operations.

And, look, as for an escalation of the conflict or a new front, I think
we all know what we mean when we talk about a new front of warfare and
what that means in terms of the resources, the logistics, the
sustainment, the operational maneuver, the number of forces involved in
moving the conflict to a different front and what that would look like.

Again, I don’t think it’s useful for me to get into an order of battle
discussion here with you guys.  I think we all know what we’re talking
about when it comes to the potential for escalating the conflict, and
we’re doing everything we can, and we still believe that there is things
that can be done on the diplomatic front to prevent that. 

MODERATOR:  Thanks, all.  That’s all the time we have for today.  We’ll
talk to you soon.

10:32 A.M. EDT
