---
date: '2024-09-30'
modified_time: 2024-10-01 16:56:19-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-30 16:30:49-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/30/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-homeland-security-adviser-dr-elizabeth-sherwood-randall/
tags: press-briefings
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Homeland Security
  Adviser Dr. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:38 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Good afternoon, everyone.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  A couple of things at the top, and then we’ll
get started.  
  
So, today, the first lady is traveling to Mexico City to lead the U.S.
presidential delegation for the inauguration of Claudia Sheinbaum.  The
visit will highlight the Biden-Harris administration’s commitment to
strengthening the partnership between the United States and Mexico.  
  
Our countries have a strong and productive partnership, and we look
forward to building on the relationship under the new president of
Mexico to advance our shared priorities.  
  
As you heard from the president earlier today, we are focused on doing
everything we can to deliver critical resources to communities impacted
by Hurricane Helene.  
  
To date, the president has approved requests for federal assistance for
seven states, including three major disaster declaration requests from
North Carolina and South Carolina, as well as Florida.  
  
Over the last several days, we have read out consistent briefings that
the president has received from his team, including FEMA Administrator
Deanne Criswell and his Homeland Security Adviser Liz Sherwood-Rand- —
-Randall, who is here with us today, as you can see to my right.  
  
The president also spoke with N- — North Carolina Governor <s>Ray</s>
\[Roy\] Cooper and Georg- — Georgia Governor Brian Kemp, along with
other state and local officials in the — in the impacted areas to offer
further assistance as needed.  
  
This afternoon, at 3:30, FEMA Administrator Criswell and Governor Cooper
will hold a press conference on the latest operational updates out of
North Carolina.  
  
In the 4:00 p.m. hour, Criswell and Governor Cooper will brief President
Biden, and then he will have an Oval sp- — spray to read out additional
updates to the pool.  
  
And later this afternoon, the vice president will receive an in-person
briefing at FEMA later — later today, as you all know.  
  
As the president said earlier today, the na- — the nation has your back,
and the Biden-Harris administration will be with you as long as it
takes.  
  
With that, it’s my pleasure to welcome back L.S.R., as we call her
here.   
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  Thanks, Karine.  
  
I’m going to move that a little bit, Karine.    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Why don’t I do this?   
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  This is so (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know — I know you have a lot to share today, so let
me move that out of your way.  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  Thank you.  I do.  
  
Good afternoon, everyone.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  I’m here today to brief you on the federal
response to Hurricane Helene.  But, first, I just want to take a moment
to acknowledge the lives lost across the region impacted by the
hurricane and those survivors whose lives will never be the same.  
  
My heart goes out to those who’ve lost loved ones and those who are
worrying about whether their loved ones are still alive.  And our
administration and our nation is standing with the people impacted by
this hurricane.  
  
To the disaster survivors across the region, the Biden-Harris
administration is committed to supporting you every step of the way as
you begin your recovery and you start to heal.  
  
For survivors in Florida, North Carolina, and South Carolina whose
governors have requested major disaster declarations, the president
approved them immediately over the weekend.   
  
And we urge those citizens who are seeking FEMA assistance to sign up
for that assistance as quickly as possible.  You can do that either by
calling 1-800-621-3362, registering on DisasterAssistance.gov, or by
filling out an application on your mobile device through the FEMA app.  
  
And that brings me to our response.  
  
Under President Biden and Vice President Harris’ leadership, we are
providing urgent and extensive federal support for the ongoing response
and recovery efforts to Hurricane Helene.  
  
Over the weekend, at the president’s direction, FEMA Administrator
Deanne Criswell traveled to Florida on Saturday, to Georgia on Sunday,
and, today, she is in North Carolina accompanying Governor Cooper in
surveying impacts to the affected communities in western North
Carolina.  
  
The president has asked Deanne Criswell to remain in Asheville, North
Carolina, given how acute the situation is on the ground there, and he
will receive an update from her this afternoon and from Governor Cooper,
in addition to the press conference that the administrator and the
governor will hold today.  
  
Also, as the president said earlier today, he is committed to traveling
to impacted arears — areas later this week, as soon as his presence will
not disrupt vital emergency response operations.  
  
So, I want to walk you through what happens as we’re facing a hurricane
predicted w- — to have the kind of impacts that Helene has had.  
  
First of all, what we do before a storm.  As Helene was developing in
the Gulf, the president directed FEMA to pre-position specialized
capabilities across the region, including deploying Incident Management
Assistance Teams to Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and North
Carolina.  These teams support our state plan- — our state partners in
planning, in logistics, and in conducting their emergency response
operations.   
  
This included pre-positioning a number of search and rescue teams —
federal search and rescue teams, in addition to the state and local
teams, temporary power teams, generators, and health and medical
assessment teams.  
  
These efforts focused on the Big Bend area of Florida, saved lives in
the state, and they prepared us to respond elsewhere in the region.  
  
Now, if we know anything about storms — and we’ve learned a lot in our
years in service together — it’s that Mother Nature has a mind of her
own.  As good as our technologies are, as good as our National Hurricane
Center is, it’s just a forecast.  And when a storm hits, we have to
adapt and respond in real time, just as the storm has the effects in
real time that it is having, and then there are knock-on effects of that
storm, such as flooding.  
  
As we evaluated impacts from the storm, we shifted into the
post-landfall phase of our process, and we began to surge capacity to
where it was needed the most.  
  
As of today, we have more than 3,500 federal response personnel deployed
and supporting response efforts across the region, including more than
1,000 personnel from FEMA.   
  
Search and rescue efforts by state, local, and federal partners are
ongoing, and nearly 600 additional personnel will arrive in the region
in the coming days, increasing the total number of urban search and
rescue personnel to over 1,250.  
  
And as search and rescue missions in other states wind down, these teams
are focusing on the areas of greatest need, including North Carolina,
where our federal teams continue to support state and local teams with
rethcu- — rescues where the devastation is most acute.

Also at the par- — at the president’s direction, the Department of
Defense has activated additional helicopters to aid in search and rescue
operations and has provided dozens of high-water vehicles to get into
areas that it’s difficult to access. 

The National Guard, in their state capacity, is also supporting these
efforts.  National Guardsmen and women from eight additional states are
supporting North Carolina under existing Emergency Mutual Assistance
Compacts, known as EMACs, with more than 700 personnel, helicopters, a
cargo plane, and rescue vehicles to help with road clearance, provision
of commodities, transportation, and search and rescue. 

This is the best of America.  We have National Guard coming in as far as
from Connecticut, Ohio, and New York, who are deploying to North
Carolina to support their fellow citizens in need. 

In addition, about 200 medical responders are also stationed in Flora,
Al- — Florida, Alabama, and North Carolina, along with medical equipment
and supplies to ensure the continued health care delivery that is
required following the landfall of Hurricane Helene.  And the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services declared a public health
emergency for Florida, North Carolina, and Georgia, which gives health
providers and suppliers greater flexibility in meeting emergency health
needs of Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.

In order for communities to begin functioning again, we all know it’s
critical to have power restored, and I want to tell you about what we’re
doing on this front, because that is truly the fundamental lifeline
sector. 

As of this morning, about 2 million people are still without power
across the impacted states, at least 50,000 personnel from 31 states and
D.C. and Canada are responding to power outages throughout the region
via established mutual assistance agreements between utilities and
working around the clock throughout parts of Florida, Georgia, North
Carolina, and South Carolina to restore power to those communities that
can receive it, where the infrastructure can take power on the lines.

FEMA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are also making available
generators of many different sizes that are ready to be deployed upon
the request of any state.  And as power is being restored throughout
parts of Florida and Georgia, power crews are bo- — being moved into
other states to assist with additional restoration efforts. 

We see power outage numbers improving where restoration teams are able
to gain access to communities and the debris is cleared. 

Once we get power restored, we can then get a lot of other things
working again.  Utilities; water utilities, in particular; communication
systems; medical and health care facilities are those capabilities that
depend, of course, on a source of power supply to function. 

We’re also very focused on restoring communications capabilities.  FEMA,
the FCC, and private telecommunications providers are working together
to help restore temporary communications as quickly as possible by
establishing temporary cell sites and allowing for roaming where
possible, where a resident can connect to any network available, even if
they aren’t subscribed to that network.

Today, FEMA will install 30 Starlink receivers in western North Carolina
to provide immediate connectivity for those in greatest need. 

We’re also very focused on how we reach survivors at their point of
need.  This has been a lesson we have learned from the beginning of
President Biden’s presidency — that those who most need the help have
the hardest time accessing that help, and he has directed us to work to
evolve FEMA practices so we can really get to those who need us the
most.

In states that have requested and have received major disaster
declarations, FEMA is expediting the delivery of its Serious Needs
Assistance, which is an immediate $750 direct payment to eligible
households to allow them to pay for essential items like food, baby
formula, water, medications, and other emergency supplies. 

This is not the full extent of FEMA’s assistance to individuals, but
it’s the first element of it that becomes immediately available with a
major disaster declaration, and it gets people cash when they’re
absolutely desperate for it. 

In addition, survivors who register for the FEMA Individual Assistance
Program will be eligible to receive assistance to help repair their
homes, cars, and other personal property in conjunction with their own
insurance policies.

FEMA is working, as it always does, to open Disaster Recovery Centers in
impacted communities.  What’s important about these centers is they
aggregate federal support in one place.  It used to be the case that
survivors had to go to multiple different departments and agencies to
find out what kind of help they could get access to.  What we do is we
put everyone together, either in a standing building that survived the
natural disaster or in a trailer, if that’s necessary. 

For example, we’ve opened three Disaster Recovery Centers today in
Manatee County, Sarasota County, and Hillsborough County, Florida.

If survivors cannot get to such a facility — and we think that will
likely be the place in a place like Asheville and its surrounding areas
— we send people door to door.  FEMA literally goes knocking with an
iPad in hand so they can help people register for the assistance they
need, because they may not have power, their cell phone may has — have
run out, and they need someone to help them get registered quickly. 

In North Carolina, we’re focused right now on clearing roads and
removing debris, restoring communications and power, and ensuring access
to health care and the continued flow of commodities and food —
commodities like food and water to where they’re most needed. 

Today, we’ve heard they’ve reopened 220 roads, which will help enable
responders and critical commodities to begin moving via ground
transportation.

While FEMA has been at the forefront of the response, and it’s very
meaningful to have them on the ground, they serve as the coordinator of
the orchestra of a wide-ranging federal response, and that’s something a
lot of people don’t understand.

What FEMA does is it mission assigns — that’s the term of art, quote,
“mission assigns” — roles and responsibilities across our government in
the wake of a disaster.  And so, what they do is coordinate the
identification of and delivery of those resources when they’re needed
and where they’re needed.   
I want to go through some of what other departments and agencies are
doing so you can hear the full scope of the federal response, which
gives more clarity than just saying, “FEMA is doing this.”   
  
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers deployed power restoration teams,
including in Buncombe County, North Carolina, where Asheville is —
Asheville is located, for temporary emergency power, debris removal, and
infrastructure assessment, including for dams throughout the region.   
  
The Department of Defense has mobilized 22 helicopters in support to
response in western North Carolina.  Staged at Fort Liberty in North
Carolina, there are multiple helicopters available to support air bridge
operations to move personnel and necessary supplies and equipment into
the disaster area.    
  
Four helicopters from DOD are actively supporting the urgent search and
rescue operations that are ongoing in western North Carolina.  The other
18 are helping to move response personnel and deliver critical
commodities and support into remote and isolated communities that are
not accessible right — by road right now.  
  
DOD has also made available, as I mentioned, 30 high-water vehicles
available for search and rescue and has set up five Incident Support
Bases across the region to continue providing support to those who need
it in the surrounding areas.   
  
The U.S. Coast Guard has thousands of personnel working on response
efforts and is conducting post-storm assessments to support the rapid
reopening of impacted ports in Florida.   
  
The U.S. Department of Energy has responders deployed across the region,
primarily in the State Emergency Operations Centers. 

While I noted that power restoration numbers are trending in the right
direction, it’s important to remember that these will be complex,
multiday efforts in many locations due to the extent of damage and the
ongoing access issues. 

Utilities are facing widespread flooding and debris that is impeding
access to damaged infrastructure, and one of the things we’ve learned in
prior incidents like this is it’s really important to set public
expectations about when they can anticipate that power will return so
that they take the necessary steps to be safe and to secure additional
support — for example, moving into a shelter — if power isn’t going to
come on for some time where they live.  
  
The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Farm Service Agency, a very
important player in this space in — in rural areas, has deployed
personnel to the impacted region to extend much-needed emergency credit
to farmers and agriculture producers who lost crops and livestock across
all the impacted states, but in particular, in the Big Bend region of
Florida and in southern Georgia.  
  
The Environmental Protection Agency has personnel on the ground who are
offering technical assistance and guidance on water systems, which have
been significantly damaged in a number of locations, on debris
management, and on maintaining critical public health and environmental
protections as storm impacts are assessed.  
  
The U.S. Small Business Administration has also deployed more than 50
personnel to support survivors and small businesses as they recover from
the hurricane.   
  
So, that’s a sense for you of the range of capabilities that surge when
we say we’re doing everything we can to help impacted communities, and
more will follow as we know more about the impacts.  We honestly don’t
know the full extent of the damage; it probably will take several more
days as communities begin to be opened up by the debris clearance on the
roads and we can get in and really understand what’s happened to
them.   
  
Unfortunately, we know that the first information we receive is often
wrong in the wake of a disaster, and that the early days are brutally
hard for the people who are in the most heavily impacted communities. 
Since 2021, we have seen this play out across the nation, from Florida
to California to Maui, from Kentucky to New York.  
  
As the president has directed, we will do everything we can, first, to
save lives, alleviate suffering, and help communities to recover and
eventually rebuild.  And we will focus especially on survivors who have
the hardest time accessing the help we can provide, as I noted, because
as Americans, we are all in this together.   
  
Thank you for giving me a chance to lay that down for you, and I’m glad
to take a few questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  And L.S.R. has to go see the POTUS pretty
soon.  
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    Thanks very much.  Liz, a couple different topics.  One, you talked
about people’s inability to communicate because of lack of power, et
cetera.  Can you give us any sense of how — you know, whether you’re
working with mobile phone companies or the private sector at all to help
boost the ability to communicate?   
  
And secondly, do you have any sense — do you have any sense now of where
the death toll is going and what the cost of rebuilding will be?  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  So, on the effort to get communications restored,
we work with — I, not personally — but FEMA works with — and — with the
FCC and with private-sector companies.  All of the major providers
participate in this.  And as you heard me say, if you’re not — let’s
imagine — a customer of AT&T, but Verizon is able to get some coverage
in your region, you’ll get free roaming in order to get access.   
  
We’re also moving in Starlink receivers, as I said, because we need more
capability where we think it will be a while before any of those cell
towers that we would normally be dependent upon will be working
again.   
  
So, we have a multipronged effort when we need to get communications
capabilities and involving a variety of technologies.  Some of them are
more novel solutions.  Some of them are more traditional.    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  On —

Q    Hold on.  I have a —  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  I’ll just say, on the death count you asked
about.   
  
Q    And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, sorry.  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  So, we really —  
  
Q    — and cost.  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  — we — the current data we have is that it looks
like there could be as many as 600 lost lives, but we don’t have any
confirmation of that.  We know there are 600 who are either lost or
unaccounted for.  And so, that work is ongoing.   
  
I’ll caution you, because we’ve seen this before, those numbers vary
widely.  There’s a lot of reporting that doesn’t add up about the
numbers.  And so, while we may see the numbers go up as we get to more
locations that have not yet been fully developed, in terms of disaster
immediate emergency response operations, we may see more people who
unfortunately perished, but we may also not see the numbers skyrocket as
people have predicted they might.  So, I would just urge you to wait
until we have the facts, and we’ll report them to you as we have them.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Zeke.   
  
Q    Thanks, Liz.  You mentioned that the run-up to the storm, the — the
focus of the preparations was on the Big Bend area of Florida and then
it moved as the storm moved inland.  Were you surprised by the impacts
on the flooding side?  Was there something wrong in the forecast that
you should have pre-positioned assets differently to prepare for this
sort of situation? 

You know, I know that there’ll be time for an after-action report later,
but are you now at the point where you — where now you’re kicking
yourself that you didn’t do something, you know, Thursday or Friday?  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  So, we can never know exactly where a storm will
go.  Of course, we will do, with our colleagues who do the weather
predictions, an analysis of what we knew and what we didn’t know and how
that evolved.  We were very concerned about a major hit on a city like
Tallahassee, which could have catastrophic impacts.   
  
When the storms make landfall, as you know, they’re — they’re at their
highest velocity.  The force of a — of a hurricane when it makes land is
very powerful.  It usually reduces in strength as it moves overland. 
So, that initial landfall place in the Big Bend was a major concern for
us.  
  
But we were also worried about the storm moving into other areas and
having significant wind effects and flooding effects, and that’s what we
briefed to the president, as we saw the storm moving in our direction —
in the direction of the Southeastern United States, and we kept him
apprised as we saw the evolution moving north through a variety of
states.   
  
We can’t know everything in advance.  And what — one of the reasons we
surge capabilities into the region is then to be able to get them
closer.  They can’t be in the spot the hurricane is going to hit in
advance.  They have to be in a location in which they wouldn’t be
affected and then move in.  So having the resources in the Southeast
already was very beneficial for all the states in the region.  
  
Q    And you mentioned the importance of setting expectations right. 
So, for the folks who are the affected areas who are able to consume
this now — hopefully, to the extent that they can — what — how long
should they be expecting to wait now to access, you know, their base
needs — you know, power, water, food, shelter — until the federal
government can provide that for them?  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  Well, we are moving now to get food and water,
medical supplies, and other essential survival needs into the most
devastated areas in North Carolina.  That’s what I described about using
DOD helicopters, for example, to move into areas which are not
accessible by ground.   
  
I was referencing the point that I think — we all experience this: When
the power goes out, you want to know how fast it’s going to come back
on.  In a situation like this with this much devastation, it could be a
long time.  So, you can’t just wait it out.  You may need — and this is
really for people listening, you may need to make alternative
arrangements to get to a shelter where you can be safe and get access to
electricity to power your phone; where you could get pharmaceuticals if
you need them, if you lost everything; where you can begin to work
toward the rebuilding of the basics of your life while your community is
— is addressing the consequences of these devastating storms.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have to wrap it up, sadly.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Thank you, Liz, for providing all this information and
reminding us that the numbers could change.  I just want to fact-check
two things with you —  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — if I could, given that you oversee homeland security broadly. 
First of all, did the president speak with Georgia Governor Kemp
yesterday?  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  Yes, yes.  
  
Q    Have they spoken again today?  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  President Kemp has said so in public.  He spoke
—  
  
Q    Governor.  Governor Kemp.  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  I’m sorry, Governor Kemp has said so yesterday. 
Thank you for correcting me.   
  
The president spoke to Governor Kemp yesterday.  Governor Kemp has
stated today that he spoke to the president and appreciated the offer of
all the help.  The president has offered, “Anything you need.”  So, if
the governor would like to speak to the president again, of course the
president will take his call.  If the governor wants to submit a major
da- — disaster declaration, we’ll move that very quickly through our
system.  
  
And we’re working very closely with every state in the impacted region. 
And we extend a hand.  We work with the state emergency operations
managers, the whole team in place, in every location.  And that’s work
that we’ve been doing not just in the wake of a hurricane, but we do it
all the time to build those relationships, strengthen our capabilities,
plan for and prepare for disasters.   
  
Q    And given that homeland security is your portfolio and the Secret
Service falls under homeland security, let me ask you one other sort of
fact-check here.  Donald Trump alleges on social media, quote, “The
Democrats are interfering with my Campaign by not giving us the proper
number of people within Secret Service that are necessary for Security…
They’re using them for themselves, even though they don’t need them.” 
Is that true?  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  The president has directed the Secret Service to
provide every necessary resource and capability that is required to
ensure the safety of the former president of the United States.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  April, you have the last one.  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  Thank you.  I have to go.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, sorry.  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  Okay, one more.  April.  Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, April.  Go ahead.  Quickly.  
  
Q    Two questions.  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  I’ve got one minute exactly.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, because she has to go to see POTUS.  
  
Q    Okay.  Two questions, and you can answer them fast if you can.   
  
In the short term — you talk about the immediate short term, but what
about the long term with this devastation?  Number one, housing for
those who do not have shelter.  What are you thinking?  I mean, there
have been lessons learned since Katrina as to how — how to house
people.  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  We work — we work on immediate sheltering
capabilities with the Red Cross and others.  We provide funding for
people to get access to hotels and to — and potentially to move into
longer-term accommodations if they need them.  That’s part of the FEMA
process.   
  
Q    And what about insurance?  Because that has been a big thing when
these kind of situations happen.  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  If — if people have insurance, that’s, of course,
very important for rebuilding.  If they do not have insurance, they have
access to federal assistance.   
  
But it’s a long road to recovery for people because there’s so much work
to be done.  We have to acknowledge that.   
  
I just want to clarify one thing.  When I said there could be up to 600
people lost, my point was there are 600 people unaccounted for.  That’s
the number we’re tracking right now and that we can essentially validate
from multiple sources, but we don’t know.  And as the president said
this morning, we’re very hopeful that some of those people just don’t
have cell phones working and actually are alive.   
  
We experienced that in Maui, when the numbers were extremely high in the
beginning and they came way down.  Ultimately, tragically, 101 people
lost their lives, but it was not in the thousands, as we were initially
concerned it might be.   
  
Thank you all.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much, Liz.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  
  
DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No problem.  Thank you.  
  
Sorry, she didn’t have a lot of time.   
  
Q    Well, she spent 14 minutes reading her statement.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, it was 14 minutes of laying down for the
American people — not just for all of you — of how this works.  We have
people who are indeed suffering and waiting and wanting to hear not just
from the local government and the state government but also from the
federal government: What are we doing — right? — what are we doing to
help them and how we’re working together.  
  
And I think what you just heard from Liz is how we’re working in tandem
together with local, state, and federal government to help the people in
North Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.  And I think that matters.  I
think that matters.  And I think it’s important from them — for them to
hear from the people who are actually doing the work.   
  
And she gave a laydown, and I’m sure — I know I did — I learned how this
all works and how the communication works amongst — amongst all of us. 
And what is available, also, is incredibly important.   
  
I do want to read a quote, because this is really important to Ed’s
question.  Governor Kemp — this is what Liz was saying — said in his
press conference earlier today: “So, I just spoke to” — yesterday — “I
just spoke to the president.  He just called me.  He just called me
yesterday afternoon.”  So, he said this this morning.  “I missed him and
called him right back.  And he just said, ‘Hey, what do you need?’  And
I told him, ‘You know, we got what we need.  We’ll work through the
federal process.’  He offered and if there’s other things we need just
to call him directly, which I appreciate that.”  That was a quote
directly from Governor Kemp. 

So, this is to continue the fact-checking that Ed asked us to do. 

All right.  Go ahead, Zeke.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Turning overseas.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    What is the level of knowledge that the U.S. has about Israel’s
intentions on its nor- — northern border?  Has the U.S. been briefed on
specific operational plans to launch some sort of ground incursion into
Lebanon?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to get into private diplomatic
conversations from here.  Certainly would refer to the IDF to speak to
their own military operations and their plans, as we normally do.  But
we do understand that the strategic purpose of this is to make sure that
Hezbollah cannot maintain the capacity to attack Israeli communities
from the immediate opposite side of the border.  And so, that is our
understanding.  But I’m not going to go into specifics of — of our
diplomatic conversations here.

Q    And is that a — a goal that the president and this administration
is supportive of? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what we will say and what I will say to you —
and we say this all the time; this is nothing new — that Israel has a
right to defend itself against Hezbollah, against Iran-backed groups. 
We’re talking about Hezbollah, Hamas, the Houthis.  And so, we are in
constant discussion with the Israelis on the best way to move forward. 
And we would certainly refer you to any, as I said moments ago, seconds
ago — to the Israelis on their own ground operation. 

Of course — of course we want to see a ceasefire.  That — that would
give us the space, as we have been saying, of diplomacy and enable
citizens — right? — to go back to their homes on both sides.  And,
ultimately, a diplomatic resolution is what we want to see and what we
want to make sure is — is — that — that is in place, and we’re going to
certainly continue to have those conversations with Israelis and others
on how to make that happen. 

Q    And then, just briefly, the president this morning said he was
anticipating needing a supplemental for disaster relief.  (Inaudible.) 
When will he send that to the Hill?  And does he have a dollar figure in
mind yet?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And so, look, you know that we provided a robust
emergency supplemental to — to — for the CR — right? — for the — for the
CR that — that didn’t go through, that didn’t make it.  And so, we’re
going to continue to have those conversation.  We are disappointed that
that didn’t go through.  We’re going to continue to have those
conversation.  As the president said, we’re in constant communications
with members — members in Congress, and we want to make sure that they
move quickly on this — they move quickly on this. 

I don’t have details or specifics, but we did — we did provide a robust
— a robust request on more additional funding for these types of
emergencies to continue that, and it didn’t go through.  And we were
certainly disappointed to see that.

Go ahead.  Right behind Zeke.

Q    Yeah, if he does decide to ask for a supplemental, will he have to
call Congress back, or is there another way to do it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was — the was the president was asked about that
and —

Q    Yeah, but (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He just said it’s something that certainly he — he is
considering.  I just don’t have anything.  I’m not going to get too much
into hypotheticals.

Q    And — and given —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — the urgency of this, when would we expect to know if he was going
to ask everyone, how much it is, and if he’s calling them back? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I don’t have anything to add on — on if he’s
going to call them back, how much it is, which is very similar to the
question that I got from Zeke.   
  
We did provide a robust supplemental component to — to get more funding
in the CR.  It didn’t make it through.  It did not — was not included. 
But what we’re doing right now, and I think it’s important — and you
heard that from Liz, you’ve heard that from the administrator — let’s
not forget the FEMA administrator was here in this room on Thursday
because we wanted to make sure that people understood what was happening
and what was coming. 

But we’re going to do everything that we can to make sure that they —
Georgia, North Carolina, Florida, the impacted areas — have the — have
the resources that they need to deal with the devastation and the
aftermath of this.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, the president said this morning that, quote, “I’m
comfortable with them stopping,” with regards to the Israeli potential
incursion into Lebanon.  What did he mean by that?  And does that mean
he’s uncomfortable with them continuing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I answered that question, which is we believe that
Israel has the right to defend itself against Hezbollah and Iran-backed
groups.  We have said that.  We’ve also have said that Israel is in a —
in a tough neighborhood.  You’ve heard us say that.  They really are. 
And so, we believe they have the right to defend itself.

What we also want to see is a diplomatic resolution here.  We do want to
see a ceasefire.  Ultimately, that’s what we need to see in order to get
to a place where we can get to a ceasefire — right? — where we — where
we can see citizens going back to their homes on both sides. 

So, that still remains to be true.  And — but do we want to see —
ultimately, want to see — get to a place where we get to a diplomatic
resolution?  Yes, that’s what we want to see.  For sure.

Q    So, he’s uncomfortable with them continuing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  What I — we have said is — consistently — Israel
has the right to defend itself against Hezbollah.  We are not shedding
tears over a terrorist that was killed.  That terrorist has American
blood on their hands.  And so, we’re certainly not going to shed a tear
over that. 

We have been very clear Israel has right to defend itself.  We’ve been
very clear that the security of Israel — when it comes to its security,
our support is ironclad.  That has not changed.  That has not changed. 

Q    And, Karine, switching —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — to the hurricane.  Our reporting teams on the ground say that
there are many residents there who are frustrated that more aid has not
been distributed, and some of them haven’t seen the federal government
th- — there for days.  What would you say to those folks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I will say is: Certainly, our hearts go out to
them.  Obviously, this is a tough, difficult time.  And what I will also
say is we have their back, and we can understand that.  We can
understand how things are incredibly confusing right now, incredibly
difficult right now.  Some people don’t even know if their loved ones
are alive or not. 

And so, what I can say and what the president has said and I think what
Liz has iterated as well is that we want to make sure that they have —
the folks who are in the impacted areas have everything that they need,
the resources. 

We have the FEMA administrator, who’s on the ground today.  She’s going
to be holding a press conference with the North governor — North
Carolina, pardon me, governor in about 30 minutes or so and going to
talk about what they see and what the federal government, what FEMA is
going to continue to do, working with the state and local governments as
well.   
  
We are on the ground.  We are on the ground.   
  
And as you know, there was a reason why the F- — the FEMA administrator
was here on Thursday to lay out what we were doing ahead of time, how we
were pre-positioned on the ground, and warning people — and warning
people, because we understood that that is also part of our job.  But,
you know, we’re going to do everything that we can.  We’re going to do
everything that we can.   
  
Q    Following up on a previous question —   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.    
  
Q    — quickly.  You — you said — you mentioned pre-positioning.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And she did mention that assets and resources were pre-positioned
in Big Bend.  I know that question was asked before, but bluntly, should
more resources have been pre-positioned in and around North Carolina?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I th- — I think Liz kind of talked about
that — about when she was asked a question on our prediction of the
storm and how bad it was.  And so, certainly I’ll — I’ll let the experts
speak to this.  But again, pre-positioned — we had generators, food,
water, along with re- — search and rescue and power restoration.   
  
And right now, we have U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.  They’re moving
generators into — into impacted areas.   
  
We have — 3,600 personnel from across the federal workforce are deployed
in support ca- — supporting Hurricane Helene.  This includes 24 federal
urban <s>research</s> \[search\] and rescue task force, over 1,300
personnel working to rescue people who may be s- — who may be stranded. 
To date, they have rescued about and supported over 1,400 people across
the impacted areas.  These are — if you think about the f- — the — the
federal employees who are part of these agencies — right? — FEMA and
others — this is what they do.  This is what they do.  This is what
they’re trained to do.  This is what they’re ready to do.   
  
And it doesn’t matter where — which state it is, right?  It doesn’t
matter if it’s a red state or a blue state.  This is their job: to get
food there, to get generators there, to save some lives, to rescue
people.   
  
And so, we are very proud of the work that they’ve done, and we
understand that people are very much suffering on the — on the ground
and trying to figure out what is going on.   
  
And we have our folks there, and we’re going to do the best that we
can.   
  
Go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Thirteen thousand people who have been
convicted of murder crossed the border illegally and are living among
us.  So, how much danger are U.S. communities in right now —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    — because of this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I’m assuming you’re talking about the ICE data?  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just a couple of things, and I think it’s
important to — to correct the record here. 

First of all, the false — the — the false representation of the data ICE
shared — so, that was what we are seeing: false representation.  I got
to call that out.  We got to call that out.  And it’s been fact-checked
by some of your colleagues here, by multiple — multiple — multiple
outlets.  That has been debunked on what has been falsely misrepresenta-
— or mis- — misrepresented here.  So, we have to call that out.   
  
And so, look, this is —  
  
Q    Can you clarify what the misrepresentation is?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The numbers that is being put out about how many
people are out is been falsely rep- — represented here.  If you look at
the total returns and removal of the past year, that has been higher
than every year under the previous administrations since — since 2010. 
If you look at it.  
  
And if we’re going to report something — a data that’s out there — we
got to do it in a way that is not — not confusing the American people
and certainly not lying.  And so, there has been — this has been
fact-checked — been fact-checked.   
  
And so, this is — the way that is being fals- — falsely represented here
is just not okay.  And though — got to be really clear about that.  
  
Q    On Helene.  People in western North Carolina were drowning in their
houses this weekend.  Others were losing everything.  President Biden
was at his beach house, and Vice President Harris was hosting political
fundraisers on the West Coast.  Is there a reason that they could not be
here?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The president did exactly what a president in this
moment needs to do, which is directing his team to take action.  One of
the reasons that the FEMA administrator was here in this room on
Thursday is the president wanted to make sure that we were sending a
message out to folks who were going to be impacted by the hurricane and
also wanted her to share how we were pre-positioning on the ground.   
  
Remember, these are folks who do this type of stuff.  When you think
about FEMA, you think about the Red Cross, you think about the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, this is what they do.  This is what they do.   
  
And so, the president was on the phone — he said this when he was asked
a question by one of your colleagues — for more than two hours yesterday
with governors and local elected officials making sure that they have
what they — they needed.   
  
You heard me talk about Governor Kemp and what he said to the president
himself.  He said this and shared this in a press conference — that the
president has provided and said, “What else do you need?”  And he
actually said to the president, “We have what we need.”  So — and that’s
a — as you know, a Republican governor.   
  
And look — and I talked about how the vice president also did her
calls.  She’s going to be going to the FEMA — FEMA agency in a — in —
the center — the center to — to get her briefing later this afternoon. 
The president is continuing — continuing to have these conversations
with folks on the ground, elected officials on the ground, to make sure
that they have what they need and directing his team —  
  
Q    And —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to keep pushing.  
  
Q    — one more.  How worried are folks at the White House that a port
strike that could make things like fruits and vegetables more expensive
could make it a lot harder for Vice President Harris to win the
election?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to talk about an election from here. 
That’s not what we’re going to do.  That is — when it comes to making
sure that workers are — are paid and wages and the economy is working
and that we’re lowering costs for the American people, that is just the
right thing to do.  And that’s what this president focuses on every day,
day in and day out: How do we have an economy that works for all?  
  
When it comes to this particular question that you’re asking me, we’ve
said this many times, nothing has changed.  We support collective
<s>bartering</s> \[bargaining\].  It is the best way for American
workers and employers to come to a fair agreement.  We encourage all
parties to come to the bargaining table and negotiate in good faith.   
  
Senior officials from the White House, Labor Department, and
Transportation Department are in touch with the parties to urge them to
return to the table and negotiate in good faith towards the — an
agreement that benefits all sides, and do it fairly and quickly.  And
this is something that we have said, and we’re going to continue to push
forward on.   
  
Q    Is the vice president involved in these negotiations?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say — I just named the secretaries that are
involved — Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Secretary Ju- — Julie Su, and the
director of National Economic Council, Lael Brainard.   
  
What I can say is the president and the vice president are being
regularly updated about the situation.  And I know there’s a question
about the Taft-Hartley.  We — we never — we have never invoked the
Taft-Hartley to break a strike and are not considering to doing so now. 
But this is a president that has been called a “pro-union president” by
labor — by the labor unions, because of how much he believes that the
union built the middle class.   
  
And so, that’s what you’re going to continue to see from this
president.  He’ll stay regularly updated.   
  
Q    Okay.  Thanks.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Selina.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Former President Donald Trump is in Georgia in a
region that’s been hard hit.  Now, given all the security that’s needed
to accommodate him, is his visit putting a strain on resources there or
impacting relief efforts?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s what I can say, and you’ve heard this from this
president earlier today in his remarks, where he said he will visit the
impacted communities this week and is taking caution — he is taking
caution to avoid using critical resources that is needed right now on
the road that — on the ground that people need.  And so, that should be
everyone’s top consideration right now.  That’s what we should be
doing.  That’s what we should be focusing.  And I’ll leave it there.  
  
Q    So, were there any requests for Trump to delay his visit?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m not getting into any more than what I just
stated.   
  
The president has been really clear about how he sees his presence on
the ground.  As you know, when the president travel, it’s a big
footprint.  In this particular moment, he wants to make sure that he’s
not taking away resou- — resources.  He wants to make sure that it is
not taking away from the emergency resources that are on the ground. 
And, as I just stated, he believes everybody should adhere — adhere to
that.   
  
Q    And in terms of the dockworkers that are set to go on strike, at
what point would the president be willing to intervene?  How long would
he allow that to go on and at what cost to the American economy?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into hypotheticals.  I’m not. 
Not from here.  
  
Q    Would the president consider walking the picket line?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into hypotheticals.  
  
We believe that collective bargaining is i- — is important here.  We’ve
always said that.  We believe that both sides should come to the table
in good faith and get to an agreement, a fair agreement.  
  
Q    Has there been any progress in those conversations?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I just don’t have anything else to share here.  
  
Go ahead, Jeff.  Yeah.  
  
Q    On a separate top- —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
Q    — a different topic.  The incoming prime minister of Japan has said
— he’s called out or proposed the idea of a “Asia NATO.”  I’m wondering
if that’s something that the president would consider.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I haven’t spoken to the president about that.  As you
know, there’s one NATO.  The NATO has grow- — grown by two countries,
which is because of the president’s leadership.   
  
Let’s not forget, when Putin invaded Ukraine, he thought that NATO was
going to be weaker, and that did not happen.  The president certainly
was able to make NATO stronger because of his leadership.  And that’s
going to be what we’re going to focus on.  
  
Q    I think he is suggesting a separate alliance that would involve
Asia countries.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No — no, I hear — I heard your —  
  
Q    He also said the idea of putting Japanese troops on Guam.  I don’t
know if that’s something the president would consider.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just — not something that I’ve spoken directly to
the president about.   
  
What I can say is what the president has done with the current NATO and
making it stronger.  And it has been important, if you think about
Ukraine, if you think about what Ukraine has been trying to do over the
almost three years, which is, certainly, fight for their sovereignty and
fight for their democracy, which is something that we’re going to
continue to support, Ukraine and those — those NATO — NATO countries as
well, which is much stronger — stronger than Putin ever thought they
would be in this time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  First on the Middle East.  Prime Minister
Netanyahu is expected to convene his War Cabinet this evening to chart
next steps.  What has President Biden communicated that the U.S. would
hope they decide  
to do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to comment or get into
hypotheticals about decisions that Israeli government are making or IDF
is making.  Certainly — certainly would let them speak for
themselves.   
  
We have been very clear: Israel has the right to defend itself,
especially against these Iran-backed groups, including Hezbollah, Hamas,
and the Houthis.  We will continue to have those direct conversations
with them.  But IDF, Israel government can certainly speak to that.  
  
And, also, have conversations — continue our diplomatic conversations on
the right — on the right way forward — or the path forward.  I just
don’t have anything else to share.  
  
Q    A lot of those diplomatic conversations happened over the weekend
as Israel was conducting these raids in Lebanon.  Is the outcome one
that those diplomatic conversations were — were discussing?  Were U.S.
officials offering their support for the  
way that Israel proceeded?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is that — I’m not going to speak —
again, not going to speak to private diplomatic conversation.  What I
said moments ago, which is we understand the strategic purpose of this
is to make sure that Hezbollah cannot maintain the capacity to attack
Israeli communities from the immediate opposite side of the border. 
That’s what we understand.  
  
I’m just not going to get into — get into specifics or into diplo- —
diplomatic conversations from here.  
  
Q    It’s now been five days, though, since the U.S. and Western allies
publicized the discussions over this 21-day ceasefire proposal.  Is
there still any hope that that  
gets put together?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, this is a president that’s hopeful and
optimistic, and you hear him say that —  
  
Q    But realistically, given the conversations that are happening.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I — well, you — you asked me if that is hopeful,
right?  So, look, we believe the way to get to a ceasefire is to have
this diplomatic resolution, to get us some space to have a dipl- —
diplomatic solution.  That’s ultimately the way to get there.    
  
And so, we nee- — we understand that we need a ceasefire in Lebanon to
provide that — that space for diplomacy.  That’s what we’re going to
continue to have discussions — those discussions continue with Israel. 
So, that is what we’re going to focus on.   
  
And what we want to see is a de-escalation.  That’s what we’ve been
saying.  We want to see a de-escalation.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  You mentioned that the vice president is going
to be coming back and having a briefing at FEMA later today about Helene
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, 4- — about 4 o’clock, I think.  Yeah.  
  
Q    Could you give us a sense for what she has been doing so far in
response to this hurricane?  Is she in briefings with the president?  Is
she getting briefed separately?  And what is her role going to be going
forward?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is that she has — certainly has been
kept briefed on the situation in the — certainly, the affected areas,
the aftermath.  She’s going to get a briefing directly at FE- — at FEMA
— at the FEMA center when she gets back.   
  
She — she didn’t continue with some of her campaign activities today
because she wanted to make sure to get back and — and go to the FEMA
center.  Anything else — and I know she’s had conversations with elected
officials on the ground in those impacted areas.  I would have to refer
you to her team to get more specifics on — on what else.  
  
Q    And then a question about one of the policies that the vice
president rolled out on Friday about immigration.  She said that she
would go further than what the president has done with executive action
to limit asylum access at the border. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Do you have any response to that?  Is that the position of the
White House that the administration should be going further than what
you’ve done so far?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I think, look, when we — when it comes to — I got
to be careful — campaign policy announced.  So, going to certainly let
the campaign speak specifically about what they’re announcing and what
they’re looking to do on their side of — their side of things.   
  
But we’ve always said, and we’ve al- — whether it’s the economy, whether
it’s the border that, you know, the vice president was going to build
upon what we’ve been able to do.  That is — you know, the — the good
work that we’ve been able to do together, whether it’s the economy,
health care, getting some of these historic pieces of legislation passed
that’s going to help Americans for generations to come.

We also understand and see and what she’s been able to do is build on
the success.  And so, I think that’s what you’re seeing from the vice
president.  And the pr- — this is a vice president that has been a
critical partner to this — to this president over the last three and a
half years.  And so, we — you know, we look forward to see what she’s
going to be doing down the road.

Go ahead, April.

Q    Thank you, Karine.

Q    Karine, hi.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I did not ca- — I’ll call you afterwards.

Go ahead, April.

Q    The issue of Angola.  Why Angola for President Biden now,
specifically, as other presidents have gone to other countries, and
Angola is, like, something totally new since the Clinton administration
for a U.S. president?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  So, he’s going to be holding
a bilateral and multilateral meetings to discuss increased collaboration
of shared pa- — priorities, including a signature project of G7
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment, PGI, Africa’s
first transcontinental open-access rail network that starts — that
starts in Lobito and ultimately will connect the Atlantic Ocean to the
Indian Ocean.  I think that’s a pretty important reason why to go to
Angola. 

This will be the first visit of a president to — to Angola.  That’s
also, I think, important to note as well.  And so, we’re going to
celebrate the evolution of the U.S.-Angola relationship, underscore the
United States’ continued commitment to African partners, and demonstrate
how those type of collaborative partnerships can solve shared challenges
that both countries have.

Q    So, anything on oil, by any chance, since Angola is oil rich?  And
also — and also —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — what about the considerations about some of the other countries,
like Nigeria or South Africa?  Those have been — Ghana, Uganda —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — those have been some places that presidents — Rwanda — some —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear you.

Q    — of the presidents — yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, he’s going to be abroad from the 10th to the
15th of October.  We’re going to go to Berlin, Germany, and then we’re
going to stop over at Angola.  I just laid out the PGI, the important
connection there that Angola has to an initiative that the president
created.  And I think that is — right there, that — that connection with
the Atlantic Ocean to the India O- — the Indian Ocean, that Angola is
going to play a big role is — is important.  It’s going to make a
difference in that region.  And this is also, again, part of the
president’s initiative that he created.

And no other president has been there.  No other president has been to
Angola. 

Q    I know.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I think that’s important to note as well. 

Q    Does this have something to do with the grain situation that was
held up because of the Russia-Ukraine war, trying to help get grains to
African nations?  Because President Zelenskyy did express that to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — I understand, the president of the United States, Joe Biden, as
well as Greg Meeks, who sits on Foreign Affairs Committee in the House. 
Is this some of that too?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will say is the president has said that he was
going to go to the continent.  He has said that he was going to do
that.  He wanted to keep his promise. 

Angola makes a lot of sense, especially for an initiative like PGI, an
initiative that the president started.  There’s a connection there. 
There’s a thruway that makes a lot of sense.  No other president has
visited the country.  And so, it made sense for the president to go
there, because there are important initiatives not just to the co- —
African continent but also for us here and other of our partners and
allies.  And so, it made the most sense to make that — to make that
trip.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And you’ll see us next month doing that.  

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you.  So, the president didn’t seem comfortable this morning
with a ground operation in Lebanon.  He said he was “comfortable with
them stopping.”  Now it seems imminent.  Did the president take any
action to try to prevent a ground operation in Lebanon?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, say that one — say that one more time.

Q    So, this morning, President Biden said —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — that he was comfortable with them stopping, about Israel.  And
so, did he take any action to try to prevent such an operation in
Lebanon?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to get into diplomatic conversations
from here.  What I’ve been saying multiple times is Israel has the right
to defend itself against Hezbollah, against Iran-backed groups like
Hezbollah, like Hamas, and also the Houthis.  They are in a — in a
difficult neighborhood — right? — if — to say the least.  And they have
to have the ability to defend themselves. 

And so, that’s what we support.  That’s what we believe.  That’s what we
have said.  We’re going to have conversations with the Israeli
government about the best way forward, the best way to move forward. 
But I’m not going to get into diplomatic conversations.

But I have been very clear: We believe that Israel has the right to
defend itself against Hezbollah.

Q    Lebanon is very small, so when Israel, for instance, attacked
Beirut — south Beirut, many people who have no link with Hezbollah are
being hit.  It will be the same if they do a ground operation in
Lebanon.  It won’t be only the Hezbollah who’s going to be targeted. 
So, does the White House still support this ground operation in Lebanon?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, are you talking — so, say that one more time.

Q    Does — you — you say that, basically, the goal is to target
Hezbollah, but if there is a ground operation it’s going to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not — I’m not speaking for the goals of the IDF or
the Israeli government.  What we have said is: Israel has the right to
defend itself against Hezbollah, against Iran-backed group.  We’ve been
very clear about that. 

I’m not going to stand here and speak to Israel’s operations.  That is
not something that I can do.  It’s something that I would have to refer
you to IDF, and that’s what we’ve been very clear about.

Go ahead.  Go ahead, Anita.

Q    Thank you so much, Karine.  During this — these frantic diplomatic
discussions over the situation in the Middle East, did the president
communicate any sort of consequences for this continued behavior, in
addition to his wish for a ceasefire?  Did he, for example, say that
maybe certain weapons would no longer be provided to Israel or teased to
that in his discussions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Our policy has not changed.  It just hasn’t.  It — it
has not changed.  And, again, Israel has a right to defend itself —
we’ve been very clear — against Iran-backed groups like Hezbollah, like
Hamas, the Houthis.   
  
I’m not going to get into diplomatic conversation, but our policy has
not changed.  
  
Q    Okay.  On Taiwan, yesterday, the president announced the
largest-ever military drawdown for Taiwan.  What — what is kind of the —
what was the purpose of this?  What was his thinking?  And is this
intended to — I mean, what was the message he was sending with that
decision?  And is it meant to kind of hold Taiwan over in case there is,
for example, a change of leadership in the United States?  Or, you know,
what — what’s the point of this?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, our overreaching goal remains the same — right? —
and we have said that — maintain peace and stability across the Taiwan
Strait.  That is our goal, and we’ve always been very clear about that,
and that’s what we want to see.  So —  
  
Q    I guess I’m asking specifically about the timing of this.  This
comes at the end of his presidency, and this is the largest-ever
military drawdown.  What — what does that communicate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I think, if you think about the drawdown, it
is pretty much consistent with our longstanding One China policy.  So,
want to make that clear.  It has not changed, and it remains the guide
by the Taiwan Relations Act, Three Joint Communiqués, and Six
Assurances.  Again, our overreaching goal is to continue to maintain the
peace and stability across — across the Taiwan Strait, and that is
something that we have been focused on over the last three and a half
years, and we’re continuing to do this.  
  
And so — but the administration use of the PDA for Taiwan is one — one
example of our continued commitment to help Taiwan maintain a sufficient
self- — self-defense capability.  And so, that’s what is — what we’ve
been continuing and trying to do.  And so, that’s how I would look at
the Taiwan PDA.  
  
Q    (Inaudible)?  Have they communicated how they feel about this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would — I would refer you to them.  
  
Q    Thanks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    I know that the president said that he would not — he would not
intervene in the dockworkers strike, and he cited his concern that he
doesn’t believe in Taft-Hartley.  But we have seen him intervene in — in
other ways in previous situations like this.  With when — with the rails
situation, he asked Congress to intervene and stop that potential
strike.  When he said no yesterday, was he also saying that asking
Congress to intervene and stop a potential strike was off the table?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, Congress does what Congress is going to
do regardless of what the president says.   
  
What I will say is the message of the president has been very clear. 
Our message has been very clear.  We support collective bargaining. 
That’s what we’ve been clear about.   
  
I’ve mentioned Secretary Buttigieg, \[Acting\] Secretary <s>Lu</s>
\[Su\].  We have our NAC — NEC director who has been in touch with —
with both parties.  And what we have been encouraging to do — and this
is something that we’ve been pretty consistent — what I’m saying here
we’ve said before, which is we believe both parties should — should come
to the table in good faith, and so — to come to a fair agreement.  This
is something that we’ve also been consistent about.   
  
Look, we’re going to continue to send that message and — and urge them
to come to a fair agreement.   
  
Q    But is he prepared to ask Congress to intervene?  Or is that —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m just —  
  
Q    — off the table?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to going to into hypotheticals from
here.  
  
What we — we’ve been — we have made our message very clear — very clear:
We col- — we support collective bargaining.  We believe both sides
should come together in a — to get to a fair agreement in good faith —
in good faith, and we have been consistent throughout this
administration about that.   
  
Q    I want to ask you about the immigration — the border restrictions
that this administration extended today as well.   
  
The immigration advocacy organizations have come out.  Tahirih Justice
said this was death a thousand cuts for migrants.  You know, I’ve heard
criticism as well from immigration advocates saying that this is
ignoring the asylum statute.  So, I guess just a response to those
comments.   
  
But then secondly, just the timing for this.  I mean, the administration
clearly is benefiting from this executive action and obviously likes it
if it’s extending it, so why not do it sooner?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I don’t th- — I know you follow this very
closely.  You know that we’ve taken multiple executive actions
throughout the last three and a half years.  You know that we’ve tried
to do this in a legislative fashion — right? — to make this — to get it
to a — a policy, a legislation that actually — we do it in a bipartisan
way that actually deals with a broken immigration system.  And we have
been stopped over and over again by Republicans.   
  
Q    Sure.  And it was clear that that Senate bill was going to get
stopped earlier this year —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — you know, January and March.  This extension we have not seen
until now, and then we didn’t see the executive action until —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  June.  
  
Q    — just a couple months ago, right?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, June.  No, you’re right.  
  
Q    In the summer.  In the summer.  So, now —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait —  
  
Q    — with this extension, this is going to carry this out beyond the
election.  So, if the administration stance is that this should continue
for the months ahead, basically, effectively, curtailing asylum in ways
we have not seen, why not take this action sooner?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And then just also a response to the criticism, too.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  We have tried to do this in a
way where there was legislative action, right?  To do this in a way — by
having bipartisan conversation, working with senators, and doing this in
a way that will benefit Americans, and do it in a way, obviously, that
we — we put it into law.  And we’re trying to begin the process of
fixing a broken immigrat- — that’s the way the president actually wants
to do it.  He did.  That’s the way he wants to do it.  And we took time
to do that, and we believe it was going to move forward.   
  
This is Senate.  We’re working with Republican senators here to get that
done.  And they voted against — to your point, against their own bill
twice — twice, because of the former president saying, “This was going
to” — I get part of your com- — question to me — “it was going to help
Joe Biden.  It’s going to help Democrats.”  That’s what the former
president said.  
  
When it comes to this — to this announcement that you just — that we
just had about the final rule.  It was a two-month process.  Let’s not
forget when the president made the announcement in June, DHS and DOJ had
a two-month process — right? — to get — to get feedback, to get
responses on — on the rule.  And now we have — now we have a — now we
secured that final rule.  And so, that’s the action that you saw from
DOJ and DHS.   
  
But we actually want to do this a different way.  We do.  We want to do
it in a bipartisan legislative way.   
  
You know this president.  He believes reaching across the aisle is an
important thing to do.  We — we’ve been able to get bipartisan
legislation done.  They got in the way.   
  
They negotiated with us — meaning “they,” the senators — Republican
senators negotiated with us.  We came up with a bipartisan solution.  If
the president had signed — was able to sign that solution that — pardon
me, that legislation — it would have been the toughest and fairest —
fairest immigration law that we have seen in some time, and it would
have started the process of fixing a broken immigration system that has
been broken for decades — for decades.  
  
Does the — that’s the p- — that is the way the president actually wants
to do this.  And, as you know, majority of Americans want us to fix the
border.  They do.  And we tried.  And this is the path that we’re — we
went down because Republicans in Congress didn’t want to work with
us.   
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Student loan borrowers have had a grace period over the past year
where they weren’t going to face delinquency if they didn’t pay their
loans.  But tomorrow is October 1st, so that ends tomorrow.  Is the
administration expecting or concerned about a potential wave of
delinquencies for borrowers who haven’t been paying their loans over the
last year?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, this has been — when it comes to
student loan and giving borrowers a little bit of breathing room, this
is something that the president had been wanting to do for sa- — some
time.  We were blocked.  The president took additional actions, took
historic action to provide that student loan relief and to support
borrowers facing financial hardship.  
  
In the wake of a one-in-a-century pandemic, the Department of Education
paused loan payments as the economy recovered.  And so, as you just
stated, it has expired.  It’s been 12 months.   
  
And so, for those who — to your question, for those who still facing
challenges returning to repayment, the department has implemented an
aggressive strategy to — to support borrowers, including creating the
Fresh Start program that allowed borrowers in default to become current
on their payments, launching an information campaign to engage borrowers
at a risk — a high risk of delinquency, and helping borrowers enroll in
IDR pr- — plans and the lowest monthly payments as well.   
  
So, there’s plans out there.  There’s ways to support some of these
borrowers who — who feel like they could be delinquent here.  And so, we
certainly want to help them get to a point where they can start repaying
their loans.  And so, the Department of Education has certainly made
that a priority as well.   
  
All right.  I know we have to wrap it up.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    One — one last try on — on Lebanon.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Just to be clear, you know, on the one hand, the president is
calling for a ceasefire.  On the other hand, you’re saying that Israel
has a right to defend itself by targeting Hezbollah.  So, how does it
work?  Sa- — who do you negotiate a ceasefire with when, at the same
time, the Israelis have just informed the United States that they are
indeed launching limited ground operations?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  And both things can be true. 
And this is what’s happening right now in the region.  And I’ve said
this multiple time: Israel is living and is — is in a really tough
neighborhood, and they have to be able to defend themselves against
Hezbollah, against the Houthis, against Hamas.  And that is the
reality.  That is the reality that they are living in.   
  
And that’s what we have been very clear about, making sure that our
secur- — that we — support for Israel’s security is ironclad.  And
that’s what you’ll continue to see from this administration.   
  
At the same time, we do want to de-escalate.  At the same time, we want
to see that.  And ultimately, we believe in — a way to get to a
ceasefire, to de-escalate is to create a space — is to get to a
ceasefire so we can create a space for dim- — diplomatic conversations. 
And, in this case, that’s what you’re seeing.   
  
We’re — and we’re still talking to Israel.  We’re still having those
conversations.  That has not stopped.  And so, that’s what you’re going
to continue to hear from us.   
  
All right.  I think I have to wrap it up.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    This is a light — more light question.  But tomorrow is Jimmy
Carter’s 100th birthday.  I think the president sent around a note on
the weekend, but should we expect anything in terms of a phone call or
anything?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Stay tuned.  Stay tuned.  I’m not going to get ahead
of the president.  
  
All right, everybody.  I’ll see you tomorrow.  Thank you.  
  
3:45 P.M. EDT
