---
date: '2024-09-13'
modified_time: 2024-09-13 14:12:49-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-13 14:12:48-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-68/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
3:17 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey.  Good afternoon, everybody.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  Okay.

So, for over 30 years, combat- — combatting gender-based violence has
been the cornerstone of President Biden’s career.

When Joe Biden was growing up, his father used to say to him that the
cardinal sin was abuse of power, and that includes a man raising his
hand to a woman or a child. 

When he was a young man and serving as a U.S. senator, he saw how
society looked away from violence against women.  Few police departments
had special victims unit.  Many states had laws on the books that
protected the abusers rather than the victims.  More often than not,
marital rape wasn’t considered a crime.  There was no national hotline
to call.  Women’s shelters were referred to as “indoctrination
centers.” 

All of this was completely unacceptable to Joe Biden.  It’s why, in
1990, then-Senator Biden wrote the landmark legislation, the Violence
Against Women Act — VAWA — to protect women from domestic violence,
stalking, and sexual assault.   

But we knew that wasn’t enough.  So, as chairman — or he knew that
wasn’t enough.  So, as chairman of the — of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, he held public hearings on violence against women, where
courageous survivors shared stories of horrific, horrific violence.  And
his committee published groundbreaking reports on the impact of violence
against women, documenting this tragedy in a way that policymakers could
not ignore.

It took years of building awareness, legislative expertise, and
perseverance — perseverance by Senator Biden — by then-Senator Biden. 
In 1994, VAWA passed Congress.  For decades, he has worked across the
aisle to strengthen it.  As president, he continued to expand his
signature legislation, using every legislative and administrative avenue
to address gender-based violence during his presidency.

And today, to keep building on his proudest legislative achievement, Joe
Biden is announcing new actions to combat gender-based violence: a total
of more than $690 million in new funds to support survivors of
gender-based violence; guidance on new protections to meet the housing
needs of survivors of domestic violence, sexual violence, dating
violence, and stalking; a new National Resource Center on Cybercrimes
Against Individuals to help law enforcement and community-based
organizations prevent, enfor- — enforce, and prosecute cybercrimes; new
private-sector commitments to take on the nonconsensual sharing of
intimate images and cybercrimes against individuals; and new actions to
support law enforcement in removing guns from domestic abusers.

The president is proud that between 1993 and 2022, annual domestic
violence rates dropped by 67 percent and the rate of rapes and sexual
assault declined by 56 percent.  It is one of the reasons why Joe Biden
calls it his “proudest legislative achievement.” 

But he knows there is more work to do, so it is why, today, his new
actions are so, so important.  As the president said, and I quote,
“Today, as we mark three decades since we passed into law the Violence
Against Women Act, we celebrate our progress while recommitting to the
work ahead.”

Also, the president and his senior team are closely monitoring the
impacts of Francine as it moves through the sou- — to the southern U- —
United States.  FEMA Administrator Criswell is currently in Louisiana. 
She will meet with state and local officials, survey damages, and
provide an update on our response efforts. 

Before Francine made landfall, the president approved La- — Governor
Landry’s — of Louisiana’s request for an emergency declaration, which
unlocked federal assistance to help support lifesaving and
life-sustaining efforts. 

Over 700 federal personnel, including 128 Urban Search and Rescue
personnel, are in Louisiana and ready to support any emergency response
requests from the state.  FEMA has also pre-positioned more than 750,000
meals, 1.2 million liters of water to support the needs of survivors. 

We continue to encourage those who are in the path of Francine to stay
alert, visit Ready.gov for tips on how to stay safe, and follow the
recommendations of state and local officials.  The Biden-Harris
administration stands ready to provide additional support to impacted
areas as necessary. 

And as I’m sure you guys al- — already has — have heard this, but over
the course of — of this administration and during his time as vice
president, President Biden’s approach to foreign policy in the Western
Hemisphere has been based on his belief that democracy is fundamentally
vital for sustained economic prosperity and security.  Now, Venezuela is
no exception, and the blatant electoral fraud following the July 28th
presidential elections must continue to be condemned and those
obstructing democracy held accountable.

And that is why, to that end, today, we took two important actions to
hold Nicolás Maduro and his cronies accountable for their blatant
electoral fraud, obstruction of a competitive and inclusive election,
and violation of the civil — of the civil and human rights of the
people.  

First, the Department of Treasury sanctioned 16 Maduro-affiliated
officials.  Second, the Department of State imposed new visa
restrictions on a significant number of Maduro-aligned officials who
have undermined the electoral process in Venezuela and are responsible
for acts of repression.

To date, the U.S. government has sanctioned over 140 current or former
Venezuelan officials and taken steps to impose visa restrictions on
nearly 2,000 individuals. 

The Unite- — the United States does not stand alone here in expressing
our concerns with Maduro’s anti-democratic actions.  This morning, at
the U.N. headquarters in New York, we stood beside Panama and more than
50 other countries from across the region and globe to express our
continued commitment to Venezuelan-led democratic norms, as well as our
deep concern with the politically motivated warrant issued by Venezuelan
authorities \[for\] Edmundo González Urrutia.

The United States will continue to work with our international partners
to encourage Venezuelan-led constructive and inclusive dialogue to
restore democratic norms, ensure Maduro and his representatives are held
accountable for their actions, and support the people’s aspirations for
democracy and a more prosperous future.

In the meantime, we cannot stand by while Maduro and his representatives
blatantly commit electoral fraud and use violent, indiscriminate
repression to silence opposition to Maduro’s rule, hence our actions
today.

At the beginning of this administration, President Biden made the
decision to take the Quad to the leader level, and next weekend,
President Biden will host the fourth in-person Quad Leaders’ Summit in
Wilmington, Delaware. 

The president looks forward to welcoming prime minister of Australia,
prime minister of India, and the prime minister of Japan.

This will be President Biden’s first time hosting foreign leaders in
Wilmington as president, a reflection of his deep personal relationships
with each of the Quad leaders and the importance of the Quad to all of
our countries.

The Biden-Harris administration has made elevating and
institutionalizing the Quad a top priority, and this Leaders Kummi- —
Summit will focus on bolstering the strategic convergence among our
countries, advancing our shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific
region, and delivering concrete benefits for our partners in the
Indo-Pacific in key areas. 

We will have more — more of the Wilmington-specific — -based details in
days ahead of this particular Quad Summit that’s happening next weekend.

And lastly — this is a fun thing for all of us here — I wanted to take a
moment to congratulate — we’re going — about to embarrass her
wholeheartedly, and I’m really happy about that because she should be;
she’s such a great person — and celebrate Kelly Scully. 

While Kelly has been supporting our team and working with many of you on
health care and education stories — and she’s not leaving — (laughter) —
but she’s also been working on her own story on love.  
  
Q    Awww.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Awww.  (Laughter.)  I didn’t know how I was going to
deliver that one, but — (laughter).  
  
Anyway, Kelly and her fiancé, Joe, who is here in the back of the room —
Kelly does not know this — hi, Joe.  
  
Q    She thought she was here for VAWA.

MS. SCULLY:  I did.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  She thought she was here for VAWA.   
  
They will tie the knot just outside of Florence, Italy, next week.  None
of us were invited.  (Laughter.)  Maybe she invited you guys. 
(Laughter.)

But I’m so proud that Kelly was able to — to find love.  And she is the
fourth — the fourth spokesperson in the Biden-Harris press office to get
married during his term.  So, maybe I should take some credit for that. 
I don’t know.  But maybe — probably not.   
  
But, anyway, Kelly, you are indispensable member — (laughter) — of our
team.  There’s a lot of, like, internal jokes happening.  
  
MS. SCULLY:  Subtext.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, subtext here happening.  
  
And so, we could not be happier for you and Joe.  Hi, Joe.  
  
MR. GRANZOTTO:  Hi, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.

Please join us in wishing them, in all seriousness, a lifetime of love
and happiness.  And we can’t wait to have you back, Kelly.  And
congratulations to you, Jo- — Joe.  I was about to call you something
else.  Joe.  (Laughter.)   
  
All right, guys.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you for — for being here.  I know you were — had a busy day.  So,
thank you for stopping by, Joe.  
  
MR. GRANZOTTO:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Are you fully embarrassed?  
  
MS. SCULLY:  No.  (Laughs.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No?  Oh, you want more? 

MS. SCULLY:  Thank you, guys.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You want more embarrassment?  
  
MS. SCULLY:  Yes.  Another one.  (Laughter.)

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Let’s get to it.  I know it’s late. 

Colleen.  
  
Q    Yes.  Hi.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  
  
Q    Okay.  So, a couple things.  Can you tell us how the president
thought the debate went?  Where did he watch it?  How did he consume the
details of the debate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, as you know, he was in New York ahead of
September 11th, so he watched it at — at the hotel in New York.  And I’m
going to be careful.  I’m going to give you an answer, but I’m going to
be careful because it is a 220 — 2024 campaign.  So, just have to say
that at — at the top.  
  
But what the president saw directly for himself is a — he saw a
commanding, optimistic performance from the leader who he’s been working
with for the past three and a half years side by side.  And he heard a
powerful case for shared values that they have and shared policy goals
that they have — standing up for our rights against dangerous abortion
and IVF bans, tax cuts and lower costs for families to keep us on this
strong economic growth trajectory instead of MAGAnomics.  You hear me
talk about this — the $4,000 increase in taxes and cuts for working
people.  
  
He saw — he also saw her again demonstrate her commitment to keeping us
more secure and safe not just here but obviously around the world.  And
he saw someone who — someone who continues — continues to put the
American people first.  And she did — she did it in an optimistic way —
an osimis- –optimistic and — and dominant and powerful way.  
  
And I think you saw — you saw his — (aide sneezes) — his tweet — bless
you — that he put out — that his team put out that night.  And so, he’s
very, very proud of her.

  
Q    On September 11th, did the president — the president and the — and
Donald Trump were together, you know, standing near each other.  Did
they have any conversations?  Did they speak about anything?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any conversations to read out.  I think
you saw everything was pretty much being recorded in real time.  Outside
of what you — you saw yourselves by looking at the video, I don’t have
anything else to — to add.

  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    One other thing.  I’m sorry.  Really quick.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, go — go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the Wilmington summit.  I just wondered if you could share
anything about, you know, is — is the president going to have the
leaders to his house for a barbecue or — (laughter) — you know, what are
the plans for how he’s going to entertain the leaders while he’s there?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, we did say it was personal.  Right?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Politics is personal.  And he believes politics and —
and, obviously, in this case, foreign policy is personal.  I don’t have
anything else to — to share beyond what I gave at the top of the
briefing here.   
  
But he’s looking forward to doing this.  It is the first time hosting
foreign leaders in Wilmington —

Q    Uh-huh.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — as I just said at the top.  And I think it’s going
to be an opportunity for him to reflect, certainly, on his deep personal
relationships that he’s had with each of the Quad leaders.  And we’ll
have — certainly, we’ll have more soon to share.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thanks.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  There is a woman named Laura Loomer who
recently tweeted that if the vice president wins the election, “the
White House will smell like curry,” and “White House speeches will be
facilitated via a call center,” among other things.  
  
She recently traveled with the former president, and I wonder if
President Biden has read these remarks and his response. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me tell you our — our response from here.  It is
repugnant, these types of comments.  It is un-American to say these
types of things.  Exactly the kind of hateful and divisive rhetorc- —
rhetoric that we should denounce and we should not — should not be part
of the fabric of this country. 

It doesn’t matter what your pol- — political views are.  You should
stand and condemn — and condemn these types of just repugnant, repugnant
words. 

No leader should ever associate with someone who spreads this kind of
ugliness, this kind of racist poison — that’s what this is — and who
continues to fan these types of dangerous and insulting conspiracy
theories, like the false notion — like the false notion that the tragic
9/11 attacks were an inside job. 

We were all with — you all saw leaders and family members tell their
stories yesterday, especially on — at Ground Zero in New York City.  We
all, I’m sure — many of us have personal stories of that day, 9/11 of
<s>2021</s> \[2001\].  And more than 2,000 lives were lost — 2,000.

And to say that — that it’s an inside job — and to spread that is
insulting — insulting.  And we should not — no leader should be
connected to that or spreading that. 

And as the — President Biden has always said, it’s our duty — it is our
duty as Americans to give hate no — no safe harbor and to bring the
country together around our shared values and to recognize and
appreciate the unique strength that our diversity gives us as a nation. 
He says this all the time: Di- — our diversity is our strength, and
that’s what we should be following. 

Q    On a related note.  During the debate, Trump spread false claims
and lies about immigrants eating pets in Springfield, Ohio.  The city
manager disputed those false claims.  And today, city hall was evacuated
after a bomb threat was sent to city agencies and media outlets.  Does
President Biden believe Trump’s words and rhetoric contributed to those
threats today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I — I want to be super mindful.  We’re aware
of the reports of a bombing threat, as you just stated, in Springfield,
Ohio, at city hall.  Local police, obviously, is investigating the
situation, and we encourage everyone to — to follow the public safety
guidance. 

I don’t want to speculate from here the source of the bomb threat, but I
do want to take a step back.  I think it’s important that all of us take
a step back here and — and just lean on the facts here.  The
Springfield, Ohio, police department has debunked this very bizarre and
very hateful smear that’s out there. 

It is — what is happening here is an attempt to tear apart communities
and disrespect — let’s not forget — also disrespecting law enforcement. 
And that is the opposite of what our country deserves.  It is
undignified and an insult to all of us as Americans — not just one
community but to all of us as Americans.  And it is spreading filth that
makes the lives of the communities that are being smeared here — it puts
their lives in danger.

And — and it is just — it is just hate speech.  That’s what it is.  And
some of your news — some of the news organizations here have reported
that some Haitians — Haitians American — Haitian immigrants are fearing
— fearing for their safety right now because of result of conspiracy
theory.  This is what this is. 

So, instead of leaders trying to bring us together around our shared
values, which is something that the president believes and sh- — and
says all the time, as I just stated — and, you know, the president and
the vice president, that’s what they want to see.  They want to see us
come together in our shared values in a respectful way. 

And I — I will say one more thing, and I — and I think if you guys could
hear me out for one second, like, maybe we should not have leaders who
fall for fake Internet conspiracy theories.  We should think about
that.  Maybe we should not have leaders who do that.  Our country
deserves better. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

Q    A follow-up there?

  
Q    Any message from the White House specifically to the residents in
Springfield, Ohio?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because of the — of the — of the bomb threat or —

Q    And all that’s been going on on social media —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — the conversation around it, how the city manager has had to
reply.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Well, we certainly appreciate the Springfield,
Ohio, department police debunking this — this, again, very bizarre,
hateful — hateful smear.  And — and that is something that we
appreciate. 

We should continue to come together as a country.  We should not be
tearing our communities apart.  I do not — I’m sure that the community
is dealing with a lot of incoming on this.  It’s unfortunate. 

And certainly not — I can’t speak to d- — the bomb threats and get
behind that.  There’s an investigation that the local police are — are
looking into.  But we appreciate, certainly, the Ohio police department
coming out right away in Springfield and saying, “This is false; this is
not true,” debunking — debunking this hateful — very hateful smear. 

Q    I wanted to ask you actually about another one from the debate.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Former President Trump refused to say plainly whether he wanted
Ukraine to win the war.  Has the White House fielded any calls from
allies about this — what this could mean if he wins, a change in U.S.
policy?  Has it impacted any of the White House’s work —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — with counterparts in Ukraine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here’s what I’m going to say.  Look, I — I’m not
going to answer specifically to what — what happened at the debate. 

What I will say is President Biden is president right now, and you have
seen what he has done over the last three — more than three and a half
years.  And he’s always made sure that when it comes to foreign policy,
we have diplomatic conversations; we try to rebuild those relationships
that were pretty much soured by the last administration.  We saw what
the last administration did to our relationships across the globe. 

And as it relates to Ukraine, and the — the a- — the — the war that
they’re fighting because of Russia’s aggression, you’ve seen the
president’s commitment — continued commitment to making sure that
Ukraine has everything that they need to fight for their democracy, to
fight for their free- — freedom.  And that’s going to be continued —
obviously, the president’s commitment and the vice president’s
commitment as well.  They’ve done this as partners over the past two
years — more than two years now.   
  
And so, that is what matters right now in this moment.  The signal that
we’re sending has been very clear to Ukrainian — the brave people of
Ukraine, to our allies and partners: that we are standing behind them
and continue to do just that.   
  
Q    Is there any update to give on the negotiations in Doha?  There was
a new statement from Prime Minister Netanyahu that definitely suggested
things were not going well.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I will say is that we are going to continue
to work on this agreement.  This is an agreement that will bring
hostages out of Gaza.  That’s what we want to see. 

And obviously, as you know, some of those hostages include American
hostages, and we are going to continue to do that under the terms of the
— of the deal that’s now on the table.  That’s what we’re focusing on. 
As you know, and we say this all the time, we’re just not going to nego-
— negotiate in public.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The president has both the Wilmington summit and
the meeting tomorrow with the British prime minister.  I’m wondering if
we can anticipate a press conference at either or both since —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — traditionally, both would be kind of forums that we’d get to hear
from the president.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything to share on the — on the
Quad Summit, as far as a — a press conference component.  I believe
there is not one scheduled for tomorrow.  But I can say that, you know,
the president obviously is going to continue to — to take questions from
all of you.  And I just don’t have anything to share beyond — beyond
tomorrow at this time.  
  
Q    And then there was a meeting today at the White House with leading
AI companies.  I’m wondering if you could give a readout of —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — of what was discussed but also if there were any agreements or
plans headed forward for what the companies and the administration want
to do together.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we are going to have a readout — if it hasn’t gone
out yet, it will go out shortly — of that particular meeting that
happened this morning, as you just stated.   
  
It included White House officials from a- — from across the campus. 
Jeff Zients, Lael Brainard, Jake Sullivan, Bruce Reed, and secretaries
of Commerce and Energy were all there.  And we’ll have a full — full
readout, hopefully momentarily, that should hit your inboxes.   
  
And so, I think what you can — what you can take from this particular
meeting is the continued commitment from the president and the vice
president to deepen our U.S. leadership as it relates to AI and by
ensuring the data centers are built in the United States, while ensuring
the technology is developed responsibly.   
  
And so — and so, that’s the — the — that’s the — that — that is part of
what was discussed in the meetings today.  And we’re talking about, you
know, AI companies, hyperscalers, utility companies.  And all of this
was to talk about, again, the data center development of AI.   
  
The meeting focused on accelerating public-private collaboration in
advance of U.S. leadership in a — in — in advancing U.S. leadership in
AI and how to meet the workforce, permitting, and infrastructure needs
associated with technology.  
  
The le- — the industry leaders, so you have this — and, again, it’ll be
a more fulsome readout that’ll go out to all of you — was Anthropic,
OpenAI, Microsoft, Google, and a few others.  And this has been the
president’s commitment — the Biden-Harris commitment in trying to make
sure that we get ahead of this — this really important technology and
make sure that we continue to show our — our leadership.   
  
As you know, this is something that we’ve been focused on for more than
a year, since July of 2023.  
  
Go ahead, Monica.  
  
Q    Karine, what we saw yesterday with the president briefly wearing a
MAGA hat — since the pool wasn’t in the room for that, can you share a
little bit more about how that happened and just what kind of message
you think it sent?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things for — for those — like you
said, the pool was not in the room, so I just want to make sure I — I
lay this out so folks get the context of what happened.   
  
So, we were — the president was in Shanksville Fire Station, one of the
locations, obviously, of — on where the plane was taken down on
September 11th of 2000 — 2001.  So, the president gave an impromptu
remarks about bipartisan unity.  That’s what he was talking about.  And
— and he talked about it in the moment of September 11th — it was —
that’s what we experienced after 9/11 — and said that we needed to go
back to that bipartisan unity as a country.   
  
And so, he made those remarks — impromptu remarks to some of the folks
who were there on that day.  And he offered a — a presidential hat to a
man who was wearing a Trump cap.  He was wearing a Trump hat, and he
offered it to him as a gesture.  And in return, the man said that, in
the same spirit, the president should put on his Trump cap.  And so, the
president did very briefly.  And that’s what happened.   
  
It was — it was truly a back-and-forth about unity and the president
remembering a moment in time after a horrific incident on that day and
how the country did come together.  It didn’t r- — it didn’t matter what
political party you were part of.  It didn’t matter.  We came together
as a country because we lost so many souls — thousands of souls — more
than 2,000 that day.  That’s what you saw.   
  
Q    Did the president and vice president have an opportunity to talk
about the debate yesterday throughout their travels?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to — obviously, they saw each other,
spent some time with each other.  I’m just going to — not going to get
into their private conversation.   
  
As I said, he — he’s very proud of her.  He continues — what you saw —
I’m going to be mindful — what you saw on Tuesday was what he has said:
The best decision that he made — and has said this many times — was when
he was in 2020 and selecting his running mate, was selecting her.   
  
And he looks forward to continuing to work side by side in the next
several months of this and — several months of this — his tenure.  
  
Q    And just finally, is there anything you can preview on UNGA? 
Specifically, President Zelenskyy said he does expect to meet with
President Biden, he hopes, there.  Is that something you can confirm? 
And what should we expect from his time in New York?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, at this time, I can’t confirm any — any details or
specifics of — of UNGA week.  And as we get closer, we’ll have more to
share.  We’ll have more to share.   
  
Hi.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Boeing workers are voting on a new labor contract
today.  Does the president support Boeing workers going on strike after
management’s proposed contract did not meet workers’ demands for a 40
percent pay rise?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so I’ve said many times here when we get these
types of questions is that we support — this president pru- — pru- —
supports collective bargaining and believe it is the best way for
American workers and employers to come to an agreement for — that works
for all parties and do it in a good faith way.   
  
And so, that’s what we believe.  That’s what this administration
believes.  And so, we are going to encourage both parties to negotiate
in that way — in good faith — and reaching a strong contract.   
  
And so, we’ve said this many times when we get to — when we hear
companies and unions in these types of disputes.  And just leave it
there.  
  
Q    When was the last time a member of the administration spoke to the
negotiators in this situation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will say that the administration are definitely in
touch with the parties, which is not unusual — something that we have
done many times before.  And, again, we continue to believe that the
collective bargaining is the best way to reach a — a solution here for
all parties involved, as long as it’s done in — in good faith.

  
Q    If I could add one more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    Dozens of state and local election officials raised concerns this
week about the postal service’s ability to get ballots delivered on
time.  Can you elaborate on what the administration is doing to ensure
that the USPS is going to be able to get ballots delivered?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I would refer you to the USPS on this one. 
Obviously, the president thinks it’s incredibly important.  He’s — you
know, voting is — is a sacred right, and — and it should be something
that — Americans are able to do that and capable and able to — to make
sure they’re able to access that important, sacred right.  That’s one of
the reasons why, very early on in his administration, he signed an
executive order to make it — to make it easier for people to — to be
able to cast their — their votes.

I would refer to — to the U.S. Postal Service on specifics on that.

Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  The White House has maintained that the vice
president has had a seat at the table and a voice in all major decisions
that President Biden has made during his term.  At the debate on
Tuesday, she distanced herself from the president, saying, “I am not Joe
Biden.  What I do offer is a new generation of leadership for our
country.” 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I would remind you that the president also said in
— many times — well, I’ll point you to the Oval Office address — that he
was handing — passing the torch over — right? — to a new generation. 
And he was proud to do that.  He did it in a incredibly patriotic way,
in a — in a selfless way.  And that’s what he was doing.  And he said it
himself. 

Look, what I will say is that all you have to do is look at what the
president and the vice president has done together, and that is
something that she continues to support — what we did to turn the
economy around, what we did to make sure that we lower cost when it
comes to — whether it’s health care, whether it’s energy costs.  She was
the deciding vote on — on the Inflation Reduction Act.  That mattered. 
That is mat- — you know, now Medicare is able to — to — you know, to be
able to negotiate with Big Pharma.  We beat Big Pharma.

And so, she was able to lay out her — her agenda, what the president
supports.  We believe they have a shared agenda.  That’s what we heard. 
That’s what we saw from this vice president.  And — and I’m, again,
going to be really — be really mindful on saying too much, going too
much into the debate.  But I can speak to the —

Q    But you do believe that she shares responsibility for the agenda of
this administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Yes?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I mean — yes, they are partners in this.  They —
she is a critical partner in what we have been able to do over the last
four years.  But we cannot forget — we cannot forget what they inherited
going in.  Right?  We can’t forget an economy that was in a tailspin.
COVID was taking over.  More than 3,000 people were dying each day. 
There was no comprehensive plan on how to deal with COVID.

This president and this vice president got to work and put shots in arms
and checks in pockets.  That matters.

Q    And on the optics of the last couple of days, President Biden has
made a personal decision, when he has encountered former President
Trump, not to share a handshake with him, which Vice President Harris
did twice in the span of 24 hours.  Does he agree with that decision? 
Does he believe that that was —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  She is her own person.  The vice president is her own
person.  She’s — is allowed to do what she feels is the best thing to
do.  I — I cannot speak for how she engages with the former president. 
She is her own person.

And the president has his reasons.  I’ll leave it there.

Q    And then, quickly, just a clarification on the president’s comments
on Ukraine.  He said earlier this week, when asked about the possibility
to change the policy for Ukraine to use long-range weapons into Russia,
he said, “We’re working on it.”  A U.S. official later clarified that
there was no change in policy.  Can you say what exactly is being worked
on?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to get into the policy del- —
deliberations here in public.  What I can say is basically what I said
in answering another c- — one of your colleague’s questions about
Ukraine specifically, obviously, which is that we want to make sure —
our focus is making sure that Ukraine has what it needs to defend
itself, to win back their territory — their sovereign territory, to win
that back.

And so, that’s what our focus is, and that’s what we’re going to
continue to do.  We have co- — we have shown and this president has
shown and continues to show a tremendous amount of support for Ukraine. 
His leadership has been very clear — clear and out front — making sure
that NATO is stronger, adding two more NATO members.  That was because
of the president’s le- — leadership.  More than 50 countries he was able
to bring together to support Ukraine as they continue to bravely fight
for their freedom. 

And that’s our commitment.  I’m not going to get into policy
deliberations from here.

Go ahead, Fraser.  

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I want —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I know last time I — I think I called you
Michael.  I —

Q    I’ll forgive you.  Don’t worry about it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I apologize.

Q    It’s fine.  Water under the bridge.  And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  Oh, you’re so kind.  Thank you.

Q    Anytime.  I want to continue asking about Ukraine, if possible.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Putin today said — about these alleged plans to change the — the
idea about long-range missiles, he said that it would mean that NATO
countries, the U.S./European countries are at war with Russia.  How
concerned is the U.S. about that statement?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into hypotheticals.  I’m not
going to get into inter- — internal policy deliberations from here.  I
will say what you’ve heard from my NSC colleagues at this podium, you’ve
heard from this president: This war can end today if Mr. Putin will end
the war that he started.  It is his aggression.  It is his war that he
started.  He can end it.  He could end it.  I’m going to leave it there.

Q    But his forces have also reclaimed part of the Kursk region that
the Ukrainian forces took in the last couple of weeks.  What’s the White
House’s reaction to the Russian advances back into the Kursk region?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We are going to do everything that we can so that
Ukraine has what it needs to defend itself.  That is our commitment.  I
think you have seen this, a — a very much focused, a tremendous amount
of support from this administration and also from our partners and
allies in doing just that.  And that’s what you could expect to see.

Q    Thanks, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you so much, Karine.  Following up on Springfield, you said
that these fake —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  On th- — on Springfield?

Q    Springfield, yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  Ohio.

Q    These fake stories — yeah — about — about migrants — put lives in
danger.  So, how concerned are you about a potential rise in threats or
even hate crimes targeting migrants? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, when you have national leaders spewing hateful
or lifting up hateful rhetoric and bizarre smear that has been debunked,
as I just stated when I answered this question moments ago, that is
dangerous.  That is — yes, we are concerned.  It is dangerous.

I mean, you all have reported how communities, specifically Haitian
communities, are fearing for their life because of how this is being
lifted up.  And this is about tearing communities apart.  And we deserve
more.  Our country deserves more than that.

So, there is a concern.  Anytime you see this type of rhetoric, this
hateful rhetoric, these types of smears, yes, it could lead to dangerous
scenarios.  And that’s why, if you are a national leader in this
country, if you’re a leader of any kind, you should condemn — condemn
this type of rhetoric.  You should condemn it. 

We deserve more.  And, again, this is — I talk about our shared values. 
That’s what the president wants.  He wants to be able to — so that
people get together around our shared values.  And that is what matters,
and that is what is important for our country. 

Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  One more on the Trump hat.  What did the president
do with it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.

Q    Did he keep it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have no idea.

Q    Is he, like, saving it for the — a Christmas present for his least
favorite staffer or something? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, wow.  (Laughter.)

Q    I’m just ki- — I —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you’ve thought about that one.

Q    (Laughs.)  I’m just curious.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Least favorite staffer. 

Q    I mean, did he t- — did he walk out with a- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t know.  Maybe it’s on my desk right now. 

I genu- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t know.

Q    (Laughs.)  Okay.  All right.  On a he- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)

Q    On a heavier note about the economy.  There’s a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    — a new analysis by the Republicans who are on the Congressional
Joint Economic Committee.  They looked at seven battleground states.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    And according to their analysis, the average household is paying,
for the same basket of goods and services, on average, about $1,000 more
per month compared to January 2021, and the numbers are pretty stark. 
In places like Nevada and Arizona, it’s almost $1,200 a month; Georgia,
it’s $1,075 a month; North Carolina, $1,017.  Has President Biden’s
policies positioned the vice president poorly in these states to win
this election?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to get into the election.  I’m just
not.  I’m not going to get into her path to victory and what it does for
— it’s just not something that I’m going to speak to from here.  What I
can speak to is where we are now.  Inflation — core inflation has gone
down — that is important to note — because of the work that they’ve been
able to do.  You see cra- — gas prices going down almost 50 percent. 
That’s important.  You see wages are rising faster than prices are. 
Nearly 16 million jobs created. 

And what I will say — so, we have done the work to see progress —
progress in fighting inflation and lowering costs.  And — but we do
understand — we’re not — I hear the numbers that you’re telling me.  We
u- — do understand that there is more work to be done.  There is. 
There’s more work to be done. 

And that’s why we’re going to do what we can to lower costs by investing
in record energy production, for example; building 3 million new homes;
capping prescription drugs; cutting taxes for the middle class — the
middle class.  This is a president that talks about building — building
an economy from the bottom up, the middle out, and not leaving anybody
behind. 

And we have to talk about what congressional Republicans are trying to
do: raise — raise costs by nearly $4,000 for the middle class.  That’s
what they’re doing.

Q    Well, isn’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They’re cut — they want to cut Social Security and
Medicare while giving breaks to billionaires and corporations.  That is
such an unpopular thing to do, and they continue to want to push that
forward.  They won’t stop talking about it. 

They want to —

Q    (Inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, oh.

Q    — on cutting Social Security and Medicare.  I mean, we went through
all of that during the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, we did.  We — we we-

Q    Yeah, we — this was a couple —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  In the midterms, we went through all of it. 

Q    Right, yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There were — we saw flyers and — and plans from
leaders of the Senate — of the Senate — Senate Republicans.  We saw
that.  We saw the back-and-forth with the president at two —

Q    Well —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — at two State of the Unions, where, certainly, he
pushed back on that and made them say that’s not what they wanted to do,
but that’s what they were saying they wanted to do.  They wanted to cut
Social Security and Medicare. 

They’ve been very clear.  This is — this is not just the last three and
a half years.  This has been for some time now.  And they want to get
rid of the Inflation Reduction Act that none of them, by the way, voted
for, that beats Big Pharma.  They want to get rid of that. 

That’s going to lower cost for Americans.  We’re talking about important
drugs — cancer drugs, diabetes.  We’re talking about capping insulin at
35 bucks a month for —

Q    But this — this administration, though —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — seniors that pay more than 400 bucks —

Q    I mean, you had Lael Brainard —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — a month.  

Q    — say that we’ve turned the page on inflation, but American
families aren’t feeling that, to the point where the vice president
didn’t even directly answer the question in the debate, “Do you believe
that Americans feel” —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have made —

Q    — “they’re better off than four years ago?”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we have —

Q    She dodged it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have made progress in fighting inflation.  That is
something that we have seen from the numbers, from the data, that is a
true in — in truth, right?  I believe that the VP highlighted on how we
are better off, on how on — off now, as — as well as her plans to build
on that progress.  That is something that she talked about: How are we
going to build on that progress? 

And, you know, I said this moments ago.  We got — we can’t forget what
this administration inherited: an economy that was in a tailspin. 
That’s what we inherited.  It was paralyzed because the former president
did nothing — did nothing during one of the once-in-a-century pandemic. 
He did nothing.  Donald Trump did nothing. 

We took action on no- — on — and now our economy is stronger than ever. 
We’re out — outcompeting China.  That’s something that we did.  Let’s
not forget, when we took over, violent crime was at — at — was — was —
we saw a violent crime, murder at its highest in the former president’s
last year, and now it’s at a 50-year low because of the work that we
did. 

And it started with the American Rescue Plan.  Again, no Republicans
voted for it.  They didn’t wa- — want to vote for something that had
money for local — local communities, local police enforcement to
actually have the funding they needed to get more police officers. 

Q    Why couldn’t the vice president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They didn’t vote it. 

Q    — just say “yes” to that question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re going to have to speak directly to her team. 
What I saw is she laid out how to build on the progress that we’ve
made.  That’s what we saw.  That’s what she’s talking about.  That’s
what she talks about, building on the progress that we have made.  We
had to fix — we had to fix what the Trump administration did. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Israel’s U.N. mission said today that the six
UNRWA work- — workers that were killed at the IDF strike yesterday at
the U.N. school and shelter were members of Hamas.  The U.S. — the U.N.
is neither confirming or denying this.  I was hoping you could give us
the U.S. position on whether they are indeed Hamas members.  Has Israel
shared any evidence that they are members of Hamas?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is obviously we’re aware of the IDF
strike in Gaza, and we are indeed concerned about — there are reports of
civilian casualties, so we are concerned about that.  We are in touch
with our Israeli counterparts to get more information in what happened. 

As you just said, IDF said they were targeting Hamas officials,
including those who were directly involved with the horrific attacks
that we saw on October 7th.  And so, we’ve been clear that, you know,
Israel has a right and responsibility to go after Hamas.  But we also
have been clear that Israel must do this in a way that there is
precaution, in a way that we protect — do everything that they do to
protect more civilian lives. 

And so, this is especially the case in declared humanitarian zones in
Gaza, and that is something that we want to see.  And so, we’re having,
certainly, conversations about that. 

We mourn — we mourn — And you hear us say this all the time — every
Palestinian civilian lost in this conflict, including children.  And far
— far too many — far too many lives continue — have been lost and
continue to be killed and wounded. 

And so, we’re having —

Q    Will you cut (inaudible) short? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — we’re having those — those converta- — conversations
with our Israeli counterparts. 

Q    Okay.  So, but you don’t — you don’t have a position (inaudible) — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not — I — I’m —

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a —

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know the question about — you’re asking me about —
specifically about Hamas leaders, officials.  I’m not going to speak to
that. 

What I can say is we’re in direct conversation —

Q    Just — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — with our Israeli counter- — counterparts.

Q    And moving on.  Still on the Middle East.  Is the administration
involved in bringing the remains of Turkish American Aysenur Eygi, who
was killed by IDF in the West Bank —  is the administration involved in
bringing her remains back to Turkey?  And how do you respond to Turkish
anger, both from the government and the citizens, to President Biden
calling the shooting, quote, “an accident.” 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say that what the family and her loved
ones — Aysen- — Aysenur’s loved ones are going through right now is
unimaginable, and I can’t imagine the pain that they’re going through
with losing a child, a loved one.  And — and their loss has certainly
been on the president’s mind.

And so, you saw the president release a statement on her — on her
death.  And the president said, there must be a “full accountability.” 
Her killing was indeed an outrage.  And — and, you know, just to
reiterate what I said moments ago, Israel must do more.  They must do
more to make sure that incidents like these never happen again.

And, again, the pain of losing a child is something that I can —
certainly that we can’t even imagine.

Q    But is the U.S. helping Turkey?  Sorry.  Is the U.S. helping —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  The Turk- —

Q    — to bring the remains?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have anything to share with you on that. 
I would refer you to the State Department specifically on that
question. 

Q    And just one last one.  At the Quad Summit in Delaware later this
month, President Biden will be meeting with Prime Minister Kishida of
Japan.  What would his message be on U.S. Steel acquisition by Nippon
Steel? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I don’t have anything as it relates to Nippon
Steel.  I don’t have anything to share on that. 

CFIUS, obviously, is going through their process.  When they share their
— their end-of-the-process report that they do that — they’ll do that to
the pres- — for the president, then the president will make, obviously,
a decision. 

I just don’t have anything to share.  There’s — there’s no news to be
made at this time, and the process continues. 

Q    Can I follow up on the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Sure. 

Q    — same question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nadia.

Q    Thanks.  The statement that the president released yesterday
described the killing of Aysenur as a “tragic error.”  I’m just
wondering how the White House came to this conclusion, considering that
she was shot by a sniper in — through a bullet in the head as execution
style. 

The Washington Post did an investigation.  It showed that she was shot
20 minutes after the clashes ended and she — there was — all the
protesters had moved from the main road.  So, how did you came to this
conclusion it was an error?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can I — and I want to say, like her — her killing was
— was an outrage and should have never have happened.  It should have
never happened.  That’s what the president believes.  It should have
never have happened. 

I’m aware — to answer your question — I’m aware of the analysis — the
various analysis that are out there and have been published — aware of
it.  And as we have said, we’re going to continue to stay in close touch
with the Israeli and the Palestinian authorities regarding the
circumsta- — -stances that led to Aysenur’s death.  We’re going to
continue to have those conversation. 

And the president has been clear — he has been clear as well that there
needs to be full accountability as well.  We need to see full
accountability here.

Q    But in all the previous incidents — whether it’s Palestinian
civilians or even Israelis — hostages who were carrying white flag and
shot by the IDF or American citizens, whether it’s Shireen Abu Akleh or
Aysenur or others — is the White House satisfied that Israel ever came
to you and they found actually the people who did it responsible and
they held accountable?  Are you satisfied with all this investigation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m not going to go into every investigation.  I’m
not — I’m just —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear you, but I just am not going to do that. 

This should have never happened.  This — this awful, awful killing
should have never happened.  It’s an outrage. 

And just to what the president was referring to — and we’ve said this —
is that the initial findings — the initial fili- — findings that were
released by IDF, and it was also briefed — they also briefed the U.S.
government on this.

And so, look, the president also said there must be full accountability
to what happened, and that’s what we want to see. 

Q    Karine, three Red Cross —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, go ahead.

Q    — workers were killed in Ukraine today —

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Do you have a re- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I just wondered, why has the president not spoken
with her — members of her family —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — who have said that they’ve been interested in hearing from him. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yes, I — I — we’re aware of that.  U.S.
officials have been in touch with the family members, and so we are
working on additional calls.  I don’t have anything to share outside of
that. 

Q    Is — are those with the president?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We are —

Q    I mean, is he going —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We are working on —

Q    Is he planning —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We are working on additional calls, and I just don’t
have to share beyo- — have anything else to share beyond that. 

Q    Karine, three Red Cross workers —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Karen.  Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

Q    Can I — okay.

Q    January 6th is going to be designated a national special security
event by DHS and the Secret Service, which makes the counting,
certification of electoral votes the highest security designation the
federal government makes available.  We’ve heard the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — give many speeches —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — talking very passionately about what happened on January 6th back
in 2021.  But what does it say now that something that is a routine part
of the election process is now getting this level of a security
designation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — and you’re right.  This president has spoken very
passionately about January 6 and what happened on that day and how it
was a attack on our democracy.  He has shared his views, and he’s also
said the importance of making sure that never happens again.  He has
said that many times, again, in a — in passionate and powerful way.

I would h- — as it relates to this designation, this is something that
DHS and Secret Service, they can speak specifically to this
designation.  They made this designation.  So don’t want to get ahead of
them.

But you’re right.  The president has spoken powerfully about this.  He’s
been very clear that this cannot happen again.  And we know — look at
2022 — the elections from ‘22 — 2022.  We know that Am- — Americans care
about their democracy.  They care about their freedoms.  And that’s
where majority of Americans are. 

But I — I’m not going to get into specifics of the — of what we heard
from DHS and the Secret Service today.

Go ahead, Gerren.

Q    Karine, the Red Cross —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Gerren.

Q    — workers killed —

Q    U.N. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield announced the U.S.’s
backing of two permanent African seats on the U.N. Security Council. 
What more can the White House share about the importance of this and
what insight and leadership Africa can provide to advancing
international peace and security?  And how likely does the
administration believe that this can — this resolution can be voted on
at the General Assembly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just to take a step back, two years ago, at UNGA,
the president was able to announce a U.S. — the U.S. commitment to e- —
to expand on the council with permanent representation for countries
from Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean, as well as countries
we’ve long supported for permanent seats.  And so, he did that two years
ago.   
  
And what you saw today, to your point and your question, you saw the
U.N. Ambassador — the U.S.-U.N. Ambassador announce that — our support
for two permanent seats for African countries.  And that’s something
that African leaders called for.  And certainly — and obviously — this
is something that the president supported.  
  
So, it shows, I believe, our commitment — the U.S.’s commitment to
supporting reforms to the Security Council.  I think that’s how you
should see this and view this.  And by doing that, it makes the Security
Council more effective, representa- — you have representation — and more
credible.  
  
And so, any specifics beyond that, I would have to refer you to the
State Department.  But this is a commitment that you saw from this
president two years ago, coming — at the — at UNGA back then.  
  
Q    And one other question.  The venture capital firm the Fearless Fund
closed its grant program for Black-women-owned businesses to settle a
lawsuit that claimed that the grant was discriminatory.  Doing so
avoided it going to the Supreme Court that could have ruled in having
implications for race-based initiatives across the — in the private
sector.  Does the White House have any reaction to this decision, this
lawsuit decision?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, anything specific to the litigation — it’s an
ongoing litigation — I would have to refer to Department of Justice.  
  
But I will say, and this is something I think I said moments ago and the
president has said — I’m just repeating what the president has said mom-
— many, many times during this administration — that di- — diversity is
our greatest strength, and that is important.   
  
You see that in the policies that the Biden-Harris has moved forward. 
You’ve seen that, whether it is schools or our militaries or our
businesses, even in government.  This is the most diverse presidential
administration in history because the president and the vice president
believes in that.  They believe in making sure that when you talk about
policy, you’re talking about all the communities and you’re bringing
them together, and no community is left behind.  
  
This is an ongoing litigation that I can’t speak to.  That’s something
for DOJ to speak to.  
  
I know I have to — I have to get going.  
  
Q    Karine, the three red cross workers killed —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — in Ukraine today.  Can you address that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ed.   
  
Q    Yeah, thanks.

Q    Or, I mean —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I want to ask you about the new census data that
came out.  It shows that childhood poverty went to 13.7 percent.  That’s
more than double childhood poverty in 2021.  So, why aren’t things
getting better with all the programs and the money that’s been spent or
signed into law under the Biden-Harris administration?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Ed, I’m — I am really glad that you — that you
brought this up.  If you think about the first year — and I kind of
spoke about this a little bit in the past, you know, 40 minutes or so
being at the podium — is that — what we were able to do because of the
American Rescue Plan is that we were able to cut child poverty by nearly
half, and that’s a record low.  And — and that’s because we were able to
expand on the Child Tax Credit.  
  
And, again, the American Rescue Plan, not one Republican voted for that
plan.  Not one.  Not one.  Especially what was — if you think about —
just think back what was going on during that time.  And they didn’t —
decided not to vote for it.  Econ- — again, economy was in a tailspin.  
  
And — and to this day, Republicans have refused — they continue to
refuse — repeatedly blocked — repeatedly blocked our attempts to restore
that expanded Child Tax Credit.  
  
Again, you’re talking about poverty.  That’s what it was able to do.
 And what it did is lift millions of children out of poverty.   
  
And this just happened as recently as last month.  Senate Republicans
blocked a bipartisan bill to expand the child tax cut so we can build on
what we were able to do the first year.  Republicans are getting in the
way.  They are.  They’re getting in the way.  
  
Q    But we had $904 billion in non-defense spending in 2024, and you’re
telling me that the — only the Child Tax Credit is the way to fix child
poverty?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We saw what passing the American Rescue Plan, which
expanded the Child Tax Credit within — it was a provision.  It was part
of the American Rescue Plan.  And because we were able to expand the
Child Tax Credit, the data showed that — that the poverty — child
poverty was cut down by nearly half.  
  
And one of the ways — obviously, when you see that, what you want to do
is continue to expand the Child Tax Credit.  That’s what Democrats
wanted to do.  That’s what Republic- — that Republicans don’t want to
do.  That’s what the president wanted to do.  
  
If you see something that works, as a legislator, don’t you want to
continue it?  Don’t you want to continue something that works?  They got
in the way.  
  
So, if you’re talking about child tax — child poverty, we know — we know
how to deal with it, and they refuse to — they refuse to move forward
with it.  They refused to move with the legislation that they just
blocked just last month.  
  
Q    On another subject.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    The Treasury monthly statement came out today, and it showed that
we still have a deficit — we’re going to have a deficit of $1.9 trillion
this year.  
  
You know, the focus on the president and the vice president has been
raising taxes — they want to tax — raise taxes on corporations and
others — and spending on programs.  What’s the plan for the debt?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we got to step back here for a second.   
  
The last administration increased — they increased the debt by a record
$8 trillion.  I hope you wrote about that.  They didn’t sign a single
law to reduce the deficit.  I hope you wrote about that.  The president
— President Biden, the current president — signed a — $1 trillion of
deficit reduction into law.  
  
He’s taking action to deal with our deficit.  Eight trillion-dollar
deficit in the last administration.  I really hope you wrote about
that.  And his budget would lower the deficit by another tri- — $3
trillion by making millionaires and — and biggest corporations pay their
fair share, Ed, to your question.  That’s what it would do.  Cutting
spending on special interests.  That’s what he wants to do.  
  
Republicans want to — again, they want to increase the deficit by expa-
— ex- — expanding the tax — the Trump tax cut, which would cost $5
trillion.  That’s what they want to do. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I really hope you wrote about, in the past, what
the Trump administration did when it came to the deficit —  
  
Q    But we still —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — and what we’ve had to — what we’ve had to deal with
and fix.  
  
Q    But we still have deficit spending —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And every question that you ask me —

Q    Well — (laughs) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, there’s some irony.   
  
Q    But we still have de- —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Every question that you ask me —

Q    But we’re here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — is something that we’re trying to fix and
Republicans get in the way of.   
  
Q    So, we’re here —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Literally every question that you ask me.  
  
Q    — I’m talking about the debt — the — the actual amount.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I — (laughs) —  
  
Q    Deficit spending is still deficit spending.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    How do we reduce the debt?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I’m telling you what the president has done.  One
trillion dollars is not a small number in trying to — in signing a
legislation to deal with the deficit.  
  
Now, $8 trillion, a record number in debt, that’s what the Trump
administration did.  
  
I’ll see you guys tomorrow.  Thank you.

Q    Karine, is the —

Q    Thank you.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.

Q    Is the president aware of the Red — Red Cross workers being
killed?  
  
4:15 P.M. EDT
