---
date: '2024-09-18'
modified_time: 2024-09-19 09:44:22-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-18 15:43:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/18/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-director-of-coalitions-media-luisana-perez-fernandez-and-national-security-communications-adviser-john-kirby/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, Director of Coalitions\
  \ Media Luisana P\xE9rez Fern\xE1ndez, and National Security Communications Adviser\
  \ John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:14 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Got a few things going on today.   
  
So, I’m joined today by my colleague Luisana Pérez Fernández, who will
speak for a few minutes on Hispanic Heritage Month.   
  
Luisana, over to you.  
  
MS. PÉREZ FERNÁNDEZ:  Hi, everybody.  Thank you, Karine.  *Gracias,*
Karine.   
  
(Speaks Spanish.)  (No translation provided.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  *Gracias*.  *Gracias*.  *Gracias*, Luisana.  Thank you
so much for coming.

MS. PÉREZ FERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And to echo my colleague, today, we celebrate the
first week of Hispanic Heritage Month, a time to recognize that
diversity is one of our country’s greatest strengths.

This month, we honor the rich history, culture, and contributions to —
the Hispanic community brings to our nation.

This afternoon, the president and the first lady will host leaders and
members of the Latino community at a reception to celebrate their
achievements and contributions in the United States.

Tomorrow, the president will attend the Congressional Hispanic Caucus
Institute Gala, where he will honor Latino excellence and the
contributions of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

In his remarks, President Biden will highlight how, since day one, he
and the vice president have been committed to promoting opportunities
and equ- — equality for all — or equity for all, including the millions
of Latinos across the country.

Since taking office, President Biden and Vice President Harris have
lowered Latino unemployment to the lowest rate on record; supported
Latino small businesses, which are now experiencing the fastest growth
rate in 30 years; doubled the amount of SBA-backed loans for Latino
entrepreneurs; Hispanic \[home\]ownership has climbed to about 50
percent, with over 9.5 million Hispanic households owning their own
homes; lowered drug prices for 5 million Latinos with Medicare; expanded
affordable and quality health care coverage to Latino families,
including to DACA recipients from the Affordable Care Act; created a
federal government that reflects the diversity of the United States,
with our four Latino members serving in the cabinet; helped Puerto
Rico’s economy by investing over $140 billion and adding more than
100,000 new jobs; vigorously defended the DACA policy, and taken steps
to keep married couples together, where one spouse is a U.S. citizen and
the other has been in the U.S. for 10 years or more.

This month is also an opportunity to celebrate the Latinos in the
Biden-Harris administration and the White House who have worked on our
administration’s priorities: canceling student debt for millions of
people, expanding access to quality health care, reducing drug costs,
and taking action to eliminate gun violence in our communities.

This National Hispanic Heritage Month, we celebrate the progress and
pros- — prosperity we are continuing to create for Latino communities
since President Biden and Vice President Harris took office, and we
reaffirm our commitment to supporting Latino families and communities.

And let’s remember, Hispanic Heritage Month is American heritage.  
  
Now my colleagues from — my colleague from the National Security
Council, Admiral John Kirby, is here to talk to you about the
president’s upcoming — upcoming Quad Summit in Delaware — in Wilmington,
Delaware, to be specific — and also the U.N. — the U.N. General Assembly
next week.

Admiral.

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll try to do this without butchering my own English here.

But good afternoon.

We’ve got a busy few days ahead of us here on the foreign policy front. 
And if you’ll just bear with me, I’ll give you an overview.

This weekend, as Karine noted, in Wilmington, Delaware, the president
will host the leaders of Japan, Australia, and India for the fourth
annual Quad Leaders’ Summit.

Now, over the last three-plus years, President Biden has made it a
priority to invest in rebuilding our network of alliances and
partnerships across the Indo-Pacific.  And in the process of doing that,
he has strengthened not only existing relationships, but he has helped
forge new ones altogether.  So, think about AUKUS, for instance, or the
trilateral Camp David summit with Japan and South Korea, or the
first-ever U.S.-Japan-Philippines leaders’ summit in April, and, of
course, the Indo-Pacific Quad.

Back in 2021, President Biden elevated the Quad to the leader level for
precisely those reasons.  He understood that bringing four leading
Indo-Pacific democracies with shared priorities, mutual security
interests, and strong bonds of friendship between our two peoples —
between our peoples would make for a safer and more prosperous region
and, quite frankly, a safer and more prosperous United States.

Now, this particular Quad Summit will be the first time we’ve hosted
foreign leaders in Wilmington, the president’s hometown.  And he is very
excited about that, about showing them a place and a community that
shaped so much of the public servant and the leader that he became.

It’s also a reflection of his belief that, like politics, foreign policy
is also personal.  And the president is enormously proud of the personal
relationships that he has with each of these four leaders — or these
three leaders, sorry — Indian Prime Minister Modi, Japanese Prime
Minister Kishida, and Australian Prime Minister Albanese.

The president will meet individually with each of them, and they will
also gather together in a larger plenary session where they will discuss
expanding cooperation across a range of critically important issues.

We believe that you’ll see coming out of this summit that the Quad is
more strategically aligned and more relevant than ever before.

I think you can expect a robust agenda aimed at delivering concrete
benefits to the people of the region as they all identify priorities
such as health security, natural disaster response, maritime security,
quality infrastructure, critical and emerging technologies, climate and
clean energy, and cybersecurity.

You’ll also see some announcements that demonstrate our intention to
make sure this special partnership — the Quad — endures and, in fact,
thrives, over the long term.

We’ll have more details, of course, to share on the specific
deliverables as we get a little closer to the weekend.

Looking ahead to next week, on Monday, the 23rd of September, President
Biden will welcome the president of the United Arab Emirates, His
Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, to the White House.

This will be the first-ever visit by a president of the UAE to
Washington, so it’s a historic one.  The vice president will also meet
separately with President Mohamed.

Both the president and the vice president have spoken with or met with
President Mohamed at multiple points throughout the administration, and
we look forward to the opportunity to have face-to-face discussions
here.

In particular, the president and the vice president will discuss a
number of bilateral and regional matters together with — with areas of
deepening cooperation in advanced technology, clean energy, space,
supply chain resiliency, and critical infrastructure investments.

The UAE has made a number of recent announcements with respect to
strategic investments in climate and clean energy, all of which build on
the Partnership to Accelerate Transition to Clean Energy — otherwise
known as “PACE” — which we signed with the UAE two years ago.  We look
forward to expanding this collaboration over the coming months and
years.

UAE is also, we might add, a leading partner in the president’s
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investments.

Advanced technology, I think, will also be a focus of this discussion,
including efforts to advance responsible artificial intelligence goals.

Now, in the region, President Biden and Vice President Harris will
discuss with President Mohamed, obviously, the — the crisis in Gaza;
UAE’s essential role in addressing the humanitarian crisis there; and
the crisis in Sudan, where -– as the president’s statement made clear
last night –- we all — all must increase efforts to open routes for
humanitarian assistance and ultimately to secure a ceasefire.

The president and the vice president look forward to this important
engagement with a strategic partner at a very important time. 

And then, finally, the president, as you know, will be traveling to New
York City on Monday afternoon for the 79th meeting of the U.N. General
Assembly.

Throughout all his engagements up there in New York, he will reaffirm
America’s leadership on the world stage.  He’ll rally global action to
tackle the world’s most pressing challenges, including climate; the
opioid epidemic; mobilizing resources for developing countries; managing
the risks and benefits of artificial intelligence; and helping end the
brutal wars in Gaza, Ukraine, and Sudan, among many other critically
important issues.

Specifically, on Tuesday morning, the president will deliver an address
to the U.N. General Assembly outlining his vision for how the world
should come together to solve these big problems and defend fundamental
principles, such as the U.N. Charter.

The president will also meet with U.N. Secretary-General Guterres; talk
about how the partnership between the United States and United Nations
in advancing peace and safeguarding human rights can endure and to —
prosper.

On Tuesday afternoon, the president will host a summit of the Global
Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats.  We established this
coalition ourselves just last year to drive international action in
order to disrupt the global supply chain of illicit fentanyl and other
synthetic drugs.

This event will be an opportunity for leaders to drive progress on one
of the most lethal global health and safety challenges of our lives.

The meeting reflects the president’s vision of countries working
together to deal with problems that cross borders.  In this case, the
coalition is playing a vital role helping our country deal with the
fentanyl crisis here at home.

The president will also have engagements with foreign leaders on
Wednesday, and we’ll have more to share on that agenda as we get a
little closer.

And thank you.  I appreciate your patience.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Gabe.

Q    Admiral, what’s the White House response to the exploding
walkie-talkies in Lebanon today?  I know Karine addressed the pagers
yesterday.  But what’s the latest U.S. assessment?  And does the U.S.
consider this a justifiable escalation?

MR. KIRBY:  What I can tell you is we were not involved in yesterday’s
incidents or today’s in any way.  And I don’t have anything more to
share.

Q    Did — has the U.- — has — has the Israelis let you know about these
operations?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything more to share today.

Q    Can you confirm that it’s the U.S. assessment that the Israelis
were behind all this?

MR. KIRBY:  Nothing more to share.

Q    The Israeli defense minister said today that this is a “new era” of
the war.  What’s the White House’s response to that?  And how concerned
are you that this will cause this escalation?

MR. KIRBY:  All I’ll say is that we want to see the war end.  And
everything we’ve been doing since the beginning has been designed to
prevent the conflict from escalating.  We still believe, for instance,
that there is a diplomatic path forward that — particularly up near
Lebanon.  And we still believe that while it is increasingly difficult
and we are certainly no closer to finality, that we’re going — that we —
that we believe a ceasefire deal and a negotiation to get the hostages
out is still the best outcome, and we’re going to keep pursuing that.

Q    But how do these events move forward?  Any diplomatic solution
here?

MR. KIRBY:  It’s difficult for me to stand up here, Gabe, and tell you
exactly how incidents over the last couple of days are going to affect
the outcomes in the next few days.  All I can tell you is we’re still
putting our shoulder to the wheel to get the hostages home and get a
ceasefire in place, as daunting as that is today. 

And we are still involved in intensive diplomacy to try to prevent a
second front from opening up on that border with Lebanon. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Given the rhetoric and the attacks in the last few
days, it seems like a full-out conflict is inevitable at this point. 
Would you agree with that assessment?  And is the U.S. government
preparing for an evacuation of American citizens in Lebanon and — and/or
in Israel in that case?

MR. KIRBY:  I think we’ve learned th- — through experience, particularly
over now what’s going on almost a year here, that nothing is inevitable
when it comes to that particular part of the world and this particular
conflict.  And we’re going to — as I said to Gabe, we’re going to do
everything we can to see if we can’t end it and get those hostages home.

And your second question was evacuation?  I —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything with respect to evacuation
preparations to — to talk about.  I mean, that’s a better question,
really, put to the State Department. 

I think you know, Laura, particularly from covering the Pentagon, we
have — on the shelf, we have evacuation plans available for places all
over the world.  But I wouldn’t lead that to believe that we’re in a
moment now where we think we need to imminently call for that or act on
that right now.

Q    What has been the impact of the latest attacks on the potential for
a ceasefire deal in Gaza?

MR. KIRBY:  I — I think it’s too soon to know if what happened over the
last couple of days is going to have any effect on where we are with a
ceasefire deal. 

Sadly, we aren’t any closer to that now than we were even a week ago, so
it’s difficult to see any immediate impact of these incidents, but I
think it’s just too soon to know in general.

Q    Previously, officials have said you were 90 percent there.  Is that
still the case?

MR. KIRBY:  I — I think, in — in terms of the agreed framework and the
language, that’s still the case.  The framework has been agreed to.  The
major architecture of the deal had been agreed to by both sides. 

But as we said, once you get down to middling over that last 10 percent
and you’re — and you’re in that kind of horse trading, it gets real hard
and the details get real specific.  And that’s where we have run into —
run into some resistance, and we’re just not — we’re not any closer
today than — than we were a few days ago.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  CBS News, at least, has learned that the defense
secretary, Lloyd Austin, spoke yesterday with the Israeli defense
minister two different times.  We’ve been told no specifics were given
about the operation that happened yesterday.  Was there any heads-up
given yesterday that there would be more attacks in Lebanon today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’d refer you to the Defense Department to speak
to conversations that the secretary had with Minister Gallant.  As I
said, there was no U.S. involvement in either of these incidents, and I
have nothing —

Q    Involvement is one thing, though, but awareness it was coming is
another.

MR. KIRBY:  I recognize the question.  I have nothing more to add.

Q    If you’re someone who owns a pager like this that’s been blown up
in Lebanon in recent days, whether it was made by the Taiwanese company
or the Hungarian company that may have had a licensing deal with them,
should you be concerned it could blow up?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, Ed, I have nothing more to add on this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Mary.

Q    Our sources have confirmed to us — it’s been wide- — widely
reported that Israel is responsible for this, but notably, you still
won’t say that.  Why is that?  Is it because that’s not your assessment
or because you don’t support what they’re doing here?

MR. KIRBY:  It’s because I don’t have anything more to add on this
issue.  As I said, there was no U.S. involvement, and I’m not going to
go beyond that today.

Q    Then let me ask this.  These kinds of tactics — blowing up pagers
and walkie-talkies — is this type of warfare acceptable to the United
States?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, Mary, I appreciate the question.  I’m simply not
going to be able to address these incidents over the last couple of days
in any level of — of detail one way or another.

Q    Okay.  Let me try one — one other thing. 

MR. KIRBY:  Please.

Q    You know, everyone keeps urging, you know, all parties involved not
to escalate this.  Isn’t this an escalation already?  I mean, isn’t this
Israel doing exactly what you’ve been warning them not to do?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I’m not going to speak to the details of these
incidents.  I understand that’s frustrating.  I get it.  And I
understand where all your questions are coming from.  They’re all valid;
they’re all fair.  I’m just not going to get into this.

I will add, if I could — and restate a little bit to what I said to
Gabe: We still don’t want to see an escalation of any kind.  We don’t
believe that the way to solve where we’re at in this crisis is by
additional military operations at all.  We still believe that the best
way to prevent escalation, to prevent another front from opening up in
Lebanon, is through diplomacy, which is why Mr. Hochstein was over in
the region this week.  And we’re still going to pursue those kinds of
outcomes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Is — if — if a state actor was involved in any way in what took
place in Lebanon, is that acceptable behavior by a government?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, that’s a great hypothetical, Trevor, that I’m simply
not — not going to engage.

Q    So, it’s not that that’s not the case — that it was a state actor?

MR. KIRBY:  I have nothing more to add on these incidents.  I — I
understand the question.  I’m not going to engage in hypotheticals or
speculate about what did or didn’t happen or — or who might be
responsible.

Q    Is there any current intelligence assessment as to who was
responsible?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get into intelligence es- — estimates and
assessments from here, either.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Secretary of State Blinken expressed frustration at the ex- —
escalations and remarks earlier today, saying it threatens to slow it,
to stop a ceasefire deal.  Is that the White House’s assessment as well,
that it’s close to being stopped or derailed or —

MR. KIRBY:  Look, as I said earlier, I think, looking at the last couple
of days, it’s just a little too soon to know what kind of impact those
incidents are going to have in the region writ large, particularly when
it comes to the tensions up at the — the border with Lebanon.

On the ceasefire deal and trying to get both sides back to the table,
we’re still working at that.  Nothing has changed.  We’re still trying
to get that done.  We understand that even before the incidents of the
last couple of days, doing that was real hard, that there wasn’t a lot
of momentum to be had there or inertia.  We recognize that, but we’re
still working to try to see if we can get that done because we still
believe the best way to get those hostages home is through a negotiated
arrangement.

On the tensions with Lebanon.  Again, too soon to know what these
incidents are going to mean to the already high tensions between Israel
and — and Hezbollah up at that border — the Blue Line, specifically.

All I can tell you is, even as recently as a couple of days ago, Amos
Hochstein, our envoy, was — was in the region having discussions to do
everything we can, from a diplomatic perspective, to prevent those
tensions from escalating into all-out conflict.

Q    Can I ask one more just on — on Wilmington this weekend?  Does the
president intend to press Prime Minister Modi on human rights abuses
while they’re talking, you know, one on one?

MR. KIRBY:  There’s not a conversation that he has with foreign leaders
where he doesn’t talk about the importance of respecting human and civil
rights, and that includes with Prime Minister Modi.  He did when the
prime minister was here in the United States, and — and I’m sure that,
as appropriate, he’ll do going forward.

I don’t have — I’m not going to get ahead of the conversation, but he
never shies away from talking about our concerns over human and civil
rights — anywhere in

the world.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  Admiral, you said a lot of time, especially about this
region, that it’s very important for this administration that the rules
of war, our international humanitarian law is being followed.  So, why
won’t you make an assessment whether these operations that we’re seeing
in Lebanon indeed are in accordance with international humanitarian law?

MR. KIRBY:  Now, I can appreciate ho- — that you all want answers to
these questions, and — and you want them now.  I get that.  We’re
talking about incidents that allegedly happened today — apparently
happened today, and some that happened yesterday.  I’m just not going to
get into intelligence assessments one way or another about this.

And I would also add that, as we have said from the very beginning,
Israel has a right to defend itself.  How they do so matters to us, and
we don’t shy away from having those kinds of conversations with the
Israelis as appropriate.

Q    So, you’re saying Israel did — is behind these operations?

MR. KIRBY:  I did not say that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Do you think that Israel — whoever committed this attack is
undermining U.S. effort at avoiding an escalation in the region?  And if
so, what is the next move to try and prevent that from happening?

MR. KIRBY:  We’re going to keep at the work of intense diplomacy to see
what we can do to — to deescalate, to try to prevent this from becoming
a bigger conflict than — than it already has.

Q    One more.  Over the weekend, the Palestinian ministry in Gaza
submitted a report with the names, IDs, ages of 34,000 people who have
been killed since October 7th, over 7,000 more whose identities have not
been verified.  The first 14 pages of the report are babies under the
age of 1 and two people over the age of 100.  Has the White House seen
that report?  And do you have any comments beyond “Far too many innocent
Palestinians have been killed in this conflict”?

MR. KIRBY:  Let me take the question for you so I can get you back a
good, substantive answer.  I don’t know if we’ve seen that report.  I
haven’t, but that doesn’t mean that somebody here hasn’t.  So, why don’t
you let me take that back and get you a better answer.

Q    Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  Yes, ma’am.

Q    On U.S. Steel and Nippon Steel — the CFIUS review that’s now been,
I guess, delayed or extended another 90 days. Can you explain a little
bit why that process is taking so long and if it signals any sort of
shift in the president’s thinking about concerns he’s expressed about
this merger?

MR. KIRBY:  CFIUS runs an independent process.  As far as I know,
there’s been no delay or extension.  That process is ongoing, as — as I
understand that to be the case.

Look, president has said already what he believes that the future of
U.S. Steel ought to be.  He’s made that clear.  But he also respects the
CFIUS process.  And, again, that process is ongoing.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  We’re going to wrap — start wrapping up. 

Jon.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, to what extent will China be a focus of the
Quad meeting this weekend?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I think it will certainly be high on the agenda, Jon. 
I mean, there’s not an opportunity when you get together with these
particular leaders, the Indo-Pacific Quad, where you — in fact, it would
be irresponsible if they didn’t talk about the — the challenges that
still exist in the region caused by aggressive PRC military action, for
instance; unfair trade practices; tensions over the Taiwan Strait.  I
have no doubt that — that all those issues will come up.

Q    Do all four Quad countries view China as a threat to the
Indo-Pacific region?

MR. KIRBY:  I think you’d have to talk to the leaders about their
particular view of the PRC.  But I think we all have a common set of
understanding about — a common understanding about the challenges that
the PRC is — is posing.

But each of them are sovereign countries. They get to decide for
themselves what their relationship is going to be with the PRC and how
that looks.  Each of them has a different relationship with the PRC,
including us.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Admiral, there’s been a decided shift in
confidence among U.S. officials about the ability to reach a ceasefire
deal in the near term.  And today, National Security Advisor Jake
Sullivan is meeting with hostage families again, and I’m wondering what
the administration’s message is to them.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, number one, that we haven’t forgotten their loved
ones.  Number two, that we’re going to do everything we can to get them
home where they belong, back with their families.  And number three,
that even though we haven’t found purchase here with this deal, we’re
not going to stop trying, that we’re still working very hard every day.

I mean, I had a chance to talk to Brett McGurk earlier today.  I can
assure you: He’s still working to see what we can do to try to move this
forward.

It doesn’t appear right now — and I’m — I don’t want to get ahead of
Jake or speak for him, but I — I would imagine that he’ll also convey to
them — and it doesn’t appear that Mr. Sinwar is serious at all about
moving this forward and coming to — and coming into closure on it.  But
it doesn’t mean we’re giving up on them.

Q    And then, in the events in the region more broadly, given what
happened in Lebanon, in previous instances where there’s been the
possibility of wider escalation, we’ve seen the U.S. move military
assets, vessels, aircraft in the region.  Is there any of that going on
right now?

MR. KIRBY:  We have a robust presence in the Middle East right now, and
— and have sustained that, as you know, over the last few weeks when
there was concern about escalation.

What I can tell you is that force posture is still there, still robust. 
We look at it every single day as against the threat, and we make
adjustments as — as we need to.  Not all those adjustments make
headlines or do we announce them, for understandable reasons.  But the
president is confident that we maintain sufficient military capability
in the region to defend our interests, and, of course, our allies and
partners as appropriate.

Q    And just quickly, if I may add on that.  Last year, the president’s
message was largely about Ukraine and the need for more funding for
Ukraine’s defenses.  October 7th happened just a couple weeks later.
 How much will that figure prominently in the president’s events next
week?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, without getting too far ahead of the president’s
speech, I think you can expect him to talk about the modern crises that
— that we’re facing right now — certainly, Ukraine and Gaza are two of
the chief ones there — and how American leadership matters, how
coalition-building matters and has made a difference in both conflicts,
and how we have to stay at that work.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  John, next week, President Zelenskyy of Ukraine will
present his victory plan to President Biden.  Has the president had a
chance to review this plan?  And would you call it victorious?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’ve not been fully briefed on it.

  
Q    Will President Biden host President Zelenskyy in New York or here
at the White House?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have a meeting to announce today, but stay tuned.  
  
Q    Ukrainians have requested a meeting, according to our sources, with
Vice President Harris.  Did she accept this request?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I would refer you to Vice President Harris’ staff.  You know
she has met with President Zelenskyy face to face on a couple of
occasions, and I know she’s spoken to him on the phone.  I have little
doubt that if the opportunity presents itself and — and both of them can
have another conversation, they will.  But you’d have to talk to her
staff on that.  
  
Q    And getting back to Lebanon.  So, those communication devices were
reportedly made in Japan and Taiwan.  Have you reached out to your
Japanese and Taiwanese counterparts in that matter?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m aware of no such communication.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jonathan.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Admiral, staying on the subject of Russia.  The
government of Armenia today said that they foiled a plot; Russian forces
tried to stage a coup in their country.  Is the White House aware of
this and have any comment?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I won’t get into intelligence assessments specifically,
Jonathan.  I would just say writ large, and we’ve talked about this
before, Russia has proven adept and certainly interested in interfering
in democratic institutions around the world, certainly here at home — no
question about it — but overseas as well.  And it is — it is a constant
topic of conversation between us and our allies and our partners.  And
we’re doing everything we can — working with them to try to disrupt the
— the — that interference.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you so much, Admiral.

Q    John — can you address the famine in Sudan, John?  Can you address
the famine, please.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I — I think if I could, just briefly, point you to the
president’s statement last night that —  
  
Q    How serious is it?  How dire is it?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s — I — I don’t know of a famine that’s not dire.  
  
Q    Right.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s dire.  
  
Q    That number is (inaudible) —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Millions of people have been pushed out of their homes. 
Hundreds of thousands of them are facing incredibly violent
circumstances.  And yes, there’s real famine and real hunger.  And we a-
— and that’s why we are working incredibly hard, and that’s why the
president himself wanted to make that point about — last night about
that town, El Fasher, and the RSF’s, basically siege, of it.  
  
It’s got to stop.  Both sides have got to start coming together, sitting
at the table, and doing what’s right by the Sudanese people.  
  
And I’ll tell you something else.  He’s not going to stop fighting for
the people of Sudan.  We’re not going to stop trying to find a way to
end this conflict.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  
  
Q    The president has called on the belligerents to come together.  Are
they listening, John?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thanks, Admiral.  Appreciate that.  
  
Okay.  I just have one last thing, and then we’ll get to questions.  
  
So, I — as we announced this morning, the first lady will lead the
president’s delegation to the inauguration of Mexico’s first woman
president, Claudia Sheinbaum Pardo, on October 1st.  The full list of
the delegation members will be announced at a later date.  
  
President Biden and President Andrés Manuel López Obrador have built a
strong and constructive partnership, and we look forward to building on
this partnership under the president-elect to advance our economic,
migration, and regional security cooperation.  
  
And with that, Will.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I know that we’re going to have the Economic Club
interview tomorrow with the president.  I’m wondering if we’re going to
hear from him on the — the rate cut that the Fed has announced.  And is
there any chance that he’ll speak to possible political influence this
close to the election?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just give you a little bit of — of flavor,
if you will, on tomorrow.  As you just stated, the president is going to
speak at the D.C. Ec- — Economic Club.   
  
So, he’s going to deliver remarks on the important moment we’ve
reached.  Inflation, interest rates are falling, and the economy remains
strong, which many critics thought was impossible.  
  
I’m sure you all remember claims that we’d need a rec- — we’d — we’d
need a recession to lower inflation, with some going so far as saying
that there was a 100 percent chance of a recession.  
  
So, the president will discuss what falling inflation and interest rates
mean for American consumers and workers and businesses.  The cost of
buying a home, a car, and so much more will go down.  Starting a family
or a new business will be easier.   
  
The president will discuss how he will continue to lower costs by
building millions of homes, making childcare more affordable, capping
prescription drug costs for all, and cutting taxes for families.  
  
He’ll contrast that approach with what we’re seeing from congressional
Republicans — their plan to — to raise costs by nearly $4,000 for
middle-class families with a national sales tax while blowing up the
debt with more tax cuts for the very wealthy and never seeing that
actually trickle down.  
  
And so, that’s what you’re going to hear from this president.   
  
As far as your question about politics, the political si- — polital- —
the political pieces of this, look, we’re going to let the Fed speak for
themselves.  As you know — and we’ve been always very clear about this
and very respectful of the independence of the Federal Reserve — unlike
other administrations, we’ve been, I think, pretty — pretty steadfast
about that and have been continuous in our — in — in making that
clear.  
  
Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    Was there any surprise here at the White House by the size of the
rate cut?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to g- — get into — I’m not going to
get into private conversations or discussions.   
  
Look, I think what’s important here is that it’s a moment of progress. 
I think that’s how we see this.  And — and also a recognition of how far
we have come.  And so, I think that is what we are — we think is
important here.  And I just mentioned at the top, or in that question
that I was asked by Will, how this is important for families,
businesses.  
  
Now prices are going to go down, if you think about being able to buy a
home.  And these are important, important items for the American
people.  And so, that’s how we see this.  We see this as a moment of
progress.  
  
Q    A few other quick things.  The former president is now under what
the Secret Service says is a pretty substantial —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — security footprint —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — pretty much on par with what the sitting president gets.  Is
President Biden satisfied that he’s now getting — that President Trump
is now getting the protection he needs?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m just going to kind of reiterate what you
heard from the director just yesterday in the aftermath — in the
aftermath, what you heard from the director.  But also, in the aftermath
after J- — July 13th, the president was very clear.  He wanted to make
sure that the former president should have the highest level of
protection.  That’s what he offered by the Secret Service.  That’s what
he wanted to see th- — President Biden wanted to see that. 

And he has also repeated over and over again that the Secret Service
needs to make sure th- — we need to make sure that they have the
resources, the capabilities.  What their mission is is incredibly — it’s
— it’s critical, what they’re trying to do. 

And so, since July 13th, the Secret Service has greatly enhanced that
security for the former president.  And so, the only — honestly, they
are the only ones who can speak to the specifics on what that looks
like. 

But, again, the Acting — the Acting Director Rowe spoke to this
yesterday.  I think you also heard from Secretary Mayorkas on this as
well.  And so, I certainly would — would leave it to them.

Q    One other —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry, not Secretary Mayorkas.  D- — Department of
Justice secretary but — yeah, Secretary Mayorkas.  I’m so sorry. 
Secretary Mayorkas, that’s who you heard from yesterday. 

Q    One other —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going back and forth on that.

Q    I could have asked the admiral, but I’ll ask you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    The fact that this summit is being held in Wilmington, as opposed
to New York or here or Camp David, what should the world — what should
we read into the fact that he’s taking them to his hometown?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I think that what — people should look at this
as politics, whether it’s foreign or domestic, is indeed personal,
right?  It is very much local.  It is very much personal. 

And if you think about this, is that the president has developed over
three and a half years and — and more, the president has developed a
relationship with — with these leaders.  And so, he wanted to continue
on that — on that diplomacy, if you will, by — by bringing him to — by
bringing them to Wilmington. 

And I think it’s important — I think it’s important show of how — how
that relationship — those relationship has grown.  It’s important to
show how much the president really focuses on foreign policy.  And I
think that’s what you should see from that. 

It’s politics, not just domestic but also foreign — foreign policies is
very much local.

Q    Is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I think that’s what you’re going to see from this
president.

Q    Is holding it in Wilmington something he’d considered — or hosting
any world leader in Wilmington something he’d considered previous to now
or that he would have done more of had there been a second term?  I mean
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I mean, I —

Q    — this is a city that has gotten used to him and the footprint
being there every weekend — or every other weekend? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Look, it’s —

Q    So, why now, I guess?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It is indeed — Wilmington, Delaware, is his home.  It
is a place that he talks about often, as you stated, that — you know, he
— he went back every weekend, as you know — every day, as you know, when
he was a senator, raising his boys.  And so, you know, this is what you
see from this president when he goes to Wilmington.

And I think — look, I — I’m not going to go into what the president was
thinking before — before he decided to — to not run for reelection.  I’m
not going to go into that. 

What I’m going to go into is that he thinks it’s important in the
relationship that he has built with these leaders to bring them to his
hometown. 

And, again, you know, pol- — not just politics, but domestic policy,
foreign policy as well, as it relates to the American people, is indeed
very local.  And so, he’s looking forward to bringing them to his
hometown.  I think it will be — I think they will enjoy Wilmington as
much as you all do when you go to Wilmington with the president. 
(Laughter.)

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Can neither confirm nor deny. (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t know, I think — I think you love it.  I think
you love it, Ed.

Q    Hey, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Sorry.

Q    Is the White House concerned at all that the Fed is predicting that
the unemployment rate is going to rise by the end of the year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m going to — I’m going to let the —
certainly, the Fed speak for — for itself, as they have. 

I’ll say this, as their statement said today, the “economic activity has
continued to expand and a sa- — at a solid pace” and the unemployment
rate “remains low.”  And as Chair Powell just said moments ago, “The
labor market is actually in sol- — solid condition.” 

It is clear that our economy remains strong.  You know, as we’re talking
about foreign policy, we have the strongest economy — leading the str- —
strongest economy in the world. 

Unemployment is still low, at 4.2 percent, with the lowest average of
unemployment of any administration in 50 years; 142,000 jobs created
last month; nearly 16 million jobs created under the B- — Biden-Harris
administration.  Wages are growing faster than — than prices are and —
than prices are.  So, I think these are important data and points to —
to also lift up as well. 

But, again, the Fed also spoke for themselves in — in speaking to the
strength of the economy and the economic activity as well. 

Q    And I know you can’t speak to politics, but the Teamsters today
decided not to endorse any candidate in the election.  Can you just
speak to the administration’s relationship with the Teamsters? 
Obviously, you guys have done a lot with them: $36 billion in aid.  Is
the president surprised at all by that decision?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to get into endorsements from
any organization — including today, the Teamsters.  That is certainly
something that the campaign could speak to. 

As you know, this is a president and — and a vice president that has
fought hard for unions throughout their administration.  This
administration, in the past three and a half years, he has been called
the most pro-union president ever.  The president fin- — is very proud
to — to have that — to have that title, if you will. 

And let’s not forget, he’s brought American manufacturing back home,
creating close to 800,000 manufacturing jobs, and by creating the first
“Made in America” office.  And so, these are things that he’s incredibly
proud of. 

And — and he believes if, you know, the — you know, the union labor
built the middle class.  You hear him say that all the time. 

And so, can’t speak to any sort of endorsements.  That’s for the
campaign to speak to directly.  But this is a president who has bas- —
really has — has put — when it comes to union and bringing — bringing
jobs back to — back to America, he has put that front and center of his
economy — his economic policy.

Go ahead.

Q    You’ve described the Fed’s announcement today as a moment of
progress.  But just to put a finer point on it, does the president agree
with the assessment of many that this cut essentially declares that the
battle on inflation is won? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, all we have to do is — I don’t even have
to look at or speak to what the Fed has done.  I mean, the data shows —
right? — the — the fact is that we have seen inflation coming down. 
That is something that we have seen in the data that I continuously talk
about, speak about from here, whether it’s from me or my colleagues who
join us — who join me — join us in this room. 

And so, it is obvious.  It is obvious that — that we have seen interest
rates have fallen, that inflation have fallen. 

And so, you know, I’m going to let the Fed, obviously, speak to more
specifics about their decision — their monetary decision, but we have
seen inflation going down.  I think that’s important.  That’s important
to the American people.  That’s important for families, for businesses.

And so, I think the progress you — the progress being made at this time
is — is critical.  And we have said this was coming.  I — I sta- — I
stated earlier that there was a time where folks were saying that we
needed a — a recession, and this has proven, through the president’s
economic policy and what he’s been able to do, that we didn’t need to do
that.  Right?  We needed to make sure that we — we really focused on the
needs of the American people. 

Q    And can I just get your reaction and the president’s reaction to
the Senate’s move yesterday, failing to advance a bill to protect IVF?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I mean, the president — we put out a statement
on that.  I talked about it at the top just yesterday.  It’s shameful. 
It’s shameful that the — that, I think, more than 40 Republican senators
decided not to pro- — give protections to IVF. 

And the reason that bill is even put on the floor for a vote is because
of what Republicans did, the former president did in — in undoing Roe v.
Wade with the Dobbs decision.  And the Dobbs decision, while it took
away a — a constitutional right that was around for almost 50 years,
which is Roe v. Wade, it led to, now, pe- — you know, families, people
who want to start a family not have that ability to do so.  And that’s
what it led to. 

And, you know, they can pon- — pontificate and talk about how some of
them may want to protect IVF, but they certainly didn’t vote that way. 
And it’s unfortunate.  It’s unfortunate that now families are being
taken away — their rights are being taken away.  Their decisions to
start a family is being taken away because, you know, Republicans are
blocking it — are getting in the way. 

And so, this is something when you think about — when you think about
abortion rights, when you think about reproductive health care, when it
comes to the Biden-Harris administration, we are going to continue to
fight for those freedoms.  We believe that it is important to do so. 
And so, we’re going to do everything that we can to continue to — to
make that progress. 

Q    Follow-up on that, please, Karine.  A follow-up —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Yeah.

Q    (Inaudible)\_follow-ups.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Do you have any thoughts about the increasing
prospects of a strike with the UAW and the Jeep manufacturers? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  And so, as I told — as I started off moments
ago about how this president has certainly led in the efforts of making
sure that — as we talk about the middle class, the union built the
middle class.  So, a strike authorization vote, as it relates to this
particular question, does not mean that union will strike.  It often
precedes continued negotiation between employers and unions. 

But I will say that President Biden respects the right to strike. 
You’ve heard me say that many times.  He has said that.  President Biden
is proud to have stood on the picket lines with UAW workers, and he
believes they deserve a fair deal.  He also believes in collective
bargaining and will continue to encourage the parties to stay at the
table and negotiate, to do it in good faith. 

And so, we are certainly in touch with UAW and — and the — and the
company, as we are often.  And so, certainly, I would direct to — I will
direct you to the parties involved here.  But collective bargaining is
something that the president believes in, just as long they do it — they
come to the table and they do it in good faith. 

And so, the president is always going to make sure he has the back of
union workers. 

Q    And then one more on the Fed.  They — they said in their statement
today that the economic outlook is uncertain and that they’re attuned to
kind of both sides of the coin there, in terms of positive surprises and
negative.  You’ve kind of emphasized the — the positive trajectory that
you see. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Are you also attuned to the possibility that — that we are
witnessing a weakening labor market, a weakening growth trajectory?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And, look — and I — as you heard me lay out some of
the positive things that they have said about the economy and about the
— certainly, the unemployment remaining low, which is incredibly
important, the labor market is cont- — continues to be in a solid
condition.  I think that’s important, too, to note.

Look, we see this as a moment of progress.  We really do.  We see this
as inflation going down, interest rates going down.  I’m going to let
the — certainly, the Fed speak for itself.  But the economy does remain
strong.  That is still the case.  It remains strong.  And that is
because of the work that we’ve been able to do — this administration has
been able to do in the past three and a half years, making sure that we
are addressing the issues of American families and American people
across the country.

And so, this is progress.  And this shows, I think — what we saw from
the Fed today shows how far we’ve come.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Just to follow up on my colleague, the market is now
interpreting the Fed’s rate cut as perhaps a sign that the economy is
weakening more quickly than even the Fed thought possible a couple
months ago.  So, how is the White House monitoring that economic data
and the possibility for a recession?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as we’ve stated many times from here before,
whether it’s one of our econ- — econ- — economists who have come to the
podium or myself, the stock market is not our economy.  We got to be
really mindful about that.  What we believe is the economy is
resilient.  The data still shows unemployment is low at 4.2 percent.  We
have a strong economy.  It continues to be strong.  And I think what
we’re seeing is a moment of progress, as I’ve stated many times before. 

We’re still continuing to see jobs — more than 140,000 jobs just last
month.  And so, GDP grew 3 percent just last — last quarter. 

And so, this is important.  This is important, when we look at all of
the data together, that we are continuing to see a strong economy.  The
stock market is mor- — up more — up more than 40 percent under this
administration, but that is not our economy. 

And so, we’re continuing to see progress.  We’ve come a long way — a
long way since this president and this vice president walked into this
administration.  The economy was in a tailspin — a tailspin, and we’ve
managed to turn that around.

Now, as you hear us say all the time, is there more work to be done? 
Yes, there’s more work to be done.  We want to continue to lower costs
for the American — American families and Americans across the country,
and we’re going to continue to do so.  And you’re going to hear from the
president tomorrow directly on this.

Q    And on Teamsters.  I know you can’t talk about the endorsement
specifically, but the union also put out its internal polling that
showed that there was a pretty wide margin of rank-and-file membership
that supported former President Donald Trump.  To what extent is that a
referendum on the work of this administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to speak to — to their poll.  I’m
not going to speak to — to their poll.  I’m not going to speak to the
rank and file.

Look, it is — we’re talking about a 2024 — obviously, an election that
is just a few weeks away.  I can’t speak to that.  I can’t speak to
their decision to endorse, not endorse — I guess, in this case, not
endorse.

What I can speak to is what this president and this vice president has
done in the last three and a half years.  This president has been called
the most pro-union president ever, and I think —

Q    But in their data —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — Trump outpolled President Biden when he was a candidate, so —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I hear you.  I hear — I mean, we’re talking about
—

Q    How does that reflect on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    — the administration’s work?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re also — we’re — we’re talking about one union,
right?  We’re talking about the Teamsters.  We’re —

Q    1.6 million people.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I hear you.  But we’re talking — we’re still
talking about one union, and I’m not going to go into their data.  I’m
not going to go into their polling. 

But what I will say is many other labor unions have said — and they’ve
been very clear about what this president has been able to do — thinking
about manufacturing jobs, you’re thinking about building an economy that
leaves nobody behind, you — thinking about what we’ve been able to do to
make sure that we’re — we’re creat- — bringing back American jobs here. 
“Made in America,” obviously here; we created an office to do just that.

And so, the president has certainly not just done the talk, he’s walked
the walk.  And I think there are many labor unions out there who have
seen that from this administration.

I’m not going to dive in or double down or get into a pa- — a particular
polling that’s out there.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, following up on Mary’s question.  Back in August, I asked
the president whether he thought the U.S. had beat inflation, and he
responded with an emphatic “yes.”  Today, Jerome Powell was a bit more
cautious, and he said, “We’re not saying ‘mission accomplished.’”

So, I want to ask you again.  Does the White House believe, does the
president believe that the U.S. has beat inflation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what we believe is that we’ve seen progress. 
That’s what we believe.  We believe that inflation indeed has gone
down.  Right?  That is something that we have seen over the past several
mo- — months.  Inflation has gone down.

We cannot forget where we were when we walked into this administration:
a once-in-a-century pandemic, and the economy was in tailspin.  We did
not have a comprehensive plan on how to deal with the pandemic.  That’s
something that the former administration did not leave us.

And so, we see that inflation is going down — not just us — it is —
indeed, the data is showing that.  And now interest rate is going down.

I’m going to let the president speak for himself. He’s going to speak
tomorrow at the D.C. Economic Club, and he’ll have more — a lot more to
say.

Q    Right now, you’re not going as far as the president did in August,
though?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  I’m going to let the president speak for
himself.  That’s what I’m saying.  I’m saying I’m going to let the
president speak for itself. 

And what I can say is that it is a fact that inflation and inter- —
interest rate are indeed going down.  That is what we see.  And we’re
just stating the obvious.  This is not talking about the monetary
decisions that the Fed has made.  This is just stating the obvious and
the fact.  I’m going to let the president speak for himself.

Go ahead, Michael.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Donald Trump suggested yesterday that he wants to
eliminate the cap on state and local tax deductions, which he signed
into law a few years ago.  Generally speaking, what is the
administration’s position on this cap?  Should it be removed, and why or
why not?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m going to just let the campaign speak to
that, as it is related to his priorities as a candidate.  I’m just going
to let them speak to it.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, thank you.  The president has had a long career in — on the
world stage as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, as
vice president, and, of course, as president.  And I’m wondering, going
into these summits — the Quad Summit and the UNGA meeting — how much
will we see him speak in a personal way about his legacy, his vision? 
This will be his final talk, his final address to an UNGA group.

And also, thinking about the speech tomorrow, you said that the
president will discuss how he’ll continue to lower costs by building
millions of homes, making childcare more affordable, capping
prescription drugs, et cetera.  How much does he think he can
realistically accomplish in the waning days —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to let —

Q    — of his presidency?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Certainly, I’m going to let the president speak to
that and more.  I was just giving you a little bit of a taste of what
the president wants to talk about.

And, look, lowering costs has been something that has been at the center
of his economic policy, a priority for him in the past three and a half
years.  And so, that is something that we’re going to continue to do.

And I think, under this administration, we have been able to — to build
homes for people in an affordable way, and that’s something that we’re
going to continue to do. 

We’ve do- — we’ve been able to deal with childcare, especially the Child
Tax Credit.  That is something that we were able to do with the American
Rescue Plan, which only Democrats voted for in Congress, and that
actually made a difference.

So, you’ve seen some of the approaches that the president has been able
to do.  We have already beat Big Pharma, and so you have seen
prescription drugs go down because of the work that this president has
done with the Inflation Reduction Act.  Again, only Democrats voted for
that.

And that was something that you’ve heard from elected officials for
years, that they wanted to beat Big Pharma.  This president was able to
do that.

So, I’ll let him speak more to that tomorrow on what that’s going to
look like and lay out his plan and his thoughts.

As it relates to the world stage, the president has been a leader in the
world stage — on this stage, not just throughout his Senate career; as
you just stated, as VP, as president.

You think about — you think about how he’s been able to bring partners
and allies together on really important moments, critical moments —

Q    Is he wistful at all —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — in the past three and a half years.

Q    — about — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m — I’m —

Q    — or how is he — you know, in a personal way —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —

Q    — how does he approach this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear the question.  What I will say to you is
I’m going to let the president speak to that and speak to his own
personal views or — and a look-back, if you will, of his 50-plus-year
career and what he’s been able to do on the — on the world stage and
also here domestically.

And so, I’m going to let the president speak to that.  But I think he is
very proud of his accomplishments and what he’s been able to do.  And —
and he’ll speak more to that.

So, I’ll let that go.

Q    Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, VOA, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Again, next week, President Zelenskyy will meet
with President Biden, be it in New York or in D.C.  Can you talk to me
about President Biden’s expectations from this meeting, given this —
that this might be their last in-person interaction before President
Biden leaves the White House?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m not going to get into — into details or — or
specifics or his thoughts — behind-the-scenes thoughts of how he’s
thinking about it.   
  
As you know, he has a — a — he’s met President Zelenskyy many times. 
And I think President Zelenskyy has appreciated his leadership, and
we’ve been incredibly impressed by the bravery of the Ukrainian people
as they continue to fight for their democracy, their freedom.   
  
And so, you have seen an unwavering support for the Ukrainian people. 
And certainly, the president has led — and more than 50 countries
getting behind the Ukrainian people as they fight for their sovereign
territory.   
  
And so, certainly, that’s what you’re going to continue to see.  And
I’ll just leave it there.   
  
Q    Is it going to be in D.C. or in New York?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have anything else to — I don’t have
anything to add.  
  
Q    And one more, if I may.  Senator John Kennedy accused Arab American
activist Maya Berry of supporting Hamas, even though she denied it.  So,
the senator told her, let me quote, “You should hide your head in a
bag.”  Do you have any reaction to such an intense interaction?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I do, actually.  I’m glad you asked the
question.   
  
Look, fighting hatred of all kinds — of all kinds — including anti-Arab
sentiment and Islamophobia was a core tenet to the president’s ca- — to
the president’s campaign and continues to be a driving force of his time
here in office, as you all ask me about his last four months.  
  
And speaking to this specific moment that we saw, that we all witnessed,
it was a — it was shameful.  It was shameful insults and abusive
treatment of an — Arab American Ins- — Institute Executive Director Maya
Berry at yesterday’s Senate hearing, and they were deeply troubling and
demonstrate why we need to fight against hate, fight against
discrimination of all kinds — of all kinds.   
  
It is a bigoted and dangerous and very wrong to call someone a terrorist
sympathizer based upon their heritage or their religion.  
  
And so, we have seen troubling rise in antis- — antisemitic hatred
attacks since October 7th, and we’ve seen a distressing rise in hatred
and attacks aimed at Arab and Muslim Americans.  And it is upon all of
us, especially leaders — national leaders, in particular, in this
country — to call that out and to condemn that type of hatred, that type
of bigotry.   
  
And this is something that you’re going to continue to see from the
Biden-Harris administration.  We are going to condemn that type of
hateful speak.  Any forms of that type of hatred, we have to speak
against it.  And it was shameful.  It was a shameful insult that we saw
yesterday in that hearing.  
  
Q    Karine —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  I’m going to start wrapping it up.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  And somebody may have asked this before, and if they
did, I apologize, but I would love to get an answer anyway, which is:
Back in July — late July, you said that — that the White House was
recalibrating in the wake of the president’s decision. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And I’m wondering if that recalibration is done —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    — and, like, have you got the — you know, a flowchart?  Like, what
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    — what does this — what does this last four months want to do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Fa- — no, fair enough.  Fair enough.  Look — and I
think it was fair to say that we were recalibrating, as you could
imagine.  What we saw in the end — end of July was historic, had never
seen before.   
  
And so, what I can say more broadly is that the president is focused on
the American people.  He is.  Whether it’s the economy, health care,
foreign policy, it is — it is — and many more other issues that
Americans care about, that’s what he wants to put at the forefront. 
That’s what he wants to continue: build on the successes that we have
seen over the last three and a half years. 

And wants to continue to make sure — you know, you’ve heard us — you
heard me just talk about the Inflation Reduction Act.  You heard me talk
about the American Rescue Plan.  There’s so many other things — the
bipartisan infrastructure legislation, the CHIPS and Science Act —
right? — the PACT Act.  There’s so many historic pieces of legislation
that we want to continue to implement and get done.  So, that is
critical and important too. 

Look, the president is making sure that his teams and the different
agencies are on it, are on top of it, on — on getting that done on
behalf of the American people.   
  
And so, it is a wide range of issues that matter to him because it
matters to the American people.  And you’re going to hear from him next
week at UNGA.  You’re going to see — you’re going to hear from him this
weekend at the Quad Summit.  And there’s going to be a lot more.  Stay
tuned.  There’s going to be a lot more that you’ll hear directly from
about — from this president about what else he’s doing and what else he
wants to continue to do.   
  
But I think, if anything, we’ve been taking those actions.  We’ve been
giving those speeches.  He’s been giving those speeches, whether it’s
SCOTUS — you heard him talk about the reform there.   
  
So, look, tomorrow he’s going to talk about the economy.  He’s going to
talk about lowering costs.  He’s going to talk about what else he wants
to get done.   
  
I was just asked, you know — the little bit that I shared about with
homeownership and lowering cost and, certainly, prescription drugs, how
is he going to get that all accomplished.  He’ll speak to that tomorrow
as well.   
  
AIDE:  Karine, time for one or two more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  All right. 

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jon.  
  
Q    Thanks a lot, Karine.  I saw some polling yesterday that caught my
attention, and I wanted to get your views on this polling.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
Q    It indicated that nearly half of Republicans say they won’t accept
the results of the presidential election if their candidate loses. 
Nearly a quarter of Democrats won’t accept the results of the
presidential election if their candidate —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — loses.  And the polling also indicated that 14 percent of
Republicans would take action to overturn the election if their
candidate loses.  What’s your reaction to that?  Is that concerning that
there seems to be such distrust with the election system to get these
types of results?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here’s what I will say.  And I have not seen that
polling, so I don’t want to speak directly to the polling.  But more
broadly — and you’ve heard this president say this — it is important and
— it is important that it does — it shouldn’t matter if you win or
lose.  You should ex- — you should respect the results of an election. 
You’ve heard him say that directly.  And he respects our election
process.  He respects free and fair elections.   
  
It doesn’t matter — it doesn’t matter what side of the aisle you sit —
you sit in or you believe in.  It is important that we respect this
process.  Peaceful transfer of power is incredibly important. 
Respecting the results of the election, it is imp- — incredibly
important. 

And you’re going to continue to hear that from this president.  He’s
going to continue to fight for our democracy.  And you heard him say
that on January 6th after what we saw on the Capitol — after, you know,
violence was incited, when you saw 2,000 people trying to overturn an
election because of what the former president said.  And he denounced
that. 

And it wasn’t just — you just didn’t hear that from a Dem- — a
Democratic elect president.  You heard that from the judges who were —
who more than 60 of them were Republican judges, who said it was indeed
a free and fair election. 

And so, he believes, as a leader, as the president of the United States,
it is important to be very clear in protecting our — our democracy and
fighting for our democracy, and you’ve heard him say this.  And so, I’ll
leave it there.

I’ll see you all tomorrow. 

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, everybody.

Q    That IVF bill, critics say it violates religious freedom.  Can you
address that?

4:17 P.M. EDT
