---
date: '2024-09-24'
modified_time: 2024-09-23 23:33:04-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-24 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/24/background-press-call-on-president-bidens-engagements-at-unga/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on President\_Biden\u2019s Engagements at\_UNGA"
---
 
Via Teleconference

5:33 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  This is Michael Feldman with the NSC press team.  Just as a
reminder for today’s call, it is on background and attributable to
senior administration officials.  The call is also under embargo until
5:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time tomorrow morning.

For awareness and not for attribution, on today’s call we have \[senior
administration official\] and \[senior administration official\].  I
will now turn the call over to \[senior administration official\] to
give some opening remarks.  Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Excellent.  Thank you.  And good
evening, everybody.  We’re very excited for the President’s trip to this
year’s U.N. General Assembly, the last one of his presidency. 

So, at meetings at the U.N. this week, we’re going to get a lot of
business done for the American people.  The President, the Secretary of
State, other Cabinet officials, and even some members of Congress are
here in New York to advocate for our country’s interests and values. 

At the General Assembly, the President will do what he has done
throughout his presidency: rally global action to tackle some of our
world’s biggest challenges.  So, for example, he’ll be talking this week
about the climate crisis and the environment.  We’ll be talking about
the need to strengthen our systems for providing humanitarian
assistance; to end brutal wars in Gaza, Ukraine, and Sudan; and we’ll
also be talking about the implications of new technologies such as
artificial intelligence. 

When President Biden came to office nearly four years ago, he pledged to
restore American leadership on the world stage.  And given that this is
the President’s last General Assembly, it’s a chance for him to talk
about how this approach has produced results, real achievements for the
American people and for the world. 

The President’s engagements this week reflect his vision for a world
where countries come together to solve big problems.  This stands in
contrast to some of our competitors, who have a more cynical and
transactional worldview, one where countries interpret their
self-interest very narrowly and don’t work together for the common
good. 

An overarching theme at this year’s General Assembly will be the need to
reform and strengthen our global institutions, including the U.N., to
make them more effective and inclusive.  And that’s been a big theme of
the U.N. Secretary-General’s Summit for the Future, the marquee event at
high-level week this year. 

Last week, President Biden released a video message ahead of the
summit.  I encourage you all watch it.  You can find it on the Web.  In
the video, the President spoke about using this moment to reaffirm our
commitment to the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights.  And he talked about pushing for a
stronger, more effective United Nations and a reformed and expanded
Security Council.  And he also talked about our efforts, investing
billions in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and building on
the global consensus that we achieved last spring in the United Nations
General Assembly on principles for the use of artificial intelligence. 

We’re going into a General Assembly this year with the world facing many
steep challenges, problems so big no one country can solve them on their
own, but that’s why the President feels so strongly the world needs
strong and effective global institutions, including an adapted United
Nations.  This is his vision of countries working together.  It has been
a theme of his presidency and an important part of his legacy. 

Let me just briefly note the President’s key engagements, and then I’ll
turn over to my colleague to discuss the major event that he’s hosting
on the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats. 

On Tuesday morning, tomorrow, he will deliver and address to the U.N.
General Assembly.  It will have many of the themes that I’ve mentioned
here and talk about — again, some of the achievements of his approach to
the United Nations and global cooperation. 

The President will also meet tomorrow with U.N. Secretary-General
Guterres to talk about how the United States and the United Nations are
working together to advance peace, safeguard human rights, and help
countries develop. 

On Tuesday afternoon, the President will host a summit of the Global
Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats, and I’ll turn over to my
colleague in a second to talk about that. 

The President is also giving a major address later that afternoon on the
urgent need to combat climate change. 

On Wednesday, the President will meet with the President of Vietnam, To
Lam.  The President of Vietnam just came into office four months ago,
and this meeting will be an important opportunity for the two leaders to
talk about our shared interest in stability and prosperity in Southeast
Asia. 

The President will also attend, that afternoon, a meeting focused on
Ukraine reconstruction with other world leaders. 

And then on Wednesday evening, at the Met, the President will host world
leaders and senior U.N. officials for a reception. 

This is just a small slice of all the diplomacy and business that we’re
doing here at the U.N. General Assembly.  There’ll be high-level
meetings on the future of multilateral cooperation, sea level rise,
antimicrobial resistance.  Really, every big, major challenge will be
addressed here, and we’ll have senior U.S. representatives at all of
these main events on issues such as the impact of emerging technology
and specific meetings on global crises such as the difficult situation
in Haiti, Sudan, Venezuela, Ukraine, Syria, and the Rohingya refugee
crisis. 

Other U.S.-hosted and U.S.-attended side events will focus on climate;
scaling clean energy for Africa; a major core group meeting of countries
committed to LGBTQ rights that was attended by the First Lady; and
partnering for a lead-free future. 

So, again, this is just a small slice of everything that is going on,
plus the countless private sector and civil society events focusing on
the great challenges of the 21st century. 

So, as I mentioned, we’re going to use this high-level week, the
President’s last U.N. General Assembly, to get as much done for the
American people in the coming days.

I’d like to now turn over to my colleague who will discuss the
President’s summit on the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug
Threats.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks so much, and thanks to
all of you for joining this call. 

I wanted to share with you the exciting news that, on Tuesday, President
Biden will, as \[senior administration official\] already said, host a
summit of the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats.  This
is a coalition that President Biden launched in June 2023 to mobilize
international action to tackle the synthetic drug crisis. 

In just over one year, this global coalition has grown to include 158
countries and 15 international organizations working together to prevent
the illicit manufacture and trafficking of synthetic drugs, to detect
emerging drug threats, and to promote effective public health
interventions. 

With the summit as a motivating force, we now have 11 core coalition
countries that will be joining the President tomorrow, and they will be
announcing new initiatives that will continue to advance the work of the
coalition, including work to prevent, detect, and disrupt the supply
chain of synthetic drugs. 

It’s important to emphasize that these international efforts complement
intensive work that’s already been done and is being done domestically,
including an increased focus on coordinated disruption of drug
trafficking networks and concerted efforts to make the opioid overdose
reversal medication, naloxone, widely available over the counter. 

These are just some of a wide array of actions that the Biden-Harris
administration has taken to tackle the synthetic drug threats. 

And as a result of these efforts, we’re starting to see the largest drop
in overdose deaths in recorded history.  When President Biden and Vice
President Harris came into office, the number of drug overdose deaths
was increasing by more than 30 percent year over year.  Now we have the
latest provisional data released from the Centers for Disease Control,
National Center for Health Statistics, showing an unprecedented decline
in overdose deaths of roughly 10 percent from April 2023 to April 2024.

But there’s a lot more to be done, and the Global Coalition’s work
recognizes that we need a global solution to a global problem. 

We are thrilled that we have so many countries coming together tomorrow
to celebrate the work of the coalition, and we also will be announcing a
new pledge that all of the core coalition members will be announcing —
will be signing on to tomorrow, and we will be working over the coming
months to ensure that all coalition members sign on to this pledge. 

And we truly think that this is a reflection of President Biden’s
commitment to work both domestically and globally on the most important
challenges that we face, recognizing that we need both domestic action
and global action working together. 

And with that, I’ll turn it back to \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Michael.  I’ll turn it back to
you. 

MODERATOR:  All right.  Thank you, \[senior administration officials\]. 
All right, with that, we will take some questions. 

The first question is going to go to Zeke Miller.  You should be able to
unmute yourself. 

Q    Thanks so much for doing this.  You mentioned this is the
President’s last U.N. of his presidency.  He’s going to deliver remarks
to the General Assembly tomorrow.  Can you give us a preview,
potentially, of what his message will be?  And will it be different from
his prior remarks, in the sense — you know, obviously, world events have
changed, but, you know, with an eye towards his legacy?  Or is there
some message he’s trying to give on the world stage before he leaves
office in January?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  You know, the themes I — thanks, Zeke. 
The themes I previewed at the beginning will be really central to the
President.  So, again, he came into office four years ago with a vision
of America returning to the world stage, having a new way of interacting
with other countries, bringing countries together to solve some of these
big challenges.  This will be a good opportunity for him to look at the
results that have been achieved. 

We live in a world with many problems, with many divisions, but we have
a story to tell about what we’ve done to rally the world to defend
Ukraine’s sovereignty, uphold principles of the U.N. Charter; what we’ve
done to manage responsibly our competition with other countries
including China; and also what we’re doing to deal with the ongoing and
serious conflicts in our world in places like Gaza, where the President
has worked tirelessly to get a hostage ceasefire deal, and conflicts
like Sudan, where you have absolutely unprecedented displacement and a
really serious crisis that we think needs to get more attention. 

So I think that will be the frame, and I’ll leave the details for the
President’s speech tomorrow.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you very much.  Our next question is going to
go to Asma Khalid.  You should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Yes.  Hi.  Thanks for doing this.  Similarly, sort of on the
speech, could I get a sort of broad, I guess, framework or tone that you
all are thinking about?  I know you say that the President came into
office talking about building international coalitions, wanting to
rebuild the United States stature on the world, but this is a really
different moment than when the President even gave the speech last year,
before October 7th.  He is now leaving office, and there are multiple
sort of intractable problems right now in the world.  And can you just
kind of give us any sense of tone in how the President is thinking about
that and the very limited time he has left to solve them?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Asma.  Look, I think it’s a
good question.  The world has changed.  The world has gotten more
difficult in many ways, as you noted. 

But, you know, as I said, the President came into office with a vision
of how countries need to work together, how they need to work through
institutions, how they need to partner to solve big global challenges. 
And the fact that we do have these challenges, the fact that we do have
Gaza, the fact that we do have Ukraine and Sudan, still serious issues
in our world, just underscores the need for that kind of cooperation. 
And I think you’ll hear that in his speech. 

Yes, he’ll talk about the significant accomplishments, achievements of
his approach, but also talk about how we need the spirit, we need to
continue working together to solve these big challenges, whether it is
the wars you mentioned or other challenges such as the climate crisis or
managing the implications of some of the new technologies. 

So I think this will be an important moment to say: Where do we go and
what are the principles in which we’re going to solve these problems? 
Thanks.

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  Our next question is going to go to
Paris Huang.  You should be able to unmute yourself. 

Q    All right.  Hi.  Thank you, Michael.  Thank you, \[senior
administration official\].  Two-parts question.  So, kind of follow up
on the questions from Zeke and Asma.  So, of course, we know China and
Russia have been heavily influencing the U.N. for years.  You know, we
see all those voting records.  And President Biden have been doing a lot
of reform during the four years.  Does he believe that those changes
will sustain after he leaves the White House?

And second question: In last year’s UNGA remarks, President Biden talked
about the peace and stability of Taiwan Strait, which was the first time
a U.S. president actually talked about Taiwan at the UNGA.  So, will he
include Taiwan again in his remarks this year?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  And I appreciate the
question.  I think it’s a good question in terms of, you know, have we
left the United Nations as an institution better off.  I think we do
have results, and the President will talk about that.  You know, it’s a
time of great divisions, and the U.N. has already been — has always been
a reflection of the world as it is. 

That said, when you look at what we’ve done, including through the
United Nations, to, for example, rally the world to defend the U.N.
Charter after the Ukrainian invasion, we secured a U.N. General Assembly
resolution in which 141 countries stood up and said, “We condemn this,
and we stand in favor of the U.N. Charter.”

You’ve also seen a more progressive and forward-leaning position on
institutional reform.  For example, two years ago, the President
announced a shift and a more forward-leaning position in reforming and
expanding the United Nations Security Council.  And that’s definitely a
piece of this well as well. 

I won’t get into the details on, you know, specifically what he’ll
mention on individual issues, but I will say that an important part of
the President’s legacy has been thinking about how we responsibly manage
our competition with China, and that includes many facets, economic
security, and those will be addressed in the speech.

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  Our next question is going to go to
Sheryl Gay Stolberg.  You should be able to unmute yourself, Sheryl.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for doing this call.  You know, this is not a
political speech, but it does occur in the context of an election in
which one of the candidates has an isolationist vision that is far
apart, diametrically opposed to that of the President.  And I’m
wondering, to what extent can the President use this speech to ensure
that his own vision of global alliances survives?  Is he concerned that
that vision will unravel?

And will this speech be in any way directed to the American people, as
much as to world leaders, as a reminder of the importance of America’s
place in the world?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, as you said, this is not a
political speech, but the President, again, he has a vision.  He came
into a vision — into office.  That vision has produced results.  And
there are many opponents and critics of that vision, not just
internationally but at home.  It has been the President’s view that he
needs to explain why this vision of working together with countries to
solve these big challenges actually produces results, and that’s
actually how we’re going to be measured. 

And when I say “produces results,” that means internationally, in terms
of ending war, in terms of tackling challenges like sustainable
development, the debt crisis, climate, but it also means that he needs
to explain how his vision has produced results for the American people. 
And that’s where I think there’s a very strong record, and some of it is
very, very tangible. 

For example, the summit on the coalition on synthetic drugs, that is him
bringing together countries, all of whom share a challenge — dealing
with synthetic drugs — but convening them here, talking about
deliverables, talking about how we’re going to work together.  And this
is something that directly affects the situation of the American public,
as my colleague briefed earlier, in terms of the overall record on
issues like fentanyl. 

So I think he’ll lay that out tomorrow, and I think it will stand as
representing that vision and what it’s achieved.

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  We will go to Danny Kemp.  You should
be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Thanks very much for doing this.  I just wanted to ask about the
current situation in the Middle East.  I mean, you know, the speech
tomorrow is really going to be a bit overshadowed by the events in
Lebanon, where we’ve seen nearly 500 people killed in the space of a
day.  How’s he going to address that?  And more particularly, how will
the President be seeking to — will he be talking to other leaders about
that?  What’s he actually going to be doing at the UNGA more generally
to try and get this thing sorted out?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  This is one of the advantages of the
U.N. General Assembly: You literally have the whole world here.  So when
you do have crises of the day, they’ll be addressed.  And I have no
doubt that the situation in the Middle East will be an important theme
in a lot of the meetings, not just that the President has, but other
senior U.S. officials who will be convening to talk about various
aspects of the crisis and what we can do to stabilize the situation. 

He will address the Middle East, especially this very, very difficult
year that we have all gone through.  And again, I think it’s an
opportunity to talk about what we have achieved and what we still need
to do, given a situation that is just heartbreaking where hostages have
not been returned, the humanitarian situation in Gaza, and, as you know,
just such a sensitive issue, such a delicate and dangerous situation
between Israel and Lebanon right now.

Thanks.

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  And unfortunately, that is all the
time we have today.  Thank you all for joining this call.  Thank you to
our speakers.  And feel free to follow up with our team at the NSC press
team with any questions. 

And again, this call is under embargo until 5:00 a.m. tomorrow.  Thank
you all again, and hope you have a great rest of your evening.

5:53 P.M. EDT
