---
date: '2023-08-31'
modified_time: 2023-08-31 12:28:35-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-31 12:28:34-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-ovarian-cancer-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
This year, nearly 20,000 women in the United States will be diagnosed
with ovarian cancer — the deadliest of all female reproductive system
cancers.  Like so many American families, the pain of cancer and the
devastation left in its wake are personal for me and my family.  During
National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month, we stand in solidarity with the
brave women fighting this terrible disease.  We honor the mothers,
sisters, daughters, wives, and friends we have tragically lost.  And we
renew our commitment to ending cancer as we know it.

     Despite remarkable scientific breakthroughs, no reliable method for
asymptomatic screening and detection exists, often delaying discovery
until the cancer has progressed to far deadlier, advanced stages.  Even
for patients who receive a timely diagnosis, the flood of medical
information can be overwhelming, and the cost of life-saving care can be
financially crippling.  Thousands of Americans pay more than $10,000 per
year for ovarian cancer drugs.

     Our Nation must do more to change that.  Last year, the First Lady
and I reignited the Cancer Moonshot, setting ambitious goals to cut the
overall cancer death rate by at least half in the next 25 years, turning
more cancers from death sentences into treatable diseases and working to
improve the experience for patients and their families.  As a first
step, I worked with the Congress to establish the Advanced Research
Projects Agency for Health, securing $2.5 billion in bipartisan funding
to drive scientific breakthroughs in preventing, detecting, and treating
cancer and other deadly diseases and pioneering partnerships to get
those breakthroughs out to clinics and patients.

     My Administration is also working to get patients and their
families the breathing room they deserve — since taking office, we have
lowered prescription drug costs and made lifesaving health care more
affordable for millions of American families.  We have strengthened
Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act, expanding health care coverage to
millions of Americans and helping 13 million people save $800 per year
on health insurance premiums.  The Inflation Reduction Act will also cap
out-of-pocket drug costs for people on Medicare at $2,000 per year, even
for expensive cancer drugs.

     We also know that early detection greatly improves chances of
survival for ovarian cancer.  All women should discuss risk factors with
their doctors and remain vigilant against symptoms.  Experts recommend
that patients with a personal or family history of breast or ovarian
cancer — or whose ancestry is associated with harmful gene variants —
have a discussion of risk factors with their doctors to see if genetic
counseling and testing may be appropriate.

     Every day, people across the country share their stories of cancer
with me — stories of pain and perseverance, stories of loss and love,
and stories of heartache and hope.  In observance of National Ovarian
Cancer Month, let us pay tribute to all the lives we can save and to all
the lives we have lost.  Let us support the families and medical
community working tirelessly to provide them with treatment and care.
 And let us recommit to ending cancer as we know it, once and for all.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2023 as National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month.  I call upon
the people of the United States to speak with their doctors and health
care providers to learn more about ovarian cancer.  I encourage
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, the media, and other interested groups to increase
awareness of what Americans can do to detect and treat ovarian cancer.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
