---
date: '2023-08-31'
published_time: 2023-08-31 12:36:54-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-prostate-cancer-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
     This year alone, more than 280,000 Americans will be diagnosed with
prostate cancer.  During National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, we
honor the lives ended too soon and all those we can still save by
redoubling our efforts to end cancer as we know it.

     When someone is diagnosed with prostate cancer, every second
counts.  But patients are too often left advocating for basic care while
drowning in a flood of medical information.  Even when treatment is
available, some struggle to afford it or insurance may not cover it.
 And stark inequities exist:  Black men are more than twice as likely to
die from prostate cancer in this country than other men.  
  
     Our Nation must do more to change that.  Last year, the First Lady
and I reignited the Cancer Moonshot, setting an ambitious new goal to
cut America’s cancer death rate by at least half over the next 25 years,
turning more cancers from death sentences into treatable diseases and
improving support for patients and families.  I worked with the Congress
to establish the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health, securing
$2.5 billion in bipartisan funding to develop breakthroughs in
preventing, diagnosing, and treating cancer and other deadly diseases
and pioneering partnerships to get those breakthroughs out to clinics
and patients.  We are making lifesaving cancer care more affordable for
millions of Americans, expanding coverage through Medicaid and the
Affordable Care Act, and helping many who had received relief during the
pandemic to keep saving $800 a year on insurance premiums.  The
Inflation Reduction Act will soon cap total out-of-pocket prescription
drug costs for seniors on Medicare at $2,000 a year — including for
expensive cancer medicines — which could save some prostate cancer
patients up to $6,000 a year.

     We are also working to make sure prevention, detection, and
treatment procedures are available to patients of all communities and
backgrounds.  The National Institutes of Health is continuing expansive
research into environmental and genetic factors to better understand why
prostate cancer disproportionately affects Black men.  In response to
our Cancer Moonshot, the Department of Veterans Affairs expanded its
National Precision Oncology Program to better tailor treatments to
individual veterans.  And we know that screening matters:  Experts
recommend that men with a higher risk of cancer — based on race or
ethnicity, family history, or other factors — discuss it with their
doctors.  

     Everyone’s journey with cancer is different, but the First Lady
and I know how hard it can be on the whole family.  To all those caring
for loved ones with prostate cancer and all those facing it themselves,
we stand with you.  My Administration is working around the clock on
breakthroughs that can bring hope and more choices to the fight against
this disease.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2023 as National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, and other interested groups to join in activities that
will increase awareness of what Americans can do to prevent and cure
prostate cancer.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
