---
date: '2023-08-04'
modified_time: 2023-08-04 10:59:10-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-04 10:59:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/04/a-proclamation-on-national-health-center-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Health Center Week,\_2023"
---
 
Every year, our Nation’s nearly 1,400 federally funded community health
centers provide critical, accessible, and affordable medical, dental,
and behavioral health care to over 30 million Americans.  Spread across
every State and territory, these vital health care centers help make
real the promise that health care in this country should be a right, not
a privilege.  During National Health Center Week, we celebrate their
dedicated staff and recommit to providing the resources these vital
centers need to continue protecting the well-being of the American
people.

From the beginning of my Administration, we have made historic
investments to strengthen our Nation’s community health center network. 
Through the American Rescue Plan, we invested $7.6 billion to grow the
health center workforce, update facilities, and provide them with the
necessary resources to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.  The Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law is rebuilding our roads, highways, water systems, and
high-speed internet to better connect people and places with the care
they need.  My latest Budget would renew critical support for the Health
Center Program and put it on a path to double its size and expand its
reach. 

Community health centers are key to tackling health care disparities in
underserved communities.  By improving access to screenings, they bring
us closer to ending cancer as we know it, which is the goal of my Cancer
Moonshot Initiative.  By connecting more Americans to behavioral health
services, they build an infrastructure of service that addresses mental
health needs — a key pillar of my Unity Agenda.  By supporting the
delivery of pregnancy-related care, they improve the lives of mothers
and children across the country. 

Time and again, evidence reveals that health centers make a powerful
difference in the communities they serve.  During the height of the
COVID-19 pandemic, community health care centers distributed over 20
million vaccines — nearly 70 percent of which went to people of color
and more than 20 percent to those who lived in rural areas.  In these
ways, they help bridge a critical gap in access to lifesaving prevention
and treatment.  And because of their patient-majority governing board
structure, health centers ensure that their mission and decision-making
are informed not only by medical experts but, principally, by the people
they serve.

These investments are a matter of human dignity and fairness.  When we
fail to invest in the health outcomes of some communities, we all
suffer.  But when we take the necessary actions to improve care in every
zip code, we are all better for it.  

This week, we thank the heroic health center staff on the front lines of
improving lives.  We acknowledge your sacrifice and courage, especially
at the height of the pandemic.  We are grateful for your daily work that
saves lives and protects the future of our country.  You make the
promise of America real — a promise to lift everyone up and leave no one
behind.  My Administration is committed to supporting you as you make
our Nation healthier, more resilient, and more just.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of August
6 through August 12, 2023, as National Health Center Week.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
