---
date: '2023-08-31'
modified_time: 2023-08-31 12:21:28-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-31 12:18:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-preparedness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Preparedness Month,\_2023"
---
 
In America, we pride ourselves on emerging from every crisis stronger
than when we entered it. That is because our people are resilient — and
when we invest in preparing them for disasters seen and unforeseen, we
can meet every challenge together.  This National Preparedness Month, we
recommit to doing just that:  Building a stronger and more resilient
Nation and equipping Americans with the resources they need to remain
safe and secure.

This year alone, historic flooding, wildfires, smoke, and extreme heat
has claimed the lives of many Americans and, more broadly, threatened
the lives and livelihoods of people across our Nation.  Other Americans
have had to face personal emergencies at a moment’s notice — whether it
is supply chains breaking down and preventing them from accessing the
products they need, prolonged power outages because of extreme weather
events, or a health emergency that puts a loved one in the hospital. 
And, climate change is making many of these challenges more ferocious,
frequent, and costly. 

To meet these challenges of today — and prepare for the crises of
tomorrow — my Administration is taking historic action to invest in the
security and well-being of America and Americans.  That is what my
Invest in America agenda is all about.  Between the funding from the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act alone, we
have secured more than $50 billion so far in climate resilience so that
communities can better withstand the impacts of climate change and
extreme weather.  That includes making transportation infrastructure
more resilient by elevating roads and bridges over projected flood
zones, planting urban trees to mitigate heat, increasing pay for our
Federal firefighters, and upgrading housing and buildings to make them
more energy efficient and better able to withstand extreme
weather. These investments are also about securing our future:  They put
us on a path to cut America’s greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2030,
help communities prepare for climate-related disasters, and invest in
American workers and American-made products.  Together, we will ensure
that, when disaster hits, our economy stays strong, Americans’
livelihoods remain secure, and critical goods and services are there
when we need them most. 

When disaster does strike, every American should have peace of mind
knowing that they can access health care for themselves and their
family.  That is why we expanded Affordable Care Act health care
coverage for millions of Americans through the Inflation Reduction Act,
saving millions of working families an average of $800 a year on their
health care premiums.

This National Preparedness Month, may we honor all of our first
responders, who run toward disaster at a moment’s notice.  May we also
recognize that our Nation is best prepared to face disaster when our
national security, climate security, and economic security are strong
and when every American has the resources and support they need.  To
learn more about readiness, visit www.Ready.gov or www.Listo.gov for
Spanish speakers.  With the help of our partners in every sector and
across local, State, Tribal, and territorial governments, may we all
meet this moment and protect our families, communities, and country for
generations to come.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2023 as
National Preparedness Month.  I encourage all Americans to recognize the
importance of preparedness and work together to enhance our resilience
and readiness.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
