---
date: '2023-08-31'
published_time: 2023-08-31 12:30:59-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-recovery-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Recovery Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During National Recovery Month, we celebrate the more than 20
million Americans who have had the courage to seek help for substance
use disorder, showing millions of others that recovery is possible.  We
honor their resilience and recommit to making sure that every American
has access to the services and support they need to rebuild lives of
purpose and hope. 

     Substance use disorder affects families in every corner of our
country.  Drug overdoses last year took more than 100,000 American
lives.  Addressing this crisis is a core pillar of my Unity Agenda — one
of the big issues we can tackle together as a Nation.

     That work starts by fulfilling the promise of true parity for
mental health and substance use disorder treatment for all Americans.
 Mental health and substance use disorder care is health care.  It is
essential to people’s well-being — to their ability to lead full and
productive lives, to find joy and meaning, to take care of themselves
and their loved ones, and to give back to their communities and our
Nation.  It is about dignity.  Health insurers should cover it the same
way they would cover treatment for a broken bone or any other kind of
health condition.  And since I took office, that is what we have been
fighting to do.

     The American Rescue Plan delivered more than $5 billion to expand
mental health and substance use disorder services.  I have worked with a
group of bipartisan members of the Congress to make it easier for
doctors to prescribe effective treatments for opioid use disorder, and
the Food and Drug Administration has approved two Naloxone products for
over-the-counter use, expanding access to life-saving opioid-reversal
medications that can prevent fatal overdoses.  We have expanded the
Nation’s system of Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics,
opening 140 new centers to provide frontline care, regardless of a
patient’s ability to pay.  We also launched a nationwide Suicide and
Crisis Lifeline (9-8-8), which connects callers to trained counselors
around the clock.  The Department of Labor created a Recovery-Ready
Workplace Resource Hub to help employers support and hire people in
recovery.

     We have come a long way toward improving access to care and
building our Nation’s recovery support services infrastructure, but
there is much more to do.  Last month, my Administration proposed a new
rule that would require health insurers to identify any gaps in the
mental health and substance use disorder care they provide and to ensure
that mental and physical health services are equally accessible.  We are
also working with States to ensure that millions of Medicaid patients
enrolled in private Medicaid health plans have coverage for mental
health and substance use disorder services.  In all, my Fiscal Year 2024
Budget requests a historic $46 billion for prevention, treatment, and
recovery services for substance use disorder, as well as reducing the
supply of deadly drugs.

     Millions of Americans know and love someone who is in recovery.  We
want everyone to know that they are never alone.  As a Nation working
together, we can make recovery real for more Americans.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2023 as National Recovery Month.  I call upon all citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and
other groups to take action to promote recovery and improve the health
of our Nation.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
