---
date: '2023-08-08'
published_time: 2023-08-08 15:16:04-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/08/a-proclamation-on-establishment-of-the-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Establishment of the Baaj Nwaavjo I\u2019tah Kukveni-Ancestral\
  \ Footprints of the Grand Canyon National\_Monument"
---
 
     Since time immemorial, many Tribes of the Southwest have lived and
prayed among the canyons and plateaus of a landscape unlike any other in
the world.  The region is described in numerous languages.  Many of the
Indigenous names for the area reflect the deep interconnection between
the land and its Tribal Nations.  For example, the Havasupai call it
baaj nwaavjo, or “where Indigenous peoples roam.”  To the Hopi, it is
i’tah kukveni, or “our ancestral footprints.”  In English, we call the
canyon that lies at the center of this region “the Grand Canyon.”

     In addition to its profound historical, cultural, and religious
significance, the Grand Canyon region is known around the world for
containing some of the greatest natural wonders on the planet.  The area
supports remarkable geology and a diversity of wildlife and plants that
flourish in its vast and well-connected ecosystem.

     The Grand Canyon region has played a central role in America’s
conservation history.  In 1893, 2 years after the establishment of the
National Forest System, the area was designated as the Grand Canyon
Forest Reserve.  In 1908, 2 years after the Congress passed the
Antiquities Act, President Theodore Roosevelt used his authority under
the Act to protect some of the deepest canyons along the Colorado River
as a national monument.  In 1919, 3 years after the establishment of the
National Park Service, the Congress created Grand Canyon National Park. 
Today, millions of people from around the world come to the Grand Canyon
region each year to visit, learn in, and explore the national park and
the plateaus and canyons that surround it.  The conservation and
stewardship of the broader Grand Canyon region have helped safeguard the
integrity of vital natural resources important to the Nation’s health
and well-being, including clean drinking water that flows through the
region’s springs and streams and into the Colorado River, before
eventually reaching the taps of millions of homes across the Southwest.
 

     The history of the lands and resources in the Grand Canyon region
also tells a painful story about the forced removal and dispossession of
Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples.  The Federal Government used the
establishment of Grand Canyon National Park to justify denying
Indigenous peoples access to their homelands, preventing them from
engaging in traditional cultural and religious practices within the
boundaries of the park.  Despite these barriers, Tribal Nations and
Indigenous peoples persevered and continued to conduct their
long-standing practices on sacred homelands just outside the boundaries
of the national park, among the vast landscapes of plateaus, canyons,
and tributaries of the Colorado River.

     The lands outside of the national park contain myriad sensitive and
distinctive resources that contribute to the Grand Canyon region’s
renown.  In many of these lands outside of the national park, however,
the Federal Government permitted or encouraged intensive resource
exploration and extraction to meet the needs of the nuclear age.  For
decades, the Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples of the Grand Canyon
region have worked to protect the health and wellness of their people
and the lands, waters, and cultural resources of the region from the
effects of this development, including by cleaning up the abandoned
mines and related pollution that has been left behind.

     Much of the health and vitality of the Grand Canyon region today is
attributable to the tireless work of Tribal Nations and Indigenous
peoples, the lands’ first and steadfast stewards.  In the tradition of
their ancestors, who fought to defend the sovereignty of their nations
and to regain access to places and sites essential to their cultural and
traditional practices, Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples have
remained resolute in their commitment to protect the landscapes of the
region, which are integral to their identity and indispensable to the
health and well-being of millions of people living in the Southwest.    

     Efforts to address the legacy of dispossession and exclusion of
Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples in the Grand Canyon region and to
conserve the region’s cultural and natural resources beyond the
boundaries of Grand Canyon National Park span several decades.  In 1975,
the Congress took a first step toward addressing these earlier
injustices when it restored lands along the Grand Canyon’s rim to the
Havasupai Tribe and established cultural use lands as part of an
expansion of Grand Canyon National Park.  More recently, legislation has
been introduced in multiple Congresses to permanently conserve the lands
to the south, northeast, and northwest of Grand Canyon National Park for
the benefit of Tribes, the public, and future generations.  In addition,
in 2012, the Secretary of the Interior withdrew many of these lands from
the location of new mining claims for a 20-year period.

     Conserving lands that stretch beyond Grand Canyon National Park
through an abiding partnership between the United States and the
region’s Tribal Nations will ensure that current and future generations
can learn from and experience the compelling and abundant historic and
scientific objects found there, and will also serve as an important next
step in understanding and addressing past injustices. 

     The natural and cultural objects of the lands have historic and
scientific value that is unique, rich, and well-documented.  The
sweeping plateaus to the south, northeast, and northwest of Grand Canyon
National Park constitute three distinct areas, each of which is an
integral part of the broader Grand Canyon ecosystem.  The northwestern
area, which is administered by both the Bureau of Land Management (BLM)
within the Department of the Interior and the U.S. Forest Service
(Forest Service) within the Department of Agriculture, begins at the
western edge of the Kanab watershed and northern boundary of Grand
Canyon National Park and stretches north to the Shinarump Cliffs and
Moonshine Ridge.  The northeastern area primarily includes parts of
House Rock Valley, which are administered by the BLM and the Forest
Service, and extends west from Marble Canyon along the Colorado River to
the edge of the Kaibab Plateau.  The southern area includes a portion of
the Coconino Plateau to the south of Grand Canyon National Park that is
managed by the Forest Service, and extends from the border of the
Havasupai Indian Reservation in the west to the Navajo Nation in the
east. 

     While the greater Grand Canyon region is indisputably a cultural
resource in its entirety, the landscapes in these three discrete areas
are themselves historically and scientifically significant.  They give
context to the individual geologic features and other resources found
there, contain numerous archaeological sites, and provide havens for
sensitive and endangered species — including the California condor,
desert bighorn sheep, and endemic plant and animal species — all of
which constitute objects of independent historic or scientific interest.
 The landscapes are also integrally connected to the Indigenous
Knowledge amassed by the Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples in the
area over countless generations.  Some of the objects in these areas are
sacred to Tribal Nations; are sensitive, rare, or vulnerable to
vandalism and theft; or are unsafe to visit.  Therefore, revealing their
specific names or locations could pose a danger to the objects or to the
public.

     These areas lie within the homelands of numerous Tribal Nations —
including the Havasupai Tribe, Hopi Tribe, Hualapai Tribe, Kaibab Band
of Paiute Indians, Las Vegas Paiute Tribe, Moapa Band of Paiutes, Paiute
Indian Tribe of Utah, Navajo Nation, San Juan Southern Paiute Tribe,
Yavapai-Apache Nation, Pueblo of Zuni, and the Colorado River Indian
Tribes — who describe the lands here as a cultural landscape to which
their ancestors belong.  The surrounding plateaus, canyons, and
tributaries of the Colorado River are central and sacred components of
the origin and history of multiple Tribal Nations, weaving together
overlapping spiritual, cultural, and territorial systems.  Many Tribes
note that their ancestors are buried here and refer to these areas as
their eternal home, a place of healing, and a source of spiritual
sustenance.  Like their ancestors, Indigenous peoples continue to use
these areas for religious ceremonies; hunting; and gathering of plants,
medicines, and other materials, including some found nowhere else on
Earth.

     The areas to the south, northeast, and northwest of Grand Canyon
National Park contain over 3,000 known cultural and historic sites,
including 12 properties listed on the National Register of Historic
Places, and likely a great many more in areas not yet surveyed.  All
three areas contain locations that are sacred or significant to the
Apache, Havasupai, Hopi, Hualapai, Navajo, Southern Paiute, Yavapai, and
Zuni Peoples, whose ancestors lived, hunted, farmed, and gathered here,
some moving among camps in different places to take advantage of the
best seasonal times and locations to hunt or harvest resources.  More
than 50 species of plants that grow in these areas, including catsclaw,
willow, soapweed, and piñon, have been identified as important to Tribal
Nations.  Historic shared use by different Tribes of the plateaus in the
three areas, including for farming, hunting, and resource gathering on
the Coconino Plateau, helped build strong, intergenerational
relationships among the Tribal Nations that call this region home.

     For hundreds of years, Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples used
trails across portions of all three distinct landscapes to access sacred
or important sites in surrounding areas such as the Grand Canyon, Mount
Trumbull, and the Hopi salt mine.  For example, routes throughout the
southern area connect the Grand Canyon with the Paiute, Hopi, and Navajo
homelands.  Historically significant pathways in all three areas can
still be seen on the landscape, and in many cases, they continue to be
actively used.

     In the northwestern area, within the larger Kanab Creek drainage
and particularly along Kanab Creek, there is evidence of ancient
villages and habitations, including cliff houses, storage sites,
granaries, pictographs, and pottery.  The Kanab Plateau contains
dwelling sites, including one known to have been occupied nearly 1,000
years ago, evidencing agricultural use and hunting by early
inhabitants.  The Kaibab Band of Paiute farmed in the area, which served
as an important trade and transportation route, resource procurement and
hunting area, and refuge during Euro-American encroachment into
traditional territories.  The pictographs and petroglyphs found in the
Kanab Creek drainage present a spectacular collection of rock art.  One
pictograph and petroglyph site in Kanab Creek Canyon has been used for
over 2,000 years, including for Ghost Dance ceremonies in the 19th
century.  Also in the northwest, the BLM manages the Moonshine Spring
and its associated historic cultural sites as the Moonshine Ridge Area
of Critical Environmental Concern.  Nearby Antelope Spring, Shinarump
Cliffs, and Yellowstone Spring house historically important cultural
sites, and the northwestern portion of the area is a historically
significant resource and hunting area for the Southern Paiute.

     In House Rock Valley in the northeastern area, many remnants of
homes, storage buildings, pottery, and tools illustrate the area’s rich
and extensive human history.  The area has long been historically
important to Tribal Nations for hunting and resource gathering,
including to the Kaibab Band of Paiute for hunting deer and pronghorn
and gathering piñon nuts, and to the San Juan Paiute for seasonal seed
collection.

     In the southern area, visible for miles in all directions, rises
Red Butte, a towering landmark that is eligible for inclusion on the
National Register of Historic Places as a traditional cultural property.
 Called Wii’i Gdwiisa by the Havasupai and Tsé zhin Ii’ahi by the
Navajo, it is defined by an eroded rock and basalt cap from ancient lava
and is sacred to the Havasupai, Hualapai, Navajo, Hopi, and Zuni
Peoples.  Red Butte and the surrounding area are central to Tribal
creation stories, and dense concentration of flaked stone tools and
pottery provide evidence of thousands of years of human habitation
there.  Additionally, more recent Navajo and Havasupai encampments in
the area date to the early to middle 1900s.  South of Red Butte, Gray
Mountain, called Dziłbeeh by the Navajo, is mentioned in Navajo
ceremonial songs, stories, and rituals, and has long served as a refuge
for the Navajo people.

     There are many other physical remnants of human habitation in the
southern area, including lithic sites containing stone tools that may be
more than 10,000 years old and more recent sites containing finely
decorated pottery sherds that are between 800 and 1,100 years old.
 Across the southern area, there is evidence of tool production using
local materials and the historic use of fire for land management.  Rock
paintings, cave shelters, shrines, pit houses, masonry structures, and
sites for religious ceremonies can be found throughout.

     The southern area also provides important opportunities for
research about ancient occupation, including a long-term archaeological
study area in the upper basin of the Coconino Plateau where research has
been conducted for decades.  This study area has led to research on the
sourcing of materials for pottery, the conditions that influenced where
people lived and congregated, the history and use of anthropogenic fire,
methods for recording archaeological sites, methods for protecting
cultural resources, and human modification of bedrock, among other
topics.  Additionally, research has occurred in the area on the
relationship between historic climate change and human occupation,
including how climate changes affected construction techniques by the
Indigenous peoples in the region, the viability of farming, the use of
fire, and available resources.

     A defining feature of the three areas is their unique sedimentary
and tectonic history, which has resulted in high scientific interest and
made the groundwater dynamics of the region among the best studied in
the United States.  Subsequent studies of the areas’ hydrology may prove
important to understanding the formation of the Grand Canyon and the
dynamics of groundwater and aquifers in the arid Colorado Plateau. 
Groundwater moving through this complex and distinctive system
eventually flows into the meandering and majestic Colorado River, across
hundreds of miles of arid and desert lands.  The areas’ unique hydrology
has supported Indigenous peoples and other forms of life since time
immemorial and continues to play an essential role in providing drinking
water and supporting agricultural production and other services for
millions of people across the Southwest.

     The three areas’ extensive fractures and faults direct the flow of
water, resulting in the formation of seeps and springs that serve as
small oases in the otherwise hot, dry landscape, and support some of the
most biodiverse habitats in the Colorado Plateau.  The hydrologic
features of these landscapes are unique and highly interconnected, with
groundwater moving through the Redwall-Muav aquifer in the south and
through fractures and linked cave passages.  The Havasupai and Hualapai
Tribes, as well as the town of Tusayan, Arizona, and other towns in the
region, rely on the southern area’s groundwater.  Ultimately, the areas’
groundwater flows to the surrounding tributaries, into the Colorado
River, and through the Grand Canyon, serving as one of many features
tying this landscape together.  Much of the water in the areas to the
northeast, northwest, and south of the Grand Canyon, from creeks to
streams, only runs seasonally based on melting snowpack and monsoon
rains.

     The geology and hydrologic system of the Grand Canyon and these
three landscapes are deeply intertwined.  Located within the Colorado
Plateau and adjacent to the Grand Canyon, the areas’ remarkable geology
is characterized by exposed sedimentary rock and high, sometimes deeply
incised, plateaus.  The Mississippian-aged Redwall Limestone, known for
the stunning red cliffs of the Grand Canyon itself, is present
throughout the three landscapes and is the most abundant component of
the Redwall-Muav aquifer.  This aquifer overlaps with the southern
portion of the Grand Canyon landscape, underneath the Coconino Plateau.
 Dissolution of the Redwall and associated Muav limestones has resulted
in the formation of hundreds of karst features such as caves, caverns,
and channels.  

     In the northeastern area, the Glen Canyon Group — a geologic
formation composed of Navajo Sandstone, the Kayenta Formation, and the
Moenave Formation — represents a continuation of the strikingly
beautiful and significant geology found at the adjacent Vermilion Cliffs
National Monument.  The Kaibab Formation, another geologic formation
that is prevalent throughout all three areas, forms most of the rim rock
of the Grand Canyon and is responsible for additional significant cave
and karst formations in these three regions as well as in Wupahtki
National Monument and Grand Canyon National Park itself. 

     The Toroweap Fault crosses the northwestern area and is one of the
most active faults in Arizona.  Due to the relative prevalence of
seismic activity, scientists have studied the area to better understand
tectonism and faulting, the geologic history of the Colorado Plateau,
and the hydrologic history of the Colorado River.  Similarly, the Kanab
Plateau, also in the northwestern area, has been important for studies
of faulting and tectonism, stratigraphy and sediment deposition, and
hydrology.

     In the northeastern area, scientists have studied the House Rock
Valley, known in the Southern Paiute language as Aesak, meaning “basket
shaped,” to understand patterns of deposition and erosion.  Stratigraphy
-– the study of rock layers — in this area has been important for
developing a broader understanding of how the Grand Canyon formed.

     In the southern area, the Coconino Plateau provides important
opportunities to enhance understanding of tectonic uplift, canyon
incision, and hydrological dynamics of regional aquifers.  Over time,
studies of the landscape’s geology have also helped improve
understanding of the geologic history of the Grand Canyon and Colorado
Plateau as a whole.  These studies have produced new theories regarding
when and how the geologic structures in the area formed or eroded. 
Sites in this landscape have also been instrumental to long-term
scientific studies of air pollution, airborne particulates, and
visibility, as well as to studies on the use of satellite imagery to map
geological formations.  Paleontological resources are also found
throughout the area, with fossils documented in written scientific
literature for nearly 150 years.  The Kanab Creek area in particular is
known for brachiopod fossils that date back to the Carboniferous
period. 

     The areas to the northeast, northwest, and south of the Grand
Canyon are home to an abundant diversity of plant and animal species of
scientific interest.  Spanning a vast and unique range of geological and
ecological systems, the areas showcase ecological transitions, ranging
from the Mojave Desert and riparian habitats at low elevations; to Great
Basin grassland, Great Basin woodland, and Great Basin desert scrubland
at intermediate elevations; to Rocky Mountain subalpine conifer forests,
subalpine grasslands, and montane conifer forests at higher elevations.
 Ponderosa pine stands, some with old growth characteristics, can also
be found at higher elevations.

     Riparian vegetation in the area is rare and precious in this
largely arid region.  The northwest area houses parts of Kanab Creek, a
stream with largely intermittent flow that is home to native riparian
plant species.  The occasional perennial pools help to support the
Kaibab National Forest’s only cottonwood-willow riparian forest, an
important habitat type in Arizona and the broader Southwest.  Kanab
Creek provides a habitat for federally listed bird species, including
potentially the threatened western yellow-billed cuckoo and endangered
southwestern willow flycatcher, both of which have been sighted nearby. 
The creek also provides a habitat for sensitive amphibian species,
including potentially the northern leopard frog. 

     In the grasslands found throughout the northwestern and southern
areas, dominant vegetation species include native grasses, shrubs such
as sagebrush and saltbush, and nearby juniper woodlands and savannas. 
The southern area is home to endemic and sensitive plant species, such
as the Arizona leatherflower, Arizona phlox, Tusayan rabbitbrush, and
Morton wild buckwheat.  Grassland mammals, such as the pronghorn, and
birds and raptors, such as the ferruginous hawk and the western
burrowing owl, can also be found there.

     Within the Great Basin desert-scrub habitat of the northwestern and
northeastern areas, shrub species such as sagebrush and rabbitbrush grow
alongside native grasses, wildflowers and other forbs, and occasionally
cacti.  This habitat type is home to unique mammal species including the
Townsend’s ground squirrel, the northern grasshopper mouse, and the more
broadly distributed mule deer and bighorn sheep.  Birds and reptiles
characteristic of this community include the sage thrasher, sage
sparrow, desert horned lizard, and Great Basin and Plateau tiger
whiptails.  The northeastern area also includes a portion of an
important fall raptor migration route.  The endangered Brady pincushion
cactus and candidate species Paradine plains cactus, along with the
sensitive Marble Canyon milkvetch and Paria Plateau fishhook cactus, can
all be found in the northeastern area.  The Siler pincushion cactus can
be found in the far reaches of the northwestern area, particularly in
the Moonshine Ridge and Johnson Springs Areas of Critical Environmental
Concern.

     Piñon and juniper woodlands are present at intermediate elevations
and are particularly prevalent in the northwestern and southern areas. 
The piñon and juniper trees are accompanied by a sparse understory of
native grasses and shrubs.  This community is home to birds such as the
pinyon jay and juniper titmouse.  Along with characteristic reptiles and
small mammals, this ecosystem also provides important winter range for
elk and mule deer.

     Petran montane conifer forests are found at the highest elevations,
primarily in the southern area.  Ponderosa pine dominates these forests,
but Douglas fir, white fir, Gambel oak, and other tree and brush species
can also be found there.  Several mammal species are dependent on
ponderosa pine, including the Abert’s squirrel.  Bird species
representative of this area include the northern goshawk, Merriam’s
turkey, and a variety of raptors and neotropical migratory songbirds.
 Elk and mountain lions are also found there.

     The landscape is also home to other significant species of
scientific interest.  The endemic Grand Canyon ringlet butterfly and
Tusayan rabbitbrush are present in the southern area, as may be the
endangered and endemic Sentry milkvetch.  The endangered Fickeisen
plains cactus can be found in all three areas.  The endemic Kaibab
monkey grasshopper occasionally can be found along the eastern edge of
the Kaibab uplift in the northeastern area.  The endemic Grand Canyon
rose, which has been identified as at risk by the BLM (termed
BLM-sensitive), can be found in the northwestern area, the northeastern
area, and potentially also the southern area.

     The area provides an important habitat for many notable mammal
species, including desert bighorn sheep, which frequent canyons in the
area.  Kanab Creek’s Hack Canyon is one of two canyons where sheep were
extirpated and reintroduced in the 1980s, and the population there is
studied for its contributions to genetic diversity of the species and to
enhance understanding of predation by mountain lions.  Pronghorn, elk,
bison, and mountain lions can be found on and around the area’s
plateaus, in addition to mule deer, which travel through the
northwestern and northeastern areas as part of an important migratory
corridor.  The sensitive Allen’s lappet-browed bat, along with five
other sensitive bat species, can be found in the northeastern and
northwestern areas, and possibly the southern area as well, and the
endemic and sensitive House Rock Valley chisel-toothed kangaroo rat can
be found in the northeastern area.  The House Rock Wildlife Area, part
of which falls within the northeastern area, contains a herd of bison
that is an important contributor to the genetic diversity of bison
populations across the United States.  House Rock also provides a
habitat for pronghorn and a winter range for mule deer.

     Cliffs and rock outcrops throughout the landscapes are home to
unique birds including peregrine falcons, bald eagles, golden eagles,
and a reintroduced population of endangered California condors.  The
threatened Mexican spotted owl nests in the northwestern area.  Over
time, the area has been scientifically important for ecological studies
of climate change, ecosystem ecology, vegetation communities, historical
fire regimes, and bat ecology.  The area also contains all or portions
of five separate habitat linkages identified as important to wildlife
habitat connectivity and threatened by development by the Arizona
Wildlife Linkages Workgroup, a working group of public and private
organizations and agencies in Arizona. 

     In addition to sustaining Indigenous peoples, vegetation, and
wildlife since time immemorial, the northeastern, northwestern, and
southern areas also have supported more recent Euro-American settlers.
 For example, visitors to the northwestern part of this area can trace
the route taken by the 1776 Dominguez-Escalante expedition in search of
a northern route between Santa Fe and Monterrey.  Mormon settlers in the
late 19th century developed the Honeymoon Trail in the northeastern area
to travel between their homes in Arizona and the temple in St. George,
Utah, following trails used by Tribal Nations to access sites such as
Deer and House Rock Springs.

     These settlers, along with early miners, loggers, and ranchers,
left behind scattered remnants of their presence throughout the areas.
 Hull Cabin, built in 1889 by sheep ranchers within the southern area
and near the South Rim of the Grand Canyon, is listed on the National
Register of Historic Places.  The cabin is currently maintained for
visitors and memorializes the area’s early ranching and early Forest
Service administrative use of the area.  The Emerald/Anita mine and
associated Camp Anita, which briefly operated at the end of the 19th
century, evidences Arizona’s copper mining history, while the Apex
Logging Camp contains evidence of the timber industry between 1928 and
1936 and is the focus of ongoing research by an archaeological field
school.  Located at the top of the steepest grade on the Grand Canyon
Railroad line, the town of Apex was once the headquarters camp of the
Saginaw and Manistee Lumber Company and provided wood that was used to
build the railroad, timber the mines, and construct the resorts along
the South Rim of the Grand Canyon.  Remnants of these structures, such
as the foundation of a one-room school house constructed from two
converted box cars, building platforms, domestic trash scatters, and
railroad beds can still be seen today and help tell the story of Apex
and its outlying camps, which between 1928 and 1936 provided a home for
lumberjacks and locomotive crews.

     The southern area also includes three other noteworthy historic
sites:  The decommissioned Red Butte Airfield, which is listed on the
National Register of Historic Places, operated in the 1920s to bring
visitors, including celebrities like Amelia Earhart, Charles Lindbergh,
and Will Rogers, to view the wonders of the Grand Canyon.  The Grandview
Lookout Tower and its two-room cabin, located near the South Rim of the
Grand Canyon, were built by the Civilian Conservation Corps in 1936 to
aid the Forest Service and the National Park Service in detecting
wildland fires.  And the Tusayan Ranger Station, which is also listed on
the National Register of Historic Places, comprises six historic
buildings constructed between 1939 and 1942, including a house, a barn,
and a corral.

     Protecting the areas to the northeast, northwest, and south of the
Grand Canyon will preserve an important spiritual, cultural,
prehistoric, and historic legacy; maintain a diverse array of natural
and scientific resources; and help ensure that the prehistoric,
historic, and scientific value of the areas endures for the benefit of
all Americans.  As described above, the areas contain numerous objects
of historic and scientific interest, and they provide exceptional
outdoor recreational opportunities, including hiking, hunting, fishing,
biking, horseback riding, backpacking, scenic driving, and
wildlife-viewing, all of which are important to the travel- and
tourism-based economy of the region.

     WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (the
“Antiquities Act”), authorizes the President, in his discretion, to
declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and
prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the
Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a part
thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and

     WHEREAS, the landscapes of the areas to the northeast, northwest,
and south of the Grand Canyon have been profoundly sacred to Tribal
Nations and Indigenous peoples of the Southwest since time immemorial;
and

     WHEREAS, I find that the unique historic and scientific
characteristics of the landscapes, and the collection of objects and
resources therein, make the landscapes more than the mere sum of their
parts, and thus the entire landscapes within the boundaries of each area
reserved by this proclamation are themselves objects of historic and
scientific interest in need of protection under section 320301 of title
54, United States Code; and

     WHEREAS, I find that all the objects identified above are objects
of historic or scientific interest in need of protection under section
320301 of title 54, United States Code, regardless of whether they are
expressly identified as objects of historic or scientific interest in
the text of this proclamation; and

     WHEREAS, I find that there are threats to the objects identified
above, and, in the absence of a reservation under the Antiquities Act,
these objects are not adequately protected by the current withdrawal,
administrative designations, or otherwise applicable law because current
protections do not require executive departments and agencies (agencies)
to ensure the proper care and management of the objects and some objects
fall outside of the boundaries of the current withdrawal; thus a
national monument reserving the lands identified herein is necessary to
protect the objects of historic and scientific interest identified above
for current and future generations; and

     WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by
this proclamation represent the smallest area compatible with the proper
care and management of the objects of scientific or historic interest
identified above, as required by the Antiquities Act, including the
landscapes within the boundaries of the three areas reserved and,
independently, the collection of objects within those landscapes; and

     WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to ensure the preservation,
restoration, and protection of the objects of scientific and historic
interest identified above, including the entire landscapes within the
boundaries reserved by this proclamation;

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of
title 54, United States Code, hereby proclaim the objects identified
above that are situated upon lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government to be the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah
Kukveni–Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National Monument
(monument) and, for the purpose of protecting those objects, reserve as
part thereof all lands and interests in lands that are owned or
controlled by the Federal Government within the boundaries described on
the accompanying map, which is attached hereto and forms a part of this
proclamation.  These reserved Federal lands and interests in lands
encompass approximately 917,618 acres.  As a result of the distribution
of the objects across the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni–Ancestral
Footprints of the Grand Canyon areas, and additionally and
independently, because the landscapes within each of the three monument
areas are objects of scientific and historic interest in need of
protection, the boundaries described on the accompanying map are
confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care and
management of the objects of historic or scientific interest identified
above.

     All Federal lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of
the monument are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of
entry, location, selection, sale, or other disposition under the public
land laws or laws applicable to the Forest Service, other than by
exchange that furthers the protective purposes of the monument; from
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and from disposition
under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing.

     This proclamation is subject to valid existing rights.  If the
Federal Government subsequently acquires any lands or interests in lands
not currently owned or controlled by the Federal Government within the
boundaries described on the accompanying map, such lands and interests
in lands shall be reserved as a part of the monument, and objects of the
type identified above that are situated upon those lands and interests
in lands shall be part of the monument, upon acquisition of ownership or
control by the Federal Government.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to alter the valid
existing water rights of any party, including the United States, or to
alter or affect agreements governing the management and administration
of the Colorado River, including any existing interstate water compact.

     The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture
(Secretaries) shall manage the monument through the BLM and Forest
Service, respectively, in accordance with the terms, conditions, and
management direction provided by this proclamation.  The Forest Service
shall manage the portion of the monument within the boundaries of the
National Forest System and the BLM shall manage the remainder of the
monument.  The lands administered by the Forest Service shall be managed
as part of the Kaibab National Forest.  The lands administered by the
BLM shall be managed as a unit of the National Landscape Conservation
System. 

     For purposes of protecting and restoring the objects identified
above, the Secretaries shall jointly prepare a management plan for the
monument and shall promulgate such rules and regulations for the
management of the monument as they deem appropriate for those purposes. 
The Secretaries, through the BLM and Forest Service, shall consult with
other Federal land management agencies or agency components in the local
area, including the National Park Service, in developing the management
plan.  In promulgating any management rules and regulations governing
National Forest System lands within the monument and developing the
management plan, the Secretary of Agriculture, through the Forest
Service, shall consult with the Secretary of the Interior, through the
BLM.

     The Secretaries shall provide for maximum public involvement in the
development of the management plan, as well as consultation with
federally recognized Tribal Nations and conferral with State and local
governments.  In preparing the management plan, the Secretaries shal1
take into account, to the maximum extent practicable, maintaining the
undeveloped character of the lands within the monument; minimizing
impacts from surface-disturbing activities; providing appropriate access
for livestock grazing, recreation, hunting, fishing, dispersed camping,
wildlife management, and scientific research; and emphasizing the
retention of natural quiet, dark night skies and scenic attributes of
the landscape.  In the development and implementation of the management
plan, the Secretaries shall maximize opportunities, pursuant to
applicable legal authorities, for shared resources, operational
efficiency, and cooperation, and shall, to the maximum extent
practicable, carefully incorporate the Indigenous Knowledge or special
expertise offered by Tribal Nations and work with Tribal Nations to
appropriately protect that knowledge.

     The Secretaries shall explore opportunities for Tribal Nations to
participate in co-stewardship of the monument; explore entering into
cooperative agreements or, pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination and
Education Assistance Act, 25 U.S.C. 5301 *et seq*., contracts with
Tribes or Tribal organizations to perform administrative or management
functions within the monument; and explore providing technical and
financial assistance to improve the capacity of Tribal Nations to
develop, enter into, and carry out activities under such cooperative
agreements or contracts.  The Secretaries shall further explore
opportunities for funding agreements with Tribal Nations relating to the
management and protection of traditional cultural properties and other
culturally significant programming associated with the monument.

     The Secretaries shall consider appropriate mechanisms to provide
for temporary closures to the general public of specific portions of the
monument to protect the privacy of cultural, religious, and gathering
activities of members of Tribal Nations.

     The Secretaries, through the BLM and Forest Service, shall
establish an advisory committee under the Federal Advisory Committee
Act, 5 U.S.C. 1001 *et seq*., to provide information and advice
regarding the development of the management plan and, as appropriate,
management of the monument.  The advisory committee shall consist of a
fair and balanced representation of interested stakeholders, including
the Arizona Game and Fish Department; other State agencies and local
governments; Tribal Nations; recreational users; conservation
organizations; wildlife, hunting, and fishing organizations; the
scientific community; the ranching community; business owners; and the
general public in the region.

     In recognition of the importance of collaboration with Tribal
Nations to the proper care and management of the objects identified
above, and to ensure that management of the monument reflects tribal
expertise and Indigenous Knowledge, a Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah
Kukveni–Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon Commission (Commission)
is hereby established to provide guidance and recommendations on the
development and implementation of the management plan and on the
management of the monument.  The Commission shall consist of one elected
officer each from any Tribal Nation with ancestral ties to the area that
has entered a cooperative agreement or similar arrangement with the
Secretaries, through the BLM or Forest Service, in which the Tribal
Nation and the Secretaries agree to co-stewardship of the monument
through shared responsibilities or administration; has expressed, by
Tribal resolution, an intention to join the Commission; and has
designated an elected officer as the respective Tribe’s representative.
 The Commission may adopt such procedures as it deems necessary to
govern its activities, so that it may effectively partner with agencies
by making continuing contributions to inform decisions regarding the
management of the monument.  The Secretaries shall explore opportunities
to provide support to the Commission to enable participation in the
planning and management of the monument.

     The Secretaries shall meaningfully engage the Commission, or,
should the Commission no longer exist, the relevant Tribal Nations
through some other entity composed of one elected Tribal government
officer from each of the Tribes represented on the Commission
(comparable entity), in the development of the management plan and to
inform the subsequent management of the monument.  To that end, the
Secretaries shall, in developing, revising, or amending the management
plan, carefully and fully consider integrating the Indigenous Knowledge
and special expertise of the members of the Commission or comparable
entity.  The management plan for the monument shall also set forth
parameters for continued meaningful engagement with the Commission or
comparable entity in the implementation of the management plan.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to alter, modify,
abrogate, enlarge, or diminish the rights or jurisdiction of any Tribal
Nation.  The Secretaries shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law
and in consultation with Tribal Nations, ensure the protection of sacred
sites and cultural properties and sites in the monument and shall
provide access to Tribal members for traditional cultural, spiritual,
and customary uses, consistent with the American Indian Religious
Freedom Act (42 U.S.C. 1996), the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (42
U.S.C. 2000bb *et seq*.), Executive Order 13007 of May 24, 1996 (Indian
Sacred Sites), and the November 10, 2021, Memorandum of Understanding
Regarding Interagency Coordination and Collaboration for the Protection
of Indigenous Sacred Sites.  Such uses shall include, but are not
limited to, the collection of medicines, berries, plants and other
vegetation for cradle boards and other purposes, and firewood for
ceremonial practices and personal noncommercial use, so long as each use
is carried out in a manner consistent with the proper care and
management of the objects identified above.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to preclude the
renewal or assignment of, or interfere with the operation, maintenance,
replacement, modification, upgrade, or access to, existing or previously
approved flood control, utility, pipeline, and telecommunications sites
or facilities; roads or highway corridors; seismic monitoring
facilities; wildlife management structures; or water infrastructure,
including wildlife water developments or water district facilities,
within the boundaries of existing or previously approved authorizations
within the monument.  Existing or previously approved flood control,
utility, pipeline, telecommunications, and seismic monitoring
facilities; roads or highway corridors; wildlife management structures;
and water infrastructure, including wildlife water developments or water
district facilities, may be expanded, and new facilities of such kind
may be constructed, to the extent consistent with the proper care and
management of the objects identified above and subject to the
Secretaries’ authorities, other applicable law, and the provisions of
this proclamation related to roads and trails.

     For purposes of protecting and restoring the objects identified
above, the Secretaries shall prepare a transportation plan that
designates the roads and trails on which motorized and non-motorized
mechanized vehicle use, including mountain biking, will be allowed.  The
transportation plan shall include management decisions, including road
closures and travel restrictions consistent with applicable law,
necessary to protect the objects identified in this proclamation.
 Except for emergency purposes, authorized administrative purposes,
wildlife management conducted by the Arizona Game and Fish Department,
and the retrieval of legally harvested elk and bison, which are
otherwise consistent with applicable law, motorized vehicle use in the
monument may be permitted only on roads and trails documented as
existing in BLM and Forest Service route inventories that exist as of
the date of this proclamation.  Any additional roads or trails
designated for motorized vehicle use must be designated only for public
safety needs or the protection of the objects identified above.

     The Secretaries shall explore mechanisms, consistent with
applicable law, to enable the protection of Indigenous Knowledge or
other information relating to the nature and specific location of
cultural resources within the monument and, to the extent practicable,
shall explain any limitations on the ability to protect such information
from disclosure before it is shared with agencies.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to prohibit grazing
pursuant to existing leases or permits within the monument, or the
renewal or assignment of such leases or permits, which the BLM and
Forest Service shall continue to manage pursuant to their respective
laws, regulations, and policies.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall affect the BLM’s or Forest
Service’s ability to authorize access to and remediation or monitoring
of contaminated lands within the monument, including for remediation of
mine, mill, or tailing sites, or for the restoration of natural
resources.  

     Nothing in this proclamation shall preclude low-level overflights
of military aircraft, flight testing or evaluation, the designation of
new units of special use airspace, the use or establishment of military
flight training routes, or low-level overflights and landings for
wildlife management conducted by the Arizona Game and Fish Department
over the lands reserved by this proclamation.  Nothing in this
proclamation shall preclude air or ground access to existing or new
electronic tracking communications sites associated with special use
airspace and military training routes.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to enlarge or diminish
the jurisdiction or authority of the State of Arizona with respect to
fish and wildlife management, including hunting and fishing, on the
lands reserved by this proclamation, or to affect the State’s access to
the monument for wildlife management, including access prior to and
during the development of the management and transportation plans
provided for above.  The Secretaries shall seek to develop and implement
science-based habitat and ecological restoration projects within the
monument and shall seek to collaborate with the State of Arizona on
wildlife management within the monument, including through the
development of new, or the continuation of existing, memoranda of
understanding with the Arizona Game and Fish Department.

     The Secretaries may carry out vegetative management treatments
within the monument to the extent consistent with the proper care and
management of the objects identified above, with a focus on addressing
ecological restoration; wildlife connectivity; or the risk of wildfire,
insect infestation, invasive species, or disease that would endanger the
objects identified in this proclamation or imperil public safety.
 Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to alter the authority
of any party with respect to the use of prescribed fire within the
monument.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to alter the
authority or responsibility of any party with respect to emergency
response activities within the monument, including wildland fire
response.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing
withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the monument shall
be the dominant reservation.

     Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not
to appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of the monument
and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.

     If any provision of this proclamation, including its application to
a particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of
this proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not
be affected thereby.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
