---
date: '2023-08-09'
modified_time: 2023-08-09 15:18:53-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-09 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/09/executive-order-on-addressing-united-states-investments-in-certain-national-security-technologies-and-products-in-countries-of-concern/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Addressing United\_States Investments in Certain National\
  \ Security Technologies and Products in Countries of\_Concern"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.) (NEA), and section
301 of title 3, United States Code,

     I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America,
find that countries of concern are engaged in comprehensive, long-term
strategies that direct, facilitate, or otherwise support advancements in
sensitive technologies and products that are critical to such countries’
military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities.
 Moreover, these countries eliminate barriers between civilian and
commercial sectors and military and defense industrial sectors, not just
through research and development, but also by acquiring and diverting
the world’s cutting-edge technologies, for the purposes of achieving
military dominance.  Rapid advancement in semiconductors and
microelectronics, quantum information technologies, and artificial
intelligence capabilities by these countries significantly enhances
their ability to conduct activities that threaten the national security
of the United States.  Advancements in sensitive technologies and
products in these sectors will accelerate the development of advanced
computational capabilities that will enable new applications that pose
significant national security risks, such as the development of more
sophisticated weapons systems, breaking of cryptographic codes, and
other applications that could provide these countries with military
advantages.

     As part of this strategy of advancing the development of these
sensitive technologies and products, countries of concern are exploiting
or have the ability to exploit certain United States outbound
investments, including certain intangible benefits that often accompany
United States investments and that help companies succeed, such as
enhanced standing and prominence, managerial assistance, investment and
talent networks, market access, and enhanced access to additional
financing.  The commitment of the United States to open investment is a
cornerstone of our economic policy and provides the United States with
substantial benefits.  Open global capital flows create valuable
economic opportunities and promote competitiveness, innovation, and
productivity, and the United States supports cross-border investment,
where not inconsistent with the protection of United States national
security interests.  However, certain United States investments may
accelerate and increase the success of the development of sensitive
technologies and products in countries that develop them to counter
United States and allied capabilities.

     I therefore find that advancement by countries of concern in
sensitive technologies and products critical for the military,
intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of such
countries constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the
national security of the United States, which has its source in whole or
substantial part outside the United States, and that certain United
States investments risk exacerbating this threat.  I hereby declare a
national emergency to deal with this threat.

     Accordingly, I hereby order:

     Section 1.  Notifiable and Prohibited Transactions.  (a)  To assist
in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, the
Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary), in consultation with the
Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant
executive departments and agencies (agencies), shall issue, subject to
public notice and comment, regulations that require United States
persons to provide notification of information relative to certain
transactions involving covered foreign persons (notifiable transactions)
and that prohibit United States persons from engaging in certain other
transactions involving covered foreign persons (prohibited
transactions). 

     (b)  The regulations issued under this section shall identify
categories of notifiable transactions that involve covered national
security technologies and products that the Secretary, in consultation
with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other
relevant agencies, determines may contribute to the threat to the
national security of the United States identified in this order.  The
regulations shall require United States persons to notify the Department
of the Treasury of each such transaction and include relevant
information on the transaction in each such notification.

     (c)  The regulations issued under this section shall identify
categories of prohibited transactions that involve covered national
security technologies and products that the Secretary, in consultation
with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other
relevant agencies, determines pose a particularly acute national
security threat because of their potential to significantly advance the
military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of
countries of concern.  The regulations shall prohibit United States
persons from engaging, directly or indirectly, in such transactions. 

     Sec. 2.  Duties of the Secretary.  In carrying out this order, the
Secretary shall, as appropriate:

     (a)  communicate with the Congress and the public with respect to
the implementation of this order;

     (b)  consult with the Secretary of Commerce on industry engagement
and analysis of notified transactions;

     (c)  consult with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense,
the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Energy, and the Director of
National Intelligence on the implications for military, intelligence,
surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of covered national security
technologies and products and potential covered national security
technologies and products;

     (d)  engage, together with the Secretary of State and the Secretary
of Commerce, with allies and partners regarding the national security
risks posed by countries of concern advancing covered national security
technologies and products;

     (e)  consult with the Secretary of State on foreign policy
considerations related to the implementation of this order, including
but not limited to the issuance and amendment of regulations; and

     (f)  investigate, in consultation with the heads of relevant
agencies, as appropriate, violations of this order or the regulations
issued under this order and pursue available civil penalties for such
violations.

     Sec. 3.  Program Development.  Within 1 year of the effective date
of the regulations issued under section 1 of this order, the Secretary,
in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the
heads of other relevant agencies, shall assess whether to amend the
regulations, including whether to adjust the definition of “covered
national security technologies and products” to add or remove
technologies and products in the semiconductors and microelectronics,
quantum information technologies, and artificial intelligence sectors. 
The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as
appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, shall periodically
review the effectiveness of the regulations thereafter.  
  
     Sec. 4.  Reports to the President.  Within 1 year of the effective
date of the regulations issued under section 1 of this order and, as
appropriate but no less than annually thereafter, the Secretary, in
coordination with the Secretary of Commerce and in consultation with the
heads of other relevant agencies and the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, as appropriate, shall provide the President,
through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs:

     (a)  to the extent practicable, an assessment of the effectiveness
of the measures imposed under this order in addressing threats to the
national security of the United States described in this order;
advancements by the countries of concern in covered national security
technologies and products critical for such countries’ military,
intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities; aggregate
sector trends evident in notifiable transactions and related capital
flows in covered national security technologies and products, drawing on
analysis provided by the Secretary of Commerce, the Director of National
Intelligence, and the heads of other relevant agencies, as appropriate;
and other relevant information obtained through the implementation of
this order; and

     (b)  recommendations, as appropriate, regarding:

     (i)   modifications to this order, including the addition or
removal of identified sectors or countries of concern, and any other
modifications to avoid circumvention of this order and enhance its
effectiveness; and

     (ii)  the establishment or expansion of other Federal programs
relevant to the covered national security technologies and products,
including with respect to whether any existing legal authorities should
be used or new action should be taken to address the threat to the
national security of the United States identified in this order.

     Sec. 5.  Reports to the Congress.  The Secretary is authorized to
submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national
emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 40l(c) of the
NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C.
1703(c)). 

     Sec. 6.  Official United States Government Business.  Nothing in
this order or the regulations issued under this order shall prohibit
transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United
States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

     Sec. 7.  Confidentiality.  The regulations issued by the Secretary
under this order shall address the confidentiality of information or
documentary material submitted pursuant to this order, consistent with
applicable law.

     Sec. 8.  Additional Notifications and Prohibitions.  (a)  Any
conspiracy formed to violate any regulation issued under this order is
prohibited.

     (b)  Subject to the regulations issued under this order, any action
that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a
violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth
in this order or any regulation issued under this order is prohibited.

     (c)  In the regulations issued under this order, the Secretary may
prohibit United States persons from knowingly directing transactions if
such transactions would be prohibited transactions pursuant to this
order if engaged in by a United States person.  

     (d)  In the regulations issued under this order, the Secretary may
require United States persons to:

     (i)   provide notification to the Department of the Treasury of any
transaction by a foreign entity controlled by such United States person
that would be a notifiable transaction if engaged in by a United States
person; and

     (ii)  take all reasonable steps to prohibit and prevent any
transaction by a foreign entity controlled by such United States person
that would be a prohibited transaction if engaged in by a United States
person.

     Sec. 9.  Definitions.  For purposes of this order:

     (a)  the term “country of concern” means a country or territory
listed in the Annex to this order that the President has identified to
be engaging in a comprehensive, long-term strategy that directs,
facilitates, or otherwise supports advancements in sensitive
technologies and products that are critical to such country’s military,
intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities to counter
United States capabilities in a way that threatens the national security
of the United States;

     (b)  the term “covered foreign person” means a person of a country
of concern who or that is engaged in activities, as identified in the
regulations issued under this order, involving one or more covered
national security technologies and products;

     (c)  the term “covered national security technologies and products”
means sensitive technologies and products in the semiconductors and
microelectronics, quantum information technologies, and artificial
intelligence sectors that are critical for the military, intelligence,
surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of a country of concern, as
determined by the Secretary in consultation with the Secretary of
Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies.
 Where applicable, “covered national security technologies and products”
may be limited by reference to certain end-uses of those technologies or
products;

     (d)  the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust,
joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

     (e)  the term “person of a country of concern” means:

     (i)    any individual that is not a United States person and is a
citizen or permanent resident of a country of concern;

     (ii)   any entity organized under the laws of a country of concern
or with a principal place of business in a country of concern;

     (iii)  the government of each country of concern, including any
political subdivision, political party, agency, or instrumentality
thereof, or any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for
or on behalf of the government of such country of concern; or

     (iv)   any entity owned by a person identified in subsections
(e)(i) through (e)(iii) of this section;

     (f)  the term “person” means an individual or entity;

     (g)  the term “relevant agencies” includes the Departments of
State, Defense, Justice, Commerce, Energy, and Homeland Security, the
Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Office of Science
and Technology Policy, the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence, the Office of the National Cyber Director, and any other
department, agency, or office the Secretary determines appropriate; and

     (h)  the term “United States person” means any United States
citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States,
including any foreign branches of any such entity, and any person in the
United States.

     Sec. 10.  General Provisions.  (a)  The Secretary is authorized to
take such actions and to employ all powers granted to the President by
IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order,
including to:

     (i)    promulgate rules and regulations, including elaborating upon
the definitions contained in section 9 of this order for purposes of the
regulations issued under this order and further prescribing definitions
of other terms as necessary to implement this order;

     (ii)   investigate and make requests for information relative to
notifiable or prohibited transactions from parties to such transactions
or other relevant persons at any time, including through the use of
civil administrative subpoenas as appropriate;

     (iii)  nullify, void, or otherwise compel the divestment of any
prohibited transaction entered into after the effective date of the
regulations issued under this order; and

     (iv)   refer potential criminal violations of this order or the
regulations issued under this order to the Attorney General.

     (b)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this order, the
Secretary is authorized to exempt from applicable prohibitions or
notification requirements any transaction or transactions determined by
the Secretary, in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, as
appropriate, to be in the national interest of the United States.

     (c)  To the extent consistent with applicable law, the Secretary
may redelegate any functions authorized hereunder within the Department
of the Treasury.  All agencies of the United States Government shall
take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the
provisions of this order.

     (d)  If any provision of this order, or the application of any
provision of this order to any person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remainder of this order and its application to any other
person or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.

     (e)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

     (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

     (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (f)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (g)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
  

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
  August 9, 2023.

– – – – – – –

Annex

  
The People’s Republic of China  
     The Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong  
     The Special Administrative Region of Macau
