---
date: '2023-08-31'
modified_time: 2023-08-31 12:41:05-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-31 12:41:04-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-childhood-cancer-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
During National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, we honor the
extraordinary courage, strength, and optimism of the tens of thousands
of families now fighting the leading cause of death by disease for
children:  cancer.  We remember the bright lives cut short and recommit
to ending cancer as we know it, for all those we have lost and all those
we can save.

     Cancer is brutal no matter whom it strikes, but it is particularly
cruel when it affects the youngest among us.  When they should be
learning in school and playing outside, children with cancer are
oftentimes fighting for their lives in hospitals instead.  A cancer
diagnosis takes a tremendous toll on their family, friends, and
community.  Caregivers are often left struggling to deal with a flood of
medical information, to make sense of treatment options, and to navigate
mounting medical bills all while trying to stay hopeful and steal
moments of joy with their loved ones. 

     Over the past 50 years, cancer researchers have made major advances
treating some types of pediatric cancer — but we have much more to do.
 Last year, the First Lady and I reignited the Cancer Moonshot, setting
an ambitious new goal to cut America’s overall cancer death rate by at
least half over the next 25 years, turn more cancers from death
sentences into treatable diseases, and improve support for patients and
families.  As a first step, I worked with the Congress to establish the
Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health, securing $2.5 billion in
bipartisan funding to develop breakthroughs in preventing, diagnosing,
and treating cancer and other deadly diseases and pioneering
partnerships to get those breakthroughs out to patients and clinics
across the Nation.  We’re also making lifesaving health care more
affordable for millions of American families, expanding health care
coverage for families through Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act, and
helping millions of families save $800 per year on health insurance
premiums. 

    At the same time, the National Cancer Institute has developed a
National Cancer Plan to speed up the development of effective cancer
treatments, including those for children.  The Institute’s Childhood
Cancer Data Initiative is also providing free molecular testing of
tumors, further helping my Administration implement the RACE for
Children Act, to quickly identify and approve precision pediatric cancer
drugs.  Earlier this year, I was also proud to sign the Childhood Cancer
STAR Reauthorization Act, boosting funding for childhood cancer
research, including research into late effects of childhood cancer
treatment and new ways to care for survivors.  And as a part of the
Cancer Moonshot, the National Cancer Institute launched the *Childhood
Cancer–Data Integration for Research, Education, Care, and Clinical
Trials*, a first-of-its-kind, public-private partnership that will help
children, adolescents, and young adults with cancer and their families
reach out for support, connect to excellent care, and obtain
opportunities to participate in research. 

     During National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, we honor the
absolute courage of the tens of thousands of children who fight cancer
every day and all of the loved ones who support them.  And we recognize
the medical professionals, researchers, companies, philanthropies, and
academic institutions who search tirelessly for early detection methods,
better and safer treatments and even cures. Together, we will create a
cancer-free future for our kids.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2023 as National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month.  I
encourage citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, the media, and other interested groups to increase
awareness of what Americans can do to support the fight against
childhood cancer.  I encourage anyone experiencing uncertainty around
risk factors or treatment options, or looking for other opportunities
for support to connect with a trained specialist at 1-800-4-CANCER or
visit www.cancer.gov.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
