---
date: '2023-08-31'
modified_time: 2023-08-31 12:24:17-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-31 12:24:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-wilderness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Wilderness Month,\_2023"
---
 
     America’s natural wonders are marvels of the world.  People travel
across seas and continents to behold the spirit of this great land
embodied by our majestic mountains, breathtaking deserts, emerald
valleys, and mighty rivers.  During National Wilderness Month, we
celebrate the power and promise of our country’s extraordinary natural
gifts and renew our commitment to protecting them for generations to
come. 

     When we conserve our country’s landscapes and wilderness, we do
more than preserve their beauty for our own enjoyment.  We safeguard the
future of people who depend on and sustain the land as a way of life —
Indigenous peoples, farmers and ranchers, recreation businesses, and
rural communities.  We enshrine landmarks that identify the places where
the history of our Nation was made.  We protect sacred spaces that have
been stewarded by Tribal Nations since time immemorial.  And we mitigate
the impacts of climate change to help make our country more resilient.

     A respect for nature’s ability to support and enrich our lives has
led my Administration to develop the most ambitious land and water
conservation agenda in American history.  During my first week in
office, I issued an Executive Order establishing the country’s
first-ever National Conservation Goal to conserve at least 30 percent of
our lands and waters by 2030.  It is the cornerstone of my “America the
Beautiful” campaign to support locally led and voluntary conservation
and restoration efforts across the country.  I also signed an Executive
Order to protect America’s forests, harness the power of nature in the
fight against climate change, and initiate the first National Nature
Assessment to evaluate the state of our lands, waters, and wildlife. 
And with funding through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and alongside
the Department of Agriculture, I have created a nearly $1 billion
Community Wildfire Defense grant so that communities can take steps to
protect themselves from the devastation of wildfires.

     With the help of critical partners in every sector, we continue to
make strong progress toward these conservation and climate goals.
 Together, my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act
represent the largest investment in climate and conservation ever —
accelerating the clean energy economy here at home, protecting
communities from climate impacts, and creating good-paying jobs that
boost our economy.  The new National Monuments I have designated will
protect the soaring peaks of Camp Hale in Colorado, the irreplaceable
Avi Kwa Ame in Nevada, the magnificent Castner Range in Texas, and the
sacred sites and lands that surround the Grand Canyon.  We have
conserved the ancient and vast conifers of the Tongass National Forest;
safeguarded the incomparable Bristol Bay watershed in Alaska; and
restored protections for Bears Ears, Grand Staircase-Escalante, and the
Northeast Canyons and Seamounts National Monuments.

     My Administration has protected the Boundary Waters in Minnesota
and Chaco Canyon in New Mexico, and we are accelerating efforts to
restore the Great Lakes, the Chesapeake Bay, the Everglades, and the
Columbia River Basin.  At my direction, the Secretary of Commerce has
begun exploring the designation of approximately 770,000 square miles in
the Pacific Ocean, an area almost three times the size of Texas, as a
new national marine sanctuary to protect the integrity of our oceans.
 The Department of the Interior has also begun the process of preserving
more than 13 million acres of lands of significant natural and cultural
value in the Western Arctic.  And I declared the entire United States
Arctic Ocean off-limits to new oil and gas development.  These
landscapes and sacred spaces are precious.  If they are lost, they can
never be replaced.

     Though these are great accomplishments, I realize we still have
much more work to do to protect our wilderness.  That is why we are
continuing to take ambitious steps to accelerate conservation.  We are
coordinating across Federal agencies and encouraging collaboration with
non-Federal partners to better conserve ecological connectivity and
wildlife corridors.  We are also partnering with Tribal Nations, working
together as co-stewards of the lands that are most precious to them. 

     To harness the tremendous power of the ocean to help in our fight
against the climate crisis, we published the first-ever United States
Ocean Climate Action Plan, and the Budget I released earlier this year
includes new funding to ensure our natural areas are accessible to all
Americans.  I want to build on legislation I signed last year that
established Wilderness Act protections for more than 182,000 acres of
public lands in Nevada, so I look forward to continuing to work with the
Congress to advance locally led and locally supported proposals for
protecting our most unique and beautiful lands and waters.

     This National Wilderness Month, we renew our commitment to
protecting our wilderness areas and ensuring that all their splendor is
passed down from generation to generation of Americans, helping to
bridge our past and our future.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2023 as National Wilderness Month.  I encourage all Americans
to experience our Nation’s outdoor heritage, to recreate responsibly and
leave no trace, to celebrate the value of preserving an enduring
wilderness, and to strengthen our commitment to protecting these vital
lands and waters now and for future generations.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
