---
date: '2023-08-09'
modified_time: 2023-08-09 15:10:01-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-09 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/09/letters-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-the-president-of-the-senate-on-addressing-united-states-investments-in-certain-national-security-technologies-and-products-in-countries-of-concern/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letters to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate on Addressing\
  \ United\_States Investments in Certain National Security Technologies and Products\
  \ in Countries of\_Concern"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)

Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 *et seq*.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et
seq*.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby report
that I have issued an Executive Order declaring a national emergency to
deal with the threat of advancement by countries of concern in sensitive
technologies and products critical to the military, intelligence,
surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of such countries.  I find
that this threat constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the
national security of the United States, which has its source in whole or
substantial part outside the United States, and that certain United
States investments risk exacerbating this threat.   
  
I find that countries of concern are engaged in comprehensive, long-term
strategies that direct, facilitate, or otherwise support advancements in
sensitive technologies and products that are critical to such countries’
military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities. 
Moreover, these countries eliminate barriers between civilian and
commercial sectors and military and defense industrial sectors, not just
through research and development, but also by acquiring and diverting
the world’s cutting-edge technologies, for the purposes of achieving
military dominance.  Rapid advancement in semiconductors and
microelectronics, quantum information technologies, and artificial
intelligence capabilities by these countries significantly enhances
their ability to conduct activities that threaten the national security
of the United States.  I have identified in an Annex to this Executive
Order one country, the People’s Republic of China, along with the
Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong and the Special
Administrative Region of Macau, as a country of concern for purposes of
this Executive Order.   
  
As part of this strategy of advancing the development of these sensitive
technologies and products, countries of concern are exploiting or have
the ability to exploit certain United States outbound investments,
including certain intangible benefits that often accompany United States
investments and that help companies succeed.  The commitment of the
United States to open investment is a cornerstone of our economic policy
and provides the United States with substantial benefits.  However,
certain United States investments may accelerate and increase the
success of the development of sensitive technologies and products in
countries that develop them to counter United States and allied
capabilities.  
  
Through this Executive Order, I am directing the Secretary of the
Treasury to issue regulations that require United States persons to
provide notification to the Department of the Treasury of information
relative to certain transactions involving covered foreign persons and
that prohibit United States persons from engaging in certain other
transactions involving covered foreign persons.  
  
I am enclosing a copy of the Executive Order I have issued.

                                                                       
                                           Sincerely,

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
