---
date: '2023-08-18'
published_time: 2023-08-18 11:48:53-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/18/a-proclamation-on-national-employer-support-of-the-guard-and-reserve-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Week,\_\
  2023"
---
 
The United States military is the greatest fighting force in the history
of the world — and that’s in no small part due to our National Guard and
Reserve members, who stand ready to defend our Nation at a moment’s
notice.  Just as these brave women and men have shown ultimate faith to
our country, many of their employers have gone above and beyond to keep
faith with them.  This week, we honor our Guard and Reserve troops for
all that they sacrifice to keep our country and their communities safe.
 And we thank their employers, whose support makes their service
possible.

     Our National Guard and Reserve members are not only a source of
pride for the military, they are also often the bedrock of their
communities.  While serving as citizen Soldiers and Airmen of the
National Guard and Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Coast
Guardsmen of the Reserve, they serve as teachers, pastors, public
servants, engineers, medical professionals, small business owners,
mothers, fathers, and so much more.  Every day, they balance the
competing demands of civilian life and military service, including
leaving their communities at a moment’s notice when our country calls.

     Many patriotic employers have stepped up to do all that they can to
support the mission of their Guard and Reserve employees.  They offer
generous leave policies while service members are deployed or undergoing
military training.  They ensure that spouses and families maintain
access to health care and benefits while their loved ones are away.  And
they demonstrate steadfast support for the service members who sacrifice
so much for all of us.  That matters — it ensures that our National
Guard and Reserve members can continue to strengthen our national
security while maintaining meaningful roles at home.

     The Biden family is a National Guard family, and we remain inspired
by all Americans who choose to serve something bigger than themselves,
just as our son Major Beau Biden did in the Delaware Army National
Guard.  We owe our troops, including our Guard and Reserve members, a
debt of gratitude that we can never fully repay.  During National
Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Week, let us also show our
appreciation to employers for all that they do to support the brave
Americans who stand at the ready to dare all, risk all, and give all for
our Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
August 20 through August 26, 2023, as National Employer Support of the
Guard and Reserve Week.  I call upon all Americans to observe this week
by honoring our National Guard and Reserve service members, who
sacrifice so much to keep our country and communities safe and secure,
and to commend the employers who empower these service members to
thrive.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day
of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
