---
date: '2023-08-31'
modified_time: 2023-08-31 12:22:04-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-31 12:08:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/31/national-sickle-cell-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Sickle Cell Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
During National Sickle Cell Awareness Month, we recognize the
perseverance and strength of the community of people living with this
disease and recommit to developing more effective treatments.  
Approximately 100,000 Americans have Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) — a group
of inherited red blood cell disorders that can cause acute, chronic pain
and serious health complications, including infections, strokes, organ
damage, vision problems, and serious fatigue.  Living with SCD often
means putting the goals and plans of everyday life on hold to
accommodate the demands of the disease, enduring frequent unplanned
hospital stays and struggling to pay for costly treatments not covered
by insurance.

There is no widely available cure for SCD.  While bone marrow and stem
cell transplants can work for some people with SCD, low donor
availability and treatment-related complications put those options out
of reach for many living with the disease.  Although SCD affects people
of all backgrounds, it disproportionately affects Black and Hispanic
Americans.  Combined with the documented disparities in treatment and
care, people living with SCD often lack access to specialized care,
treatment, and information about the disease, and they face barriers to
receiving pain management and treatment support. 

That is why my Administration is working tirelessly to close these
health disparities and help deliver the care SCD patients and their
families deserve.  We are working with State, territorial, and local
governments, nonprofits, and private sector partners to make that
happen.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Sickle Cell
Data Collection program is gathering more comprehensive information on
the experiences of SCD patients, which will inform new treatments and
health care services.  The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services is
developing a Cell and Gene Therapy Access Model, which would help
Medicaid beneficiaries gain access to potentially life-changing,
high-cost specialty drugs for illnesses like sickle cell disease.  The
Health Resources and Services Administration is assisting with early
identification and treatment of SCD and helping community-based
organizations and clinics conduct testing, counseling, and education. 
The Food and Drug Administration has approved new drug therapies that
help people with SCD manage their pain, and the National Institutes of
Health (NIH) is funding clinical trials to test new advancements in the
alleviation of chronic pain for those living with SCD.  NIH is also
researching possible personalized treatment approaches for
SCD-associated pain.  And through its “Cure Sickle Cell Initiative,” we
are accelerating the development of effective and accessible genetic
therapies that will help cure SCD once and for all.

This month, we acknowledge all those living with SCD and the many health
and medical professionals working to find new treatments and a cure for
this disease.  May we honor the progress we have made together and
strengthen our resolve in finding a cure for SCD.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2023 as
National Sickle Cell Awareness Month.  I call upon the people of the
United States to learn more about Sickle Cell Disease and the progress
we are making to reduce the burden of this disease on our fellow
Americans.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
