---
date: '2023-08-25'
published_time: 2023-08-25 09:36:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/25/a-proclamation-on-overdose-awareness-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Overdose Awareness Week,\_2023"
---
 
The overdose epidemic is a national crisis, and for millions of
Americans, it is personal.  Too many families have lost their children,
siblings, parents, and friends to substance misuse and overdose.  Every
loss is a painful reminder that we must take bold action to end our
Nation’s overdose epidemic.  During Overdose Awareness Week, we reaffirm
our commitment to beating this public health and public safety epidemic
— in memory of all those we have lost and to protect all the lives
we can still save.  
  
     People with substance use disorder face too many barriers to
treatment.  And while synthetic opioids, like illicitly produced
fentanyl, are driving the majority of overdose deaths today and
perpetuating addiction, we know that prevention and recovery are
possible if people get the support and treatment they need.  That’s why
my Administration established a National Drug Control Strategy that goes
after two major drivers of the overdose epidemic:  untreated addiction
and drug trafficking. 

     My Administration has worked hard to ensure that substance use
disorder is treated like any other disease, funding the expansion of
prevention, treatment, harm reduction, and recovery support services. 
As a part of my Unity Agenda, we passed a law making it easier for
doctors to prescribe effective treatments, leading to an unprecedented
and historic expansion that finally put help within reach for millions
of Americans. 

     Through the American Rescue Plan, we delivered more than $5 billion
to strengthen and expand State and community mental health and substance
use disorder services.  We also addressed the mental health of frontline
workers, like nurses, who are dealing with this crisis every day, by
directing $103 million specifically to meet their needs.  And my
Bipartisan Safer Communities Act went even further — providing billions
of dollars to improve mental health services for young people, including
hiring and training more school mental health counselors so young people
get the care they need.

     We continue to fight the stigmatization that surrounds substance
use disorder so people feel comfortable reaching out for help when they
need it.  The Food and Drug Administration approved two Naloxone
products — an opioid overdose reversal medication — for over-the-counter
use.  Now, every American will be able to access this life-saving
medication.  And our new National Response Plan to address the deadly
combination of fentanyl mixed with xylazine coordinates efforts across
all of government to confront this dangerous emerging threat.

     My Administration is also disrupting the flow of illicit drugs by
making it costlier to bring killer drugs into America; going after drug
traffickers’ profits; and targeting their financial networks, supply
chains, and delivery routes, including on the internet.  We have
strengthened coordination and information sharing among our intelligence
and domestic law enforcement agencies to dismantle drug traffickers and
their networks.  So far, my Administration has seized more than
1.6 million pounds of drugs before they crossed the border and entered
into our communities, including over 42,500 pounds of illicitly
manufactured fentanyl.  And we are not done.  Drug overdose deaths
leveled off in 2022 after sharp increases from 2019 to 2021.  Now, we
must double down on this work, which is why my proposed budget for
Fiscal Year 2024 requests a historic $46.1 billion for national drug
control programs.  The Congress must act to invest in solutions that
will prevent these drugs from ever hitting our streets and getting into
the hands of our loved ones, including by passing all of the measures
called for in my Administration’s 2021 recommendations to the Congress
on reducing illicit fentanyl-related substances, which will strengthen
public health and public safety.

     Today, I grieve with all those who have lost someone to an
overdose.  May we find hope in the more than 20 million brave Americans
recovering from substance use disorder, who show us what is possible
when people have the care, treatment, and support they need.  My
Administration will continue to ensure that our Nation has the resources
we need to address this crisis, prevent illicit drugs from reaching our
communities, and finally defeat the overdose epidemic in our Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
August 27 through September 2, 2023, as Overdose Awareness Week.  I call
upon citizens, government agencies, civil society organizations, health
care providers, and research institutions to raise awareness of
substance use disorder so that our Nation can combat stigmatization,
promote treatment, celebrate recovery, and strengthen our collective
efforts to prevent overdose deaths.  August 31st also marks Overdose
Awareness Day, on which we honor and remember those who have lost their
lives to the drug overdose epidemic.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
