---
date: '2024-04-30'
published_time: 2024-04-30 15:30:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/30/a-proclamation-on-older-americans-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Older Americans Month,\_2024"
---
 
            Older Americans have worked their whole lives to achieve the
American Dream for their families and communities, making our Nation
stronger and building a future of possibilities for new generations.
 This month, we celebrate their immense contributions to our country and
stand firm in our efforts to ensure that every American can age with the
dignity and financial security that they deserve.

     Sixty years ago, a third of older Americans still lived in poverty,
and close to half had no health insurance.  Over the years, Social
Security, Medicare, and Medicaid helped to change that.  Today, they are
lifelines for tens of millions of Americans and proof of what government
can do to transform lives for the better.  I will always fight to
protect and strengthen these programs.  Folks have paid into Social
Security and Medicare from their very first paychecks; the benefits of
these programs belong to the American people.  It is a sacred trust that
people rely on.  That is why I have proposed strengthening Social
Security — not cutting it as others have suggested — by asking the
highest-income Americans to pay their fair share.  My new Budget would
also extend the life of the Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund
indefinitely to protect the crucial health insurance that nearly 67
million Americans today rely on.  At the same time, we are cracking down
on so-called junk fees on retirement savings to ensure financial
advisors give advice that is in your best interest rather than theirs,
protecting the savings you have worked for your whole life. 

     Across the board, we are also working to cut the cost of health
insurance and prescription drugs to give folks a little more breathing
room.  After years of others trying, we finally beat Big Pharma, giving
Medicare the power to negotiate lower drug prices as the Department of
Veterans Affairs has done for years.  Our Inflation Reduction Act also
caps the cost of insulin for people on Medicare at $35 per month, down
from as much as $400 per month.  Next year, it will cap out-of-pocket
prescription drug costs for seniors on Medicare at $2,000 per year, even
for expensive drugs that cost many times that.  We have also expanded
the range of services that people on Medicare have access to, including
dental, mental health, and nutritional health services.  Additionally,
following an Executive Order I signed, hearing aids are now available
over the counter, so millions of people with hearing loss can now buy
them at a store or online without a prescription, saving up to $3,000
per pair. 

     Folks who have spent their whole lives building a community deserve
to live, work, and participate in that community as long as they would
like.  That is why my Administration is also making historic investments
in home care.  The American Rescue Plan delivered $37 billion to help
States strengthen their Medicaid home care programs by recruiting,
training, and paying more home care workers and providing counseling,
training, and support to family caregivers.  Last year, I signed the
Executive Order on Increasing Access to High-Quality Care and Supporting
Caregivers, the most comprehensive set of executive actions in history
for improving care for hardworking families.  My new Budget would
significantly expand Medicaid home care services to reduce the long
waiting list and empower more folks to continue full lives in their
communities.  We made sure home care workers are getting a bigger share
of Medicaid payments and nursing homes have enough staff to guarantee
every resident the safe, healthy, caring environment they deserve.
 Further, we’re making groundbreaking investments in the fight to end
cancer and other deadly diseases as we know it, reminding us that our
country can do big things when we work together.

     There is still so much we can do to support our seniors.  I have
also called to strengthen the Earned Income Tax Credit for low-paid
workers who are not raising children in their homes — saving Americans,
including our Nation’s older workers, an average of $800 on their taxes.
 My new Budget requests funding to extend my Administration’s Affordable
Connectivity Program, which has made internet more affordable for 4
million seniors.  

     Older Americans are the backbone of our Nation.  They have built
the foundation that we all stand upon today, guided by the core values
that define America — freedom, equality, decency, and opportunity.
 Their work has helped prove that our Nation can do big things when we
come together.  Now, it is up to all of us to build a future on those
same values — a future where we defend democracy instead of diminish it,
safeguard our freedoms, invest in communities that have too often been
left behind, and deliver for older Americans while ensuring the people
they love will be taken care of for generations to come.   

     This month, we celebrate older Americans’ contributions by
recommitting to those ideals and defending everyone’s right to live full
lives with dignity and respect.  We will always have their backs.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2024 as Older Americans Month.  This month and beyond, I call upon all
Americans to celebrate older adults for their contributions, support
their independence, and recognize their unparalleled value to our
Nation.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand
twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the
two hundred and forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
   
 
