---
date: '2024-04-18'
published_time: 2024-04-18 13:48:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/18/a-proclamation-on-education-and-sharing-day-usa-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Education and Sharing Day, USA,\_2024"
---
 
   

This Education and Sharing Day, USA, we remember the life and legacy of
the Lubavitcher Rebbe, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, as the leader
of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement and recommit to our shared values of
honesty, dignity, and equal justice that he long championed and that
have made America strong.

Forced to flee Nazi-occupied Europe during one of history’s darkest
moments, the Rebbe found a new home and purpose in America.  In the wake
of the Holocaust, he led hundreds of thousands to deepen their faith.
 As a prolific scholar and teacher, his calls for new schools and
community centers inspired people to build them in all 50 States and
across the globe, and they moved generations to embrace education not
only as a means of self-improvement but as an essential path to a more
just society.  Here in America, he also offered counsel to some of my
predecessors as President, always advocating for our Nation’s role as a
beacon of hope in the world.   

We honor the Rebbe’s birthday every year, but we know this year is
different.  Violence and cruelty have reminded us that hate never goes
away — it only hides.  Silence is complicity, and America will not be
silent.  As Americans, we reject terrorism and will keep working
unequivocally to combat antisemitism at every turn.  My Administration
remains dedicated to Israel’s security, and here at home, we have been
implementing America’s first-ever National Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism.  We will give hate no safe harbor.

The Rebbe knew that education is fundamental to cultivating
understanding and acceptance.  It opens us up to one another, and it
builds not just knowledge but character, as well as an awareness of
something bigger than ourselves.  The Rebbe’s beliefs are reflected in
the American creed that every person is created equal and deserves to be
treated equally throughout their lives, starting with access to a
quality education — a mission my Administration shares.

As we approach the 30th anniversary of the Rebbe’s passing, we honor his
work by celebrating our common faith in our Nation and by working to
ensure that every American has a chance to learn, grow, and thrive — in
the classroom and as caring and courageous people.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 19, 2024, as
Education and Sharing Day, USA.  I call upon government officials,
educators, volunteers, and all the people of the United States to
observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
