---
date: '2024-04-30'
published_time: 2024-04-30 16:52:39-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/30/a-proclamation-on-national-mental-health-awareness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Mental Health Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
     During National Mental Health Awareness Month, we recognize the
bravery and resilience of the tens of millions of Americans living with
mental health conditions, and we show our gratitude for the dedicated
mental health professionals and devoted loved ones who stand by them
every step of the way.  Mental health care is health care, and my
Administration will ensure that every American has the care they need to
thrive — we have your back.   

     Being able to get health care when you need it is essential to
living a full, productive, and healthy life — that goes for mental
health care too.  Mental health care can help people find joy and
purpose; ensuring they have access to the care they need is about
dignity.  But for millions of Americans, mental health care is out of
reach.  In 2020, less than half of all adults with a mental illness
diagnosis received care for it.  It is worse for kids — nearly 70
percent of children who need mental health care cannot get it.  Imagine
being a parent searching for a way to help their child but never finding
it, no matter how hard they look.  This is an all-too-common experience
as many Americans face mental health challenges:  Two in five adults
report experiencing anxiety or depression, and suicide is a leading
cause of death among young people.  We know that mental health treatment
works, but we need to make it more accessible and affordable for all
Americans.  

     That is why, as President, I have taken steps to dramatically
expand access to mental health care in America.  I signed the Bipartisan
Safer Communities Act — the largest investment in youth mental health
ever, and we are investing $1 billion of that funding to help schools
across the country hire and train new mental health counselors.  We also
added more than 140 Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics across
the Nation, which serve everyone regardless of their ability to pay and
provide a range of services, including 24-hour crisis support.  We
launched 988, the Nationwide Suicide and Crisis Lifeline, which anyone
can call, text, or chat to be connected to a trained crisis counselor. 
Further, my Administration developed new resources to support the mental
health and resilience of frontline workers; expanded Medicare coverage
to include additional substance use disorder services and expand mental
health services; made it easier for schools to leverage Medicaid to
deliver mental health care to millions of children and youth; and
invested in mental health programs that help service members and
veterans as well as their families, caregivers, and survivors.

     We are also working to ensure full mental health parity so that
mental health care is covered the same as physical health care.  We have
proposed requiring health insurance plans to identify the gaps in the
mental health care they provide, and if they find they are not covering
mental health care on par with physical health care, to make changes to
fix it.  Finally, we are taking action to ensure that State and local
government employees have the same mental health parity protections as
millions of other Americans who get health insurance from their jobs,
which is why we are working to close loopholes so these dedicated public
servants can more easily access the mental health care they need with
fewer limits on care and lower co-pays.

     At the same time, my Administration is working to end the opioid
and overdose epidemic by cracking down on fentanyl trafficking and
increasing public health efforts to save lives.  This month, we
celebrate the absolute courage of the Americans in recovery and reaffirm
our commitment to care for those suffering.

     My Administration will also keep fighting to end the youth mental
health crisis — and that means addressing social media’s contributions
to it.  I continue to call on the Congress to restrict the personal data
that companies collect, ban advertising that targets minors, and take
action to ensure that social media platforms prioritize the health and
safety of our Nation’s children. 

     Each one of us has a role to play in changing the narrative and
ending the stigmatization of mental health issues.  We can start by
showing compassion so everyone feels free to ask for help and learning
the warning signs of emotional distress and suicide.  If you are facing
a crisis, dial 988 to reach the National Suicide and Crisis Lifeline. 
If you are a new or expecting mother, you can call 1‑833‑TLC-MAMA for
confidential advice on mental health from a professional.  If you are
feeling overwhelmed or just need someone to talk to, ask your health
care provider, contact the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration’s National Helpline at 1‑800‑662‑HELP, or visit
FindSupport.gov.  To anyone struggling with mental health, know that you
are not alone.  As Americans, we have a duty of care to reach out to one
another and leave no one behind.  We are all in this together.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2024 as National Mental Health Awareness Month.  I call upon citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and
other groups to join in activities and take action to strengthen the
mental health of our communities and our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of April, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.  
   
   
   
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
