---
date: '2024-04-01'
modified_time: 2024-04-01 14:48:38-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-01 14:32:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/01/a-proclamation-on-world-autism-awareness-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Autism Acceptance Day,\_2024"
---
 
    America was founded on the idea that all people are created equal
and deserve to be treated equally throughout their lives.  Today, we
champion the equal rights and dignity of the millions of Americans on
the autism spectrum, and we celebrate the immense contributions of all
neurodiverse people, whose perspectives and experiences make America a
richer Nation.

     Some 5.4 million American adults and 1 in 36 children have been
diagnosed with autism.  Their experiences with the condition vary
widely, but their talents and potential are too often misunderstood or
overlooked.  Autistic people routinely face unnecessary obstacles to
securing employment and health care and children face bullying and
barriers to education.  We can work to end these disparities and ensure
they have an equal opportunity to reach their dreams by making sure that
people with autism and those who support them have the resources and
tools they need to communicate, grow, work, and achieve greater
independence.  

     Early diagnosis can make a big difference, which is why my
Administration is funding groundbreaking research to boost access to
diagnoses and services that can help autistic people of all ages thrive.
 The Department of Education and the Department of Health and Human
Services are also working to ensure that young children with
disabilities, including autism, have access to high-quality, inclusive
early childhood programs so that they can thrive as well as helping
schools leverage Medicaid to deliver critical health care services.
 Further, my Administration released guidance on how schools can obtain,
use, and support assistive technology devices that are essential to the
success of some people with disabilities. Meanwhile, the Department of
Education is helping public schools avoid discriminatory discipline for
autistic students, whose needs can be misunderstood, while also working
to get students with autism and their teachers the resources they need
to thrive.  We are working to boost understanding among community
members who can help keep people with autism safe — I was proud to sign
a reauthorization of Kevin and Avonte’s Law, expanding training for
first responders and caregivers.  

     My Administration is also making it easier for all Americans to get
the health care they need.  We protected and strengthened the Affordable
Care Act and Medicaid, expanding health care coverage to millions of
Americans.  At the same time, we lowered health insurance premiums by
$800 per year for millions of Americans.  Through the American Rescue
Plan, we provided $37 billion to make it easier for people with
disabilities, including autism, to receive the services they need at
home and stay active in their communities.  My Budget requests another
$150 billion over the next decade to further expand and improve these
life-changing services.   

     We owe everyone in this country a fair shot at the American Dream,
so we are also working to increase job opportunities for autistic and
other historically marginalized Americans who have been shut out for too
long.  My Administration is providing State and local governments,
private companies, and nonprofits with Federal funding to hire more
Americans with disabilities, including those with autism.  I signed an
Executive Order to make the Federal workforce more inclusive, and I
eliminated the unjust use of sub-minimum wages for people with
disabilities by Federal contractors, working to ensure every American
has equal protection under the law.   

     Globally, we are advancing disability rights as part of our work to
promote democracy, prosperity, and inclusion.  We are prioritizing
disability rights in policy discussions with other nations, and we are
working through the United States Agency for International Development
and as co-chair of the Global Action on Disability Network to stand for
the dignity and equal rights of people with disabilities worldwide.  
Diversity in all its forms is one of America’s greatest strengths.
 Today, we recommit to making the promise of America real for every
American on the autism spectrum, upholding our most basic values of
decency, fairness, and respect. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2, 2024, as World Autism Acceptance Day.  I call upon all Americans to
learn more about autism to improve early diagnosis, to learn more about
the experiences of autistic people from autistic people, and to build
more welcoming and inclusive communities to support people with
autism.  
    
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
first day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
