---
date: '2024-04-19'
published_time: 2024-04-19 15:24:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/19/a-proclamation-on-national-crime-victims-rights-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Crime Victims\u2019 Rights,\_2024"
---
 
Each year, millions of Americans become victims of crime and acts of
violence.  During National Crime Victims’ Rights Week, we recommit to
pursuing justice for victims and providing them with the support and
resources needed to heal from the emotional, psychological, physical,
and financial scars of those traumatic experiences.  We continue our
work to prevent crime before it occurs.  Every American deserves to know
that they, their families, and their communities are safe and free from
violence and crime. 

Since I first came to office, my Administration has been working
tirelessly with law enforcement, crime victims, and other community
leaders across the country to keep Americans safe.  Together, we have
made historic progress.  Last year, the United States had one of the
lowest rates of all violent crime in more than 50 years.  Murder, rape,
aggravated assault, and robbery all dropped sharply, as did burglary,
property crime, and theft. 

Reducing violence and crime is a top priority for my Administration.  We
helped cities, counties, and States invest over $15 billion in fighting
crime and preventing violence.  We made the largest-ever Federal
investment in public safety, enabling law enforcement to better serve
their communities — helping to keep everyone safe.  Our investment also
has been used to implement proven crime-prevention strategies like
community violence intervention programs that leverage community leaders
and formerly incarcerated people to work with young people and those at
most risk of violence, intervening before it is too late with culturally
competent strategies.

As a United States Senator, I supported the law that established the
Crime Victims Fund, which directly compensates victims and finances
victim assistance services.  As President, I signed a law to replenish
and strengthen the fund so that victims can continue to access the
resources they need. 

My Administration is also supporting survivors of gender-based
violence.  As a Senator, I wrote the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA),
which brought survivors’ stories into the forefront of the American
consciousness and combatted the scourge of gender-based violence in
America.  VAWA has helped fund helplines, shelters, and rape crisis
centers; offered survivors housing and legal assistance; and trained law
enforcement agencies and courts on ways the justice system could better
assist survivors of gender-based violence.  When we reauthorized VAWA in
2022, we expanded Tribal courts’ jurisdiction so that non-Native
perpetrators of sexual assault, sex trafficking, stalking, and child
abuse can be prosecuted for the crimes they commit on Tribal lands. 
VAWA newly empowered individuals whose intimate visual images are
disclosed without their consent to take perpetrators to court through a
Federal civil cause of action.  This year, I worked with the Congress to
increase VAWA’s funding to its highest level in history.  Now, more
survivors have access to trauma-informed care, including those in the
LGBTQI+ community and from rural areas.  Additionally, I have
spearheaded historic military justice reforms to better protect victims
of crime in our military and ensure that prosecutorial decisions in
cases of gender-based violence are fully independent from the chain of
command. 

To address the gun violence epidemic in America, I signed the Bipartisan
Safer Communities Act, the most significant gun safety law in nearly 30
years.  It helps prevent domestic abusers from purchasing guns, tackles
gun trafficking, provides funding for implementation of red flag laws,
expands background checks, and strengthens crisis intervention programs
and youth mental health programs.  I also formed the first-ever White
House Office of Gun Violence Prevention and my Administration has taken
more executive actions to stop the flow of illegal guns than any other
Administration in history. This new office is coordinating the first
centralized Federal response to mass shootings and surges in gun
violence in order to help victims and communities address the economic,
physical, and emotional effects of gun violence.

Additionally, my Administration is cracking down on hate-fueled
violence.  Early on, I signed into law the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act that
includes the Khalid Jabara-Heather Heyer NO HATE Act.  These legislative
actions help government agencies track and prosecute hate-fueled acts of
violence against people from marginalized groups and establish State-run
hotlines through which victims can report hate crimes.  For the first
time in history, we made lynching a Federal hate crime through the
Emmett Till Antilynching Act.  We also hosted the first-of-its-kind
United We Stand Summit — bringing together civic, faith, philanthropic,
and business leaders to ensure that hate has no safe harbor in America.

I also signed a historic Executive Order to advance effective and
accountable community policing and strengthen trust between law
enforcement and the communities they serve.  My Administration provided
States billions of dollars to purchase body-worn cameras, reduce court
backlogs, and support crime victims.  We are investing in more crisis
responders who are able to de-escalate situations and respond to
non-violent crimes.  In addition, we are hiring more Federal prosecutors
so justice for victims is not delayed, recruiting more United States
Marshals to apprehend violent fugitives, and investing in better
technology and training to clear court backlogs and solve murders.   

This National Crime Victims’ Rights Week, as each of us asks, “How
should I help?” let us recommit to doing all we can to prevent crime and
violence, support victims and help them secure the justice and healing
they deserve, and make our Nation safer and more secure for all
Americans.  For more information on the rights of crime victims, visit
Crimevictims.gov.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 21 through
April 27, 2024, as National Crime Victims’ Rights Week.  I call upon all
Americans to observe this week by participating in events that raise
awareness of victims’ rights and services and by volunteering to serve
and support victims in their time of need.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
   
 
