---
date: '2024-04-10'
published_time: 2024-04-10 12:36:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/10/a-proclamation-on-black-maternal-health-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Black Maternal Health Week,\_2024"
---
 
   

During Black Maternal Health Week, we recommit to ending the maternal
health crisis that is taking the lives of far too many of our Nation’s
mothers.

Women in America are dying at a higher rate from pregnancy-related
causes than women in any other developed nation.  Black women face even
more risk and are three times more likely to die from pregnancy-related
causes than white women.  That is in no small part because of a long
history of systemic racism and bias.  Studies show that when Black women
suffer from severe injuries or pregnancy complications or simply ask for
assistance, they are often dismissed or ignored in the health care
settings that are supposed to care for them.  People of color —
including expecting mothers — also bear the brunt of environmental
injustices like air and water pollution, which worsen health outcomes. 
Too often, Black mothers lack access to safe and secure housing,
affordable transportation, and affordable, healthy food.  This is unjust
and unacceptable.

That is why my Administration has worked to address this crisis from the
very beginning.  Vice President Kamala Harris came into office as a key
leader on maternal health and continues to fight for improved maternal
health outcomes, elevating the issue nationally and convening experts
and activists to find solutions.  My Administration’s first piece of
historic legislation — the American Rescue Plan — gave States the option
to provide a full year of postpartum coverage to women on Medicaid,
increasing it from just 60 days previously.  Now, 45 States, Washington,
D.C., and the United States Virgin Islands provide a full year of this
critical care.  We also made coverage under the Affordable Care Act more
affordable, saving millions of families an average of $800 per year on
health insurance premiums.

My Administration also released the Blueprint for Addressing the
Maternal Health Crisis, which outlines actions the Federal Government
will take to combat maternal mortality and improve maternal health.  To
start, we created a new “Birthing-Friendly” hospital designation that
highlights hospitals and health systems that offer high-quality maternal
care — ensuring that expecting mothers know where to go to get the help
they need.  To find out which facilities are “Birthing-Friendly,” go to
medicare.gov/care-compare/. 

Mental health care is health care — it is so important that women have
access to it throughout pregnancy and beyond.  My Administration
launched the Maternal Mental Health Hotline so that the one in five
women in America who experience maternal mental health conditions like
depression, anxiety, or substance use disorder can get the support they
need.  New and expecting mothers can call 1-833-TLC-MAMA — a
confidential, 24-hour, toll-free number — to connect with professional
counselors.  Tens of thousands of women have already taken advantage of
this valuable hotline, and we know that being able to access support in
times of need literally saves lives.  Additionally, we are supporting
and expanding maternal mental health screening programs, including for
postpartum depression.  We are partnering with community-based
organizations to help pregnant women access services that treat
substance use disorder and support victims of domestic violence.

My Administration is working to grow and diversify the maternal health
workforce to better serve expecting mothers by helping health care
providers hire and train physicians, certified midwives, doulas, and
community health workers.  I also signed legislation to ensure employers
make reasonable accommodations for pregnant and nursing mothers, who
deserve job security and to have their workplace rights respected by
expanding the use of break time and access to private spaces for
millions of nursing parents.  I also remain committed to addressing the
long-standing inequities that Black communities have faced and that
continue to damage the health and wellness of Black mothers.  For
example, we have been working to end discrimination in housing, make
public transit more accessible to everyone no matter where they live,
expand access to healthy and affordable food, and tackle dangerous
environmental injustices that take the biggest toll on families from
communities of color.

There is still so much to do to ensure safety and dignity in pregnancy
and childbirth.  This week, we extend our gratitude to all the maternal
health care workers, who are on the frontlines of this work.  Together,
I know that we can make America the best country in the world to have a
baby.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 11 through
April 17, 2024, as Black Maternal Health Week.  I call upon all
Americans to raise awareness of the state of Black maternal health in
the United States by understanding the consequences of institutional
racism; recognizing the scope of this problem and the need for urgent
solutions; amplifying the voices and experiences of Black women,
families, and communities; and committing to building a world in which
Black women do not have to fear for their safety, well-being, dignity,
or lives before, during, and after pregnancy.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of April,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
