---
date: '2024-04-19'
modified_time: 2024-04-19 12:51:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-19 12:51:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/19/a-proclamation-on-national-park-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Park Week,\_2024"
---
 
    America’s natural wonders and historic treasures are the heart and
soul of our Nation.  From the high plateaus and deep ravines of the
Grand Canyon to the hallowed grounds of Gettysburg and the rolling
forests of the Great Smoky Mountains, our national parks unite and
inspire us, connecting us to something bigger than ourselves.  This
week, we recommit to protecting and caring for all 429 parks and
encourage Americans everywhere to enjoy them.

     Protecting our national parks preserves their majestic beauty as
well as meaningful pieces of our Nation’s history and future.  They
contain irreplaceable ecosystems that help sustain the air we breathe
and the water we drink, and make our Nation more resilient to the threat
of climate change. They give families priceless memories of sharing the
great outdoors and exploring our past, and create hundreds of thousands
of jobs in recreation.  Many of them help preserve sites and places that
are sacred to Tribal Nations, who have stewarded these lands since time
immemorial.

     My Administration has pursued the most ambitious land and water
conservation agenda in American history — and I am on track to conserve
more lands and waters than any other President in history.  That work
began with setting our first-ever national conservation goal:  to
protect and conserve at least 30 percent of all our Nation’s lands and
waters by 2030 by investing in locally led, voluntary conservation and
restoration efforts through our “America the Beautiful” Initiative. 
I signed an Executive Order protecting America’s forests and harnessing
the power of nature to fight climate change while also launching a new
National Nature Assessment to help evaluate the status of our lands,
waters, and wildlife.  

     Since I took office, my Administration has conserved over 41
million acres of our Nation’s precious lands and waters — from
safeguarding the Tongass National Forest in Alaska, the Nation’s largest
national forest, to restoring protections for the desert buttes of Bears
Ears National Monument in Utah.  I established five new national
monuments, including Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni on the edge of the Grand
Canyon, a place that is sacred to many Tribal Nations, and the Emmett
Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument, which tells the story of
the events surrounding Emmett Till’s murder and their significance in
the civil rights movement.  Just last month, I signed an Executive Order
to better recognize and integrate the history of women and girls into
the parks, monuments, and historic sites that the National Park Service
helps protect.

     National parks and the complex ecosystems they contain also help
make our Nation more resilient to the existential threat of climate
change.  My Administration has made the biggest investment in
conservation and climate action in history, including $700 million in
our national parks for increased staff and much-needed maintenance.  My
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests in sustaining our lands and waters
with projects to protect salt marshes, remove invasive species from
sagebrush ecosystems to reduce wildfire risk, and more.  It is helping
to build new trails, roads, bridges, and other transportation for our
national parks as well, making our parks easier to visit.  It pays for
bonuses and training opportunities for over 20,000 wildland
firefighters.  Meanwhile, we have been working closely with Tribal
Nations to recognize the value of their Indigenous Knowledge and expand
Tribal co-stewardship of national parks.  My recent Budget asks for over
$3 billion for the National Park Service itself to upgrade park
infrastructure, work with Tribal Nations in stewarding and managing
culturally significant lands, support youth programs that can lead to
good-paying jobs, and more.  Through the Outdoor Recreation Legacy
Partnership, the National Park Service is helping to create and renovate
parks and outdoor spaces in communities that have been without them for
too long.    

     I encourage everyone to explore America’s national parks — and on
April 20, entry will be free. Each time my family and I have visited
one, we have left feeling inspired by our Nation’s natural beauty and
humbled by the responsibility that we all share to make sure that it
endures.  This National Park Week, we recommit to the work of protecting
our Nation’s natural treasures for the ages.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
20 through April 28, 2024, as National Park Week.  I encourage all
Americans to find their park, recreate responsibly, and enjoy the
benefits that come from spending time in the natural world.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
   
                                       JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
 
