---
date: '2024-04-26'
published_time: 2024-04-26 11:18:49-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/26/a-proclamation-on-workers-memorial-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Workers Memorial Day,\_2024"
---
 
A job is about more than a paycheck — it is about dignity and respect.
 Our Nation’s workers built this country, and we need to have their
backs.  On the most basic level, that means every worker in this Nation
deserves to be safe on the job.  Too many still risk their lives or
well-being in unsafe work conditions or dangerous roles.  On Workers
Memorial Day, we honor our fallen and injured workers and recommit to
making sure every worker has the peace of mind of knowing that they are
protected at work and can return home safe to their families every
night.

I am proud to be the most pro-labor President in history, and from day
one, my Administration has fought to make workplaces safer and fairer.
 Our American Rescue Plan invested $200 million into keeping workers
safe during the pandemic and guaranteeing that workers had sick leave
available if they got COVID-19.  We also used the full power of the
Defense Production Act to deliver personal protective equipment to
workers who needed it.  We vaccinated 230 million Americans so they
could return to offices, stores, factory floors, and more without
worrying about their health. 

Strong unions are at the core of all of this work.  Every major law that
protects workers’ safety passed because unions fought for it.  That is
why, as my Administration makes the biggest investment in our Nation’s
infrastructure in generations, we are also incentivizing companies to
hire union workers, pay prevailing wages, and support
pre-apprenticeships and Registered Apprenticeships that help workers
learn how to safely do the job.  At the same time, my Administration
finalized a rule requiring Project Labor Agreements for most large-scale
Federal construction projects, helping ensure these projects are
completed safely, efficiently, and on time.

I am proud of my work standing up for unions, from being the first
sitting President to walk a picket line to nominating union advocates to
the National Labor Relations Board, which has helped protect the right
to organize.  I also signed Executive Orders restoring and expanding
collective bargaining rights for the Federal workforce, and I
re-established labor-management forums at Federal agencies to ensure
Federal workers on the job are heard.  I signed the Butch Lewis Act,
protecting the pensions that millions of Americans worked their whole
lives for.  I have expanded coverage through the Affordable Care Act and
slashed prescription drug prices, making health care more affordable for
millions of working families. 

At the same time, the Department of Labor has also made it easier for
whistleblowers to report unsafe working conditions, regardless of their
immigration status, and are hiring and training hundreds of workplace
inspectors to ensure employers are meeting health and safety
requirements.  Last year, my Administration issued the first-ever heat
Hazard Alert to protect millions of farm, construction, and other
workers who spend their days outside in increasingly extreme heat.  We
also finalized a new rule to limit miners’ exposure to toxic silica dust
— protecting more than 250,000 from its harmful effects.  The Department
of Labor has also ramped up the enforcement of heat-safety rules,
conducting more than 4,000 heat inspections in the past 2 years.  They
have also completed over 65,000 workplace safety and health inspections
since 2022, helping keep workers in high-risk industries safe.  Further,
my Administration published a rule that allows workers to choose a
representative to accompany an Occupational Safety and Health
Administration official during a workplace inspection, ensuring workers
are being heard.  The Department of Labor is working to develop a
national standard to protect indoor and outdoor workers from extreme
heat that can be hazardous to their health.

We are also fighting for the courageous first responders who routinely
run toward danger to protect the rest of us.  The Department of Labor
proposed a rule that would strengthen safety standards for emergency
responder equipment, training, and vehicle operations for the first time
in more than 40 years.  These new standards would transform many current
industry best practices to requirements and could prevent thousands of
injuries for more than one million brave first responders across the
country.  I was also proud to sign the Federal Firefighters Fairness
Act, which boosted pay for over 10,000 Federal firefighters to help
recruit more to the job, because I know that nothing keeps firefighters
safe like more firefighters.  We are also committed to protecting
firefighters from the harmful effects of toxic “forever chemicals”,
which are still too often found in firefighting equipment and fire
suppression agents.  I signed legislation extending the Public Safety
Officers’ Benefits Program to firefighters who are permanently disabled
and to families of firefighters who die after experiencing trauma like
PTSD — it will not bring their loved ones back, but we owe them.

Today, our Nation is in the midst of a great comeback.  Our economy is
growing, wages are rising, and inflation is down.  We have created a
record 15 million jobs.  On Workers Memorial Day, we recommit to making
sure that every worker in this country is safe on the job.  We honor
those who lost their lives or have been injured on the job; we stand by
their families; and we stand with the labor unions that are fighting to
guarantee every worker safety, dignity, and respect.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 28, 2024, as
Workers Memorial Day.  I call upon all Americans to observe this day
with appropriate service, community, and education programs and
ceremonies in memory of those killed or injured due to unsafe working
conditions.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

twenty-sixth day of April, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
   
 
