---
date: '2024-04-30'
modified_time: 2024-04-30 15:21:11-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-30 15:21:10-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/30/a-proclamation-on-jewish-american-heritage-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Jewish American Heritage Month,\_2024"
---
 
     

     For centuries, the perseverance, hope, and unshakeable faith of the
Jewish people have inspired people around the world.  During Jewish
American Heritage Month, we celebrate the immeasurable impact of Jewish
values, contributions, and culture on our Nation’s character and
recommit to realizing the promise of America for all Jewish Americans.

     In 1654, a small band of 23 Jewish refugees fled persecution abroad
and sailed into the port of modern-day New York City.  They fought for
religious freedom, helping define one of the bedrock principles upon
which our Nation was built.  Jewish American culture has been
inextricably woven into the fabric of our country.  Jewish American
suffragists, activists, and leaders marched for civil rights, women’s
rights, and voting rights.  Jewish American scientists, doctors, and
engineers have made scientific breakthroughs that define America as a
land of possibilities.  They have served our Nation in uniform, on the
Nation’s highest courts, and at the highest levels of my Administration.
 As public servants, artists, entertainers, journalists, and poets, they
have helped write the story of America, making it — as Emma Lazarus’
poem on the Statue of Liberty states — a home for the “huddled masses
yearning to breathe free.”

     As we celebrate the Jewish American community’s contributions this
month, we also honor their resilience in the face of a long and painful
history of persecution.  Hamas’ brutal terrorist attack on October 7th
against Israel marked the deadliest day for Jews since the Holocaust,
resurfacing, including here in the United States, painful scars from
millennia of antisemitism and genocide of Jewish people.  Jews across
the country and around the world are still coping with the trauma and
horror of that day and the months since.  Our hearts are with all the
victims, survivors, families, and friends whose loved ones were killed,
wounded, displaced, or taken hostage — including women and girls whom
Hamas has subjected to appalling acts of rape and sexual violence.  

     As I said after Hamas’ terror attack, my commitment to the safety
of the Jewish people, the security of Israel, and its right to exist as
an independent Jewish state is ironclad.  The recent attack by Iran,
firing a barrage of hundreds of missiles and drones at Israel, reminds
us of the existential threats that Israel faces by adversaries that want
nothing less than to wipe it off the map.  Together with our allies and
partners, the United States defended Israel, and we helped defeat this
attack.

     At the same time, my Administration is working around the clock to
free the hostages who have been held by Hamas for over half a year; as I
have said to their families, we will not rest until we bring them home.
 We are also leading international efforts to deliver urgently needed
humanitarian aid to Gaza and an immediate ceasefire as part of a deal
that releases hostages and lays the groundwork for an enduring two-state
solution.

     Here at home, too many Jews live with deep pain and fear from the
ferocious surge of antisemitism — in our communities; at schools, places
of worship, and colleges; and across social media.  These acts are
despicable and echo the worst chapters of human history.  They remind us
that hate never goes away — it only hides until it is given oxygen.  It
is our shared moral responsibility to forcefully stand up to
antisemitism and to make clear that hate can have no safe harbor in
America.  
   
     That is why I released the first-ever United States National
Strategy to Counter Antisemitism and clarified the civil rights
protections for Jews under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  In
addition, the Department of Education has launched investigations into
antisemitism on college campuses, the Department of Justice is
investigating and prosecuting hate crimes, and the Department of
Homeland Security and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are focused on
enhancing security in Jewish communities.  We also secured the largest
increase in funding ever for the physical security of nonprofits like
synagogues, Jewish Community Centers, and Jewish schools.  I appointed
Deborah Lipstadt, a Holocaust expert, as the first-ever Ambassador-level
Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism.  Together, we are
sending the message that, in America, evil will not win.  Hate will not
prevail.  The venom and violence of antisemitism will not be the story
of our time.

     This Jewish American Heritage Month, we honor Jewish Americans, who
have never given up on the promise of our Nation.  We celebrate the
contributions, culture, and values that they have passed down from
generation to generation and that have shaped who we are as Americans.
 We remember that the power lies within each of us to rise together
against hate, to see each other as fellow human beings, and to ensure
that the Jewish community is afforded the safety, security, and dignity
they deserve as they continue to shine their light in America and around
the world.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2024 as Jewish American Heritage Month.  I call upon all Americans to
learn more about the heritage and contributions of Jewish Americans and
to observe this month with appropriate programs, activities, and
ceremonies.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand
twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the
two hundred and forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
   
 
