---
date: '2024-04-09'
published_time: 2024-04-09 13:18:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/09/message-to-the-congress-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-specified-harmful-foreign-activities-of-the-government-of-the-russian-federation/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the Congress on the Continuation of the National Emergency With\
  \ Respect to Specified Harmful Foreign Activities of the Government of the Russian\_\
  Federation"
---
 
TO THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES:

Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d))
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless,
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the
President publishes in the *Federal Register* and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect
beyond the anniversary date.  In accordance with this provision, I have
sent to the *Federal Register* for publication the enclosed notice
stating that the national emergency with respect to specified harmful
foreign activities of the Government of the Russian Federation declared
in Executive Order 14024 of April 15, 2021, which was expanded in scope
in Executive Order 14066 of March 8, 2022, and with respect to which
additional steps were taken in Executive Order 14039 of August 20, 2021,
Executive Order 14068 of March 11, 2022, Executive Order 14071 of April
6, 2022, and Executive Order 14114 of December 22, 2023, is to continue
in effect beyond April 15, 2024.

Specified harmful foreign activities of the Government of the Russian
Federation — in particular, efforts to undermine the conduct of free and
fair democratic elections and democratic institutions in the United
States and its allies and partners; to engage in and facilitate
malicious cyber-enabled activities against the United States and its
allies and partners; to foster and use transnational corruption to
influence foreign governments; to pursue extraterritorial activities
targeting dissidents or journalists; to undermine security in countries
and regions important to United States national security; and to violate
well-established principles of international law, including respect for
the territorial integrity of states — continue to pose an unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and
economy of the United States.  Therefore, I have determined that it is
necessary to continue the national emergency declared in Executive Order
14024 with respect to specified harmful foreign activities of the
Government of the Russian Federation.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    April 9, 2024.
