---
date: '2024-04-19'
published_time: 2024-04-19 15:09:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/19/a-proclamation-on-national-volunteer-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Volunteer Week,\_2024"
---
 
    America’s volunteers embody the core values that define our Nation: 
an optimism that is tested yet resolute; a courage that digs deep when
we need it most; and an unshakeable faith in one another, our Nation,
and the future we can build together.  During National Volunteer Week,
we celebrate the millions of selfless Americans who keep faith in all of
us and give their time, service, and hearts to make sure no one is left
behind.

I have often said that America is a good Nation because we are a good
people — every day, our country’s volunteers prove that to be true. 
They lead by the power of their example.  From helping rebuild homes
after devastating disasters to tutoring our youth and helping ensure
orderly elections, volunteers strengthen our communities and improve the
lives of people across our Nation and around the world.  Through these
extraordinary acts of service, volunteers also have the opportunity to
engage with new communities and try new things — building professional
networks and friendships, learning skills, and finding a sense of
purpose.  Volunteering is truly at the heart of our American spirit: 
working together to build a future of greater possibilities. 

My Administration is proud to have put more volunteering opportunities
within reach of Americans.  More than one million Americans have served
as AmeriCorps volunteers, donating their time to improve communities
across the country.  This includes the 140,000 older Americans who serve
as AmeriCorps’ senior volunteers.  Together, AmeriCorps volunteers have
stepped up in the face of national emergencies — from helping put shots
in arms during the COVID-19 pandemic to serving as recovery coaches for
those impacted by the opioid crisis and responding to natural
disasters. 

My Administration is proud to have made a historic $1 billion investment
in AmeriCorps through our American Rescue Plan so they could expand
operations and strengthen their programs.  Around the world, our Peace
Corps volunteers work alongside the members of thousands of communities
to improve people’s lives by helping small-scale farmers succeed,
teaching small business skills in classrooms, promoting health equity,
and so much more.

During National Volunteer Week, we remember that even one act of service
— big or small — can make a difference.  Volunteers spread hope and, in
the process, inspire so many to give back to their communities.  I
encourage everyone to look for ways to volunteer in their own
communities, show up for one another, and step up for those in need.
 For more information, visit AmeriCorps.gov and
peacecorps.gov/volunteer. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 21 through
April 27, 2024, as National Volunteer Week.  I call upon all Americans
to observe this week by volunteering in service projects across the
country and pledging to make service a part of their daily lives.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
   
 
