---
date: '2024-04-12'
modified_time: 2024-04-12 15:38:03-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-12 15:38:02-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/12/executive-order-on-covid-19-and-public-health-preparedness-and-response/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on COVID-\u206019 and Public Health Preparedness and\_Response"
---
 
   

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  The Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response
Policy (OPPR), established by the Congress in December 2022 under
section 2104 of Public Law 117-328, is playing a critical role in the
Federal Government’s pandemic preparedness efforts.  The OPPR is
providing advice, within the Executive Office of the President, on
policy related to preparedness for, and response to, pandemic and other
biological threats that may impact national security.  The OPPR is also
supporting my Administration’s continued work to address COVID-19 and
other public health threats, facilitating coordination and communication
among executive departments and agencies to ensure that the
United States can quickly detect, identify, and respond to such threats
as necessary.  At this stage of my Administration’s response to
COVID-19, I have determined that certain Executive Orders are no longer
necessary and that certain roles and responsibilities established by
other Executive Orders related to COVID-19 should be transferred to the
OPPR.

Sec. 2.  Revocations.  Executive Order 13910 of March 23, 2020
(Preventing Hoarding of Health and Medical Resources to Respond to the
Spread of COVID-19), Executive Order 13991 of January 20, 2021
(Protecting the Federal Workforce and Requiring Mask-Wearing), and
Executive Order 13998 of January 21, 2021 (Promoting COVID-19 Safety in
Domestic and International Travel), are hereby revoked.

Sec. 3.  Transfer of Responsibilities.  Responsibilities and duties of
the Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response and Counselor to the President
(COVID-19 Response Coordinator), including responsibilities and duties
specified in Executive Order 13987 of January 20, 2021 (Organizing and
Mobilizing the United States Government to Provide a Unified and
Effective Response to Combat COVID-19 and to Provide United States
Leadership on Global Health and Security), Executive Order 13994 of
January 21, 2021 (Ensuring a Data-Driven Response to COVID-19 and Future
High-Consequence Public Health Threats), and Executive Order 13996 of
January 21, 2021 (Establishing the COVID-19 Pandemic Testing Board and
Ensuring a Sustainable Public Health Workforce for COVID-19 and Other
Biological Threats), are transferred to the Director of the OPPR.  The
positions of COVID-19 Response Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator of the
COVID-19 Response, as established by section 2 of Executive Order 13987,
are hereby terminated.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    April 12, 2024.
