---
date: '2024-04-30'
published_time: 2024-04-30 15:36:52-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/30/a-proclamation-on-national-building-safety-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Building Safety Month,\_2024"
---
 
     During National Building Safety Month, we thank the engineers,
construction workers, trades unions, building inspectors, and other
building professionals, who make our buildings stronger, more
sustainable, and more resilient.

     Building codes help to keep us all safe at home, at work, and in
our communities.  But two in three communities have not yet adopted the
latest building codes, leaving them more vulnerable to fires, floods,
and storms, which pose a growing threat in the face of climate change.
 There is so much we can do to change that by investing in housing,
infrastructure, and code enforcement to prevent accidents and protect
our families.

     Today, a record 1.7 million new housing units are under
construction nationwide, and my Budget has a plan to build 2 million
more affordable homes, boosting supply and bringing down costs for
families.  My Administration is making the most significant investment
in generations in our Nation’s infrastructure while working to remove
poisonous lead pipes from every home and school in America so that every
child can turn on the faucet and drink clean water.  We are modernizing
our power grid and investing in energy-efficient buildings and homes so
that when disasters hit, the lights stay on.  We are weatherizing homes
so that families are safe and comfortable inside during extreme heat or
cold, storms, and other extreme weather and pay less for utilities.  For
all of these Federal projects, we are making sure that construction
materials are safe, environmentally friendly, high quality, and made in
America.   

     I am calling on the Congress to pass legislation that would provide
tax credits for first-time homebuyers and fortify housing to be safe
from extreme weather and climate change and built to last.    
   
     At the same time, we are making the most significant investment in
fighting climate change in history — providing tax credits so folks can
make their homes more energy efficient and affordable while also
ensuring that the clean energy industries of the future are being built
here at home.  We are working to dedicate 40 percent of the overall
benefits of certain Federal investments in our sustainable housing,
clean energy, and building safety projects to disadvantaged communities
that have borne the brunt of economic disinvestment for too long so they
can be stronger and more resilient in the face of a changing climate.  

     To make sure all of these new projects are safe, my Administration
launched the National Initiative to Advance Building Codes and is
investing over $1 billion to help thousands of communities adopt modern
building codes to strengthen their housing and communities from risk.
 The Department of Housing and Urban Development is working to ensure
federally funded housing is safe from flooding through safer flood
standards.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency is helping
communities devastated by floods, fires, tornadoes, and hurricanes to
rebuild more safely by incentivizing the adoption of modern building
codes.  For every dollar invested in sturdier new buildings that meet
modern codes, it saves 11 times that in avoided disaster repair and
recovery costs down the line.

     Every American has a part to play in keeping their homes safe and
secure and building a more resilient Nation.  You can start by changing
the batteries in your smoke alarms regularly and ensuring you have
backup power for your critical appliances.  Get rid of mold and pests to
avoid health issues.  If wildfires are a concern where you live, clear
leaves and debris from around your community and home to reduce the risk
of fires.  If you plan to renovate, make sure you follow local home
improvement requirements or get expert advice and quality work from a
professional contractor who honors those codes.  

     Today, America is in the midst of a great national comeback.  Our
economy is strong, and we are building a future of possibilities,
investing in our infrastructure, our communities, and our people.  That
is what America is all about.  This month, we recommit to the work of
keeping our Nation’s buildings safe and built to last for generations to
come.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2024 as National Building Safety Month.  I encourage citizens,
government agencies, businesses, nonprofits, and other interested groups
to join in activities that raise awareness about building safety.  I
also call on all Americans to learn more about how they can contribute
to building safety at home, at work, and in their communities.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand
twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the
two hundred and forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
