---
date: '2024-04-30'
modified_time: 2024-04-30 16:24:53-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-30 16:24:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/30/a-proclamation-on-asian-american-native-hawaiian-and-pacific-islanders-heritage-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islanders Heritage\
  \ Month,\_2024"
---
 
     This month, we celebrate the Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and
Pacific Islander (AA and NHPI) communities, whose ingenuity, grit, and
perseverance have pushed our great American experiment forward.

     From Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders whose ancestors have
called their lands home for hundreds of years to Asian immigrants who
have newly arrived and those whose families have been here for
generations — AA and NHPI heritage has long been a part of the history
of our great country and a defining force in the soul of our Nation.  As
artists and journalists, doctors and engineers, business and community
leaders, and so much more, AA and NHPI peoples have shaped the very
fabric of our Nation and opened up new possibilities for all of us.  I
am proud that they serve at the highest levels of my Administration,
including Vice President Kamala Harris, Ambassador Katherine Tai, Acting
Secretary of Labor Julie Su, and Director of the White House Office of
Science and Technology Policy Arati Prabhakar, who make this country a
better place each and every day.  This year, we are also celebrating the
25th anniversary of the White House Initiative and President’s Advisory
Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders,
who work across government to advance equity, opportunity, and justice
for AA and NHPI communities.

     I have always believed that diversity is our Nation’s greatest
strength.  That is why I launched the first-ever National Strategy to
Advance Equity, Justice, and Opportunity for AA and NHPI Communities.
 This strategy works to harness the full potential of these communities
— from combating anti-Asian hate to making government services
accessible in more languages.  To ensure the legacies of AA and NHPI
peoples are properly honored in the story of America, I signed historic
legislation that will bring us closer to a National Museum of Asian
Pacific American History and Culture.  I also issued a Presidential
Memorandum to consider expanding protections for the Pacific Remote
Islands to conserve this unique area’s significant natural and cultural
resources and honor the traditional practices and ancestral pathways of
Pacific Island voyagers, and I signed the Amache National Historic Site
Act to establish a memorial honoring the 10,000 Japanese Americans who
were unjustly incarcerated there during World War II.  Throughout my
time in office, the First Lady and I have hosted celebrations at the
White House that highlight the incredible diversity of AA and NHPI
communities, like Diwali and the first-ever White House Lunar New Year
celebration.  This year, to ensure that the full diversity of AA and
NHPI communities is seen and valued as new policy is being made, we
updated the Federal Government’s standards for collecting data on race
and ethnicity for the first time in over 25 years. 

     Meanwhile, we are creating new opportunities for AA and NHPI
communities by building an economy that works for everyone, including
investing in AA and NHPI small businesses and entrepreneurs.  Since I
took office, the Small Business Administration provided over $22 billion
in loans to AA and NHPI entrepreneurs.  We have seen the results:
 During my Administration, we achieved the highest Asian American
employment and entrepreneurship rates in over a decade.

      Last year, the First Lady and I witnessed the absolute courage of
the Native Hawaiian people and Hawaii’s Asian American and Pacific
Islander communities when we visited Maui in the wake of the devastating
fires.  The destruction upended so many lives, and yet the community
showed up ready to help rebuild stronger than before.  My Administration
has their backs — we are committed to making sure Maui has everything
the Federal Government can offer to heal and build back better and as
fast as possible.  Throughout these efforts, we remain focused on
rebuilding the way the people of Maui want to build by respecting sacred
lands, cultures, and traditions.

     Racism, harassment, and hate crimes against people of AA and NHPI
heritage also persist — a tragic reminder that hate never goes away; it
only hides.  Hate must have no safe harbor in America — that is why I
signed the bipartisan COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act, which makes it easier
for Americans to report hate crimes, and I also hosted the first-ever
White House summit against hate-fueled violence.  We are also working to
address the scourge of gun violence, which takes the lives of too many
AA and NHPI loved ones.  I signed the most significant gun safety law in
nearly 30 years.  My Administration has taken actions to expand
background checks and fund efforts to strengthen red flag laws to keep
Americans out of harm’s way.  There is still so much to do, and I
continue to urge the Congress to ban assault weapons and high-capacity
magazines.

     Our Nation was founded on the idea that we are all created equal
and deserve to be treated equally throughout our lives.  We have never
fully realized this promise, but we have never fully walked away from it
either.  As we celebrate the historic accomplishments of AA and NHPIs
across our Nation, we promise we will never stop working to form a more
perfect Union. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2024 as Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage
Month.  I call upon all Americans to learn more about the histories of
the AA and NHPI community and to observe this month with appropriate
programs and activities.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand
twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the
two hundred and forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
