---
date: '2024-04-19'
modified_time: 2024-04-19 13:07:18-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-19 13:07:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/19/a-proclamation-on-earth-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Earth Day,\_2024"
---
 
    More than 50 years ago today, some 20 million Americans came
together across the country to demand that we prioritize our planet’s
well-being.  They came from every walk of life and political background,
and were united around a common vision:  to protect the Earth and our
natural treasures for future generations. Their actions that day ignited
an environmental movement and proved that nothing is beyond our capacity
if we do it together.  Today, we carry on their legacy by building a
greener, more sustainable planet and, with it, a healthier, more
prosperous Nation.

     This work has never been more urgent.  Climate change is the
existential crisis of our time; no one can deny its impacts and
staggering costs anymore.  We have seen historic floods from Vermont to
Kentucky to California.  Droughts and hurricanes are growing more
frequent and intense.  Wildfires are destroying entire communities and
spreading harmful smoky haze for thousands of miles while temperatures
keep reaching record highs.  Season after season, I have met with
families who have lost everything to major storms, wildfires, and other
climate disasters, and I have stood with the brave first responders and
firefighters who sacrifice so much to protect their neighbors.
 Deforestation, nature loss, toxic chemicals, and plastic pollution also
continue to threaten our air, lands, and waters, endangering our health,
other species, and ecosystems.    Our actions matter, and together we
can protect our planet and our futures.

     I am proud that my Administration has made the biggest investment
ever to fight climate change.  Through the Inflation Reduction Act, we
are building a clean energy economy that creates good-paying jobs and
investing in research and development here at home.  We are building a
cleaner, more resilient power grid; expanding solar, wind, nuclear, and
geothermal power; and upgrading the transmission system to bring clean
electricity to more communities.  We are saving families hundreds of
dollars per year on their electric bills by providing tax credits to
invest in efficient electric heat pumps.  We are providing thousands of
dollars in tax credits to people who buy new or used electric cars.
 Additionally, we are supporting farmers and ranchers in the adoption of
climate-smart practices like cover crops and rotational grazing to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  Meanwhile, our American Rescue Plan
has also helped States and cities become more energy efficient and
resilient to extreme weather, including helping people weatherize their
homes, restoring wetlands to protect against storm surges and flooding,
and opening cooling centers where people can stay safe from extreme
heat.  We have also made America’s biggest investment in infrastructure
in generations.  As a result, we are expanding our transit and rail
systems to reduce traffic and emissions, and we are building a national
network of 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations.

     When I think about climate change, I think about jobs — the
good-paying union jobs that our legislation is creating nationwide in
this clean energy revolution.  Our historic investments across the clean
energy economy are creating good jobs, apprenticeships, and training
opportunities for thousands of workers — from manufacturers and
electricians to construction workers and linemen.  American workers are
installing solar panels, servicing wind turbines, capping old oil wells,
manufacturing electric vehicles, and more.  We are making sure coal and
power plant communities, which have powered our economy for decades,
have access to these jobs — we will not leave them behind.  At the same
time, we launched the American Climate Corps, which will put more than
20,000 young Americans to work restoring our lands and waters, deploying
clean energy technologies, and helping communities prepare for and
rebuild from extreme weather.

     We are also bringing clean air, clean water, and clean energy to
those who have historically been left behind.  Through our Justice40
Initiative, we set a historic goal to direct 40 percent of the overall
benefits of Federal clean energy, clean transit, and other investments
that fight climate change to communities that are overburdened by
pollution and disadvantaged by underinvestment.  We set the
strongest-ever pollution standards for cars and trucks, which will
reduce carbon emissions by more than 7 billion tons while also slashing
emissions of other pollutants.  We are also tackling pollution from
fossil fuel power plants, which have denied many Americans the clean air
and water they deserve.  We are replacing every lead pipe in America so
that everyone can turn on their faucet and drink clean water.  We are
working to clean up toxic waste sites and partnering with communities to
get dangerous “forever chemicals” out of their water supplies.   

     Today, I am on track to conserve more lands and waters than any
President in history — getting us closer to my Administration’s historic
goal of conserving at least 30 percent of our Nation’s lands and waters
by 2030.  It is a part of our “America the Beautiful” Initiative that
supports locally led conservation, protection, and restoration through
partnerships with Tribal Nations, local communities, and private
landowners.  So far, I have protected over 41 million acres of our
Nation’s lands and waters — from establishing national monuments like
Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni on the outskirts of the Grand Canyon and Camp
Hale high in the Colorado Rockies, to strengthening protections for
treasures like the Tongass National Forest and Bristol Bay in Alaska.
 These majestic places unite and inspire us and should be preserved for
the ages.  To restore and protect the health of our ocean, my
Administration is advancing America’s first-ever Ocean Climate Action
Plan, accelerating offshore wind energy development, and working to
designate new national marine sanctuaries in California and the Pacific
Remote Islands.

     Climate change is a global issue.  Certainly no one nation can
tackle the climate crisis alone; we have to work together.  On my first
day in office, I immediately rejoined the Paris Climate Accord,
reclaiming American leadership in this critical work.  We have rallied
the international community to tackle vital climate challenges,
including collaborating with over 150 nations to commit to slashing
methane emissions and over 140 nations to commit to halting and
reversing forest loss by 2030 as we find new ways to boost resilience,
strengthen our economies, and sustain our planet.  Last year, the United
States galvanized other countries to agree for the first time to
transition away from the fossil fuels that jeopardize the health of our
people and planet.  Through our Women in the Sustainable Economy
Initiative, we are working to ensure that women around the world have
access to good-paying jobs in sectors such as clean energy, fisheries,
recycling, forest management, and environmental conservation, that are
critical to our future.  By pledging a historic $3 billion to the Green
Climate Fund to help reduce emissions and boost climate resilience in
developing countries, we are catalyzing further global action.

     Last fall, we released the Fifth National Climate Assessment, our
Government’s preeminent report on the impacts, risks, and responses to
climate change nationwide and a go-to resource on emerging climate
solutions.  Together — climate activists and business leaders; farmers,
manufacturers, union workers, and Indigenous communities; courageous
young people; and anyone concerned about the future we leave for our
kids — we can make the changes needed to protect our planet.  America
has emerged from every crisis we have ever faced stronger than when we
went in.  We can do that now for the world.  On Earth Day, I urge
everyone to do their part in that fight.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
22, 2024, as Earth Day.  Today, I encourage all Americans to reflect on
the need to protect our precious planet; to heed the call to combat our
climate and biodiversity crises while growing the economy; and to keep
working for a healthier, safer, more equitable future for all.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
   
                                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
   
 
