---
date: '2024-06-10'
modified_time: 2024-06-11 11:28:10-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-10 23:23:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/10/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-juneteenth-concert-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Juneteenth\_Concert"
---
 
South Lawn

7:46 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, everyone.  Good evening. 
(Applause.) 

Please have a seat.  Good evening. 

What a joy it is to be with everyone tonight.  (Applause.)  And, oh,
what my eyes behold.

Happy Juneteenth, everybody.  Happy Juneteenth.  (Applause.)

So, we are here to celebrate America’s newest national holiday.  And it
is wonderful to be with so many extraordinary leaders, starting with our
incredible President, Joe Biden — (applause); the first-ever Second
Gentleman of the United States, my husband, Doug Emhoff — (laughs) —
(applause); members of the United States Congress and, of course, the
leaders and the members of the Congressional Black Caucus — (applause);
and everyone else who is here tonight.

So, as a United States Senator, I was proud to co-sponsor a bill to make
Juneteenth a federal holiday.  And as Vice President, it was my honor to
stand beside our President, Joe Biden, when he signed the legislation
that made that dream a reality. 

Next Wednesday, across our nation, Americans will come together with
generations of loved ones to celebrate Juneteenth, to celebrate Black
excellence and leadership, culture and community, resilience and
resistance — (applause) — and to remember our nation’s history in full. 

For more than two years after the Emancipation Proclamation was signed,
as we all know — two years after — hundreds of thousands of Americans in
Texas were still enslaved.  Then, Union troops arrived in Galveston, and
on June 19th, 1865, the enslaved people of Texas learned they were
free.  On that day, they claimed their freedom. 

And today, as we celebrate Juneteenth, together we are reminded of the
promise of America: a promise of freedom, liberty, and opportunity not
for some but for all.   
  
In many ways, the story of Juneteenth and of our nation is a story of
our ongoing fight to realize that promise, our ongoing fight to build a
nation that is more equal, more fair, and more free; a nation where
every person has the opportunity not to just get by but get ahead.

Since taking office, with the support of so many of the leaders here
today, President Biden and I have continued that fight.   
  
As Roy said, we forgave student loan debt for nearly 5 million
Americans.  (Applause.)  We capped the cost of insulin for our seniors
at $35 a month.  And we are now making it so medical debt can no longer
be included on your credit score.  (Applause.)

As Roy mentioned, we also passed the first major gun safety law in
nearly 30 years.  We appointed the first Black woman to sit on the
highest court in our land.  (Applause.)  Her name is Justice Ketanji
Brown Jackson. 

And all this is to say, with the support of the leaders here and so
many, we have made real progress.  And we are clear-eyed, as we move our
nation forward, there are those who are trying to take us backward.   
  
Across our nation, we witness a full-on attack on hard-fought, hard-won
freedoms and rights, including the freedom of a woman to make decisions
about her own body — (applause); the freedom to be who you are and love
who you love openly and with pride — (applause); the freedom from fear
of bigotry and hate; the freedom to learn and acknowledge our nation’s
true and full history; and the freedom that unlocks all others: the
freedom to vote.  (Applause.)

This Juneteenth, we will hold a national day of action on voting.  And I
call on all the leaders here to please join us in helping more Americans
register to vote.  (Applause.) 

Because while Juneteenth is a day for celebration, it is also a day for
dedication; a day to rededicate ourselves to the ongoing and unfinished
work of our American experiment; a day to renew our commitment to defend
our freedoms, to honor our history, and to continue to fight for the
promise of America.

Tonight, then, to inspire us in that work, we are joined by a group of
truly incredible artists.   
  
Through the struggles and successes of our history, Black artists like
these have put song to our nation’s fight for freedom.  Through
spirituals, blues, and gospel, through jazz, soul, and hip-hop, artists
give voice to the joy and hope, ambition and aspiration, courage and
conviction of the people of our nation.

And now, to introduce our first performer, I welcome back to the stage
my friend Roy Wood, Jr.

Thank you all.      END                     7:52 P.M. EDT
