---
date: '2024-06-18'
modified_time: 2024-06-19 14:00:15-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-18 20:53:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/18/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-political-event-5/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Political\_Event"
---
 
Coordinated Field Office

Atlanta, Georgia

3:10 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hey, everybody.  (Applause.)

Can we hear it for Helen Butler?  (Applause.) 

Well, it is good to be back in Atlanta.  You know, I was just here last
week.  Somebody asked me if I was moving here.  I said, “Maybe.” 
(Laughs.) 

But I want to thank everybody just so very much for all the work and all
the leaders who are here.  I was saying to somebody, Helen Butler has
been doing this work — I’ve been — I have been visiting with her and
working with her here in Atlanta for years.  And I know there are so
many extraordinary leaders here who understand the importance of this
election and the power that we have to make a difference and to decide
the trajectory, the focus of our country in terms of knowing what we are
entitled to receive from our government and its leaders and the work
that is necessary to achieve that end.

So, I want to thank everyone.  And I want to wish everybody a happy
Juneteenth.  (Applause.) 

So, when I was in the United States Senate, I was very proud to be a
sponsor of the legislation that made Juneteenth a federal holiday.  And
when I think about what we know — and folks in Atlanta and so many parts
of our country have traditions — longstanding traditions of how to
celebrate Juneteenth and what it means. 

But, in particular, when we think about what’s at stake in our country
right now in the context of those who would deny our history, who would
have us erase history, who would try to rewrite our history in this year
of our Lord, 2024 — those who are banning books — we know that as we
celebrate this — the most recent, the newest federal holiday in America
— that it is incumbent on all of us in our celebration to dedicate
ourselves to knowing our history, to dedicating ourselves to what must
not be repeated about our history, knowing we can never take any of the
gains we have made for granted unless we are vigilant in protecting
fundamental freedoms.

And that’s how I know we think about Juneteenth.  I have issued a call
to action.  I have actually asked that on Juneteenth, in the many ways
that we have traditionally celebrated it, now that it is a federal
holiday, let’s also incorporate into our tradition our new traditions
that we will think of Juneteenth of a day for us to have a call to
action to register folks to vote.  (Applause.)

So, let that now — as we create traditions on top of those that have
existed, think of Juneteenth as our call to action to register folks to
vote.  Because, after all, what we know is so much about our history has
been about those that would try and deny us our rights and how we must
be proactive and exercise self-determination to make real our power and
the promise of America.  And one of the most significant ways in
election time that we do that is to vote. 

An election that is going to determine the next generation or many of
our country is happening in 140 days — in 140 days.  And it is so
important that remind people — that we remind people of their power at
this very moment — their power of their voice through their vote. 

And so, that’s part of what we are doing with the kickoff of this
campaign headquarters is, through this office right here, we will
gather, we will organize, we will build community, we will build
coalitions all around reminding people that we are all in this together
and that there is power in the collective and in our unity.

What we will be doing here over the course of the next 140 days is
organizing folks.  We’re going to be emailing.  We’re going to be
texting.  We’re going to be calling.  We’re going to be knocking on
doors.  (Applause.)  We’re going to be looking to our right and looking
to our left and saying, “Neighbor, you know your vote is important.  You
know you” —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s exactly right.  You have a right to have
your voice heard at election time. 

And so, let’s make sure that we do a couple of things.  First of all,
let’s remember recent history.  The state of Georgia and the voters of
Georgia turned out in record numbers in 2020 — in record numbers.  Young
voters turned out in record numbers in 2020, which is how Joe Biden
became President of the United States and I became Vice President of the
United States.  (Applause.)

The voters of Georgia turned out in record numbers and sent Raphael
Warnock and Jon Ossoff to the United States Senate — (applause) —
defying some people who dare to define who the state of Georgia is and
what that looks like. 

Georgia voters made a decision that, in spite of intents and plans to
make it more difficult for you to vote, you would find a way around
those obstacles to not ever let anybody suppress your voice — (applause)
— despite the fact that in the state of Georgia a law was passed to make
it illegal to give people food and water for standing in line to vote. 
The hypocrisy abounds.  Whatever happened to “love thy neighbor”?

And then, in May, the governor of Georgia signed three bills into law —
one of them which is going to mean that certain people can make
decisions about fewer voting machines in polling places.  You know why? 
Well, my theory of it — which is a logical theory and a reasonable
theory of it — is because then they can start taking machines from
certain polling places to make people have to stand in line longer to
dissuade people from being able to have their voice count at election
time.

Because what we know is the folks who have everything at stake are often
the folks who have a whole lot of obligations in their life.  They have
kids that they got to take care of.  They have jobs they have to work
at.  They’re caring for other people.  And so, to make it more difficult
for them to vote by saying that you’re going to have to stand in line
longer, that’s a disgrace.  You should be making it easier for working
people to vote.  (Applause.)

Passed a law to now make it more easier to kick people off the voter
rolls in Georgia, which is why, as we celebrate Juneteenth and our call
to action, let’s ensure that everybody who thinks they’re registered to
vote actually goes to IWillVote.com to make sure you’re registered to
vote, make sure you didn’t get kicked off, because the worst thing that
can happen — and, you know, disappointment is one of the worst emotions
that anybody can experience — is that somebody thinks they’re actually
registered, fills out their ballot, they’re ready to vote, and then they
go to vote and learn that they’ve been kicked off.

So, let’s think about Juneteenth as a way that reaffirms our commitment
to holding on to our freedoms and rights, especially in this environment
where there is a full-on intent to attack fundamental freedoms and right
— be it the freedom to have access to the ballot; be it the freedom to
learn America’s full history; be it the freedom of a woman to make
decisions about her own body and not have her government tell her what
she’s supposed to do — (applause); be it the freedom to love who you
love openly and with pride; be it the freedom to be free from hate and
bigotry, be free from the fear of gun violence. 

All of these things are at stake in this upcoming election.  And the way
we will determine the course of our country is to remind our neighbors
and our friends and our family they have the power.

Because I’ll close with this.  Ultimately, this election is coming down
to a choice for each of us to determine and decide what kind of country
we want to live in.  That’s what this is about: What kind of country do
you want to live in? 

You got the former President trying to be president again, who openly
admires dictators, who talks about how he’s going to weaponize the
Department of Justice against his political enemies — somebody who says
he’s proud that he has taken fundamental rights from the women of
America.

On the other hand, you have in Joe Biden and our administration an
administration that has taken on the issue of affordable prescription
medication and finally capped the cost of insulin at $35 a month. 
(Applause.)  Black folks are 60 percent more likely to be diagnosed with
diabetes.  How many of our seniors, for years, had to make a choice
about whether they could either afford to fill their prescription or
fill their refrigerator? 

What our administration has done — what we have done — I say as a proud
HBCU graduate — (applause) — we gave over $15 billion to our HBCUs,
recognizing them to be the centers of academic excellence that they
are.  (Applause.)

What we have done to close the racial wealth gap in America — the lowest
unemployment numbers in recent history for Black Americans. 

What we have done to increase access to capital. 

What we have done with student loan forgiveness.  And, by the way, there
were a whole lot of people didn’t want us to do that.  We’ve now
forgiven over $160 billion in student loan debt.  (Applause.)  I ask
everybody: Testify, when you know that that’s what you’ve experienced,
to let everybody know.

What we have done to deal with medical debt.  What is medical debt? 
Most often comes about because somebody experiences a medical
emergency.  They didn’t ask for that.  And what that means in terms of
the debt that they start to pile up around those bills that were
unexpected.  We are the ones who said medical debt should not be used
against somebody, and we have now eliminated the ability of medical debt
to be on your credit score — (applause) — which means medical debt can
no longer be a barrier to you being able to qualify for a lease on an
apartment or a car loan or a home loan.

These are the kinds of things we have done.  And I will end by saying
it’s because the voters in Georgia, the leaders here took it upon
yourselves to activate, to organize, to mobilize.  And we’ve seen the
power of that, which is why there are some people still trying to work
against it.  But we’ve seen the power of that.

And we’re never going to let anybody take our power from us.  We will
never let anybody silence us.  That’s what this election is about. 
(Applause.) 

And the people of Georgia are going to make the decision.  And the
decision will be four more years.  (Applause.)

Thank you, everyone.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

END                       3:21 P.M. EDT
