---
date: '2024-06-16'
published_time: 2024-06-16 12:44:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/16/remarks-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-at-summit-on-peace-in-ukraine-closing-plenary-session-obburgen-switzerland/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan at Summit on Peace in Ukraine\
  \ Closing Plenary Session | Obb\xFCrgen,\_Switzerland"
---
 
President Amherd, President Zelenskyy, thank you for hosting this
Summit. And more than that, congratulations on a tremendous success in
this Summit. You have gathered 100 countries and institutions from all
parts of the world, all regions, representing people from everywhere and
showing that there is broad and deep support for a just peace. More than
that though, what this Summit has done is define what the core character
— the core foundation — of what a just peace looks like, and that is the
principles of the United Nations Charter, the principles of
international law, the notion of sovereignty and territorial integrity,
and the basic proposition that no nation should be allowed to conquer
another nation by force. Period. 

And that has created a platform upon which Ukraine can stand going
forward to negotiate from a position of confidence to secure its
sovereignty and territorial integrity and to secure the just peace that
the people of Ukraine deserve. Even beyond that, the working groups
today gave momentum to the practical steps that we all need to take
together on food security, nuclear security, and, of course, the return
of abducted children and the monstrous act of abducting those children,
taking them from their homes and families, must be rectified and those
children must be returned. 

What is most interesting in watching these last two days is the split
screen of this weekend with what we heard from President Putin as he
laid out his vision for peace a couple of days ago, where he said not
only does Ukraine have to give up the territory that Russia currently
occupies, but Ukraine has to leave additional sovereign Ukrainian
territory before Russia will negotiate. And Ukraine must disarm so that
it is vulnerable to future Russian aggression down the road. No
responsible nation can say that is a reasonable basis for peace. It
defies the UN Charter, it defies basic morality, it defies basic common
sense.

By contrast, the vision of peace that was put forward here today from so
many different countries, rooted in principles that all of us signed up
to. Rooted in principles that all of us would like to live in a world
that are ruled by those principles because they make us all safe. This
is the right vision as we go forward. And so this Summit from our
perspective is a critical milestone on a path toward a just peace and
the United States of America will proudly walk with Ukraine along that
path until Ukraine prevails and peace prevails. 
