---
date: '2024-06-22'
modified_time: 2024-06-25 15:55:06-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-22 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/22/remarks-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-at-u-s-merchant-marine-academy-commencement-address/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan\
  \ at U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Commencement\_Address"
---
 
Tomb Field, New York

Good morning.

I must admit that it is daunting to stand in front of a sign that says
“Acta Non Verba” – deeds not words – and then come up here and offer you
a bunch of words. But I will do my best.

Vice Admiral Nunan.

Deputy Secretary Trottenberg.

General Smith.

Rear Admiral Phillips.

Congressman Souzzi.

Friends, family, and faculty.

And most importantly, the midshipmen of the Class of 2024.

Congratulations!

It is an honor be here with the newest generation of Kings Pointers.

I did not time that flyover, but I’ll take it.

To be honest, being your Commencement Speaker is a daunting task.

What can I say about duty – to a class that’s already crewed 167 ships
around the world?

What can I say about determination – to a class that’s won the
Secretaries’ Cup against Coast Guard for the 5th time in a row?

What can I say about boldness – to a class that convinced their
Superintendent to let them wear Choker Whites in the middle of December?

You have much to be proud of.

And the path you’ve chosen is a tremendously honorable one.

As soon-to-be ensigns and second lieutenants, assistant engineers and
third mates – you will crew ships that are essential to our nation’s
security.

And you’ll spend a large part of your life at sea, so your fellow
Americans can live safely at home.

You’ve come so far – and you have so many great things ahead – thanks in
large part to the people who’ve always been right behind you, and are
right behind you today. Your parents and grandparents, your brothers and
sisters, and everyone who loves and believes in you.

So before I go any further, let’s give them a huge round of applause.

Now, as the President’s National Security Advisor, I see the impact of
the U.S. Merchant Marine every single day.

In the Atlantic, you’re making sure that ammunition reaches Ukrainian
soldiers fighting for their freedom.

In the Pacific, you’re deterring aggression and upholding freedom of
navigation.

In the Red Sea – as Admiral Nunan and Administrator Phillips referenced
– you’re facing down unprecedented attacks against international trade
in one of the most vital waterways in the world.

At ports, on decks, and in engine rooms around the globe, the “blue and
grey” help keep our people safe and our country strong.

And in return, we owe it to you to keep the Merchant Marine strong.

And that’s why President Biden is taking historic steps to spur
investment in ships made in American shipyards, built with American
supplies, and crewed by American mariners.

We’re working with labor unions to investigate actions by China that may
unfairly undercut our shipbuilding and maritime industries.

And we are committed to building America’s fleet of the future – from
undersea construction vessels to warships to icebreakers – leveraging
our nation’s unparalleled innovation and the unparalleled skill of our
workforce.

I know – and the President knows – how critical American sea power will
be in the years ahead.

And you know, the work you do is challenging, and will be challenging.

Those ships will take you far from your family.

Those tankers and transports will bring you to distant, often dangerous
places.

You’ll face high winds, bad storms, and rough waters. 

But you made it to this Academy because you showed toughness and talent.

And now you’ve made it through this Academy because you proved you have
what it takes.

You’ve spent months underway, earning your “sea legs” and completing
your “sea projects.”

You’ve dealt with blackouts, malfunctions, even fires – giving a whole
new meaning to your class motto, “Light after Darkness.”

You braved the cold waters of Long Island Sound during rescue survival
in February.  Some of you went the extra mile and earned your “Blue Nose
Certificate” in the Arctic.

And all of you studied hard to earn your Coast Guard license, so you
could ring the bell and attend June Ball.

I’m told that there are those of you may have had a bit too much fun at
the Ball last night. And others may have gotten a bit rowdy at BHT and
Benny’s over the years.

So I made a point of speaking with President Biden before coming here
today.

And he wanted me to let you know – in keeping with the long-standing
tradition as Commander-in-Chief – that he is hereby waiving the
infractions of all midshipmen “stuck” or “on restriction” for minor
conduct violations.

I’ll let your Superintendent clarify what “minor” means.

Looking ahead, all of you will be leaders. And people often speak about
leadership in absolute terms.

They say, it’s about confidence. Or vision. Or results. And it is about
those things.

But that’s the Wikipedia summary.  As the nation’s future leaders,
you’ve got to read the book.  And I suspect you’ve already begun to see
that leadership is not about clinging to a singular attribute. It’s
about cultivating equal and opposite attributes, and learning how to put
that tension to use. Holding seemingly opposite ideas in your head, and
still finding clarity and purpose.

For example, to be a good leader, you need to be high-ego and low-ego.

Patient and impatient.

Focused on the big picture and the small details.

Holding fast to your convictions, and staying open to new ideas and new
arguments.

Let me take a few minutes to explain what I mean.

First: you have to be both high-ego and low-ego.

Believe in yourself. You matter. Speak up. Take yourself seriously.
Raise your hand for big assignments, which all of you have already done.
Fight for your ideas. No one is going to advocate for you if you do not
advocate for yourself.

But also – know that there are so many things are more important than
you. Like your crew. Your shipmates. Your country.

To do right by them, you’ll need to put others ahead of yourself.
Sometimes get behind someone else’s plan, when it’s the better way.
Compromise.

In the White House Situation Room, I sit at the head of a table that
brings together the President’s national security cabinet, including the
Secretaries of State and Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, the
Director of National Intelligence. It’s my responsibility to set the
agenda – not to dominate the conversation and make everyone listen to
me, but to guide the discussion so that, as a team, we deliver for the
President the best counsel on the toughest issues imaginable.

In your careers, have the confidence to sit at the tables where the
decisions are made. And have the humility to recognize that other
people’s contributions are as valuable as your own – sometimes more
valuable.

The best people I work with know how to balance these dueling impulses.
They never fail to shine. But they are – to the bone – team players.
Always humble.  Always ready to champion someone else. Always ready to
pitch in, and get the job done.

Be like them. Know your value, but see other people’s value, too.

Second: be impatient, and also patient.

Don’t wait for change – make change as fast as you possibly can. You’ve
got to seize every moment. Set bold goals – and achieve them with
relentless urgency and drive.

But also – be patient.

When I was in my 20s – couple years older than you guys are now – I
randomly sat next to Joe Nye, the great foreign policy thinker, on an
airplane. We got to talking, and he could tell I was a young person in a
bit of a hurry. And he said, “Everything doesn’t have to happen
tomorrow. You have time to make mistakes, time to explore, time for
trial and error. You don’t always need to be in a rush.”

Now that I’m older, I can attest to how right he was.

He wasn’t saying, let life pass you by.  He was saying – see things
through. Plant seeds and let them grow. Cultivate them. Wait for the
right moment to harvest. It’s worth it — to take the time to figure
things out and get them right.

All of you guys are going to be out there on missions – some of you
already have – where speed and urgency are the name of the game. Where
you’re in a crisis, every minute counts. But even then, you’ll handle
those moments better if you’ve patiently prepared for them, as this
Academy has taught you to do.  

And good leaders master another kind of patience, too – patience in how
they deal with other people.

You’re about to hold high-stakes jobs. Take it from me: those jobs can
spend your patience down fast. After years of being easy-going, you can
become quick to frustration. Not your best self.

When that happens, you’ve got to find a way to replenish.For me, that
means taking long walks with my wife Maggie, some Tim McGraw, some ESPN,
some time with friends.  Find what works for you. It takes discipline to
be patient in jobs that rapidly drain the patience out of you.

You do not want to get into a place in your career that you’ve always
dreamed of, and realize that somehow you became a jerk along the way.
The people in your life deserve your grace. And that’s something that
you have to work at.

Third: You got to focus on the big picture, and also sweat the details.

Every day, I hold a meeting on Ukraine, in my office in the West Wing
where I bring together the military, economic, and diplomatic experts
from across the staff of the National Security Council.

We never lose sight of the ultimate strategic objective – that Ukraine
prevails, that Russia’s invasion fails, that NATO remains unified. We
never take our eye off that ball.

And, for those who are willing to give it up for Ukraine’s sovereignty
and territorial integrity I think that deserves a round of applause as
well.

But every day in that meeting – in excruciating detail – we go through
Ukraine’s monthly supply of 155 ammunition – much of which is being
delivered by the Merchant Marine.

We discuss how many Patriot interceptors they’re getting, how many auto
transformers to help rebuild their energy grid after it gets hit by
Russian missile strikes.

We talk about how to make sure the weapons are actually getting to the
front-lines – because those aren’t just details to the people fighting
in the trenches. That’s a matter of life and death.

Now if you’re grinding it out every day on ammunition supplies and not
connecting it to the larger strategy, you won’t succeed.

But if you’re just sitting around talking about the larger strategy and
not giving any thought to the ammunition, you also won’t succeed.

Never assume someone else has crushed the details. You’ve got to crush
the details. You got to see the forest, but you also have to care about
the trees.

And fourth: Hold fast to your convictions. And also, be open to changing
your mind.

The lessons we learn through our faith, our families, our teachers –
including here at the Academy – comprise the compass that guides us
through life.

If you stay true to your deepest-held values – if you refuse to betray
what you know to be right – you can always hold your head high. And you
can always go home to your family and tell them, I made you proud.

But your bedrock principles are just that – a bedrock.  They only tell
you so much about how to solve the particular problem in front of you. 
Staying true to your beliefs does not mean closing your mind to
different ways of solving that problem.

If you rarely update your thinking – even when you learn new
information, or hear a compelling alternative case – that’s a strong
indication that you’ve stopped learning. Stopped listening. And that’s
something to correct fast.

Your ability to lead will depend on whether you can hear new evidence,
new arguments, new ideas, and take them seriously.

This just doesn’t happen enough in the places where important decisions
are made. A lot of people see refusing to budge as conviction and
strength. But often, it’s just stubbornness and ego. Real strength lies
in being able to say, “You know what, I learned something new, and it
made me change my mind.”

Think about it. What are the odds that you’re just right all of the
time? A lot of people may assert that, but what are the odds?

Not high. In his best year – sorry to make a Boston Red Sox reference –
Ted Williams got a hit 4 times out of 10. The ultimate Hall of Famer.
Let’s say you’re twice as good as that. That means that 2 times out of
10, your first swing at a problem doesn’t connect. You didn’t get it
right. You can’t be paralyzed by that fact, but you should account for
it.

So talk to people who disagree with you. Acknowledge the strength of
their arguments. Acknowledge the weak spots in your arguments. Thinking
through hard problems is not a zero-sum game. It’s a team sport.  

This is one of many things I admire about working for President Biden.
He gathers his staff almost every day in the Oval Office, grilling us
kindly but mercilessly on every detail of a policy. And if he senses
that someone in the room is biting their tongue, he never fails to say,
“Don’t hold back. I want to hear your concern. What is wrong with the
course that we are on?”

It’s a rare leader who invites dissenting views, much less in the Oval
Office. But that’s the right disposition – not just for leaders but for
everyone.

It’s never been easier than it is today to live in an echo chamber, only
listening to those who agree with us and reflect our worldviews back to
us.

But that represents the end of personal growth… and in many ways, it
risks the end of progress for our nation. 

Don’t compromise on your core values – but do build a practice of
adjusting and sharpening your point of view.

Members of the Class of 2024 – what I’ve described here adds up to a
habit of the mind.

Holding competing thoughts in your head at the same time. Balancing them
with purpose. And putting them to effective use. 

And from complexity, finding clarity.

I’ve named a few examples of this, but there are many more. And you will
see them in your careers, and I see them in my job every day.

The United States must compete vigorously with geopolitical rivals and
the United States must cooperate with partners to solve the great
challenges of our time.

We can support Israel’s right to self-defense and the Palestinian
people’s right to self-determination and dignity.

We can stand with Ukraine in its fight against tyranny and deter and
prevent World War III.

We can stand up to China, and we can engage in responsible diplomacy
with China.

Now some of those positions won’t make for a great soundbite or satisfy
a certain class of D.C. pundit. But they’re what I believe. They’re what
the President believes. And they represent America at our best in the
world – strong, commonsense, intelligent, and unafraid.

Graduates: you will be leaders at a pivotal time. America is counting on
you to do your duties – as you have done in your years at Kings Point –
with honor, with integrity, and with skill. I can’t promise it will
always be “fair winds and following seas.”

But I can promise it will be a life of consequential work. And after the
exceptional training you’ve received at this Academy, you are more than
ready for what awaits you. We know that you will make us proud.

So class of 2024, congratulations – and Godspeed.

**\###**
