---
date: '2024-06-17'
modified_time: 2024-06-18 11:32:12-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-17 23:55:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/17/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-conflict-related-sexual-violence/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Conflict-Related Sexual\_Violence"
---
 
*Room 350  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building*

4:47 P.M. EDT

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Please, have a seat.  Good afternoon.  Good
afternoon.  Good afternoon. 

What an extraordinary group of leaders I see.  It’s so good to be with
everyone, and thank you. 

And thank you to Jen.  She has been — I mean, just — like, we are just
doing this thing together, Jen.  And you have been so wonderful.  You
have been such a power in our administration on fighting for gender
equity, and I thank you for that and for the introduction.

And to all our distinguished guests, thank you for being here.

     I especially thank the survivors and advocates that are with us
today: Kolbassia, Oleksandra, Amit, and Nadia, whose Nobel Peace Prize
on the topic of sexual violence is an extraordinary testament to her
global leadership. 

Every day, each of you brings to light the atrocity of conflict-related
sexual violence.  You, in particular, are fearless advocates in the
fighter — in the fight for justice, and you remind us of the resilience
of survivors. 

     President Joe Biden and I stand with you in solidarity and with all
the survivors around the world. 

     So, sexual violence has been a tactic of war since ancient times. 
Throughout history, those who have waged war have specifically targeted
and violated women and girls to exert dominance and power over their
bodies and to humiliate and terrorize and subdue entire populations. 
And sexual violence remains a gruesome part of modern conflict around
the globe. 

     In Ukraine, Russian forces have raped women in occupied
territories.  In Iraq, when ISIS seized territory a decade ago, they
forced women and girls into sexual slavery as they massacred thousands. 
In Sudan, the ongoing conflict includes paramilitary forces terrorizing
women and girls through sexual violence.  In Haiti, gangs have used
sexual assault to rape and coerce communities into submission.  And
we’ve seen similar horrors in South Sudan, in Ethiopia, Central African
Republic, and the DRC. 

     My heart breaks for the trauma and pain inflicted in each of these
conflicts. 

     And October 7, last year, Hamas committed horrific acts of sexual
violence.

     Sheryl, I thank you for all your work to bring to light the horrors
of this issue and for your film about what happened on October 7.  In
the days after October 7, I saw images of bloodied Israeli women
abducted.  Then it came to light that Hamas committed rape and gang rape
at the Nova Music Festival, and women’s bodies were found naked from the
waist down, hands tied behind their back, and shot in the head. 

     I’ve heard the stories from a former hostage of what she witnessed
and heard in captivity.  And I just met with Amit, a survivor who has
bravely come forward with her account of sexual violence while she was
held captive by Hamas. 

     These testimonies, I fear, will only increase as more hostages are
released.  We cannot look away, and we will not be silent. 

     My heart breaks for all these survivors and their families and for
all the pain and suffering over the past eight months in Israel and in
Gaza. 

We are deeply concerned by all reports of sexual violence and
degradation, and we mourn every innocent life lost in this conflict.  It
is devastating, which is why President Biden and I have made clear:
Hamas needs to accept the deal that is on the table for a ceasefire,
which would bring the hostages home and lead to a permanent end to
hostilities. 

     Specifically, on the issue of conflict-related sexual violence, in
recent years, the international community has made great progress on
recognizing that it is an attack on peace, stability, and human rights. 
And the United States has been proud to lead the way at the United
Nations and around the world by providing rape kits and healthcare for
survivors, training militaries and peacekeepers, and supporting the
appointment of a Special Representative to the U.N. Secretary General to
monitor this issue. 

     But that is not enough.  It’s not enough.  The crimes persist.  And
globally, our system of accountability remains inadequate.  More must be
done. 

And it is the responsibility of all of us — governments, international
organizations, civil society, and individual citizens — to actively
confront conflict-related sexual violence and to work to rid our world
of this heinous crime and to do what is necessary to hold perpetrators
accountable. 

     And it starts, of course, with awareness and acknowledgement.  We
must speak truth about the prevalence of conflict-related sexual
violence against women and girls and men and boys.  All of these crimes
are too often ignored.  The U.N. estimates that for each rape documented
in connection with a conflict, there are 10 to 20 cases that go
undocumented. 

     Conflict-related sexual violence must be condemned, unequivocally,
wherever and whenever it occurs.  And we must fortify systems to
prioritize action — systems that support survivors, effectively collect
evidence, and promote investigation. 

     That is one of the reasons why our administration is launching the
Dignity in Documentation Initiative to improve documentation of these
crimes.  For far too long, systems, whether law enforcement or judicial,
have not sufficiently addressed conflict-related sexual violence.  And
for far too long, the consequences, then, stopped at mere condemnation —
which, of course, is important, but stopped there, rather than going to
accountability. 

     We have to change that.  We must condemn, of course, this conduct. 
But there must be accountability.  So, we have committed, as an
administration, to move the system from only condemnation to
consequences. 

Thanks to the leadership of our administration, we have made it the
policy of the United States to use all of our diplomatic, financial, and
legal tools to punish those who commit sexual violence. 

     For example, for the first time, we imposed sanctions based solely
on conflict-related sexual violence, including for crimes committed in
Haiti, Sudan, Iraq, and the DRC, with the knowledge that meaningful
systems of accountability also contribute to deterrence. 

     If one is held accountable by a system that takes seriously the
outrageousness of the conduct, it stands to reason that it will serve
also as a deterrence to prevent further crimes from happening in the
future.

     The bottom line is: The use of sexual violence as a tactic of war
is unconscionable.  And any failure to hold perpetrators accountable is
a failure to live up to, by all of us, our common humanity.

     We must agree that in civil societies there must be outrage that
prompts action to address what is happening around the world and that we
commit ourselves to speaking truth about the failures of these systems
with the purpose and goal of holding ourselves to the highest standards
to ensure that we all prioritize what is right for the sake of the
safety and the dignity and the well-being of all people.

     So, let us rededicate ourselves to build a future where women and
girls and all people can live free from violence, abuse, and fear. 
President Joe Biden and I are committed to work with all of you to that
end. 

And I thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

END                     4:57 P.M. EDT

\# \# \#
