---
date: '2024-06-24'
modified_time: 2024-06-24 13:34:18-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-24 13:34:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/24/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-6/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign\_Event"
---
 
University of Maryland

College Park, Maryland

11:56 A.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Kate Cox!  (Applause.)  Isn’t she extraordinary? 
And what good news.  Just extraordinary, Kate.  As I said to you and
your husband backstage, you really have been so courageous and such a
leader in this movement. 

You know, I — I shared with Kate that — and please have a seat if — if
there are chairs.  (Laughter.)  They have chairs.  (Laughs.) 

I said to Kate that, you know, I think, in moments of crisis, that the
universe has a way of revealing the heroes among us who show
extraordinary courage — not looking for any award or reward but just
because they feel so strongly about something and being a voice for so
many people. 

And, Kate, you are a hero of this movement and in this moment, and thank
you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

And I want to thank all the elected officials and members of Congress
who are here — (applause) — Senator Van Hollen, Representative Glenn
Ivey. 

And I will acknowledge the next senator from the great state of
Maryland, my dear friend, Angela Alsobrooks.  (Applause.)

And to all the leaders who are here and have been fighting, are fighting
to make sure every woman in our nation, every person in our nation can
access the care they need and, in particular, reproductive healthcare.

So, this is a fight for freedom — the fundamental freedom of a woman to
make decisions about her own body and not having her government tell her
what to do. 

Two years ago today — (applause) — two years ago today, I think many of
us remember where we were.  Two years ago today, the highest court in
our land, the court of Thurgood and RBG, took a constitutional right
that had been recognized from the people of America, from the women of
America. 

And two years ago, on that day, I actually made a prediction that
overturning Roe v. Wade would be the opening shot on a full-on assault,
state by state, on reproductive freedom.  And that is exactly what
happened. 

Over the past two years, in states across our nation, extremists have
proposed and passed laws that criminalize doctors and punish women —
laws that limit access to contraception and to fertility treatments like
IVF.  Even some of them trying to revive laws from the 1800s. 

Today in America, one in three women — one in three women of
reproductive age lives in a state with an abortion ban.  Many with no
exception even for rape or incest. 

Today, our daughters know fewer rights than their grandmothers. 

This is a healthcare crisis.  And we all know who is to blame: Donald
Trump. 

And how do we know?  Well, as many of you know, I’m a former
prosecutor.  So, let’s just look at the facts, shall we?

When he was in the White House, Donald Trump handpicked three members of
the United States Supreme Court because he intended for them to overturn
Roe v. Wade.  And as he intended, they did.  So, it was premeditated. 

Since, extremist legislators across our nation have passed ban after
band after ban.  He had accomplices.

And Trump has not denied, much less shown remorse for his actions. 
Instead, he quote, “proudly takes credit” for overturning Roe. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  My fellow Americans, in a court of law, that would
be called an “admission” and, some would say, a “confession” all
pointing to the ultimate issue.  In the case of the stealing of
reproductive freedom from the women of America, Donald Trump is guilty. 
(Applause.)

And over the past two years, we have seen the impact of these Trump
abortion bans — the horrific, heartbreaking reality that women have been
facing every single day in our country.  Women have been refused care
during a miscarriage, turned away from the emergency room, and only
given care when they develop sepsis.  We have seen attacks on IVF, women
denied the freedom to make some of the most personal decisions in their
lives. 

And understand: As much harm as he has already caused, a second Trump
term would be even worse.  His friends in the United States Congress are
trying to pass a national ban that would outlaw abortion in every single
state — in states like New York and California and even right here in
Maryland.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we all know if Donald Trump gets the chance, he
will sign that ban.  And how do we know?  Well, when Congress tried to
pass a national ban in 2017, he endorsed it and he promised to sign it
if it got to his desk.  And now, he wants us to believe he will not sign
a national abortion ban.   Look, enough with the gaslighting. 
(Applause.)  Enough.

And if we needed any more proof on where he stands on this issue, Donald
Trump just announced he has already decided who his running mate will
be.  Without knowing that person’s name — (laughs) — we already know it
is someone who wants to ban abortion.  Every person on his shortlist
either supported a ban in their state or supported a national ban. 

And it doesn’t stop there.  If there were a second Trump term, he has
admitted that he is, quote, “looking at” restrictions on contraception. 
And pay close attention to how his friends in the United States Senate
obstructed a bill to protect the right to contraception not once, not
twice, but three times.

So, it comes down to this.  Donald Trump thinks the government is in a
better position to tell women what’s in their best interest than women
are to know for themselves.  But Joe Biden and I trust women. 
(Applause.)  And women trust all of us to fight for their most
fundamental freedoms.  (Applause.)

And fight we will.  And fight we will.

And, you know, as I travel our country, it is clear that most Americans
do believe one does not have to abandon their faith or deeply held
beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her what to do
with her body.  (Applause.)

And when Congress passes a law that restores the reproductive freedoms
of Roe, our President, Joe Biden, will sign it into law.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Indeed. 

So, here’s the bottom line.  Here’s the bottom line.  It’s going to take
all of us to get there.  (Applause.)  It’s going to take all of us to
get there, and momentum is on our side.

Think about it.  Since Roe was overturned, every time reproductive
freedom has been on the ballot, the people of America have voted for
freedom.  (Applause.)  From Kansas to California to Kentucky, in
Michigan, Montana, Vermont, and Ohio, the people of America have voted
for freedom — and not by a little but often by overwhelming margins,
proving this is not — this is not a partisan issue, proving that the
voice of the people has been heard and will be heard.

So, today I ask: Are you ready to make your voices heard?  (Applause.)

Do we trust women?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

Are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight, we win!

God bless you.  And God bless America. 

Thank you.  (Applause.)

END                       12:07 P.M. EDT
