---
date: '2024-06-08'
modified_time: 2024-06-08 17:53:41-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-08 17:53:40-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/08/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-macron-of-france-at-state-dinner-paris-france/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Macron of France at State Dinner\
  \ | Paris,\_France"
---
 
Élysée Palace

8:13 P.M. CEST

PRESIDENT MACRON:  (As interpreted.)  Mr. President, dear Joe; Madam
First Lady, Dr. Jill Biden.  
  
(In English.)  I want to reassure you, it’s just a toast and not a
speech — (laughter) — so I will be very short.  
  
(As interpreted.)  Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, my wife and
myself are very honored to be hosting you today here at the Élysée with
all of your delegation and all of our guests, because every time there
is an occasion to celebrate that brings together Americans and French
people, the spirit of 1776 is never far, conjuring what is best in both
of our countries.  
  
These warm feelings borne of a long and deep friendship is further
enhanced by the joy today of hosting you today for your first official
state visit to France with a very pleasant feeling of déjà vu.  Indeed,
a year and a half ago, you were hosting me in Washington in December
2022, thus demonstrating through regular visits how close we are in the
reciprocal interests of our countries.  
  
And this year, 2024, for all people who are attached to the Franco
relation- — Franco-American relationship, there is something special to
celebrate because there is a reciprocal sacrifice for our independence,
for our freedom.  
  
Indeed, this year, we will celebrate the 200th anniversary of the
farewell tour of the Marquis de Lafayette, a hero of the American
Revolution.  I know that he is close to the hearts of all Americans.  
  
We also commemorate the 80th anniversary of the landings in Normandy and
in Provence.  
  
We stood side by side then, as we did two days ago in Normandy for the
ceremonies on June 6th, to bow our heads in the peaceful cemetery of
Colleville to remember their courage on the Omaha Beach — Omaha the
bloody — where so many of your countrymen gave their lives for a country
they had never been to before.  
  
Never will we forget these heroes who, from Normandy to Berlin, helped
to free a continent in our country.  Their sacrifice has cemented our
friendship.  
  
Amongst these heroes, there was a young man, Harold Terens.  He was 18
when Pearl Harbor happened.  At the age of 20, he was a radio operator
working with your Air Force.  He was at his duty post on D-Day, and then
the war led him everywhere in France, in Morocco, and all the way to
Ukraine.  
  
Today, Harold has chosen our country to marry Jeanne Swerlin.  They are
with us today, and they are just making their marriage vows, so let us
congratulate the young newlyweds.  (Applause.)  
  
(Speaks French.)  
  
(As interpreted.)  We’re very pleased to be here for your wedding
(inaudible).   
  
On this foundation, so many relations have developed — from cinema to
music, from literature to space, from energy to transport, agriculture
and health — so many partnerships that have served to consolidate our
bilateral relationship that we have further strengthened recently.  
  
It’s also this relation that make it possible to affirm our values faced
with a war of aggression by Russia in Ukraine or today in the Middle
East in Gaza, and, once again, thank you for the initiative that you
have just taken and that we support to be united in spite of our
differences when the main values are at stake.  This is what is our —
lie across the Atlantic.

When it comes to defending our values, we stand together, so, of course,
there’s something a bit special in our relationship, because you are —
you’re American; we are French.  And there’s something of a mutual
fascination you find from Tocqueville all the way to Miller or, indeed,
in our respective film industries. 

We love the American Dream, and you like the French *art de vivre*, the
French lifestyle.  And we tend to be maybe defending our singularities,
but we love each other for what we are.  And this applies to each and
every one of us. 

And when I — we see the affection that you have for France, the way in
which you have been prepared to attend the Olympic and Paralympic Games,
I can see that more than ever you remain your best allies — united we
stand, divided we fall.  This is enshrined in the very name of your
country.  This should be the philosophy that should inspire us, that
inspired the Greatest Generation to which you pay tribute yesterday at
Pointe du Hoc.  And, indeed, that is what binds us together today. 

We are allies.  We will remain allies.  And these are the values which
80 years down the road keep us together. 

And this is why, Mr. President, dear Joe, dear Jill, it is such an honor
to have you here in France on the occasion of this state visit that is
an opportunity to celebrate the untrammeled vitality of our alliance and
this very special relationship between our two nations and, indeed, our
love for freedom. 

If I may, I would like to propose a toast to the United States of
America, to France, and, indeed, to the friendship between the United
States and France.

(President Macron offers a toast.)   
  
(Applause.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Mr. President, Brigitte, distinguished guests.  
  
You know, one of the things that’s been a legend in my family is my
middle name is Robinette.  And, allegedly, I’ve ne- — I’ve been told by
my grandfather that this was established — I have not found it yet;
maybe someone could help me — that I’m a son of the American Revolution,
because Robinette came over with Lafayette and never went home.  He
stayed in the United States. 

So, that makes me a son of the American Revolution.  And — but I haven’t
been able to establish that yet.  So, maybe one of your genealogists can
figure it out for me.

Look, the — your — France is our first ally.  And that’s not
insignificant.  The fact of the matter is you were with us to help us
secure our freedom, and we were with you 170 years later — (clears
throat) — excuse me — to do the same.  And ever since, we’ve remained
united, unyielding, as well as unwavering in our partnership. 

That’s what democracies do.  That has been an extraordinary week here
for us, for Jill and me.  It’s just been amazing to be here.  I’ve been
here a number of times over the years.  I know I don’t look it, but I’m
only 40 years old.  (Laughter.)  But all kidding aside, been here many
times, but this has been the most remarkable trip that I’ve ever made.

Together, we celebrated D-Day, the heroes of D-Day, and told the story
of the alliance and how, together, we saved Europe.  And the people of
France t- — and t- — and you two, personally, honored our veterans with
such warmth and dignity.   
  
On behalf of all the American people, we want to say thank you, thank
you, thank you from the bottom of our heart.  I mean it.

When the American troops came to these shores 80 years ago on an
audacious mission to save the continent, they each carried a book given
to them by the U.S. military.  And the book was called “A Pocket Guide
to France.”  Seriously.   
  
It included helpful hints like this: “No bragging; the French don’t like
it.”  (Laughter.)  Not a joke.  “Be generous; it won’t hurt you.” 
“Avoid controversial topics, even if you — even if you took French in
high school.”  (Laughter.) 

And try to follow at least one — I tried my best to follow at least one
of those.  But, you know —

And then it said the French are allies who, quote — to quote, “happen to
speak democracy in a different language.  And we democracies aren’t just
doing favors; we’re fighting for each other when history goes — when
history goes — gets through.  We all are in the same boat,” end of
quote.

France and the United States have always been there for one another.  We
stand together when the going gets tough, and that’s a fact.   
  
We stand together to defend the values that lie at the soul — the very
soul of both our nations — and I believe that to be the case today —
liberty, equality, brotherhood.  
  
Generation after generation, people across both our nations have upheld
these ideals because they know, when we stand as one, our countries are
stronger and, literally, the world is safer.  
  
Emmanuel, you’ve heard me say it before.  We stand at an inflection
point in history.  The decisions we make now will determine the course
of our future for decades to come.   
  
We have a lot of opportunity but a lot of responsibility.  And it gives
me hope to know France and the United States stand together now and
always — or as the “Pocket Guide to France” given to the invading
Americans might say, “We’re rowing in the same boat.”  
  
Ladies and gentlemen, to France, the United States, and to our people,
may we continue to seek democracy.  May we — in both our languages.  And
may we always stay together.   
  
It’s been a great honor to be here.  And I want to thank you.  I’m going
to raise my glass.  
  
(President Biden offers a toast.)  
  
To France.  (Applause.)  
  
END  8:25 P.M. CEST  
  
