---
date: '2024-06-29'
modified_time: 2024-07-01 12:25:26-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-29 14:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/29/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-reception-10/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign\_Reception"
---
 
Private Residence

Los Angeles, California

4:11 P.M. PDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Can we hear it for Rob
Reiner and Michele Reiner?  (Applause.)

Good afternoon, good afternoon.  (Inaudible.)  Everybody have a seat. 
I’m going to be talking for a while.  (Laughter.)

Let me start by just, again, thanking Rob and Michele.  You — you guys
really are extraordinary individuals — as individuals and as a couple. 
But you are always giving of yourself and your time and your heart. 

And there are moments like this that really do require people like the
two of you and your family to stand up and inspire so many people,
because they have confidence in you and they respect you to always be on
the good side of a fight, which you two always are.  So, thank you so
very much for hosting us today.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you,
thank you.  Thank you.

To my husband, the first second gentleman of the United States. 
(Applause.)

Chad and Charlie, thank you so very much for all this.  Chad has been,
just, a friend for so long, and we’ve been in a lot of battles
together.  And I cannot thank you enough for your friendship and all
that you do and the support that you have given the president and me
through these last three and a half years and before.  Thank you, both,
for all that you do.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you.

Senator Laphonza Butler is here.  Where are you?  (Applause.) There you
are, the senator from the great state of California.  (Laughs.)

Representative Brad Sherman, where are you?  There he is.  (Applause.) 
Thank you for allowing us to be in your district.  (Laughs.)

And I know Idina Menzel is coming up later, and I want to thank her in
advance for her incredible gift. 

All right, so, listen: 129 days until the election — 129 days.  We can
do anything in 129 days.  So, it’s a short time, and it’s going to be a
long time.  And I know that each one of us is dedicated to spending each
and every one of these next 129 days to do everything that we know is in
our power to fight for this country we love. 

I was saying to a group of the host earlier, this — we know what’s in
front of us in terms of the split screen and who — the guy on the other
side.  But let’s not get so caught up in that that we forget that this
is not a fight against something; this is a fight for something. 

We love our country.  We believe in the promise of America.  As much as
anything, the fight before us is for the promise of America.  I am
empirical evidence of the promise of America, okay?  (Applause.)  We
know what can happen and what is possible when we collectively have the
ability to see what can be unburdened by what has been.

After all, that’s what we’re celebrating on the 11th anniversary is our
collective knowledge, forever, of what was possible 11 <s>days</s>
\[years\] ago and then fighting to get there.  We were fighting for
something: the promise of America.  We believe in those foundational
principles that include the promise of freedom and liberty and equality
and justice. 

Isn’t that why we’re all here together right now?  This is — this is an
ongoing fight.  (Applause.)  This is an ongoing fight.  And this is one
of the most critical phases of that fight we’ve all been in for a very
long time. 

And because we’ve been in the fight before, I say with full confidence,
we will win.  We will win.  (Applause.)  We know what we stand for, so
we know what to fight for.  And when we fight, we win.  (Applause.)

So, everybody, get your head on straight — (laughter) — okay? 

And with that, I’ll deal with the elephant in the room.  I’m going to do
with two elephants, actually.  (Laughter.)

But the debate — the debate.  Our president said it wasn’t his finest
hour.  We all know it wasn’t.  But we also know that when we watched and
listened to the substance of what was happening on that debate stage, if
we put aside the style points, there was a clear contrast. 

On the one side, you have somebody — as Rob has said, has proven and
been proven in a court of law — says the former prosecutor — to have
been found beyond a reasonable doubt.  Where are you, Boutrous?  Right?
(Applause.)  You have someone in the former president of the United
States, who openly talks about his admiration for dictators and said
he’ll be a dictator on “day one.”  Someone who has said openly how he
will weaponize the Department of Justice against his political enemies. 

None of that has changed because of one day in June. 

Four things remain true before that debate and after that debate: The
stakes are higher than they’ve ever been.  This person is a threat to
our democracy.  We have all of the right issues on our side, in terms of
what we are fighting for.  And you know the fourth thing that remains
true before the debate and after debate?  Trump is still a liar. 
(Applause.)

You see how much hasn’t changed?  (Laughs.)  So, let’s deal with what
we’ve got, right?  Let’s deal with what we’ve got.

We’re in a fight.  We know that this fight is based on so many key
points about what is happening in our nation now. 

There’s — I’ve been traveling our country.  You know a- — my staff has
told me that, already this year, just this year, I’ve already been to 60
dif- — over 60 trips.  I’ve been spending time in all the states around
our country and, in particular, the battleground states.

Roy Cooper, the governor of North Carolina, he’s very funny; every time
he meets me on the tarmac, when I arrive in North Carolina, and he will
tell me each time — I think he told me last time I was there this was my
14th trip as vice president to North Carolina. 

So, let me just say, I’m in these streets.  (Laughter.)  I’m in these
streets, okay?  (Applause.)  And I will tell you what the streets are
saying.

People care deeply about fighting for fundamental freedoms.  They care
deeply about having leadership in our country that reflects our values
and our mores and what we admire, not what we despise. 

The American people know that the true measure of the strength of a
leader is not based on who you beat down.  It’s based on who you lift
up. 

The American people know that the true character, the strength of
character of a leader is based on someone who has some level of concern
and care about the well-being of other people and then does something
about it to lift their condition. 

As I travel our country, I am in small and extremely large groups of
people.  Let me tell you what they say to me: “Thank you for capping the
cost of insulin at $35 a month for our seniors.”  Because, you see, they
will say, “You know, vice president, but you will hear from me: Black
people are 60 percent more likely to be diagnosed with diabetes; Latinos
are 70 percent more likely to be diagnosed with diabetes.  For too long,
our seniors have had to make a decision about whether they could afford
to fill their prescription for insulin or fill their refrigerator.  And
you capping that cost of insulin is life-changing, game-changing for the
people in my family.”  That’s what people will tell me. 

They will say, “Thank you.  Finally, an administration took on Big
Pharma and is allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices so that
seniors’ medication will be capped at $2,000 a year.”  “Thank you,” they
say.

They say — (applause) — I have teachers coming up to me, not to mention
all kinds of folks — firefighters, nurses — who say, “Thank you guys for
the student loan debt relief, because you don’t understand the burden
that we have been carrying, tens to hundreds of thousands of dollars of
debt, that are finally being forgiven.”  God knows we don’t pay our
teachers enough as it is. 

They thank us, and they say, “Finally, you see the people and understand
an issue like medical debt.” 

What am I talking about?  Well, medical debt is burdening — if you talk
about demographics — substantial percentages of the people of our
country — medical debt — which most usually comes about because someone
suffers a medical emergency.  So, then, obviously not planned, not
invited.  And they accrue tens to hundreds of thousands of dollars of
debt, which can be used in their credit score to deny them eligibility
for a car loan, a lease for an apartment.  And they say, “Thank you,
because you all finally said medical debt cannot be counted against my
credit score.”  (Applause.)

I started a college tour last fall.  I decided, you know what, I — I
love getting out of D.C.  And — and, in particular, I have to tell you,
I love Gen Z.  I love Gen Z.  I know it’s complicated if you have Gen Z
in your life, but I’m going to tell you. 

And, okay, it’s going to be a humbling fact for everyone here.  Do you
know what year someone was born if they’re 18 today?  2006. 
(Laughter.)  That’s humbling. (Laughs.) 

So, I started this college tour, and I went to various schools.  And,
actually, it was college-aged young people, so I — colleges,
universities, but also trade schools.  And I would talk with them abou-
— because I would listen to them, Gen Z.  Think about their life
experience.  Some of the most critical issues before us in this election
are a lived experience for them. 

They’ve only known the climate crisis.  They have coined a term,
“climate anxiety,” to describe their fear of having children or aspiring
to buy a home for fear it could be wiped out with extreme weather. 

They witnessed the killing of George Floyd.

The pandemic made them lose substantial phases of their education and
socialization. 

In the height of their reproductive years, the court just took a
fundamental right. 

And on the issue of gun violence, I will share with you: In every
auditorium, which was packed to the point that we had overflow room —
now, can you imagine a bunch of college students who — this is not a
rock concert — would actually stand in line for these hours and overflow
room to see a vice president in a suit on a stage talking?  I’d ask
every room, “Raise your hand if at any point between kindergarten and
12th grade you had to endure an active shooter drill?”  Almost every
hand went up.  It was bone-chilling. 

So, on the issue of climate, where our administration, through the
Inflation Reduction Act, has dropped about a trillion dollars, by my
math, over the next 10 years in investing in a clean energy economy and
resilience and adaptation, and also challenging our allies and others
around the world to now put up, because we just have.

Whether it is on an issue like gun violence, where we passed the first
meaningful gun safety law in 30 years in our country. 

Whether it is on the issue of choice, where, as you all know, we’re very
clear. 

On any one of these issues, the American people, when I am in the
streets, talk about their support for our perspective and their desire
and need for us to fight for these issues. 

So, I bring you back my notes from the field to remind us all of what we
know: There is so much at stake, and what we did in 2022 to elect Joe
Biden president united states and me the first woman vice president of
the United States — (applause) — what we did in terms of what that
meant, in terms of what we can accomplish and did. 

So, when we say the stakes are high, yes, it is about this overt, clear
threat to our democracy.  And the stakes are high because we actually
need to get some shit done.  (Applause.)  And we know how to do it.  And
we know how to do it.

Because, by the way, the other side has no plan, except to try and
divide our nation and spew hate. 

And that brings me to the point of our celebration today of what we
collectively did 11 years ago.  I think about that day — and I heard —
Chad, I heard you telling the story.  I — so, I was in my — so — well,
first of all, I — I have two things to celebrate, which is, one, that
the — I was one of the first in the country and inclu- — of any elected
to perform same-sex marriages on Valentine’s weekend in 2004. 
(Applause.)  And so, we just a few months ago celebrated the 20th
anniversary of that.  And — and then 11 years ago. 

And I remember, because I got the call from Chad.  You were on the
plane.  You guys were coming back from D.C. after the decision.  And my
office in San Francisco was — for those who know San Francisco, was up
on Golden Gate, on the street.  And so, it was about two and a half
blocks from City Hall, which is where we were going to meet up.  And I
had security then and, you know, they said, “Well, ma’am, you know, we
should drive.  We drive everywhere.”  And I was like, “Nope.” 
(Laughter.)  Because I had in my mind that photograph of Thurgood.  Have
you all ever seen that photograph of him walking, right?  (Laughter.) 
And I was like, “No, we’re walking to City Hall, me and my team.” 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)

And we walked to City Hall.  And it was incredible, because we got there
and n- — lots of people didn’t yet know what had happened.  And so, we
get there and — and Chad told the story about the call that I made to
the clerk in Los Angeles.  But when we arrived, it was quiet and — and
the place seemed empty.  And we were there, and then slowly the folks
who knew started to gather.  And then — do you remember?   And I think
it might have been before you landed.  And then, all of the sudden, out
of nowhere, appeared the Gay Men’s Chorus.  (Laughter.)  And just
seemingly out of nowhere, they arrived at City Hall and started tuning
up.  And it was — (laughs) — and it was just layer after layer after
layer of pure joy and pride 11 years ago. 

So, let’s hold onto those kinds of days to remind ourselves of what we
stand for and why we fight.  Because there are so many here who can
testify and give the testimonials about the heartache and pain that for
years went into this movement, which is not over yet.  We still need to
pass the Equality Act. 

We still need to deal with what’s happening in terms of people who are
trying to turn back the clock, like a “Don’t Say Gay” bill in Florida. 
You know, I think about that Chad — so, 20 years ago, performed same-sex
marriages, and then I think about some young teachers in Florida, who
are probably in their 20s, who are afraid to put up a photograph of
themselves and their partner for fear they could lose their job.  Their
job being what?  God’s work: teaching other people’s children. 

And so, thinking about how the clock people are trying to rollback,
knowing what we are fighting for now, but also remembering the joy that
comes with the product of that struggle — let’s remember all of that. 
Let’s remember all of that. 

Many of you may know, my first campaign manager — when I first ran for
district attorney of San Francisco, nobody thought we could win.  I
started out at six points in the polls, which, if anyone doesn’t know,
that means six out of 100.  (Laughter.)  I knew when we got to 12, we
could win. 

And my first campaign manager was — God rest his soul — a man by the
name of Jim Rivaldo.  Jim Rivaldo was Harvey Milk’s campaign manager. 
And Jim and I spent — and my mother actually took care of Jim as he was
dying.  He actually ha- — ended up having AIDS.  But Jim would talk to
me — and I never met Harvey; that was before my time.  But — but Jim
would talk about the movement in the early days.  And San Francisco, of
course, takes great pride in being a birthplace of the movement.  And he
would talk about how Harvey and he and the leaders at that time thought
about what the movement would require for success. 

And they talked about it in the context — and he, in particular — of the
importance of building community and reminding and remembering that the
forces against progress — I don’t say change; I say progress — will
always try to demean and belittle and suggest to people that they’re —
by themselves, are somehow subversive in trying to undo what should be
the values of America.  And he would talk about — understand that’s —
that’s the pathology of it all.  That’s how it works.  That’s what they
do. 

And so, we, in these movements for progress, must be intentional about
building community and reminding people they are not alone and building
coalitions. 

And I think often about Rivaldo in this moment, as I have throughout my
career.

I asked my team — so, okay, one of the things that I — I do about a lot
of things, I — I love Venn diagrams, let me just tell you.  I love Venn
di — I — I’m a nerd.  I love Venn diagrams.  If ever you are facing
conflict, throw up a Venn diagram.  It will help you sort it out, just
those three circles.  (Laughter.)

So, I asked my team: Let’s do a Venn diagram.  Show me from which states
are we seeing attacks on LGBT- — that was so funny, Rob.  LGB- — the “Q”
and the “plus” weren’t even around then.  (Laughter.) 

LGBTQ+ rights — where are the attacks coming from on that?  Where are
the attacks coming from on voting rights?  Where are the attacks coming
from on reproductive freedoms?  No one here would be surprised to know:
complete — almost complete overlap, coming from the same places.

Full-on attack on hard-won, hard-fought freedoms and rights: freedom to
have access to the ballot box, freedom to love who you love openly and
with pride, freedom to live free from fear of hate and bigotry, freedom
to make decisions about your own body and not have your government tell
you what to do.  This is what we are seeing.  (Applause.)

And in these moments, then, I think about Rivaldo.  And I think, “Hey,
let’s — let’s see the opportunity in this crisis to build our coalition
up.”  All those folks who have been fighting for voting rights, all
those folks who have been fighting for reproductive freedom and maternal
health care, all the folks who have been in our movement fighting for
LGBTQ+ rights — let’s bring everybody together. 

We’re in the middle of a movement.  And the next inflection point in our
movement will be this election.  But what we know, in any movement that
is about freedom and liberty, is we stand on broad shoulders of the
folks who came before us, and we are sitting here — right now, together
— because they passed us the baton in this relay race of history. 

And the question is going to be: While we are carrying the baton, what
will we do with it?  And I have full confidence in the answer to that
question.

This election is going to be about what kind of country do we want to
live in.  We love our country.  We know what kind of country we want to
live in. 

And I’ll end with this.  When you know what you stand for, you know what
to fight for. 

And when we fight, we win.  (Applause.)

END                  4:34 P.M. PDT
