---
date: '2024-06-06'
published_time: 2024-06-06 14:01:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/06/remarks-by-president-biden-commemorating-the-80th-anniversary-of-d-day-collevile-sur-mer-france/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Commemorating the 80th Anniversary of D-Day |\
  \ Collevile-sur-Mer, France"
---
 
Normandy American Cemetery  
Colleville-sur-Mer, France

2:01 P.M. CEST  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  The hour had nearly come.  Monday, June 5th, 1944. 

     The evil of (inaudible) Third Reich was devastating the world. 
Nazi Germany had subjugated the once-free nations of Europe through
brute force, lies, and twisted ideology of racial superiority.   
  
Millions of Jews murdered in the Holocaust.  Millions of others killed
by bombs, bullets, bloody warfare.   
  
Hitler and those with him thought democracies were weak, that the future
belonged to dictators.   
  
Here, on the coast of Normandy, the battle between freedom and tyranny
would be joined.  Here, on that June morning, the testing was at
hand.   
  
President Macron, Mrs. Macron, Secretary Austin, Secretary Blinken,
distinguished guests.  Most of all, our honored veterans, who met that
test to the ages — a test of ages to that moment 80 years ago — 80 years
ago today.  (Applause.) 

     On behalf of the American people and as Commander-in-Chief, it’s
the highest honor to be able to salute you here in Normandy once more —
all of you.  God love you.  (Applause.)   
  
Winston Churchill called what happened here, quote, “the greatest, most
complicated operation ever,” end of quote.   
  
After years of planning, Operation Overlord was ready to launch just as
soon as the weather turned.  Across the choppy Eng- — choppy Eng- —
English Channel, the Supreme Commander of the Allies, Dwight D.
Eisenhower, waited.  The largest force ever of its kind, built by 12
nations — men, guns, planes, naval craft of every description — waited. 
The world, captive and free, waited.   
  
Finally, Eisenhower’s forecasters said there was a window in the
weather.  It would open briefly on Tuesday the 6th of June.   
  
The general weighed the options and gave the order: At dawn, the Allies
would strike.  The “Great Crusade” to free Europe from tyranny would
begin.   
  
That night, General Eisenhower drove to the English town of Newbury to
visit paratroopers of the 101st Airborne.  They were men from all over
America.  It was estimated that 80 percent of them would be killed
within hours.  That was the estimate.  But they were brave, they were
resolute, and they were ready.   
  
One soldier told General Eisenhower, quote, “Don’t worry, sor- — sir. 
The 101st is on the job.  Everything will be taken care of.”  That’s
what he said.  
  
And because of their courage and their resolve, because of the courage
and resolve of their allies, it was taken care of.    
  
From the sea and sky, nearly 160,000 Allied troops descended on
Normandy.  Many, to state the obvious, never came home.  Many survived
that “longest day,” kept on fighting for months until victory was
finally won.  And a few, a noble band of brothers, are here with us
today.   
  
Kenneth Blaine Smith is here.  On that day, under heavy artillery fire,
he operated a range finder and radar on the first American ship to
arrive at Normandy’s coast, providing direct gunfire support for the
Rangers scaling the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc on their daring mission to
take out the German batteries.    
  
Bob Gibson is here.  He landed on Utah Beach about 10 hours after the
invasion began.  Bullets flying everywhere.  Tracers lighting up the
sky.  Bob drove an M4 tractor with an anti-aircraft gun mounted on top,
providing critical protection for the infantry against the German air
force.  On that day and for many days after, he continued.   
  
Ben Miller is here.  A medic with the 82nd Airborne.  At 3:00 a.m. on
June 6th, he and 13 other medics flew over the Channel in a rickety
glider.  Its wings were ripped off by giant poles that the Germans
buried halfway in the ground to stop them from landing.  They crashed,
but they survived.  And they did their duty: dragging injured soldiers
to safety, treating wounds, saving lives while the battle raged.   
  
Every soldier who stormed the beach, who dropped by parachute or landed
by glider; every sailor who manned the thousands of ships and landing
craft; every aviator who destroyed German-controlled air fields,
bridges, and railroads — all — all were backed by other brave Americans,
including hundreds of thousands of people of color and women who
courageously served despite unjust limitations on what they could do for
their nation.   
  
Louis Brown is here.  Part of the “Red Ball Express,” a truck convoy
made up mostly of African American drivers.  They landed at Normandy in
the wake of D-Day.  They rushed supplies to the rapidly advancing
frontlines.   
  
Woody Woodhouse is here.  Members of the legendary Tuskegee Airmen, who
flew over 15,000 sorties during the war.          
  
Marjorie Stone is here.  She enlisted in the women’s branch of the Naval
Reserve, became an aircraft mechanic, spent the war keeping American
planes and pilots in the air.   
  
Theirs has always been the story of America.  Just walk the rows of this
cemetery, as I have.  Nearly 10,000 heroes buried side by side, officers
and enlisted, immigrants and native-born.  Different races, different
faiths, but all Americans.  All served with honor when America and the
world needed them most.   
  
Millions back home did their part as well.  From coast to coast,
Americans found countless ways to pitch in.  They understood our
democracy is only as strong as all of us make it, together.   
  
The men who fought here became heroes not because they were the
strongest or toughest or were fiercest — although they were — but
because they were given an audacious mission knowing — every one of them
knew the probability of dying was real, but they did it anyway.  They
knew, beyond any doubt, there are things that are worth fighting and
dying for.   
  
Freedom is worth it.  Democracy is worth it.  America is worth it.  The
world is worth it — then, now, and always.   
  
The war in Europe didn’t end for another 11 months.  But here the tide
turned in our favor.  Here we proved the forces of liberty are stronger
than the forces of conquest.  Here we proved that the ideals of our
democracy are stronger than any army or combination of armies in the
entire world.    
  
We proved something else here as well: the unbreakable unity of the
Allies.  
  
Here with us are men who served alongside the Americans that day,
wearing different flags on their arms but fighting with the same
courage, for the same purpose.   
  
What the Allies did together 80 years ago far surpassed anything we
could have done on our own.  It was a powerful illustration of how
alliances — real alliances — make us stronger — a lesson that I pray we
Americans never forget.    
  
Together, we won the war.  We rebuilt Europe, including our former
enemies.  It was an investment in what became shared and a prosperous
future.   
  
We established NATO, the greatest military alliance in the history of
the world.  And over time — (applause) — you got it; it is — and over
time, we brought more nations into NATO — the NATO Alliance, including
the newest members: Finland and Sweden.  (Applause.)   
  
Today, NATO stands at 32 countries strong.  And NATO is more united than
ever and even more prepared to keep the peace, deter aggression, defend
freedom all around the world.   
  
America has invested in our alliances and forged new ones — not simply
out of altruism but out of our own self-interest as well.   
  
America’s unique ability to bring countries together is an un- —
undeniable source of our strength and our power.  Isolationism was not
the answer 80 years ago, and it is not the answer today.  (Applause.)  
  
We know the dark forces that these heroes fought against 80 years ago. 
They never fade.  Aggression and greed, the desire to dominate and
control, to change borders by force — these are perennial.  And the
struggle between a dictatorship and freedom is unending.   
  
Here, in Europe, we see one stark example.  Ukraine has been invaded by
a tyrant bent on domination.    
  
Ukrainians are fighting with extraordinary courage, suffering great
losses, but never backing down.  (Applause.)  
  
They’ve inflicted on the Russian aggressors — they’ve suffered
tremendous losses, Russia.  The numbers are staggering — 350,000 Russian
troops dead or wounded.  Nearly 1 million people have left Russia
because they can no longer see a future in Russia.   
  
The United States and NATO and a coalition of more than 50 countries
standing strong with Ukraine.  We will not walk away — (applause) —
because if we do, Ukraine will be subjugated. 

And it will not end there.  Ukraine’s neighbors will be threatened.  All
of Europe will be threatened.   
  
And make no mistake, the autocrats of the world are watching closely to
see what happens in Ukraine, to see if we let this illegal aggression go
unchecked.  We cannot let that happen.   
  
To surrender to bullies, to bow down to dictators is simply
unthinkable.  (Applause.)  Were we to do that, it means we’d be
forgetting what happened here on these hallowed beaches.   
  
Make no mistake:  We will not bow down.  We will not forget.   
  
Let me end with this.  History tells us freedom is not free.  If you
want to know the price of freedom, come here to Normandy.  Come to
Normandy and look.  Go to the other cemeteries in Europe where our
fallen heroes rest.  Go back home to Arlington Cemetery.   
  
Tomorrow, I will pay respects at Pointe du Hoc.  Go there as well and
remember: The price of unchecked tyranny is the blood of the young and
the brave.   
  
In their generation, in their hour of trial, the Allied forces of D-Day
did their duty.  Now the question for us is: In our hour of trial, will
we do ours?  
  
We’re living in a time when democracy is more at risk across the world
than at any point since the end of the World War Two — since these
beaches were stormed in 1944.   
  
Now, we have to ask ourselves: Will we stand against tyranny, against
evil, against crushing brutality of the iron fist?   
  
Will we stand for freedom?  Will we defend democracy?  Will we stand
together?  (Applause.)  
  
My answer is yes.  And it only can be yes.  (Applause.)  
  
We’re not far off from the time when the last living voices of those who
fought and bled on D-Day will no longer be with us.  So, we have a
special obligation.  We cannot let what happened here be lost in the
silence of the years to come.  We must remember it, must honor it, and
live it.   
  
And we must remember: The fact that they were heroes here that day does
not absolve us from what we have to do today.   
  
Democracy is never guaranteed.  Every generation must preserve it,
defend it, and fight for it.  That’s the test of the ages.   
  
In memory of those who fought here, died here, literally saved the world
here, let us be worthy of their sacrifice.  Let us be the generation
that when history is written about our time — in 10, 20, 30, 50, 80
years from now — it will be said: When the moment came, we met the
moment.  We stood strong.  Our alliances were made stronger.  And we
saved democracy in our time as well.   
  
Thank you very much.   
  
And may God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)   
  
2:17 P.M. CEST
