---
date: '2024-06-03'
modified_time: 2024-06-04 14:45:17-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-03 20:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/03/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-greenwich-ct-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Greenwich,\_CT"
---
 
Private Residence  
Greenwich, Connecticut

7:38 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Richard, thank you.  Richard —

Please, have a seat. 

Thank you, Richard.  I — I don’t want to take more of your time, but I’m
going to tell a little story about elevators myself.  (Laughter.)  You
know, I got elected when I was 29 years old to the Senate.  I come from
a very modest background, as Chris can tell you.  Three-bedroom,
split-level house.  Four kids, a grandpop living with us.  And we
weren’t poor, but we weren’t — we weren’t wealthy, either.

And I got elected in ‘72 when Nixon received 60 percent of the vote in
my state.  I won by 3,100 votes.  And I’m the first Catholic and the
first Democrat in a long time to get elected to the Senate in that
state. 

And so, I went down to Washington, and right after the — I got elected,
there was an unfortunate accident in my family while I was — wasn’t old
enough to be sworn in, as the gov knows.  I had to wait 17 days to be
eligible.  And I was hiring staff.  Teddy Kennedy let me use his office
to hire staff, and I got a phone call from my local fire department
saying my wife and daughter had just been killed in an automobile
accident and my two sons were very badly injured.  We weren’t sure they
were going to make it. 

And so, I didn’t want to go.  And as Chris can tell you well, as one of
my best friends in the Senate — best friends, period — that a number of
the senior senators came to me and say, “Look, just stay for six
months.”  (Laughs.)  If they only knew.  (Laughter.)  “Ju- — just stay
for six months.”  And they saved my sanity.

But I got appointed to two very important committees that everybody
wanted to get on.  The three most sought-after committees in the
Congress in the Senate were the Appropriations Committee, where the
money is; and Foreign Relationship, where — Foreign Relations, where the
international — all the international issues are; and Judiciary, which
was a very contentious time during the Civil Rights Movement. 

And so, I showed — Henry Kissinger was going to testify on whether or
not we were going to stay in Iraq.  Remember — you know, none of you
women are old enough; some of the men may be — (laughter) — that whether
or not we’re going to stay in Sector 3 in Vietnam or we’re going to
leave and end the war. 

To make a long story not quite so long, so I showed up and I had all my
questions prepared, Chris.  And I sat in the — you know, that Foreign
Relations Committee room with the horseshoe there — seating — at the
very end, the most junior guy.  And I’m sitting there wondering where
everybody is.  And what happens is a young secretary goes, “Can I help
you, Senator?”  I said, “Yes, I’m here for the Kissinger hearing.”  She
said, “Oh, that — that’s over in S101.” 

I went, “Where in the hell is that?”  I had never been there.  It was
over in the Capitol.  She told me it was on the first floor of the
Capitol.  So, I went, literally jogging — rushed, sprinting across the
Mall, and it was a warm day.  I was perspiring like hell.  I’m running,
fa- — looking at the little plaques on the door.  I find 101, and it’s a
louvered door that opens outward. 

So, I grab the door and pull.  I — my hand was perspiring by then.  And
all of a sudden, a cop grabs me and spins me around and throws me
against a wall.  (Laughter.)  I swear to God. 

He says, “Where in the hell do you think you’re going, kid?”  I said,
“I’m embarrassed.  I’m a — I’m a — I’m a U.S. senator.”  He said, “Oh,
geez.  Okay, go ahead.”  (Laughter.)

And as Chris will remin- — and the others that have been in that room
will tell you, it’s a beautiful frescoed ceiling in that — that meeting
room with a great big — it’s like a miniature Cabinet room.  And so,
there’s double doors — French doors that open inward. 

And my hand was perspiring, and I pushed the door open, and it slipped
out of my hand and smashed against the filing cabinets.  And all of a
sudden, I find myself in the back of Henry Kissinger.  (Laughter.) 
Literally.  And so, I sat down, making myself the third-ranking member
of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  It went bad to worse.

Got to the very end of the process and Senator Mansfield was then
chairing because Senator Fulbright had to go to the floor.  And he said,
“Any more questions?”  And I said, “Yes, I do.”  And they kind of looked
at me like, “Oh, God.”

So, I said, “Mr. Secretary…”  And all — he put his hands up and he said,
“Mr. Chairman, I thought we agreed: No staff in the committee room.” 
(Laughter.)

I said, “Thank you, Secretary Dulles.”  And things got better from
there.  (Laughter.)

But so — I’m accustomed not being able to get on elevators.  But I wish
— I’ve been the youngest for too long, now I’m the damn oldest.  I like
being young.  (Laughter.)

Look, thank you, Lisa, for being here and allowing me to be in your home
and for hosting us tonight.

Look, thanks to everyone here and especially to my buddy Chris.  That’s
not hyperbole.  He’s always been there — the good and the bad in my life
— always there to help me.

And Ned — Ned was the first governor in the United States to endorse me
in 2020, stepped up for me.  (Applause.)  We Irish don’t forget, Ned. 
(Laughter.)

And, Susan, your lieutenant governor, thanks for your leadership.  And
thanks for the members of Congress.

You know, Richard Blumenthal is a real class guy.  He and my son — my
son was Attorney General, and Richard took care of my son, who passed
away — my son Beau.  He looked out for him and was — and never — and my
son always talked about you, for real — for real — because of the way
you treated him.

And Chris Murphy, who — and Jim Himes are two — Chris, the senator, and
Jim, state rep — two of the most polished and most informed members of
the United States Congress.  Thank God they’re there.  They’re great
partners in all the progress we made in the last four years.

And thanks to all of you — (applause) — for your support.

Look, folks, this campaign has entered uncharted territory.  Last week,
for the first time in American history, a former President is convicted
— a convicted felon.  He’s now seeking the office of the presidency.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  But as — but as disturbing as that is, more demanding,
more damaging is the all-out assault Donald Trump is making on the
American system of justice.  An all-out assault is being supported by
the Republican Party — the MAGA Party. 

And, by the way, it’s surprised me — I don’t know about Chris and Murph
and the rest — but it’s surprised me some of the people we know who are
much better men and women than they have — appear to be are all falling
in line — I’m not quite sure why — on the Republican side.

An all-out assault that is completely without any basis.  What happened
in New York was profound as it was simple.  The American people — a
principle that no one is above the law — it was reaffirmed.  It was that
basic.

But now Donald Trump wants you to believe it’s all rigged.  But nothing
could be further from the truth.  The facts are Donald Trump was given
every opportunity to defend himself.  It was a state case, even though
he said Biden set this up, and not a federal case.  And it was heard by
a jury of 12 citizens — American citizens, just like the millions of
Americans that serve on juries all over the country.

This jury was chosen the same way every other jury was chosen, and it
was a process that Donald Trump’s own attorney was part of. 

The jury heard five weeks of evidence.  And after careful deliberations,
the jury reached a unanimous verdict on 34 counts of felony.  Now he
will be given an opportunity to appeal, like every citizen has a right
to do.

That’s how the American system works.  That’s how justice works in
American.  And it’s reckless and dangerous and downright irresponsible
for anyone to say that it’s rigged just because they don’t like the
verdict.

Our justice system has endured for 250 years in this country.  It’s been
the cornerstone of American democracy.  And that’s not hyperbole; it’s a
fact.  The justice system should be respected.  We should never allow
anyone to tear it down.

So, I want to thank — I want you to think about what Trump is doing. 
He’s attacking both the judiciary and the election system as rigged. 
Nothing could be more dangerous for the country, more dangerous for the
American democracy.

Folks, here’s what is becoming clearer and clearer every day.  The
threat Trump poses would be greater in a second term than it was in his
first.  This isn’t the same Trump that got elected in 2016.  He’s
worse.  Something snapped in this guy, for real, when he lost in 2020. 
He can’t accept loss.  He can’t accept the fact that he lost.  It’s
literally driving him crazy.

That’s why the 6th — January 6th happened.  Trump tried to challenge the
election results on every legisla- — every legal avenue.  Over 60 cases
— 60 court cases unanimously rejected his outrageous claims.  Trump
failed in the courts, and he unleashed an insurrection. 

Now he’s running again.  He’s not only obsessed with losing in 2020,
he’s clearly been — and I mean this sincerely — a little unhinged. 

Just listen to his rantings.  He says he wants to be, in his words, a
dictator for one day.

He said he wants, in his words, to “terminate” the Constitution when
necessary. 

He asked the — if he thought violence would occur if he lost.  He said,
“It depends.”

He calls convicted is- — insurrectionists who are in prison now
“patriots.”  And if re-elected, he wants to pardon “every one” of them. 
His words.  “Every one.”

Trump says if he loses again in November — these are his words — there
will be a “bloodbath” in America.  If he loses, there will be a
“bloodbath.”  My God.  What kind of man is this?  The things he’s
saying.

In fact, just this weekend, he said MAGA supporters would reach a
“breaking point.”  Throughout his campaign, Trump has made it clear that
running is the exact — is his way to exact revenge.  That’s what he
talks about.  Now, after his criminal convictions, it’s clear he’s
worried about pre- — preserving his freedoms. 

But while Trump is worried about preserving his freedom, he’s got no
problem taking away your freedoms.  Trump brags about how he’s the
reason why Roe v. Wade was overturned.  The first time in our history,
because of Donald Trump, a fundamental constitutional guarantee was
taken away from the American people, from women in America. 

Well, guess what?  Kamala and I and a Democratic Congress are the reason
why Roe v. Wade is going to be reinstated once again (inaudible). 
(Applause.)

If you’re my age, you may recall, even though it wasn’t so prevalent in
my time, duck-and-cover drills in grade school.  Well, more children in
America are killed by guns than anything else and they have
duck-and-cover drills in public schools and (inaudible) schools across
the county.  It’s — it’s ironic.

Trump has got no problem taking away the freedom of children who just
want to go to school safely without fear and violence.  He told the NRA,
the National Ri- — Rifle Association, at their national convention not
long ago, he was proud — in his words that “I did nothing — did nothing
on guns when I was president.”  He’s doing nothing.  He made the
situation worse. 

He’s going to undo everything we’ve done on guns since we’ve been
elected, including the most significant gun safety law in 30 years —
just ask Senator Chris Murphy, who was the — instrumental in writing and
getting that passed.  (Applause.)  

But that’s not all.  We pay more for prescription drugs than any other
advanced nation in the world.  With the help of congressional members
here in this room, we finally beat Big Pharma by giving Medicare the
power to negotiate lower prescription drug prices, like the Veterans
Administration is able to negotiate prices for drugs for veterans. 

Now seniors with diabetes will only have to pay $35 a month because of
what I wrote instead of $400 a month.  And starting next year, seniors
will have to have a cap of $2,000 on all the drugs they consume, and
that includes expensive cancer drugs that cost $10-, $12-, $14,000 a
year. 

It not only saves people’s lives and money, it saves the American
taxpayer — what we’ve done so far — $160 billion so far — (applause) —
because Medicare does not have to pay prices.  Medicare no longer has to
pay those exorbitant prices. 

In the second term, we’re going to make sure insulin is 35 bucks a month
and the drug costs are $2,000 a year maximum for every single American,
not just seniors.  (Applause.)  But Trump wants to undo that law as well
and give back Big Pharma to rip off American people, charge you whatever
they want for the medications you badly need.  It’s outrageous and it’s
absolutely — absolutely outrageous. 

And, of course, he still wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act —
it used to be called Obamacare — that protects millions of Americans
from being denied coverage because they have preexisting conditions. 
They could not afford health insurance at all.  It’s a historic law. 
It’s saving lives.  And Trump wants to get rid of the Affordable Care
Act.  But I’m not only protecting it, I’m expanding it. 

Trump got elected in 2016.  He told everyone he didn’t need anyone’s
money was — he was so wealthy and so well situated.  He not only lied
then; he’s lying now.  He’s desperate.  He’s out selling Bibles and
golden sneakers.  (Laughter.)  Think of that.  I mean, God — anyway. 
(Laughter.) 

What’s more troubling: He’s selling his presidency to the highest bidder
down in Mar-a-Lago.  He just told Big Oil executives that if they give
him 1 dollar — 1 million — billion dollars in campaign contributions, he
would be their — he would have, in their words, “a deal” because of tax
and regulations he would help them avoid.  And then he said when it
ended, “I’m going to drill, drill, drill, drill.”  This guy thinks
there’s no such thing as global warming.

Folks, when Kamala and I came to office, the pandemic was raging, the
economy was reeling.  And what did Trump do?  He denied — even though he
gave an interview acknowledging he knew it — the deadly nature of
COVID.  He told us to inject bleach in his skin.  Well, guess what?  I
think he must have injected it in his brain because — (laughter). 

Over 1 million people would go on to die.  How many of them didn’t need
to die if we just acted sooner?  But we’ve come a long way since then. 
Because of what we did, COVID no longer controls our lives. 

We had increased the nat- — and we’ve incre- — he increased the national
debt when he was in there for four years by $18 trillion.  And this guy
talks about managing the budget?

He’s also the only president other than Herbert Hoover to lose more jobs
by the time he left office than when he entered office. 

On our watch, we’ve created a record 15 million new jobs.  Unemployment
has been under 4 percent for over two years with historic lows in Black
and Hispanic unemployment.  The fastest small-business creation in three
decades because of our actions.  Record economic growth and wages
continue to rise.  The most significant investment in climate ever in
the history of the world.  A record investment in rebuilding America —
our roads, bridges, ports, airports, clean water systems, affordable
high-speed Internet. 

Remember it was going to be — next month was going to be “Infra- — In- —
Infrastructure Month”?  Well, guess what?  We have infra- — you’re going
to have infrastructure for 10 years what we’ve done so far — helping
grow the economy by creating first-rate jobs. 

And, look, I know we have more to do.  Too many folks are still — for —
things are tough for them.  Inflation has dropped from 9 percent to 3
percent.  And we’re going to keep working to bring it down further. 
Just last week, former Secretary of Treasury Larry Summers wrote, and I
quote, “If you’re worried about inflation, Trump is just going to make
it a hell of a lot worse.”  And he will. 

Everything Trump is proposing — and he’s laid out what he would do: new
tax cuts for the super wealthy and the biggest corporations that will
explode the federal deficit; giving — gi- — giving back the power to
change those — charge those hidden fees called “junk fees” on everything
from credit card bills — or overcharge to hotel; a huge new consumer tax
in the form of a giant 10 percent tax on every product shipped into
America.  Almost every expert will tell you that it’s going to drive up
inflation considerably. 

Let me close with this.  We’ve made a lot of progress, and we can create
even more progress, but we’ve got to keep it going.  That’s why I need
all of you. 

We’re building the biggest grassroots operation in the history of
politics.  Already — this is — is about grassroots — we have more than 2
million individuals, as of the end of May — 2 million individuals,
roughly 90 percent of all — of them con- — contributors who contributed
less than $200.  Two million.  Two million. 

We’ve raised more money than any president has at this point because of
people like you.  But the point is it’s a groundswell.  It’s all over
America.  Two million individual contributors.

And the polls are moving our way.  The polls show that roughly half the
independents thought Trump should drop out of the race because of the
criminal convictions. 

Folks, in just a few days, I’ll be in Normandy Beach in France on the
80th anniversary of D-Day invasion — one of the most important moments
in the history of defense of freedom and democracy in the history of the
world.  You know, what those soldiers died for must never be given up. 

I want to say as clearly as I can: Democracy — and I’ve been saying this
for a while — democracy is literally on the ballot this year.  The
future of democracy and freedom is at stake.  We have brave soldiers who
gave their lives on the beaches of Normandy who did their part. 

You may recall, this — I’m glad I wasn’t with him.  I lost my son
because of being near a burn pit for a year in Iraq.  He was a major in
the United States Army, attorney general of the state of Delaware. 

Glad I wasn’t with him when he said — remember, he wouldn’t go up to the
Normandy — he wouldn’t go up to that — that American cemetery in — in
<s>Italy</s>\[France\]? Why? He said they’re “losers” and “suckers.”
“Losers” and “suckers.” Who in the hell does he think he is?

This guy does not deserve to be president, whether or not I was
running.  Now we have to do our part.  We have to do it together. 

I’ve never been more optimistic in my entire career.  We just have to
remember who the hell we are.  We are the United States of America. 
There is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity.  We’re the only nation
in the history of the world that’s come out of every crisis stronger
than we went in.  It’s time for us to stand up and take it back.  It’s
time for us to do what we can do.  It’s time for us to give everybody a
shot.

My dad used to say, “Joey, your job is about a lot more than a
paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about your honor.  It’s about
being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be
okay.’”  Well, that’s what’s happening now.  We’re on the cusp. 

We’ve gone from trickle-down economics to the point where we’re in a
situation where we build from the middle class out and the bottom up. 
And that way the wealthy still do very well.  No one wealthy is hurting
at all.  We’re in good shape.  So, we have to keep it going that way.

Remember — remember why we’re in this.  We’re in this to make life
better for everybody.  Just give people, as my dad would say, an even
chance.  Just a shot.  Nothing guaranteed, just a shot.  Give them a
shot, they’ll step up. 

This is the United States of America.  And we’re going to do it. 

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

   7:58 P.M. EDT
