---
date: '2024-06-17'
modified_time: 2024-06-18 10:22:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-17 21:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/17/remarks-by-president-biden-and-nato-secretary-general-jens-stoltenberg-before-bilateral-meeting-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg Before\
  \ Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Mr. Secretary General, welcome back to the Oval
Office. 

I have to say ahead of time, I’m going to miss you.  I’m going to miss
you. 

You know, I believe that this — this one of the most consequential
moments for Europe since World War Two.  I think you do too.  NATO was
founded 75 years ago, and it’s — I think the lessons we’ve learned then
and about standing together to defend and deter aggression have been
consequential. 

And we’ve made NATO — you — under your leader- — leadership, we made it
larger, stronger, and it’s more united than it’s ever been.  So, I want
to thank you, Mr. Secretary General, for the incredible work you’ve
done. 

Together, we deterred further Russian aggression in Europe.  I think we
— well, I know we’ve welcomed Finland and Sweden to the Alliance.  And
we’ve strengthened NATO’s eastern flank, making it clear that we’ll
defend every single inch of NATO territory.

And, Jens, we — a very important announcement to make today: A record
number of Allies are meeting the NATO commitment to at least 2 percent
of their GDP on defense.  And, in fact, the number has more than doubled
since we took office — since I took office. 

And I look forward to building it all — on all this progress next month
when we have the 75th meeting here in Washington.

And I look forward to our discussion today.

So, I want to thank you for being here.  We got a lot to talk about. 
And I mean it sincerely, you’ve been great.  I just wish you’d extend
your term another 10 years. 

You’re doing a hell of a job, seriously.

SECRETARY GENERAL STOLTENBERG:  Thank you.

President Biden, dear Joe, thank you so much for your warm words —
words.  And thank you so much for your personal commitment to NATO, to
our Transatlantic Alliance. 

And, also, many thanks for hosting the NATO Summit here in Washington,
D.C., next month.  At that summit, we will celebrate the 75th
anniversary of the most successful alliance in history, but we’ll also
make important decisions for the future — not least on the issue and the
importance of investing in our security.

And today, we are able to publish new figures for defense spending. 
They show that, across Europe and Canada, NATO Allies are, this year,
increasing defense spending by 18 percent.  That’s the biggest increase
in decades.  And 23 Allies are going to spend 2 percent of GDP or more
on defense this year.  That’s more than twice as many as four years ago,
and demonstrates that European Allies and Canada are really stepping up
and taking their share of the common responsibility to protect all of us
in the NATO Alliance. 

It’s also important for the United States to know that a lot of this
money is actually spent here in the United States.  Allies are buying
more and more equipment from the U.S.  So, NATO is good for U.S.
security, but NATO is also good for U.S. jobs. 

Mr. President, and also thank you for your strong leadership on
Ukraine.  And congratulations on the bilateral security agreement you
signed with President Zelenskyy, with Ukraine. 

European Allies are also stepping up and matching the U.S.
contributions, military support to Ukraine.  And I expect that when we
meet here next month, we will agree to have NATO in the lead role in
providing security assistance and training and also that Allies will
agree to step up financial and military support to Ukraine.  This will
reduce the burden on the United States and strengthen our support to
Ukraine. 

I think it’s important to understand that the stronger our support for
Ukraine is, the sooner this war can end, because the sooner President
Putin will realize that he cannot wait us out.

It is in — support Ukraine is not charity.  Support Ukraine is in our
own security interest.  And therefore, I welcome the strong commitment
of all NATO Allies to continue to support Ukraine. 

So, once again, thank you so much.  Thank you for once again hosting me
— me here in the Oval Office.  And I look very much forward to the NATO
summit in Washington, D.C., next month. 

Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you, pal.

Thank you very much, everyone.

(Cross-talk.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  (Inaudible.)  (Laughs.)

4:18 P.M. EDT
