---
date: '2024-06-08'
modified_time: 2024-06-10 11:47:54-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-08 14:41:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/08/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-political-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Political\_Event"
---
 
Private Residence

Ann Arbor, Michigan

4:05 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.  Good
afternoon.  (Applause.)  Please have a seat.

Can we please applaud the extraordinary Octavia Spencer?  (Applause.)

You know, I ran into her in L.A. many weeks ago, and — and the first
thing she did when she saw me, she came up to me and she said, “How can
I help?”  It’s the first thing she said.   
  
And I — I cannot help but really applaud someone like Ms. Spencer who
has an extraordinary talent and gift that we have all witnessed and seen
on the big screen.  We have seen and heard how she does the work of
expression of the various characters.  Ashley, you were talking about
that.

But it takes a lot for someone of that type of celebrity to also put
themselves out to weigh in on issues like that.  It ta- — this — like
what we are talking about today and what she just talked about — takes a
lot of courage, because it’s not without risk. 

And so, I, again, want to applaud you, Octavia, for having the courage
to be so committed to our country and for giving us that gift that you
have to support this campaign and in this fight for our country.  Again,
can we please applaud her?  (Applause.)

I want to thank Ashley and Jon.  So, they came over to our house for
dinner recently — actually, last summer, I think it was, when I think
about it.  Time has passed so quickly.  And I think one of the things
that many of us may know about our hosts: They love our country, and
they work so hard.   
  
We sat at the dining table and talked extensively about what is wrong
and what is right.  They talked about how they’re prepared to go
wherever to do the work that is about helping folks to organize, giving
people the resources they need, reminding people of community and
unity. 

And you guys are so selfless and so sincere in the way that you do that
work.  And as nice and as just incredible as they are, they are tough. 
They are tough.  (Laughter.)  They are not taking “no” for an answer to
anything.  They see a path, and they push right through — the success
that we’ve seen in Ohio; they have been part of the success here in
Michigan.  And they’re committed to doing so much more.  They’re just
relentless.

And I just, again, in front of everybody now, want to thank the two of
you for all that you do.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank
you.  Really.  Really.

Because, I mean, folks like our incredible Senator Debbie Stabenow can
tell you — (applause) — that the work that can be done in these offices
— and I — I’ve served in the United States Senate with Debbie Stabenow,
so I’m going to tell you — I think you all know — she is a fighter to
her core.  And Debbie knows the kind of work that we get done in places
like that can’t be without the support of our host and everyone here.

But, Debbie, in front of everybody, I just want to thank you, because I
know this is part of your core base.  And I thank you all for sending
her back to Washington, D.C., for the years that you have.  (Applause.) 
I’ve been in rooms with her — I’ll — I’ll talk a little about you
tonight at the Democratic dinner — Michigan Democratic Party dinner. 

But Debbie is — she is always supporting other people — in particular,
women.  And she does it in a way that doesn’t require any
acknowledgment.  She does it quietly, often, but in a way that really is
very powerful.  And so, I thank you for who you are, Debbie Stabenow. 
Thank you.  (Applause.)

Marseille — there you are.  (Laughs.)  Marseille, I — you know,
Marseille, talk about a power horse.  I remember the first time I met
Marseille, because you never forget the first time you met Marseille. 
(Laughter.)  But thank you and Jasmine for — for what you have done to
be — where is she? — to be so supportive of this event and of me and the
President.  I thank you for that.

And to all the co-hosts, thank you. 

Debbie Dingell is here, I believe.  Where is she?  She — she is — she
was here.  (Laughter.)  She met me on the tarmac.  I want to thank her. 

The mayor is here.  I want to thank him.  (Applause.)  Every time I come
anywhere near, he is always there to greet me and my husband.  And I
thank you, Mayor, for your leadership and also your enthusiasm for what
is this fight and what we need to accomplish. 

And Lieutenant Governor Gilchrist is right there — (applause) — with his
wife.  I want to thank you both for everything.  So — and to all the
co-hosts: Thank you, thank you, thank you.

Okay, look.  We’re going to win this election.  (Applause.)  We’re
winning.  We are going to win this election. 

And I will tell you, momentum is on our side.  And so, let’s see it —
Congressman, thank you for being here as well — let’s see it for what it
is.  Okay? 

Think about it.  So, in the midterms, you remember how all the pundits
would talk about, “Oh, there’s going to be a red wave; there’s going to
be a red wave,” and everyone was supposed to shutter?  And then what do
we see?  A red drip.  (Laughter.) 

When you think about the elections that took place in the midterms, the
special elections here in Michigan, what you all have done — a trifecta
— look at what the people are saying about what they want for their
country.  In so-called red and blue states, during the midterms, in any
special elections — especially since the Dobbs decision came down — from
Kentucky to California, Ohio, Virginia, when freedom — Ashley, you
talked about freedom; Octavia talked about freedom — when freedom was on
the ballot, the American people voted for freedom. 

And I think what some of these extremists don’t fully understand is that
we, as Americans — we really do fundamentally believe in the promise of
America.  We haven’t fully achieved it yet.  We’re clear-eyed about
that.  But we do believe in the promise of America.  I am empirical
evidence of the promise of America.  (Applause.)

And we, then, believe in fighting for that promise.  It’s in our DNA. 
It’s who we are.  We know and heard what Coretta Scott King said years
ago.  And I’ll paraphrase, as I often do, her words: The fight for civil
rights, which is the fight for justice and freedom and equality, must be
fought and won with each generation.  We know that. 

We know that whatever gains we make, they will not be permanent unless
we are vigilant.  We know that, which is why we’re all here on this
beautiful afternoon in this beautiful home when we could be doing 5,000
other things, because we’re prepared to fight for the promise of
America.  And we know, as she — as she admonished us, we must be
vigilant.  We know these are not the time to throw up our hands; this is
the time to roll up our sleeves.  That’s where we are. And I have to
tell you, Joe Biden and I, our administration, supported by all of you,
we know and believe in the promise of America, which is why, Octavia, as
you mentioned, history will show, even if the punditry doesn’t right
now, transformative work that has happened because of what Michigan and
all of you did to help us in 2020 and what we’re going to do in 2024. 

Now, I’m not going to go through the list of accomplishments because as
my husband, Doug, has said to me recently — he was like, “Honey, here’s
the part of the problem.”  (Laughter.)  He said, “Part of the problem
is, you see, the list of accomplishments, it’s like a CVS receipt.” 
(Laughter and applause.)  “It just keeps going and going and going.” 
Right?  (Laughs.)  “You got to narrow that stuff down,” he says.

But the accomplishments are profound, and I’ll speak to just a couple of
them.  I’ll be speaking later, again, for — for — I think it’s going to
be 1,000 people there tonight, Debbie.  And the accomplishments in terms
of — think about it: We have created over 15,000 new jobs in America,
over 800,000 new manufacturing jobs; what we are doing to invest, as
Michigan has always done, in transformation around transportation; and
now what Michigan is on the verge of doing as it relates to a clean
energy economy and investment in EV — (applause); what we are doing
around batteries. 

Think about our accomplishments.  Think about the fact that we paid
attention to issues like everyday pocketbook concerns for folks as it
relates, for example, to healthcare and how expensive it is.  We capped
the cost of insulin at $35 a month — (applause) — for our seniors. 
Black folks are 60 percent more likely to be diagnosed with diabetes;
Latinos, 70 percent more likely to be diagnosed with diabetes. 

When I go into these big rooms around our country — and let me tell you,
I’ve been in these streets, okay? — when I travel our country, and I
will sometimes ask people, “Raise your hand if you have a relative who
has diabetes.”  The number of hands that go up of people who know how,
for too long, our seniors had to decide whether they could fill their
prescription or fill their refrigerator. 

What we have done to finally take on Big Pharma and allow Medicare to
negotiate drug prices against Big Pharma. 

Think about what we have done on an issue that relates to gun violence. 
I talked with a couple of people about that earlier.  You know, I
started a college tour last fall because — by the way, I love Gen Z. 
(Laughs.)  I love Gen Z.  I know it’s complicated if you have some in
your life.  (Laughter.)  But I’m going to tell you, I love Gen Z. 

I mean, think about them.  And here’s the humbling point for many of us:
You know how — what year someone was born in if they are 18 today? 
2006.  Okay.  So, just deal with that.  (Laughter.)  Just deal with
that. 

But here’s the thing: For that generation of leaders, the biggest issues
we’re facing right now are lived experiences.  They’ve only known the
climate crisis.  In fact, they’ve coined a term — “climate anxiety” — to
describe their fear of thinking about potentially buying a home because
it could be wiped out by extreme weather, starting a family because what
will the future hold.

These young leaders, they witnessed the killing of George Floyd.  They
witnessed a pandemic.  We — I just talked with our Yale student, who is
studying health, and what it means in terms of thinking about global
public health policy and the interconnection and interdependence between
nations on so many levels, including health. 

It’s a lived experience.  I would ask them every time I go — over 15,000
students, I met — always packed to overflow rooms.  And I’d say, “Raise
your hand if at any point between kindergarten and 12th grade, you had
to do — endure an active shooter drill.”  Bone chilling.  Almost every
hand went up. 

These are lived experiences for our young leaders.  And then during the
height of their reproductive years, the highest court in our land took a
constitutional right that had been recognized. 

So, I bring that back to say, listen, when we think about what we are
now fighting for and who’s coming up behind and the path we are creating
for them and the path they are creating for themselves, we have so many
reasons to be optimistic and understand the momentum that we’ve got
that’s on our side. 

The transformative accomplishments — I’m going to just talk for a minute
about one in particular because I know there are a lot of people here
who care about and are fighters for our climate and our environment. 
Our administration — you know, and it just — it — it really — it — I’m
going to use a word — I’m not going to use the word that I want to use,
but it just really makes me upset.  (Laughter.) 

I’ve been doing a little too much of that recently.  (Laughter.)  These
words are just kind of coming out sometimes.  I got to watch myself. 

But it does make me upset and concerned that — you know, when people
will criticize our administration, and they’ll talk about things in
terms of age, without looking at what — what is the age of — of an
individual in terms of their ability to be bold and to be innovative and
to see what can be, unburdened by what has been.

Take, for example, the accomplishment of our administration on climate. 
By my calculation, we are in the midst of dropping about a trillion
dollars over the next 10 years on the streets of America in an
investment on climate adaptation, resilience, and a clean energy
economy.  (Applause.)

What we are doing through the Inflation Reduction Act coupled with the
CHIPS and Science Act and a profound investment in research and
development and technology to the point that we are a global leader and
we have the ability, when I travel around our world, to challenge our
allies and adversaries alike, “Look what we’re doing; you step up too on
this global issue” — it’s extraordinary. 

And, look, the contrast on every issue that we’ve already discussed is
clear in November.  Whereas there are so many issues that confront us
domestically and globally that are nuanced and complex, November:
binary.  Binary.

On the issue of climate, many of you may have heard or read about how
the former President was in a room full of rich folks talking about how
he would repeal the Inflation Reduction Act, which was the — the vehicle
through which we’ve done our climate work.  He would give credits to the
Big Oil companies if they gave him a billion dollars. 

That’s but one example of a profound contrast being presented to the
voters in 150 days. 

So, I’m going to end with just a couple points.  One is this.  As your
Vice President, I have now met with over 150 world leaders — presidents,
prime ministers, chancellors, and kings.  Many of them I’ve met with now
multiple times to the point we are on a first-name basis. 

The last three international trips I took were, at the end of last year,
I was in Dubai presenting America’s perspective at the COP28 conference,
the global climate conference; I was in the UK at the — the request of
the Prime Minister to present on my theory on behalf of our country on
the future of AI and safety; and then, this year, I was in Munich at the
Munich Security Conference to present on America’s position in terms of
our commitment to our allies, such as Ukraine, and our commitment to
international rules and norms, including sovereignty and territorial
integrity. 

All that to say this: Just the last three trips I took — and, in fact,
next week, I’m going to Switzerland to go to the peace conference hosted
by President Zelenskyy to represent our country. 

Those last three trips I took, almost to a one, world leaders who I’ve
come to know now came up to me, “Kamala” — we’re on a first-name basis —
“Kamala, I hope you guys are going to be okay.”  And understand, they
present that purely out of self-interest, because, you see, people
around the world are acutely aware of the impact and significance that
we have to the rest of the world.  And I say that to emphasize the
stakes are so high. 

And we are fighting based on our love of our country and our knowledge
of the responsibility we have.  We are fighting, understanding that the
nature of democracy is — to some extent, there’s a duality to it.  On
the one hand, strength; when intact, oh, how streng- — and how strong it
is in terms of how it protects and fights for the individual rights and
freedoms and liberty of its people.  Such strength when intact. 

And it’s very fragile.  It’s only as strong as our willingness to fight
for it. 

And so, fight we will.  (Applause.)  And when we fight, we win.  There
you are. 

Thank you all very much.  Thank you.  Thank you all very much.

END                      4:25 P.M. EDT
