---
date: '2024-06-05'
modified_time: 2024-06-10 13:26:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-05 16:39:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/05/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-5/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign\_Event"
---
 
The Chapel

San Francisco, California

2:17 P.M. PDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everybody.  Hi.  (Applause.) 

Can we give it up for Manny?  Let’s give it up for Manny.  (Applause.) 
Thank you.

Well, it is so good to be home.  And it is so good to see you all.  And
thank you.

I see so — oh, my goodness.  I see people in this room who have been on
this journey with me from the very beginning.  My God, I could name each
of you.  Oh, it is so good to see everyone.

You — do you realize I pulled papers to run for DA of San Francisco in
November of 2002?  (Applause.)  So, that’s how long some of you have
been riding on this journey with me, and I thank you.  And we all look
really good.  (Laughs.) 

But I just — first of all, I want to just thank you all.  Look, we have
all been involved with these four-year cycles, many of us, many times
together.  And we have almost every time talked about “This is the
one.”  Well, this here is the one.  (Laughter.)  And everything is at
stake in this election. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I could spend hours right now talking about the
various issues that are important at this moment.  And I —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Why do you support genocide?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And everyone has a right to be heard.  Everyone has
a right to be heard.  But —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  You are giving him the election.  You
are giving him the election.  Why do you support genocide? 

AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you,
all.  Thank you, all.

Everyone has a right — listen, emotions are running hot, and we all know
why.  And it is important that we all agree that there is so much
happening in the world and, in particular, in the Middle East right now
that causes all of us — and, most importantly, the people in that region
— an extraordinary amount of pain. 

The suffering that has happened, starting with October 7th, when 1,200
people were massacred, including young people attending a concert; women
violently raped; what we have seen in Gaza, where far too many innocent
civilians have been killed; humanitarian aid being denied in many cases.

The President and I have been very clear: This war must end.  We need a
ceasefire.  We need the hostages out.  We need aid going in.  And we
need to be committed to a two-state solution and the day after. 
(Applause.)

So, there are a lot of things to talk about, but a number of friends
that I’ve seen earlier asked me to focus on one issue in particular,
which I will today, which is the issue of reproductive freedoms.  But I
want to talk about that in the context of a larger point, which is, you
know, I’ve been traveling our country for the last three years.  And I
will tell you, I am convinced that there is an intentional, full-on
attack against hard-won freedoms and rights across our country.

When we think about it, the attack that has been against the freedom
that each person should have to love who they love openly and with
pride.  And what we see in a state like Florida, where they pass a
“Don’t Say Gay” law.  Many of you were there: I was proud to be one of
the first people in the country — Valentine’s weekend 2004 — to perfirm
— perform some of the first same-sex marriages. 

And — (applause) — and when I think about the fact — we just celebrated
the 20th anniversary of that weekend — and that there are some young
teachers in Florida who are in their 20s who are afraid to put up a
photograph of themselves and their partner for fear they could be
fired.  For doing what kind of work?  God’s work, teaching other
people’s children.  And God knows we don’t pay them enough as it is.

Full-on attacks against hard-fought, hard-won freedoms.  Book bans in
this year of our Lord, 2024 — are you kidding me?  Attacks on the
freedom to learn America’s full history.  Attacks on access to the
ballot box.  You know, in Georgia, they passed a law that makes it il- —
illegal to give people food and water for standing in line to exercise
their civic responsibility to vote? 

Attacks — intentional attacks on fundamental freedoms.

And then we look at what happened almost two years ago, when the highest
court in our land — the court of Thurgood and RBG — took a
constitutional right from the people of America, from the women of
America.  And thereafter, in state after state, extremists passing laws
that would criminalize healthcare providers — in Texas, prison for life
— passing laws to punish women, to make no exception even for rape or
incest.

All of you know I started my career as a prosecutor.  What many of you
may not know — and I’ve started to talk more about it publicly — is one
of the reasons why.  So, when I was in high school, I learned that one
of my best friends was being molested by her stepfather.  And I said to
her then, “You have to come and live with us.”  Many of you may remember
my mother.  I called up my mother, and I told her what was going on. 
And she said, “Of course, she has to come live with us.”  And she did.

So, early in my life, I decided I wanted to take on harms against women
and children.  (Applause.)  And I will say, then, the — the fact that
they’re saying no exception even for rape or incest, so you’re saying to
a survivor of a crime of violation to their body that they don’t have
the right to make a decision about what happens to their body next. 
That’s immoral.

And this is what we’re seeing happen in our country: a full-on attack on
fundamental freedoms and rights.  And on this issue, as I travel the
country, you will be happy to know most people agree and we must all
agree: One does not have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs
to agree the government should not be telling her what to do with her
body.  (Applause.)  It’s that fundamental.

And so, when I travel and talk about this issue and when I think about
this issue, it is, yes, the notion that such a fundamental right — as I
like to call it, the right each individual should have to make decisions
about heart and home — that it has been taken. 

And I think about it in the context of the harm — the real harm that has
taken place every day since that decision came down — just the stories
that we know. 

A young woman, Amanda, in Texas, she was one of the first at the
beginning of this phase of this movement to speak publicly about the
fact that she and her husband were trying to get pregnant, she got
pregnant, and then she was going through a miscarriage.  She went to the
emergency room, denied care.  Why?  Because the folks working in that
hospital were worried they could be put in prison for giving her care. 
Went back, denied again.  It’s only when she developed sepsis that they
treated her.

I think about this issue in the context of how I always think about
policy and public policy, which is one must ask themselves, it — beyond
the lofty, you know, words that one may use about good policy: How does
it affect a real person? 

So, think about this.  The majority of women who receive abortion care
in America are mothers.  Think of it this way: The majority of Black
woman in America live in the South.  The only state in the South that
does not have an abortion ban is Virginia.  In the states with the
highest rate of maternal mortality and Black maternal mortality, they
all have abortion bans.  The hypocrisy abounds.

Think of it another way.  So, that woman who lives in a state with a
ban, God help her if she has paid family leave to go to another state to
seek care.  God help her if she has affordable childcare.  God help her
if he has — she has just a little bit of extra savings to pay for that
bus, train, or plane ticket to get where she goes. 

And then imagine what her experience is: going to an airport, standing
in line at TSA, sitting on a plane next to a perfect stranger because
her best friend can’t come with her because best friend is back taking
care of the kids; to go to a city she’s never been to receive treatment
and needs to get back right away; to get back on a plane after receiving
that treatment to go home. 

This is what’s happening in America right now.  And we will not stand
for it.  (Applause.)  And we will not stand for it. 

The stakes are high.  You all have heard me paraphrase Coretta Scott
King a number of times over the years.  And remember what she reminded
us, which is that the fight for civil rights — which is the fight for
equality and the fight for freedom and the fight for justice — that that
fight must be fought and won with each generation. 

She had two points.  One, it is the nature of it all that whatever gains
we make in this fight, they will not be permanent unless we are
vigilant.  And the second point, then, is if you understand the nature
of it all, enough with this.  Enough with the despair.  This is not a
time to throw up our hands; it’s a time to roll up our sleeves. 

Because the bottom line is this: We, especially from this community in
this place in the world — we believe in the promise of America.  We do. 
And we are willing to fight for America to then achieve that promise. 
I’m empirical evidence of the promise of America.  (Applause.)  We
believe in it.  And so, that’s what this fight is for. 

And I’ve now met, as Vice President, over 150 world leaders —
presidents, prime ministers, chancellors, and kings — many of them
multiple times.  Many of them I’ve received in the place we live in D.C.
that I refer to accurately as our “temporary public housing.” 
(Laughter.)  And I’ll tell you —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  For four more years.

And I will tell you, in my last three international trips, which were —
at the end of last year, I went to Dubai for COP28, the global climate
conference; I was in the UK to talk about the safety — safety in AI —
both situations representing our country, of course; and then this year,
I — I presented at the Munich Security Conference and, again, speaking
about America’s position on concepts like sovereignty and territorial
integrity.

I’ve now met so many of these world leaders multiple times.  We’re on a
first-name basis.  And to a one, they came up to me, “Kamala, hope you
guys are going to be okay.”  And be sure, when they raised the point, it
was purely out of self-interest, because what they understand is what we
here know: The impact and consequence of this election profoundly
impacts the people of our nation and people around the world.

It is all at stake.  And the beauty of it all is this: The issue being
presented to us is what kind of country do we want to live in.  And the
answer to that is within the power of each of us.  We each have the
power to answer that question.  And it will be because we remain active
and vigilant.  We continue to do, as only San Francisco knows how, to
build community, to build coalitions, to remind people of a basic
principle that nobody should be made to fight alone. 

We are all in this together.  And what we all know is when we fight, we
win.

Thank you, all.  (Applause.)

END                       2:31 P.M. PDT
