---
date: '2024-06-17'
modified_time: 2024-06-17 14:46:46-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-17 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/17/remarks-by-national-economic-council-deputy-director-daniel-hornung-on-the-generational-opportunity-to-reorient-the-tax-system-in-2025/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Council Deputy Director Daniel Hornung on the\
  \ Generational Opportunity to Reorient the Tax System in\_2025"
---
 
*June 17, 2024,*  
*Washington Center for Equitable Growth*  
*As Prepared for Delivery*

It’s wonderful to be here at such an important moment for the future of
economic policy. And it’s a particular honor to join Senator Warren and
the distinguished experts you just heard from.

The expiration of the individual provisions of the Trump tax cuts
presents a generational opportunity to not just correct the failures of
that legislation but to fundamentally reorient our tax system towards
shared growth and economic opportunity—to address structural issues in
our tax code that have long preferenced wealth over work, to adjust to
demographic shifts that require us to raise more revenue, and to ensure
our society can sustainably invest in a range of critical priorities
that benefit those in the bottom and middle of the income and wealth
distributions.

I’ll start with the failures of the Trump tax cuts because those
failures inform where we should begin in 2025, and then I’ll discuss the
kind of tax system and economy President Biden believes we should build.

**<u>The Trump Tax Cuts Failed on Their Own Terms</u>**

The Trump tax cuts failed on their own terms: they failed to deliver
gains in income, economic activity, and revenue that proponents
claimed—and instead were a large windfall for high-income households and
large businesses.

In 2017, proponents of the Trump tax cuts said the bill would mainly
benefit typical Americans and boost their wages. Instead, the bill
[gave](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/conference-agreement-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act-dec-2017/t17-0312-conference-agreement)
those in the top 1 percent a tax cut over 50 times larger than that of
middle-income households. Its corporate rate cut failed to trickle-down:
one rigorous analysis
[found](https://patrick-kennedy.github.io/files/TCJA_KDLM_2024.pdf) that
corporations used the windfall to buy back stock, pay dividends, and
boost executive pay, while the bottom 90 percent of workers saw no wage
gains.

Similarly, proponents of the Trump tax cuts said they would double or
even triple the economic growth rate. But real [GDP and fixed
investment](https://www.congress.gov/116/meeting/house/110494/witnesses/HHRG-116-WM00-Wstate-FurmanJ-20200211.pdf)
grew at about the same rate in the two years after the legislation
passed as in the two years before.

Finally, the bill’s proponents also claimed that it would increase
revenues and fully pay for itself. But in 2017, revenues were
[expected](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/52801) to average 18.3
percent of the economy from 2023 to 2025. With 2023 behind us, the
revised [estimate](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/59710) for that
period is only 17 percent. And every estimate of the bill suggests it
increased deficits.

Despite the bill’s failures, congressional Republicans’ [top
priority](https://x.com/JakeSherman/status/1793632339823829395) for 2025
is to extend it, including for the highest-income households. In fact,
recent
[reporting](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2024/06/09/biden-trump-taxes-election/)
suggests they want to expand
[further](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2024/06/09/biden-trump-taxes-election/)
on the Trump corporate rate cut. And last week, they even
[applauded](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-06-13/trump-floats-tariffs-hikes-to-offset-some-income-tax-cuts?utm_source=twitter&cmpid%3D=socialflow-twitter-politics&utm_content=politics&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=socialflow-organic)
the idea of entirely replacing the progressive income tax with
regressive tariffs. While nearly impossible to achieve, anything
approximating this policy would amount to a [massive
shift](https://x.com/Brendan_Duke/status/1801352480967569902) of the tax
burden from the top of the distribution to the bottom and the middle,
and it would likely require [a tariff rate so
high](https://x.com/paulkrugman/status/1801296665451593868) as to induce
a
[substantial](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-06-14/summers-says-trump-tax-ideas-mean-mother-of-all-stagflations)
increase in prices and interest rates.

Extending the Trump tax cuts and related provisions would
[cost](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Final-Lael-IP-Tax-Memo-6.12.24.pdf)
nearly $5 trillion over the decade, and Congressional Republicans have
not said how they would pay for it. In addition to regressive tariffs,
they have proposed draconian
[cuts](https://hern.house.gov/uploadedfiles/final_budget_including_letter_web_version.pdf)
to Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and the Affordable Care Act;
major
[cuts](https://hern.house.gov/uploadedfiles/final_budget_including_letter_web_version.pdf)
to non-defense discretionary funding that would take that share of the
Budget to about half of its historic average as a share of the economy;
reversing this Administration’s investments in combatting climate change
and building a durable clean energy industry here at home; or simply
adding the cost to the national debt, as they did in 2017, with low- and
middle-income households likely bearing the cost in the future through
higher inflation and interest rates or deep programmatic cuts.

**<u>President Biden’s Plan Will Build a Tax System that Promotes Shared
Growth and Economic Opportunity</u>**

President Biden rejects this regressive, anti-growth, and fiscally
irresponsible approach. The question now is what kind of tax system and
economy we build in 2025. As my boss, National Economic Advisor Lael
Brainard, argued in May, our approach will be guided by five key
principles.

***First, our*** ***tax system should be more fair, promoting economic
opportunity and work and eliminating preferences for wealth.*** The
President is committed to ensuring that the over 95 percent of American
households that earn less than $400,000 do not pay more in taxes.

But we must go beyond correcting the Trump tax cuts’ failures and seize
the moment to promote economic opportunity for the middle-class and
those in need. For example, President Biden
[expanded](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/06/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-new-steps-to-lower-prescription-drug-and-health-care-costs-expand-access-to-health-care-and-protect-consumers/)
the premium tax credits, which lifted health insurance coverage to
[record](https://aspe.hhs.gov/reports/national-uninsured-rate-reaches-all-time-low-early-2023)
levels across demographic groups. The expansion will lapse without
congressional action by fall 2025; making it permanent is at the top of
President Biden’s
[agenda](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/16/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-event-scranton-pa/).

The expanded Child Tax Credit
[cut](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/11/20/the-anti-poverty-and-income-boosting-impacts-of-the-enhanced-ctc/)
child poverty nearly in half in 2021,
[primarily](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/earnings-requirement-would-undermine-child-tax-credits-poverty-reducing-impact)
by allowing low-income families to access the full credit. Restoring it
[would](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/15/fact-sheet-this-tax-day-the-tax-contrast-couldnt-be-clearer/)
lift those children out of poverty again and cut taxes by an average of
$2,600 per year for 39 million families. The Senate should make a down
payment on this expansion now by passing the bipartisan tax package that
would
[lift](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/about-16-million-children-in-low-income-families-would-gain-in-first-year-of)
500,000 children out of poverty.

And, restoring the President’s expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit
for childless workers would cut taxes by an average of $800 per year for
19 million low-paid workers, lifting [roughly 6 million
workers](https://www.cbpp.org/research/policy-basics-the-earned-income-tax-credit)
out of poverty.

In addition to expanding opportunity, we can make our tax code fairer by
eliminating preferences for wealth. That begins with allowing the Trump
tax cuts above $400,000 to expire and not bringing back deductions or
other tax breaks for those households. There is no economic
justification for giving millionaires another dollar of tax cuts.

We should go further here, too. Billionaires
[pay](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/briefing-room/2021/09/23/new-omb-cea-report-billionaires-pay-an-average-federal-individual-income-tax-rate-of-just-8-2/)
an average federal tax rate of just 8 percent on their true income—a
lower rate than many middle-class families—primarily because most of
their income comes in the form of returns to capital, which is taxed at
a lower rate than wages, if it at all. The current system also allows
the wealthy to avoid capital gains taxes entirely on massive amounts of
income by holding assets until death. These preferences tilt the tax
system in favor of wealth,
[exacerbating](https://www.cbpp.org/research/substantial-income-of-wealthy-households-escapes-annual-taxation-or-enjoys-special-tax)
income, wealth, and racial inequality.

The President’s Budget addresses these distortions and
[promotes](https://aura.american.edu/articles/report/Assessing_the_Effects_of_a_Dividend_and_Capital_Gains_Tax_Increase/25777560)
greater efficiency and equity by taxing capital gains at ordinary rates
for income above $1 million, applying a minimum tax to the wealthiest
Americans’ full economic income, and closing the step-up in basis
loophole for the wealthiest households.

***Our second principle for*** ***2025 is that we should raise revenue
in order to fund critical national priorities and reduce fiscal
risks.*** President Biden supports paying for any tax cut extensions to
avoid deepening the fiscal hole created by two decades of tax cuts
skewed to the wealthy. But we should set our sights higher and raise
sufficient revenue to fund our existing commitments, pay for a
much-needed public investment agenda, and improve the long-term fiscal
outlook.

President Biden strongly believes we must raise more revenue to meet
commitments we’ve made to our seniors. Because of our aging population,
federal [revenue](https://www.cbo.gov/data/budget-economic-data#2) as a
share of the economy needs to increase to protect programs for older
Americans, yet two decades of tax cuts have caused it to fall instead.

Raising additional revenue will also ensure we are able to invest in
national priorities that will help us achieve shared and durable
economic growth—including narrowing racial wealth gaps, reducing
poverty, investing in our children and education, establishing a robust
care infrastructure, building more affordable housing to lower housing
costs, reducing healthcare costs, and more.

Raising revenue is also necessary because past tax cuts have increased
risks to our long-term fiscal health, with revenues now running below
historic averages even when, like now, the economy is strong and
unemployment is low. The additional revenue called for in the
President’s Budget—along with a reduction in federal outlays to
pharmaceutical companies and other special interests—would stabilize
debt and deficits as a share of the economy and maintain the economic
burden of debt within historical ranges. Doing so is likely to
substantially
[reduce](https://www.cnbc.com/2024/06/13/treasury-secretary-yellen-says-us-debt-load-is-in-reasonable-place-if-it-remains-at-this-level.html)
the long-term risk of a fiscal adjustment that would harm lower- and
middle-income Americans.

***Third, we should ask more from*** ***corporations that are making
record profits and paying less as a share of the economy and as a share
of total revenue than they have historically****.* The corporate share
of revenue has fallen from
[around](https://www.cbo.gov/data/budget-economic-data#2) 30 percent in
the 1950s to well under 10 percent today. American corporate tax
receipts are around 1.6 percent of GDP, just
[half](https://data.oecd.org/tax/tax-on-corporate-profits.htm#indicator-chart)
of the OECD average of 3.3 percent. Yet, corporate profits as a share of
the economy reached [record
highs](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/graph/?g=1p35Y) during the pandemic,
and have stayed historically elevated as corporations hold onto margins
that were
[forecast](https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cbo.gov%2Fsystem%2Ffiles%2F2022-05%2F51135-2022-05-Economic-Projections.xlsx&wdOrigin=BROWSELINK)
to have compressed as the pandemic faded.

The President’s Budget
[would](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-taxes-for-working-families-and-makes-big-corporations-and-the-wealthy-pay-their-fair-share/)
raise the corporate rate to 28 percent—halfway back to the previous 35
percent rate—in addition to other base-broadening reforms. The
[lackluster](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/the-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act-failed-to-deliver-promised-benefits/)
investment response to the Trump tax cuts suggests that bringing
corporate taxation more in line with past U.S. and current international
practice could raise substantial revenue without hindering economic
growth.

***Fourth, taxpayers should pay what they owe and play by the same
rules***. This requires an IRS with the resources needed to identify and
address tax evasion—and to provide a smooth tax filing experience.

After a decade of severe underfunding, President Biden’s
[investment](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-releases-strategic-operating-plan-update-outlining-future-priorities-transformation-momentum-accelerating-following-long-list-of-successes-for-taxpayers)
in the IRS has in just a year and a half allowed the IRS to
[provide](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2250)
exemplary customer service, successfully
[pilot](https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p5969.pdf) the Direct File tool
that will be a permanent offering,
[collect](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/irs-has-already-collected-more-than-500-million-in-back-taxes-from-delinquent-millionaires-b70fe240)
over $500 million in unpaid taxes from delinquent millionaires, and
launch new
[initiatives](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-ramps-up-new-initiatives-using-inflation-reduction-act-funding-to-ensure-complex-partnerships-large-corporations-pay-taxes-owed-continues-to-close-millionaire-tax-debt-cases)
aimed at high-end non-compliance, like a new effort to
[audit](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-begins-audits-of-corporate-jet-usage-part-of-larger-effort-to-ensure-high-income-groups-dont-fly-under-the-radar-on-tax-responsibilities)
personal use of corporate jets.

Just this morning, Treasury and the IRS announced new
[efforts](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2408) to stop
large businesses and the wealthy from engaging in complex and opaque
transactions where they shift the basis of an asset between related
partnerships in order to unlawfully claim increased tax benefits, like
depreciating an asset over and over. These abuses were turbocharged by
the Trump tax cuts and can typically require a wealthy taxpayer to pay
an accountant millions of dollars. Treasury estimates this initiative
alone will save the government at least $50 billion over the next
decade.

President Biden’s investment in the IRS will lapse without congressional
action, starting with the IRS’s taxpayer service cliff in 2026.
Congressional Republicans also continue to target IRS funding for deep
cuts, which would increase deficits by billions. The Administration will
block those misguided efforts and prioritize extending the IRS
investment in 2025.

***Finally, our tax system should avoid an international race to the
bottom***. The Administration
[negotiated](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/08/statement-by-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-on-the-unprecedented-oecd-agreement-for-a-global-minimum-tax/)
an historic agreement, signed by more than 130 nations, that will level
the playing field for American small businesses that can’t afford
complex tax minimization strategies. The agreement will also better
support American workers by preventing other countries from luring jobs
and operations out of the U.S. with rock-bottom tax rates, and by
enabling the U.S. to collect more tax revenues from corporations instead
of workers.

Many of the world’s largest economies are
[implementing](https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/services/tax/pillar-two-readiness/country-tracker.html)
this transformational agreement. We must join them in 2025 to grow our
corporate tax base rather than allow it to erode further.

**<u>Conclusion</u>**

President Biden’s plan would correct the failures of the Trump tax cuts
and fundamentally reorient our tax system—and economy—in order to
achieve shared growth and economic opportunity. Next year’s tax debate
presents a moment of possibility that we must seize together, bolstered
by the economic evidence that we have discussed today—and also by the
support of the American people, who overwhelmingly believe our tax
system and economy should work better for the middle-class and those
most in need.

\###
