---
date: '2024-06-07'
modified_time: 2024-06-10 12:36:15-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-07 22:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/07/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-4/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign\_Event"
---
 
Kentland Community Center

Landover, Maryland

12:48 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Can we give it up for Angela Alsobrooks? 
(Applause.)  The next United States senator from the great state of
Maryland 

Good afternoon, Maryland.  Good afternoon to everyone.  Good afternoon.

I am so proud to stand on this stage in support of Angela Alsobrooks.  I
cannot tell you how proud I am.  And I want to thank her for her
leadership and friendship.  I have — as Angela said, we’ve known each
other for quite some time — maybe before some people were — were born. 
(Laughter.)

And I will tell you something about her, which I think Maryland knows:
She is a leader with deep conviction and compassion.  She is a leader
who always stands up for her principles and for the people of Maryland. 
And she is a fighter for our most fundamental freedoms, including the
freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own body and not have her
government — (applause) — tell her what she’s supposed to do.

And when we win majorities in the United States Congress in November,
Angela’s vote will help President Biden and me restore Roe v. Wade —
(applause) — and reproductive freedom for millions of Americans. 

And as she knows, I was so proud to support her when she was state’s
attorney and to endorse her when she was county executive.  And then,
today, I then proudly endorse — (applause) — Angela Alsobrooks for the
United States Senate.

And I want to thank all of the other extraordinary leaders who are here
today, including, of course, Senator Chris Van Hollen.  We were
classmates together when I went to the United States Senate. 
(Applause.)

 Congressman Glenn Ivey, he and I knew each other back in the day as
prosecutors.  (Applause.) 

And, of course, the great governor, Wes Moore.  (Applause.)

And today, on Gun Vi- — Violence Awareness Day, a special thank you to
all the organizers, the advocates, the leaders who are here who have
fought forever to keep our communities safe. 

I believe the right to be safe is a civil right.  The people of our
country have the right to live, work, worship, and learn without fear of
violence, including gun violence.  (Applause.)

And yet, today, in America, one in five people has a family member that
was killed by gun violence — one in five.  Today, as Angela mentioned,
gun violence is the number one cause of death of the children of
America.  Think about that.  Not a car accident, not cancer — gun
violence.

Last year, I convened over 15,000 young leaders on my national college
tour.  And at the stop, every time, I would ask the students, “Raise
your hand if at any point between kindergarten and 12th grade you had to
endure an active shooter drill.”  I’d ask the young people who are here
today: Raise your hand. 

I’d ask the older adults and the press to see this.  It’s bone-chilling
to think about what our young people have been going through in terms of
the fear that they face sitting in a classroom.

And, you know, in fact, I spoke to a younger student years ago and I —
and we were on this subject, and — and — and the student said to me,
“Yeah, you know, that’s — that’s why I don’t like going to fifth
period.”  And I said, “Why, sweetheart?”  And then he said, “Well,
because in that classroom, there’s no closet to hide in.”

Over the years, I’ve met with far too many parents who say a silent and
sometimes out loud prayer every time they drop their child off at school
or walk them to the school bus stop.  And I’ve held the hands of far too
many mothers and fathers to try and comfort them after their child was
killed by gun violence — be it a mass shooting or what we call
“everyday” gun violence.

So, let us all agree: It does not have to be this way.  It does not have
to be this way.  And it is a false choice to suggest that you’re either
in favor of the Second Amendment or you want to take everyone’s guns
away.

I’m in favor of the Second Amendment, and we need an assault weapons
ban.  (Applause.)  I support the Second Amendment, and we need universal
background checks.  (Applause.)  I support the Second Amendment, and we
need red flag laws.  (Applause.)

In 2020, President Joe Biden and I made a promise that we would finally
take on the epidemic of gun violence, and we have.  As Vice President, I
have the privilege of being with our President when the cameras are on
and when the cameras are off, including being with him on a frequent
basis in the Oval Office. 

Well, I’ll tell you about the day that we met with Democrats and
Republicans to talk about gun safety.  And I’ll tell you about how Joe
Biden sat in his chair in the Oval Office and looked with that
bipartisan group of congressional leaders to appeal to their common
humanity.  And he simply refused to take no for an answer.

And it is as a result that I am proud to report we passed the first
major gun safety law in over 30 years.  (Applause.) 

And we have, then, finally strengthened background checks.  Because
here’s what was happening.  So, before we took office, gun stores were
required by law to conduct background checks.  But gun dealers who sold
weapons outside of the traditional gun store, like at a gun show or a
flea market or even online, did not conduct background checks.  We used
to call this the “gun show loophole.”

It had been around so long that back in the olden days in 2007, when I
was the elected District Attorney of San Francisco, I actually organized
a rally in opposition to the gun show loophole.  And now, as Vice
President, I am proud that we have finally closed it.  (Applause.)

We also have finally taken on the problem of domestic abusers having
access to guns.  (Applause.)  Since taking office, our administration
put a stop to the nearly 30,000 gun sales to convicted domestic
abusers.  And as I have worked my entire career to protect women and
children from domestic violence, Angela Alsobrooks has long been a
leader on this issue as well.  She was the first assistant state’s
attorney in Prince George’s County to specialize in domestic violence
cases.  (Applause.) 

So, to be here to support her today is to know she will be an
experienced leader — (applause) — on this issue when she is in the
United States Senate.  And that matters.

I also lead the first-ever, as you have heard, White House Office on Gun
Violence Prevention.  And through that office, we have made an historic
investment to address the trauma of gun violence — in particular, the
trauma associated with everyday gun violence, the often undiagnosed and
untreated trauma.

We have now invested $1 billion to hire mental health counselors in
public schools across our country.  (Applause.)  It’s the single-largest
investment in student mental health in our nation’s history. 

So, Maryland, the — the fight that we are in to end the horror of gun
violence presents one point that is clear about this November: that the
choice in November is clear.  Whereas President Biden and I stood up to
the NRA and the gun lobby, Donald Trump bowed down. 

After the horrors of El Paso and Dayton, the former President said he
would take action, and then he folded.  He failed to stand up to the gun
lobby, he opposed reasonable gun safety reforms, and he cut funding to
gun violence prevention.

You know, Donald Trump often likes to say violent crime is up under our
administration, while, in fact, violent crime is now near a 50-year
low.  (Applause.)  Meanwhile, in part because of his failure to act on
gun violence, during President Trump’s term, America saw the largest
increase in the murder rate in modern history.  Know that.

And a second Trump term would be even worse.  If he were to win in
November, you can bet that he will repeal our bipartisan gun safety law,
reopen gun show loopholes, and veto any new gun safety laws.  Recall, on
gun violence, Donald Trump offered a clear message for the people of
America, and I quote — remember when he said this; I am quoting him — he
said, “Get over it.”  He said, “Get over it.”

So, in this election, you have an opportunity, then, Maryland, to send
Donald Trump a message back.  (Laughter.)  Maryland, this November, you
have the power to elect leaders who have actually kept our communities
safe.  You have the power to send Angela Alsobrooks to the United States
Senate and help us win back the House as well.  (Applause.)

And with your voice and your vote, you have the power to reelect
President Biden and me to the White House.  (Applause.) 

So, Maryland, are you ready to make your voices heard?  (Applause.)  Are
you ready to fight for an assault weapons ban?  (Applause.)  Are you
ready to fight for universal background checks and red flag laws? 
(Applause.)  And are you ready to fight for your freedom to be safe from
gun violence?  (Applause.)

And when we fight, we win.  (Applause.) 

May God bless you.  And may God bless the United States of America. 
Thank you all very much.  (Applause.) 

                          END                      1:00 P.M. EDT
