---
date: '2024-06-07'
published_time: 2024-06-07 10:39:51-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/07/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-volodymyr-zelenskyy-of-ukraine-before-bilateral-meeting-5/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine Before\
  \ Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
InterContinental Paris Le Grand Hotel  
Paris, France

12:50 P.M. CEST

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Mr. President, it’s good to see you again.  Good to be
by your side.

PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY:  Good to see you, too.  Thank you so much.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I — you know, as I said yesterday at the American
Cemetery, the Ukrainian people have been incredibly brave, have never
given up, never staying — never — never even yielding, and it’s
impressive.  And you saw the reception you received when everyone stood
and gave you a standing ovation.  And they deserve it — you deserve it.

And, you know, you haven’t bowed down.  You haven’t yielded at all.  You
continue to fight in a way that is — it’s just remarkable.  It’s
remarkable.  And I’m — we’re not going to walk away from you. 

I apologize for the — those weeks of not knowing what was going to pan —
in terms of funding, because we had trouble getting the — a bill that we
had to pass that had the money in it — from some of our very
conservative members who were holding it up.  But we got it done,
finally. 

And since then, including today, I’ve announced six packages of
significant funding.  Today, I’m also signing an additional package for
$225 million to help you reconstruct the — the electric grid.  And — and
once we got the national security bill passed — that was a political
issue — we were able to get it all done.

And the way you’ve stood and holding on — and holding on in Kharkiv, and
you’ve proven once again the people of Ukraine cannot and will never be
— will retake it.

And I assure you the United States is going to stand with you.  I’ve
said that all during this debate, and I continue to say it.  The United
States is standing with you.  You are the bulwark against the aggression
that’s taken place.  We have an obligation to be there.

And so, I’m looking forward to having a detailed discussion with you
about where we’ll go from here.  But we’re still in completely,
thoroughly. 

Thank you.

PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY:  Thank you so much, Mr. President.  First of all,
thank you so much for your significant support — you, your
administration.  We’re very thankful from all Ukrainians to your
military support, financial support, humanitarian one.  And, of course,
it’s very important. 

And our meeting here is very symbolic.  It’s very important that you
stay with us.  This bipartisan support with the Congress — it’s very
important that in this unity, the United States of America, all American
people stay with Ukraine. 

Like it was during World War Two, how the United States helped to save
human lives, to save Europe — and we count on your continuing support
and standing with us shoulder to shoulder.  Thank you so much. 

And this big package which has been signed and supported and voted, and
it’s very important.  It’s so necessary for — for this — for the feeling
of our people that we are not alone.  We are with you, with our
strategic partner. 

And, of course, we’ll — I want, today, to — to speak about strengthening
of Kharkiv region.  You said already, it’s so important.  And your
decisions have been very, very — had very positive influence. 

I don’t want to share it — everything, all the details — with press. 
Sorry.  But I think there are some details from the battlefield which
you have — which you — you — you need to hear from us.  We are thankful
for this. 

Also, I want to speak about air defense totally on our territory.  And
we are thankful for participation in peace summit on the level of Vice
President.  Thank you so much.  We think that we will have more than 100
countries, and I — I hope that it will be a first step on this way to
peace.  We need peace in Ukraine, but we will stay — anyway — stay
strong. 

And, of course, I want to discuss some future events. 

Thank you, again.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.

12:55 P.M. CEST
