---
date: '2024-06-15'
published_time: 2024-06-15 12:49:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/15/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-summit-on-peace-in-ukraine-opening-plenary/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at Summit on Peace in Ukraine Opening\_Plenary"
---
 
*Bürgenstock Resort  
Obbürgen, Switzerland*

6:06 P.M. CEST  
  
     VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.  Thank you, President Amherd and
President Zelenskyy, for hosting this summit.  It is my honor to be here
with all of the leaders today.  
  
I first met President Zelenskyy in February of 2022, just five days
before Russia invaded Ukraine, an outrageous attempt to subjugate a free
people and an attempt to wipe a sovereign state off the map.  
  
On that same day, I addressed the Munich Security Conference and made
clear that the United States of America is a steadfast supporter of the
principles that people have a right to choose their own form of
government, nations have a right to choose their own alliances, there
are inalienable rights governments must protect, the rule of law must be
cherished, sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states must be
respected, and national borders should not be changed by force.  
  
And nearly two and a half years later, I am here to reaffirm the
commitment of the United States to these principles and our unwavering
commitment to support the people of Ukraine as they defend themselves
against Russia’s brutal aggression.  
  
As I discussed with President Zelenskyy earlier today, President Biden
and I have made clear over the past three years we are committed to
uphold international rules and norms, to defend democratic values and
stand up to dictators, and to stand with our allies and partners.  
  
This approach has provided for our security and prosperity for
generations, and it continues to do so today.  
  
This approach makes America strong, and it keeps Americans safe.  And
this approach bolsters global stability.  
  
Russia’s aggression is not only an attack on the lives and the freedom
of the people of Ukraine, it is not only an attack on global food
security and energy supplies.  Russia’s aggression is also an attack on
international rules and norms and the principles embodied in the U.N.
Charter.  
  
Russia is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. 
Nevertheless, for nearly two and a half years, it has shamelessly
violated the core tenets of that charter.  If the world fails to respond
when an aggressor invades its neighbor, other aggressors will
undoubtably become emboldened.  It leads to the potential of a war of
conquest and chaos, not order and stability, which threatens all
nations.  
  
President Joe Biden and I will continue to support Ukraine and continue
to impose costs on Russia.  
  
And we will continue to work toward a just and lasting peace, based on
the principles of the United Nations Charter and the will of the people
of Ukraine.  
  
President Zelenskyy, the United States shares your vision for the end of
this war and an end to the suffering of the Ukrainian people.  
  
And let us all then commit to the imperative of returning innocent
children kidnapped by Russia — returning them to their homes.  
  
Let us also agree, a practical benefit of the work of this peace summit
is to increase global food and energy security.  And let nothing about
the end of this war be decided without Ukraine.  
  
By contrast, however, yesterday Putin put forward a proposal.  But we
must speak truth: He is not calling for negotiations, he is calling for
surrender.  
  
America stands with Ukraine not out of charity but because it is in our
strategic interest.   
  
We stand with delegations from more than 90 nations who also have a
strategic interest in a just peace in Ukraine.  Among us, no doubt,
exists a diverse range of views on many of the global challenges and
opportunities we face.  We don’t always agree.   
  
However, regarding Putin’s unprovoked, unjustified war against Ukraine,
there is unity and solidarity in support of international norms and
rules.  
  
For President Joe Biden and me, it is one of our defining missions to
uphold the international rules-based order to defend it, strengthen it,
and promote it.  And no doubt, it must be a priority for us all.  
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
                          END                 6:11 P.M. CEST

\# \# \#
