---
date: '2024-06-09'
published_time: 2024-06-09 13:17:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/06/09/remarks-by-president-biden-in-press-gaggle-16/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Press\_Gaggle"
---
 
Aisne-Marne American Cemetery  
Belleau, France

4:04 P.M. CEST

THE PRESIDENT:  Every Marine I know knows about the battle in Belleau
Woods.  There were over 2,029 — -229 buried here.  And inside that
chapel, there’s names of 1,000 missing.  They never recovered the
bodies. 

And the idea that we could come to Normandy beach, celebrate and show
reverence for those we lost — I’m probably not speaking loudly enough. 
I apologize.

The — and not come here — you know, the idea — General — Colonel —
excuse me, Captain Williams, when they arrived here, stopped the
Germans.  The other team decided they had to retreat.  And his comment
was, “Hell no.  We just got here.  We just got here.”  They stopped the
Germans.  They stopped the Germans.

And the idea that we were able to avoid being engaged in major battles
in Europe is just not realistic.  That’s why it’s so important that we
continue to have the alliances we have, continue to be- — beef up those
alliances, continue to keep NATO strong, continue to do what we’ve been
able to do for the last — since the end of World War Two.

And so, I — I just wanted to — Jill and I wanted to come and pay our
respects.  And it — it matters a lot.

Q    How does it feel to be here, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  You know, I don’t want to — I sh- — don’t want to make
this personal, but every time I show up at a military site where
veterans are buried, it brings back memories of hearing my grandfather
and my mother talk about the loss of their son and brother in the Pa- —
South Pacific.  And I think about my son Beau after a year in Iraq.

And so, it — you know, I think it — as a measure of a country’s support
for democratic values, that they honor those who’ve risked their lives
and lost their lives.  And think about it.  You had this — they were on
their way to Paris — Germans.  They stopped them here.  They stopped
them here, just like the Americans on Normandy — the Normandy beach
stopped w- — turned the war around.  And gives you both a sense of pride
and, in my case — and my guess is you as well — a sense of reverence for
what they did.

And so, any rate.

Q    You talked about —

Q    Why this particular cemetery, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  This is the most — more American — more Marines were
lost here than any battle until the middle of World War Two.  The idea
that I come to Normandy and not make the short trip here to pay tribute
— 

And it’s the same story.  Think about it.  America showed up.  America
showed up to stop the Germans.  America showed up to make sure that they
did not prevail.  And America shows up when we need it, just like our
allies show up for us.

Q    You’ve criticized President Trump for not coming here on his trip. 
What message are you hoping to send to voters by being here right now?

THE PRESIDENT:  Any other questions?

Q    Mr. President, what’s been the most memorable part of this trip so
far?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think the most memorable part of the trip was Pointe
du Hoc.  I think that was the most memorable because I’ve been there
several times, and the last time I was here was a long while ago — in
Normandy.  And we came in on a landing craft.  We got off a destroyer
and got on a landing craft.  And you’re coming in and look at the — the
depth of that beach and those cliffs behind it.  You know, these guys
just thi- — how many of them drowned just getting off the — off the
landing craft because they sank into the water with the heavy packs and
got stuck.   
  
But they kept going.  They did not quit.  There’s no quit in America. 
None.  None.  There’s no quit in America.  And that’s what it shows
me.  
  
Q    Mr. President, what do you hope Americans take away from you coming
on this trip?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  The knowledge that the best way to avoid these kinds of
battles in the future is to stay strong with our allies.  Do not break. 
Do not break.  
  
Q    Do you feel that Americans —  
  
Q    Did anything surprise you on this trip, sir?  
  
Q    — are slipping?  Do you think that Americans are not holding that
view anymore, that there’s a —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, I don’t.  
  
Q    — slippage?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I think the Americans hold the view.  I think there’s a
new — a rise in a sense of some within the — in the country wanting to
let that slip.   
  
The idea that we become semi-isolationists now, which some are talking
about — I mean, the idea we had to wait all those months just to get the
money for <s>Iraq</s> \[Ukraine\] that we — because we were waiting.  I
mean, it just — it just — it’s not who we are.  It’s not who America
is.  
  
Q    One — one pol- —  
  
Q    Sir, did anything surprise you on this trip?  
  
Q    One policy question, for you, sir.  D- — I’m sorry.  Go ahead.  Go
ahead, Michelle.  
  
Q    Anything surprise you on this trip that you heard?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Even though I’ve been here before, it surprised me how
much it awakened my sense of why it’s so valuable to have these
alliances, why it’s so critical.  That’s the way you stop wars, not
start wars.  
  
Q    One policy question.  Did you discuss the Russian asset issue with
President Macron yesterday?  And did you come up with an agreement on
how to use them?

  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, and yes.   
  
Thank you.  
  
4:09 P.M. CEST
