---
date: '2024-03-13'
modified_time: 2024-03-13 08:05:11-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-13 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-the-white-house-challenge-to-save-lives-from-overdose/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Launches the White\_House Challenge\
  \ to Save Lives from\_Overdose"
---
 
Today, in support of President Biden’s [Unity Agenda efforts to beat the
overdose
crisis](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/08/fact-sheet-president-bidens-unity-agenda-for-the-nation/),
the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing the White House Challenge
to Save Lives from Overdose. The
[Challenge](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/savelivesfromoverdose) is a
nationwide call-to-action to stakeholders across all sectors to save
lives by committing to increase training on and access to lifesaving
opioid overdose reversal medications.

An overdose can happen anywhere, to anyone. That’s why President Biden
has worked to strengthen not only the whole-of-government response, but
also the whole-of-society response to this public health and public
safety crisis. Since day one, the Biden-Harris Administration has taken
historic action to address the overdose crisis, including investing over
$100 billion to disrupt the flow of illicit drugs and expand access to
treatment. Last year, the Food and Drug Administration [approved
naloxone](https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-approves-second-over-counter-naloxone-nasal-spray-product)—a
life-saving opioid overdose reversal medication—for non-prescription,
over-the-counter use for the first time ever.

Today, we’re calling on organizations and businesses—big and small,
public and private—across the country to help ensure all communities are
ready to use this life-saving tool to reduce opioid deaths. As the drug
supply has gotten more dangerous and lethal, we’re asking allies to join
us because we all must do our part to keep communities safe.

To help more Americans save lives, the Biden-Harris Administration is
encouraging leaders to commit to take simple measures that work,
including training employees on opioid overdose reversal medications,
keeping the medications in first aid kits, and distributing the
medications to employees and customers so they might save a life at
home, work, or in their communities.

Organizations may make a commitment
[*here*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/savelivesfromoverdose/make-a-commitment/)
and share a story of how their efforts saved a life
[*here*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/savelivesfromoverdose/tell-your-story/).
Several organizations and businesses are already stepping up across
industries by taking the following actions and making the following
commitments:

Air Travel

-   **Chicago Department of Aviation (CDA)** announced in February that
    naloxone is available in Automated External Defibrillator (AED)
    cabinets at pre-security and post-security locations at O’Hare and
    Midway International Airports. There are 196 AED cabinets with
    naloxone at O’Hare and 32 at Midway. CDA has trained approximately
    390 aviation security officers and airport-based Chicago Police
    Department officers on naloxone, and plans to offer training to more
    airport personnel in coming months.

<!-- -->

-   Seventeen **US-based airlines** are voluntarily equipping their
    aircraft with opioid overdose reversal medications. For example,
    **Southwest** **Airlines** has naloxone in emergency medical kits
    aboard 65% of aircraft, with intentions to stock 100% by
    end-of-year, and has already saved a life. **American Airlines** has
    naloxone aboard every plane. The company trains flight attendants on
    the medications, where to access them, and how to administer doses
    guided by on-call physicians.

Entertainment

-   **Insomniac Events**, experience-creators behind large music
    festivals and live events, commits to ensuring naloxone access at
    all of their festivals and events nationwide in partnership with
    **End Overdose**, which provides voluntary overdose education to
    attendees. Together, they trained more than 100,000 festival
    attendees on overdose response and provided over 1.8 million with
    overdose resources.

Hospitality

-   **Ohio Hotel & Lodging Association (OHLA)** partners with state and
    local agencies and health departments to provide naloxone to Ohio’s
    hotels. Currently, 20% of hotels have naloxone onsite; OHLA’s goal
    is 100% adoption. OHLA also produced a naloxone training video for
    hotel professionals to respond to overdose, resulting in lives
    saved.

Labor Worksites

-   **The Alliance for Naloxone Safety in the Workplace**, a
    collaboration of 23 construction organizations nationally, is
    committed to providing overdose prevention education and training to
    construction workers. They recently released a free toolkit
    containing free training, organizational policy templates,
    comprehensive FAQs, and more.

<!-- -->

-   **Fishing Partnership Support Services**, a nonprofit that works to
    improve the lives and livelihoods of commercial fishermen and their
    families, employs Community Health Workers to offer overdose
    training to fishermen and coastal community members in the Northeast
    and Mid-Atlantic. As a result, over 2,000 people in the East Coast
    fishing community carry naloxone. 

<!-- -->

-   **Massachusetts Building Trades Unions** and the **Building Trades
    Employers Association** partner to distribute naloxone to
    contractors at construction sites. They have distributed at least
    600 doses to date.

<!-- -->

-   **Mechanical Contractors Association of America (MCAA), National
    Electrical Contractors Association (NECA), Sheet Metal and Air
    Conditioning Contractors’ National Association (SMACNA)**, and **The
    Association of Union Constructors (TAUC)** represent over 10,000
    union contractors, providing employment for hundreds of thousands of
    skilled trade workers in the United States. These organizations, in
    collaboration with union partners, trained thousands of workers on
    substance use disorder and overdose prevention, and distributed a
    limited quantity of naloxone. MCAA, NECA, SMACNA, and TAUC endorse
    having naloxone at all construction sites and urge employers to make
    the lifesaving medication available to their workforce.

<!-- -->

-   **Meredith Management** and **John Moriarty & Associates** partnered
    with the **Police Assisted Addiction & Recovery Initiative** to
    become Recovery Friendly Worksites, which offers onsite overdose
    reversal kits and training on overdose prevention to building trades
    employees. Just weeks after launching, a person’s life was saved at
    work. Now, over 1,000 tradespersons in Boston are trained to respond
    to an overdose and can access free naloxone.  

<!-- -->

-   **Ryan Companies**, a national commercial real estate services
    provider, commits to distribute naloxone and provide overdose
    response training to its nearly 2,000 employees, as well as place
    naloxone in each first aid kit at over 300 construction sites and
    offices, in partnership with **SAFE Project**, a national nonprofit
    that has trained 10,000 people nationwide.

Schools & Other Places of Learning

-   **American Library Association** and the **Public Library
    Association** provide resources to public libraries to address the
    overdose crisis, including support for training library staff,
    distributing naloxone and overdose aid kits to the public, and
    hosting public education programs. For example, Michigan’s **Lyon
    Township Public Library** partners with **Alliance of Coalitions for
    Healthy Communities** and **South Lyon Community Coalition** to
    provide naloxone and overdose education and training to staff and
    the public.

<!-- -->

-   **Arlington Public Schools’ (APS)** is increasing awareness of and
    access to naloxone. APS trained over 2,000 staff members, most of
    whom now carry the medication daily, and installed naloxone boxes on
    every floor at all middle and high schools. APS policy now permits
    students, grades 9 to 12, to carry naloxone at school with parent or
    guardian consent; 422 high schoolers have such consent.

<!-- -->

-   **Houston Independent School District (HISD)** serves 185,000
    students across 274 schools. HISDPolice trains officers on naloxone,
    which they carry to treat any student, employee, or community member
    who may be experiencing overdose.

<!-- -->

-   **Los Angeles Unified School District**, America’s second largest
    school district, has naloxone at all K-12 schools, early education
    centers, and adult education centers. School site and health care
    staff are trained on naloxone. Recently, District policy allows all
    students to carry naloxone at school. Since January 2023, the
    District has used naloxone approximately 50 times to save lives.

<!-- -->

-   **The University of Texas at Austin (UT)** leads an opioid overdose
    prevention program that has equipped residence hall staff, campus
    police, and campus libraries with naloxone and overdose response
    training. Naloxone is also available for free and anonymously to UT
    Austin’s entire community. As of March 2024, UT Austin has trained
    3,412 students, staff, and faculty on overdose response and
    distributed 2,280 naloxone doses.

State & Local Transit Systems

-   **Denver Regional Transportation District (RTD)**, **Massachusetts
    Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA)**, **New Jersey Transit Police
    Department**, **San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART)**,
    **Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA)**, and
    **Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA)** train and
    equip officers and safety staff with naloxone so they can help
    people on trains and at stations. MBTA is working to make naloxone
    available at all Red Line Heavy Rail Stations. Collectively, these
    transit systems have administered over 2,000 doses of naloxone to
    save lives.

Expanding access to opioid overdose reversal medications is a key part
of the [*National Drug Control
Strategy*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/National-Drug-Control-2022Strategy.pdf),
and the Biden-Harris Administration has made historic investments and
taken historic action over the past three years to deliver on this
priority. This includes:

-   **Making naloxone available over-the-counter.** For the first time
    ever, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) [approved
    naloxone](https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-approves-second-over-counter-naloxone-nasal-spray-product),
    a life-saving opioid overdose reversal medication, for
    non-prescription, over-the-counter purchase at grocery stores and
    pharmacies across the country. In addition, the FDA is making it
    easier for harm reduction organizations to obtain naloxone directly
    from manufacturers and distributors to increase the public’s access
    to this lifesaving medicine.

<!-- -->

-   **Delivering support to states and Tribes.** The Biden-Harris
    Administration has invested historic amounts of funding in the State
    Opioid Response (SOR) grant program to make opioid overdose reversal
    medications available at no cost to residents of states and Tribes.
    Using SOR funds, states and Tribes have purchased nearly 10 million
    opioid overdose reversal medication kits and helped to reverse more
    than 600,000 overdoses. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health
    Services Administration (SAMHSA) is supporting states and Tribes
    with technical assistance, policy academies, and convenings to
    ensure SOR funds are used to help saturate hard-hit communities with
    opioid overdose reversal medications.

<!-- -->

-   **Increasing awareness of opioid overdose reversal medications.**
    The Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), in partnership
    with the Ad Council, launched a social media campaign, [*Real Deal
    on Fentanyl*](https://realdealonfentanyl.com/), to reach young
    people with critical messaging about the dangers of fentanyl and the
    life-saving effect of opioid overdose reversal medications. Its
    Spanish-language companion site, [*La Realidad sobre el
    Fentanilo*](https://realdealonfentanyl.com/es), launched in
    March 2024.

<!-- -->

-   **Increasing education on opioid overdose reversal medications.**
    Last month, the Biden-Harris Administration marked two years of
    advancements in the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS)
    Overdose Prevention Strategy by releasing the updated [*Overdose
    Prevention and Response
    Toolkit*](https://store.samhsa.gov/product/overdose-prevention-response-toolkit/pep23-03-00-001).
    The toolkit provides updated guidance on preventing overdoses and
    responding to opioid- or stimulant-involved overdoses, and offers
    population-specific guidance to people who use drugs, people who
    take prescription opioids, first responders, healthcare
    practitioners, and other audiences. This builds on many [bold
    actions](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2024/02/01/biden-harris-administration-marks-two-years-advancements-hhs-overdose-prevention-strategy-new-actions-treat-addiction-save-lives.html)
    that HHS has taken to beat the overdose crisis, including updated
    federal regulations for opioid treatment programs to expand access
    to treatment for the first time in two decades, and the announcement
    that HHS grant funds may now be used to purchase xylazine test
    strips, where permitted by law.

<!-- -->

-   **Investing in harm reduction services.** Evidence-based harm
    reduction services, including the distribution of opioid overdose
    reversal medications, save lives. In President Biden’s FY2024 budget
    request, he calls for an additional $100 million for harm reduction
    services—funding that will help distribute more opioid overdose
    reversal medications.

<!-- -->

-   **Increasing access to life-saving medications in federal
    facilities.** HHS and the General Services Administration (GSA)
    issued [new
    guidance](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/12/22/2023-28207/guidelines-for-safety-station-programs-in-federal-facilities)
    that encourages all federal facilities to include life-saving opioid
    overdose reversal medications in their safety stations for use
    during overdose emergencies.

<!-- -->

-   **Strengthening a whole-of-society response:**
    -   HHS and the  Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
        [called
        on](https://www.samhsa.gov/sites/default/files/joint-letter-housing-naloxone.pdf)
        public health departments and health care systems to work with
        housing providers, community development organizations, and
        other housing agencies to help expand access to opioid overdose
        reversal medications in the communities they serve. Housing
        providers play a critical role in ensuring that all public
        spaces have life-saving medications available and that more
        people are prepared to use the medications during emergencies.

<!-- -->

-   The White House and the U.S. Department of Education [called
    on](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Letter-to-Schools.pdf)
    schools, colleges, and universities to have opioid overdose reversal
    medications on-site and ensure that students and employees are
    prepared to use these medications to save a life on or near their
    campuses.

In addition to expanding access to lifesaving overdose reversal
medication, the Biden-Harris Administration has also invested more
funding and broken more barriers to treatment than any previous
administration. The Biden-Harris Administration has not only taken
historic policy actions, but also invested historic amounts of funding
to help make these policy changes a reality. President Biden is
investing $83 billion in treatment, which is 42% more than was made
under the previous Administration.

Saving lives is the North Star of the [National Drug Control
Strategy](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/National-Drug-Control-2022Strategy.pdf),
and this effort requires more than just federal resources. We must come
together. In memory of those we have lost and to protect those at risk
of overdose, the Administration is refocusing the Nation’s attention on
the devastation caused by illicit fentanyl, reaffirming our collective
commitment to beating this crisis, and doubling down on efforts to
empower all Americans to save lives.

Join us at
[whitehouse.gov/SaveLivesFromOverdose](http://www.whitehouse.gov/savelivesfromoverdose/).
