---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 18:43:28-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-taxes-for-working-families-and-makes-big-corporations-and-the-wealthy-pay-their-fair-share/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Cuts Taxes for Working Families and\
  \ Makes Big Corporations and the Wealthy Pay Their Fair\_Share"
---
 
Since taking office, President Biden has fought to build a fairer tax
system that rewards work, not wealth; asks the wealthiest Americans and
largest corporations to pay their fair share; and requires all Americans
to play by the same rules and pay the taxes they owe. He has already
secured historic legislation to make our tax code fairer, from enacting
a corporate minimum tax so that billion-dollar companies can’t get away
with paying $0 in Federal income taxes to giving the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) the tools it needs to make wealthy tax cheats pay the
taxes they owe. President Biden will fight to stop Republican plans to
add trillions to the deficit with tax cuts skewed to the wealthy and
largest corporations. Republicans would rather add trillions to the
national debt than take back even one dollar of the $150 billion annual
rate cut corporations received under President Trump. Now, President
Biden’s Budget will cut taxes for working families and lower deficits by
trillions of dollars over a decade by making the wealthy and big
corporations pay their fair share—and no one earning less than $400,000
per year will pay a penny in new taxes.

***Makes Big Corporations and Special Interests Pay Their Fair Share***

President Biden has secured major reforms to crack down on corporate tax
avoidance and ensure that large corporations start paying more of their
fair share, including a 15 percent corporate minimum tax and a surcharge
on large, publicly-traded corporations that buy back their own stock.
The President’s Budget builds on this progress by making big
corporations pay their fair share in taxes and ending special interest
giveaways. **The President’s Budget:**

**Raises Tax Rates for Large Corporations.** Corporations received an
enormous tax break in 2017. While their profits soared, their investment
in their workers and the economy did not. Their shareholders and top
executives reaped the benefits, without the promised trickle down to
workers, consumers, or communities. The President’s Budget would set the
corporate tax rate at 28 percent, still well below the 35 percent rate
that prevailed prior to the 2017 tax law. In addition, the Budget would
raise the Inflation Reduction Act’s corporate minimum tax rate on
billion-dollar corporations that the President signed into law from 15
percent to 21 percent, ensuring the biggest corporations pay more of
their fair share. These policies are complemented by other proposals to
incentivize job creation and investment in the United States to help
ensure broadly shared prosperity.

**Cracks Down on Tax Avoidance by Large Multinationals and Big Pharma.**
For decades, countries have competed for multinational business by
slashing tax rates, at the expense of having adequate revenues to
finance core services. Thanks in part to the Administration’s
leadership, more than 130 nations signed on to a global tax framework to
finally address this race to the bottom in 2021. Many of our
international partners, including many of the world’s largest economies,
have implemented or will soon implement this transformational agreement.
The President’s Budget proposes to do the same by reforming the
international tax system to reduce the incentives to book profits in
low-tax jurisdictions, stopping corporate inversions to tax havens, and
raising the tax rate on U.S. multinationals’ foreign earnings from 10.5
percent to 21 percent. These reforms would ensure that profitable
multinational corporations, including Big Pharma, pay their fair share.

**Denies Corporate Tax Breaks for Million Dollar Executive
Compensation.** Executive pay has skyrocketed in recent decades, with
CEO pay averaging more than 300 times that of a typical worker in 2022.
The 2017 tax law’s corporate tax cuts only made this problem worse,
producing massive boosts to executive compensation while doing nothing
for low- and middle-income workers. While corporations can choose to
give huge pay packages to their executives, President Biden believes
that they don’t deserve a tax break when they do. His Budget proposes
new policy to deny deductions for all compensation over $1 million paid
to any employee of a C corporation, which would discourage companies
from giving their executives massive pay packages and help level the
playing field across C corporations.

**Quadruples the Stock Buybacks Tax**. The Inflation Reduction Act’s
surcharge on corporate stock buybacks reduces the tax advantage for
buybacks over dividends and encourages businesses to invest in their
growth and productivity as opposed to funneling tax-preferred profits to
foreign shareholders. The President’s Budget proposes quadrupling the
stock buybacks tax from one percent to four percent to address the
continued tax advantage for buybacks and encourage corporations to
invest in productivity and the broader economy.

**Eliminates Tax Subsidies for Oil and Gas.** The President is committed
to ending tens of billions of dollars of Federal tax subsidies for oil
and gas companies. Even as they benefit from billions of dollars in
special tax breaks, oil companies have failed to invest in production.
For the last two years, they have realized record profits, but instead
of lowering prices for consumers or investing these funds, they have
undertaken record stock buybacks, mergers, and acquisitions that
benefited executives and wealthy shareholders. The Budget eliminates
special tax treatment for oil and gas company investments, as well as
other fossil fuel tax preferences.

**Eliminates Tax Subsidies for Real Estate.** The Budget closes the
“like-kind exchange” loophole, a special tax subsidy for real estate.
This loophole lets real estate investors—but not investors in any other
asset – put off paying tax on profits from deals indefinitely as long as
they keep investing in real estate. This amounts to an indefinite
interest free loan from the Government. Real estate is the only asset
that gets this sweetheart deal.

**Eliminate Tax Subsidies for Cryptocurrency Transactions.** The Budget
eliminates a special tax subsidy for crypto currency and certain other
transactions. Right now, crypto investors aren’t subject to the same
rules of the road that investors in stocks or other securities have to
follow, allowing them to report excessive losses. For example, a crypto
investor – unlike an investor in stocks or bonds – can sell a
cryptocurrency at a loss, take a substantial tax loss to reduce their
tax burden, and then buy back that same cryptocurrency the very next
day. The Budget eliminates this tax subsidy for crypto currencies by
modernizing the tax code’s anti-abuse rules to apply to crypto assets
just like they apply to stocks and other securities.

***Makes Wealthy People Pay Their Fair Share***

President Biden has already secured additional funding for the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) that is enabling it to crack down on the
high-income individuals and corporations who too often avoided paying
their lawfully owed taxes and to improve service for the millions of
Americans that do pay their taxes. Already, the IRS has
[collected](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/irs-has-already-collected-more-than-500-million-in-back-taxes-from-delinquent-millionaires-b70fe240)
more than $500 million in unpaid taxes from fewer than 2,000 delinquent
millionaires,
[launched](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-launches-new-effort-aimed-at-high-income-non-filers-125000-cases-focused-on-high-earners-including-millionaires-who-failed-to-file-tax-returns-with-financial-activity-topping-100-billion)
enforcement action against 25,000 millionaires who have not filed a tax
return since 2017, and started
[cracking](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-begins-audits-of-corporate-jet-usage-part-of-larger-effort-to-ensure-high-income-groups-dont-fly-under-the-radar-on-tax-responsibilities)
down on high-end tax evasion like deducting personal use of corporate
jets as a business expense. President Biden’s tax plan would build on
this progress with reforms that will finally make the wealthiest
Americans pay their fair share. **The President’s Budget:**

**Requires Billionaires to Pay at Least 25 Percent of Income in Taxes.**
Billionaires make their money in ways that are often taxed at lower
rates than ordinary wage income, or sometimes not taxed at all, thanks
to giant loopholes and tax preferences that disproportionately benefit
the wealthiest taxpayers. As a result, many of these wealthy Americans
are able pay an average income tax rate of just 8 percent on their full
incomes—a lower rate than many firefighters or teachers. To finally
address this glaring inequity, the President’s Budget includes a 25
percent minimum tax on the wealthiest 0.01 percent, those with wealth of
more than $100 million.

**Increases the Top Tax Rate on the Wealthiest Americans to 39.6
Percent.** One of the 2017 tax cut’s clearest giveaways to the wealthy
was cutting the top marginal income tax rate from 39.6 percent to 37
percent, exclusively benefitting those in the top one percent. This rate
cut alone is giving a couple with $2 million in annual taxable income a
tax cut of more than $30,000 each year. The President’s Budget restores
the top marginal tax rate to 39.6 percent for single filers making over
$400,000 a year and married couples making more than $450,000 per year.

**Ends Capital Income Tax Breaks and Other Loopholes for the Very
Wealthy. **The President’s Budget will end one of the most unfair
aspects of our tax system—the fact that the tax rate the wealthy pay on
capital gains and dividends is less than the tax rate that many
middle-class families pay on their wages. Households making over $1
million—the top 0.4 percent of all households—will pay the same 39.6
percent marginal rate on their income just like a high-paid worker pays
on their wages. Moreover, the Budget eliminates the loophole that allows
the wealthiest Americans to entirely escape paying taxes on their wealth
by passing it down to heirs. Today, our tax laws allow these accumulated
gains to be passed down across generations untaxed, exacerbating
inequality. The Budget will close this loophole, ending the practice of
“stepping-up” the basis for gains in excess of $5 million per person and
$10 million per married couple ($5.25 and $10.5 million, respectively,
when combined with existing real estate exemptions), and making sure the
gains are taxed if the property is not donated to charity. The reform is
designed with protections so that family-owned businesses and farms will
not have to pay taxes when given to heirs who continue to run the
business. Without these changes, billions in capital income would
continue to escape capital gains taxation entirely.

**Requires Wealthy People to Pay their Fair Share Toward Medicare to
Extend Medicare Solvency Indefinitely.** The President’s Budget extends
the solvency of the Medicare Hospital Insurance (HI) trust fund
indefinitely by modestly increasing the Medicare tax rate on incomes
above $400,000, closing loopholes in existing Medicare taxes, and
directing revenue from the Net Investment Income Tax into the HI trust
fund as was originally intended, along with dedicating an amount
equivalent to the savings from Medicare prescription drug reforms.
Current law lets certain wealthy business owners avoid Medicare taxes on
some of the profits they get from pass-through businesses. The
President’s Budget closes this loophole and raises Medicare tax rates on
earned and unearned income from 3.8 percent to 5 percent for those with
incomes over $400,000.

**Closes Loopholes for the Wealthy.** The Budget closes loopholes that
overwhelmingly benefit the rich and big corporations, including ending
the carried interest loophole that allows some wealthy investment fund
managers to pay tax at lower rates than their secretaries, reforming tax
preferred retirement incentives to ensure that the ultrawealthy cannot
use these incentives to amass tax free fortunes, preventing the
super-wealthy from abusing life insurance tax shelters, closing a
loophole that benefits wealthy crypto investors, and ending a tax break
for corporate jets.

**Ensures That the IRS Can Continue to Collect Taxes Owed by Wealthy Tax
Cheats.** The Inflation Reduction Act addressed long-standing IRS
funding deficiencies by providing stable, multi-year funding to improve
tax compliance by finally cracking down on high-income individuals and
corporations who too often avoided paying their lawfully owed taxes, and
to improve service for the millions of Americans that do pay their
taxes. Already, the IRS is using these resources to crack down on tax
evasion by the wealthy and big businesses. It has collected more than
$500 million in unpaid taxes from fewer than 2,000 delinquent
millionaires, is recouping taxes from thousands of millionaires who did
not fulfill their basic civic duty by filing a tax return, and is
cracking down on high-end tax evasion like deducting personal use of
corporate jets as a business expense. At the same time, the IRS is
improving customer service and modernizing IT infrastructure. The
President’s Budget would restore the full Inflation Reduction Act
investment and provide new funding over the long-term to continue
cutting the deficit by making sure that wealthy Americans and big
corporations pay the taxes they owe through tax compliance initiatives
and to continue improving service for taxpayers who are just trying to
pay what they owe.

**Cracks Down on Corporate Jet Loopholes.** The Budget eliminates a tax
break that gives preferential treatment for writing off corporate jet
purchases, compared to commercial aircraft. It would also increase the
fuel tax on corporate and private jet travel, so that corporate
executives and other wealthy Americans pay their fair share for the use
of airspace and other public services related to air travel.

***Cuts Taxes for Working Families and the Middle-Class***

President Biden’s tax cuts cut child poverty in half in 2021 and are
saving millions of people an average of about $800 per year in health
insurance premiums today. Going forward, in addition to honoring his
pledge not to raise taxes on anyone earning less than $400,000 annually,
President Biden’s tax plan would cut taxes for middle- and low-income
Americans by $765 billion over 10 years. **The President’s Budget:**

**Increases the Child Tax Credit for 66 Million Children.** The American
Rescue Plan’s expansion of the Child Tax Credit helped cut child poverty
nearly in half to a historic low and narrowed racial disparities in
access to the credit in 2021. The President’s Budget would restore the
expanded Child Tax Credit, lifting 3 million children out of poverty and
cutting taxes by an average of $2,600 for 39 million low- and
middle-income families that include 66 million children. This includes
18 million children in low-income families who would be newly eligible
for the full credit, and 2 million children living with a caregiver who
is at least 60 years old. It would also provide breathing room for
day-to-day expenses by allowing families to receive their tax credit
through monthly payments.

**Cuts Taxes for 19 Million Working-class Americans.** By strengthening
the Earned Income Tax Credit for low-paid workers who aren’t raising a
child in their home, the President’s Budget would cut taxes by an
average of $800 for 19 million working individuals or couples. That
includes 2 million older workers age 65 and older and 5 million young
adults age 18 to 24 who would be newly eligible for the credit.

**Makes Lower Health Insurance Premiums Permanent**. With enrollment in
affordable health coverage at an all-time high, the President’s Budget
would build on the remarkable success of the Affordable Care Act (ACA)
and Inflation Reduction Act by making permanent the IRA’s expansion of
the premium tax credit, which is saving millions of people an average of
about $800 per year in health insurance premiums this year.

In addition, the President’s Budget explains his principles for
addressing tax cuts expiring after 2025. The President would extend all
middle-class tax cuts; as he has repeatedly promised, he will not raise
taxes on anyone making less than $400,000 per year. And he will fully
pay for these extensions with additional reforms to make the wealthy and
corporations pay their fair share, so that they do not add to the debt.
At the same time, he opposes tax cuts for the wealthy—either extending
tax cuts for the top 2 percent of Americans earning more than $400,000
per year or bringing back deductions and other tax breaks for these
households.

\###
