---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 22:47:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-the-deficit-by-3-trillion-over-10-years/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Cuts the Deficit by $3 Trillion Over\
  \ 10\_Years"
---
 
President Biden believes that investing in America, growing the economy
from the middle out and bottom up, lowering costs for families, and
reforming our tax code to reward work and not wealth are economic and
fiscal imperatives. Strong and shared growth that benefits all Americans
isn’t just good for working families and the economy; it will also lead
to better fiscal outcomes. At the same time, President Biden believes
that long-term investments in our Nation and its people should be paid
for. And his Budgets
[have](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/budget_fy22.pdf)
[consistently](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/budget_fy2023.pdf)
[paid
for](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/budget_fy2024.pdf)
all of his investments and improved the Nation’s fiscal outlook.

The President took office after his predecessor signed into law a
reckless and unpaid for tax cut that was skewed to the wealthy and large
corporations, adding [nearly $2
trillion](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/53787) to the deficit.
Compared to when the President took office, the deficit is over $1
trillion lower, thanks in large part to a strong economic recovery and a
historic vaccination program that allowed the responsible wind-down of
emergency measures. In addition, the President has enacted another
roughly $1 trillion in savings over the next decade through the Fiscal
Responsibility Act, and through the Inflation Reduction Act provisions
that empower Medicare to negotiate lower prescription drug prices, cap
insulin at $35 per month for seniors and people with disabilities, and
make the wealthy and large corporations pay more of their fair share.

President Biden will fight to stop Republican plans to add trillions to
the deficit with tax cuts skewed to big corporations and the
wealthy—doubling down on their failed trickle-down tax cuts that already
increased the nation’s debt by trillions of dollars. Republicans have
proposed making all of President Trump’s tax cuts permanent, while
refusing to pay for them by increasing taxes on big corporations or the
wealthy. Instead, they would rather add trillions to the national debt
than take back even one dollar of the $150 billion annual rate cut
corporations received under President Trump. Their plan would add more
than $3 trillion to deficits over 10 years, while providing tax cuts
worth $175,000 per year to the top 0.1 percent of Americans that have
incomes over $4.5 million.

In contrast to Republicans’ plans to increase the deficit, the
President’s Budget improves the fiscal outlook by reducing the deficit
by roughly $3 trillion over the next 10 years by making the wealthy and
large corporations pay their fair share, closing tax loopholes, cutting
wasteful spending on Big Pharma, Big Oil, and other special interests,
and following the Fiscal Responsibility Act. **The President’s Budget:**

**Improves the Nation’s Fiscal Outlook**

The President’s Budget improves the Nation’s fiscal outlook and reduces
long-term fiscal risks by reducing the deficit, stabilizing deficits and
debt as a share of the economy over the long-run, and keeping the
economic burden of debt within historical norms. Specifically, the
Budget reduces the deficit by around $3 trillion over the next decade,
compared to deficits without the President’s policies. The deficit
reduction in the Budget increases over time, with over $500 billion of
deficit reduction in 2034.

The Budget also reduces the deficit, as a share of the economy, from
current levels. Under the Budget policies, the deficit would decline
over the next several years, stabilizing below five percent of the
economy throughout the remainder of the 10-year window. And the Budget
stabilizes debt as a share of the economy over the long-run as well.

Finally, under the President’s Budget, the economic burden of debt would
remain in line with historical norms over the next decade. Real net
interest as a share of the economy directly measures the cost of
servicing the debt: resources that must go towards paying off old debt
rather than investing in the future or providing services to Americans
now. The Budget forecast takes into account recent increases in interest
rates and projects future interest rates in line with private-sector
forecasters. Nonetheless, the Budget keeps real net interest payments as
a share of the economy at or below the average for the last several
decades, around 1 percent of GDP, and well below the 2 percent level of
the 1990s.

**Reduces the Deficit by Making the Tax System Fairer and Ending Special
Interest Giveaways**

The President believes that the best way to reduce the deficit is to
reform our tax code to reward work and not wealth, ensure that the
largest corporations pay their fair share, and end giveaways to special
interests. For example, the Inflation Reduction Act he signed into law
cracked down on wealthy tax cheats and took critical steps forward in
ensuring that large corporations pay their fair share, including a 15%
minimum tax on billion-dollar corporations and a surcharge on large,
publicly-traded corporations that buy back their own stock.

The Budget builds on this progress and reflects the President’s ironclad
belief that the wealthy and big corporations should pay their fair
share—and that they shouldn’t pay lower tax rates than teachers or
firefighters.

To date, Republicans in Congress have put forward a much different
approach, calling for more than [$3
trillion](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/15/fact-sheet-the-congressional-republican-agenda-to-increase-the-debt-by-over-3-trillion/#:~:text=The%20fiscal%20consequences%20of%20the,by%20almost%2010%20percentage%20points.)
in tax giveaways skewed to the rich and large corporations and handouts
to special interests. The
[budget](https://hern.house.gov/uploadedfiles/202306141135_fy24_rsc_budget_print_final_c.pdf)
proposed by the Republican Study Committee (RSC), representing nearly 80
percent of House Republicans,
[shows](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/Bidenomics-vs-MAGAnomics-Interested-Parties-Memo.pdf)
how they would pay for those tax cuts: by slashing Social Security,
Medicare, the Affordable Care Act, Medicaid, and other programs that
drive economic growth and that seniors, people with disabilities, and
families count on. The RSC budget would raise the Social Security
retirement age, restrict eligibility for Social Security Disability
Insurance, slash disability benefits for low-income adults and children
with disabilities, and increase healthcare costs for millions of
seniors. It also makes drastic cuts to Medicaid, the Affordable Care
Act, and the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which could result in
tens of millions of children and families losing their health insurance.

Instead of making reckless cuts to programs that millions of Americans
count on, the President’s Budget takes the following steps to reduce the
deficit. **The President’s Budget:**

***Makes the Wealthy Pay Their Fair Share***

**Requires Billionaires to Pay at Least 25 Percent of Income in Taxes.**
Billionaires make their money in ways that are often taxed at lower
rates than ordinary wage income, or sometimes not taxed at all, thanks
to giant loopholes and tax preferences that disproportionately benefit
the wealthiest taxpayers. As a result, many of these wealthy Americans
are able pay an average income tax rate of just 8 percent on their full
incomes — a lower rate than many firefighters or teachers. To finally
address this glaring inequity, the President’s Budget includes a 25
percent minimum tax on the wealthiest 0.01 percent, those with wealth of
more than $100 million.

**Requires Wealthy People to Pay their Fair Share Toward Medicare to
Extend Medicare Solvency Indefinitely.** The President’s Budget extends
the solvency of the Medicare Hospital Insurance (HI) trust fund
indefinitely by modestly increasing the Medicare tax rate on incomes
above $400,000, closing loopholes in existing Medicare taxes, and
directing revenue from the Net Investment Income Tax into the HI trust
fund as was originally intended, along with savings from Medicare
prescription drug reforms. Current law lets certain wealthy business
owners avoid Medicare taxes on some of the profits they get from
passthrough businesses. The President’s Budget closes this loophole and
raises Medicare tax rates on earned and unearned income from 3.8 percent
to 5 percent for those with incomes over $400,000.

**Repeals Trump Tax Cuts for the Wealthy and Reforms Capital Gains Tax
to Ensure the Wealthy Pay Their Fair Share.** The 2017 tax law lowered
tax rates for the wealthiest Americans,
[delivering](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/individual-income-tax-provisions-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act-tcja-february-2018/t18-0025)
an average total tax cut of more than $50,000 for the top 1% and more
than $190,000 for the top 0.1% in 2018. The Budget repeals tax cuts for
the highest-income Americans, restoring the top tax rate of 39.6 percent
for those making more than $400,000 a year. It also proposes taxing
capital gains at the same rate as wage income for those with more than
$1 million in income, closing the capital gains loophole that allows the
wealthy to avoid ever paying tax on their appreciated investments, and
finally closing the carried interest loophole that allows some wealthy
investment fund managers to pay tax at lower rates than their
secretaries.

**Ensures That the IRS Can Continue to Collect Taxes Owed by Wealthy Tax
Cheats.** The Inflation Reduction Act addressed long-standing IRS
funding deficiencies by providing stable, multi-year funding to improve
tax compliance by finally cracking down on high-income individuals and
corporations who too often avoided paying their lawfully owed taxes, and
to improve service for the millions of Americans that do pay their
taxes. Already, the IRS is using these resources to crack down on tax
evasion by the wealthy and big businesses. It has
[collected](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/irs-has-already-collected-more-than-500-million-in-back-taxes-from-delinquent-millionaires-b70fe240)
more than $500 million in unpaid taxes from fewer than 2,000 delinquent
millionaires, is recouping taxes from thousands of millionaires who did
not fulfill their basic civic duty by filing a tax return, and is
cracking down on high-end tax evasion like deducting personal use of
[corporate
jets](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-begins-audits-of-corporate-jet-usage-part-of-larger-effort-to-ensure-high-income-groups-dont-fly-under-the-radar-on-tax-responsibilities)
as a business expense. At the same time, it is
[improving](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1421)
customer service and modernizing IT infrastructure. The President’s
Budget would restore the full Inflation Reduction Act investment and
provide new funding over the long-term to continue cutting the deficit
by making sure that wealthy Americans and big corporations pay the taxes
they owe through tax compliance initiatives and to continue improving
service for taxpayers who are just trying to pay what they owe.

***Makes Large Corporations Pay Their Fair Share***

**Raises Tax Rates for Large Corporations.** Corporations received an
enormous tax break in 2017. While their profits soared, their investment
in their workers and the economy did not. Their shareholders and top
executives reaped the benefits, without the promised trickle down to
workers, consumers, or communities. The President’s Budget would set the
corporate tax rate at 28 percent, still well below the 35 percent rate
that prevailed prior to the 2017 tax law. In addition, the Budget would
raise the Inflation Reduction Act’s corporate minimum tax rate on
billion-dollar corporations that the President signed into law from 15
percent to 21 percent, ensuring the biggest corporations pay more of
their fair share. These policies are complemented by other proposals to
incentivize job creation and investment in the United States to help
ensure broadly shared prosperity.

**Cracks Down on Tax Avoidance by Large Multinationals, including Big
Pharma.** For decades, countries have competed for multinational
business by slashing tax rates, at the expense of having adequate
revenues to finance core services. Thanks in part to the
Administration’s leadership, more than 130 nations signed on to a global
tax framework to finally address this race to the bottom in 2021. Many
of our international partners, including many of the world’s largest
economies, have implemented or will soon implement this transformational
agreement. The President’s Budget proposes to do the same by reforming
the international tax system to reduce the incentives to book profits in
low-tax jurisdictions, stopping corporate inversions to tax havens, and
raising the tax rate on U.S. multinationals’ foreign earnings from 10.5
percent to 21 percent. These reforms would ensure that profitable
multinational corporations, including Big Pharma, pay their fair share.

**Denies Corporate Tax Breaks for Million Dollar Executive
Compensation.** Executive pay has skyrocketed in recent decades, with
CEO pay averaging more than 300 times that of a typical worker in 2022.
The 2017 tax law’s corporate tax cuts only made this problem worse,
producing massive boosts to executive compensation while doing nothing
for low- and middle-income workers. While corporations can choose to
give huge pay packages to their executives, President Biden believes
that they don’t deserve a tax break when they do. His Budget proposes
new policy to deny deductions for all compensation over $1 million paid
to any employee of a C corporation, which would discourage companies
from giving their executives massive pay packages and help level the
playing field across C corporations.

***Ends Wasteful Spending to Special Interests***

**Negotiates Lower Drug Prices and Expands Access to Prescription
Drugs**. Thanks to action taken by this Administration, millions of
seniors and people with disabilities are saving money on their drug
costs – including $35 insulin, free vaccines, and out-of-pocket costs
capped at about $3,500 starting in 2024. Medicare is also negotiating
lower drug prices for the first time ever, starting with ten of the
costliest, most widely used drugs used to treat blood clots, cancers,
arthritis, diabetes, and more. The Budget builds on this success by
significantly increasing the pace of negotiation, bringing more drugs
into negotiation sooner after they launch, expanding the Inflation
Reduction Act’s inflation rebates and $2,000 out-of-pocket prescription
drug cost cap beyond Medicare and into the commercial market, and by
taking other steps to build on the Inflation Reduction Act drug
provisions. In addition, the Budget extends the $35 cost-sharing cap for
a month’s supply of a covered insulin product to the commercial market.
For Medicaid, the Budget includes proposals to ensure Medicaid and the
Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) are prudent purchasers of
prescription drugs, such as authorizing HHS to negotiate supplemental
drug rebates on behalf of interested States in order to pool purchasing
power. The Budget also limits Medicare Part D cost-sharing for
high-value generic drugs, such as those used to treat hypertension and
high-blood pressure, to no more than $2 for Medicare beneficiaries.
These reforms will not only cut costs for the Federal government by $200
billion; they will also save billions of dollars for seniors and people
with disabilities.

**Eliminates Tax Subsidies for Oil and Gas.** The President is committed
to ending tens of billions of dollars of federal tax subsidies for oil
and gas companies. Even as they benefit from billions of dollars in
special tax breaks, oil companies have failed to invest in production.
For the last two years, they have realized record profits, but instead
of lowering prices for consumers or investing these funds, they have
undertaken record stock buybacks, mergers, and acquisitions that
benefited executives and wealthy shareholders. The Budget eliminates
special tax treatment for oil and gas company investments, as well as
other fossil fuel tax preferences.

**Lowers Medicaid Spending by Addressing Excessive Payments to Medicaid
Managed Care Organizations.** The Budget will lower Medicaid costs by
over $10 billion by requiring that insurance companies pay Medicaid back
when they charge it far more than they actually spend on patient care.
Currently, only about half of states require private insurance companies
that provide Medicaid coverage to pay money back when they realize
outsize profits. Without this requirement, insurance companies are
keeping  [millions of
dollars](https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/OEI-03-20-00230.pdf) each year
in excessive payments. The Budget would apply this requirement
nationwide, consistent with similar requirements in Medicare Advantage
and Affordable Care Act plans. With it, insurance companies will no
longer be able to charge for unnecessary administrative expenses or
sacrifice quality patient care to increase their profit margins, and if
they charge too much, they will have to pay it back to the Medicaid
program rather than keeping the profits and, in some cases, making
larger payments to shareholders.

**Eliminates Tax Subsidies for Real Estate.** The Budget closes the
“like-kind exchange” loophole, a special tax subsidy for real estate.
This loophole lets real estate investors – but not investors in any
other asset – put off paying tax on profits from deals indefinitely as
long as they keep investing in real estate. This amounts to an
indefinite interest free loan from the government. Real estate is the
only asset that gets this sweetheart deal.

**Eliminates Tax Subsidies for Cryptocurrency Transactions.** The Budget
eliminates a special tax subsidy for crypto currency and certain other
transactions. Right now, crypto investors aren’t subject to the same
rules of the road that investors in stocks or other securities have to
follow, allowing them to report excessive losses. For example, a crypto
investor – unlike an investor in stocks or bonds – can sell a
cryptocurrency at a loss, take a substantial tax loss to reduce their
tax burden, and then buy back that same cryptocurrency the very next
day. The Budget eliminates this tax subsidy for crypto currencies by
modernizing the tax code’s anti-abuse rules to apply to crypto assets
just like they apply to stocks and other securities.

\###
