---
date: '2024-03-22'
modified_time: 2024-03-21 23:31:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-22 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/22/fact-sheet-on-world-water-day-biden-harris-administration-builds-on-historic-progress-to-protect-clean-drinking-water-restore-our-nations-rivers-lakes-ponds-and-wetlands/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: On World Water Day, Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Builds on\
  \ Historic Progress to Protect Clean Drinking Water, Restore Our Nation\u2019s Rivers,\
  \ Lakes, Ponds, and\_Wetlands"
---
 
President Biden and Vice President Harris believe that every person
should have access to clean drinking water and a healthy environment. On
World Water Day, the Biden-Harris Administration is building on historic
progress to secure clean water for all by announcing new actions to
protect our vital freshwater resources and ensure every community can
count on clean water when they turn on the faucet.  
  
Rivers, lakes, wetlands, and other freshwater resources are fundamental
to the health, prosperity, and resiliency of the nation, and sacred to
many Tribes. Through the [America the Beautiful
Initiative](https://www.doi.gov/priorities/america-the-beautiful) and
the global [Freshwater
Challenge](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2023/12/12/ceq-chair-brenda-mallory-announces-united-states-participation-in-the-global-freshwater-challenge-at-cop28/),
the Biden-Harris Administration is delivering on the first-ever national
conservation goal to protect at least 30 percent of our lands and waters
by 2030 – accelerating locally-led efforts to tackle the world’s
intertwined water, climate, and nature crises.  
  
To ensure that clean water reaches communities across the country, the
Biden-Harris Administration is harnessing historic resources from the
President’s Investing in America agenda to replace lead pipes and other
drinking water and wastewater infrastructure, build resilience to
drought, and conserve and restore our rivers, wetlands, lakes, and
ponds. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law alone includes more than $50
billion to help ensure every community has access to clean water.  
  
While the Biden-Harris Administration delivers on [a national commitment
to protect clean
water](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2023/11/15/ceq-chair-brenda-mallory-outlines-biden-harris-administrations-vision-for-clean-water-post-sackett-v-epa/),
this week Congressional Republicans are [continuing
attempts](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/SAP-HR-7023.pdf) to
weaken the Clean Water Act. These attacks are part of a decades-long
effort to undermine Clean Water Act safeguards, which culminated in the
U.S. Supreme Court’s *Sackett* decision last year – one of the largest
judicial rollbacks of environmental protections in U.S. history.
A [report](https://www.fws.gov/media/status-and-trends-wetlands-conterminous-united-states-2009-2019) released
by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service today reveals that from 2009-2019,
the wetlands loss rate increased 50 percent over the prior decade,
further showing the urgent need to use all the tools and resources
available at the national, State, Tribal, and local level to protect and
conserve America’s waters.  
  
This World Water Day, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new
actions and resources to advance the most ambitious clean water agenda
in history:

-   The Army Corps of Engineers is releasing **a new memorandum
    outlining ways it will support the protection, restoration, and
    enhancement of waters and wetlands** that are more vulnerable
    following the U.S. Supreme Court’s *Sackett* decision.  
     
-   The White House Council on Environmental Quality is **releasing
    a** [**Wetland and Water Protection Resource
    Guide**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/Wetland-and-Water-Protection-Resource-Guide.pdf) for
    Tribes, States, Territories, local governments, private land owners,
    and non-governmental organizations to advance water resource
    protection. The Resource Guide highlights technical assistance and
    funding opportunities available across the federal government.  
     
-   NOAA is announcing **$60 million from the President’s Investing in
    America agenda** **for fish hatcheries **to produce salmon and
    steelhead in the Columbia River Basin. This builds on a historic
    agreement the Biden-Harris Administration secured in partnership
    with Tribes and States in the Pacific Northwest to restore wild
    salmon and steelhead populations.  
     
-   The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services released
    the [**Understanding Water Affordability Across Contexts, LIHWAP
    Water Utility Affordability Survey
    Report**](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2024/03/21/lihwap-water-affordability-report.html), **which
    highlights the differences in water affordability across the
    country.** President Biden’s Fiscal Year 2025 Budget provides $4.1
    billion for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP),
    helping families access home energy and weatherization assistance,
    and proposes to allow States the option to use a portion of those
    funds to provide water bill assistance to low-income households.

Today’s announcements build on a series of landmark investments and
actions the Biden-Harris Administration has taken to protect and restore
the nation’s freshwater resources by advancing conservation, building
resilience, and expanding access to clean drinking water.  
  
**Protecting more than 26 million acres of lands and waters, putting
President Biden on track to conserve more lands and waters than any
President in history**. Highlights of the Biden-Harris Administration’s
water conservation accomplishments, driven by the America the Beautiful
Initiative, include:

-   **Safeguarding the Colorado River watershed by creating **[**the
    Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand
    Canyon National
    Monument**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/08/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/),
    protecting nearly one million acres of greater Grand Canyon
    landscape. President Biden’s designation honors Tribal Nations and
    Indigenous Peoples by protecting sacred ancestral places and their
    historically and scientifically important features, while conserving
    our public lands, protecting wildlife habitat and clean water, and
    supporting local economies. President Biden has also designated
    additional national monuments that protect freshwater resources,
    including the freshwater springs of Castner Range National Monument
    and the high alpine lakes of Camp Hale-Continental Divide National
    Monument.  
     
-   **Protecting the **[**Boundary Waters Canoe Area
    Wilderness**](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-protects-boundary-waters-area-watershed)** and
    surrounding watershed from mining**, which would have harmed the
    area’s watershed, fish and wildlife, Tribal and treaty rights, and
    outdoor recreation economy. The Boundary Waters Canoe Area
    Wilderness is a spectacular network of rivers, lakes, and forests in
    northeastern Minnesota that comprise the most heavily visited
    wilderness area in the United States. By withdrawing these lands
    from future mineral leasing, the Biden-Harris Administration is
    keeping the iconic area intact for future generations.  
     
-   **Addressing threats to **[**Alaska’s Bristol
    Bay**](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-action-help-protect-bristol-bay-salmon-fisheries)**,
    the most productive wild salmon ecosystem in the world** **and home
    to 25 Tribal Nations.** Six rivers meet in Bristol Bay, traveling
    through 40,000 miles of tundra, wetlands, and lakes. EPA acted to
    help protect these waters and the communities dependent upon them
    from contamination associated with developing the Pebble Mine.  
     
-   **Tackling **[**transboundary water pollution in the Elk-Kootenai
    watershed**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2024/03/11/biden-harris-administration-announces-historic-action-to-address-water-pollution-crossing-u-s-canada-border/)** to
    protect the people and species that depend on this vital river
    system**. For over a decade, the Tribal Nations and Indigenous
    Peoples within the Elk-Kootenai watershed have requested that the
    U.S. and Canadian governments address pollution that has impaired
    downstream communities, fish populations, and ecosystems. Under
    President Biden’s leadership, the U.S. and Canadian governments have
    taken a key step with Ktunaxa Nation to achieve transboundary
    cooperation to protect clean water.  
     
-   **Restoring the flow of rivers and streams by **[**investing $1
    billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law**](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/engineering/hydraulics/culverthyd/aquatic/2022recipients.cfm) to
    remove, repair, and redesign infrastructure that impede water flow.
    The first round of grants will fix or remove almost 170 fish
    culverts and improve approximately 550 miles of stream habitat
    across the country – with a total of $196 million awarded to Tribal,
    state, and local governments. Reconnecting these waterways
    reconnects communities to their rivers, increases ecological
    functions of the rivers and streams, and ensures that goods –
    traveling along these rural roads from farms to urban areas – make
    their way to market.

**Making unprecedented investments and leading collaborative efforts to
increase the resilience of our water ecosystems.** Highlights of the
Biden-Harris Administration’s work to build the resilience of our
communities and waters include:

-   **Delivering the **[**largest single federal investment in the
    Everglades**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Florida-BIL-State-Fact-Sheet-Nov-22.pdf) **through
    President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.** Years of human
    development have isolated portions of the Florida Everglades and
    altered natural flow patterns for freshwater, and the Everglades are
    already feeling the impacts of climate change and sea level rise.
    The Army Corps of Engineers has invested $1.1 billion through the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to help restore the ecosystems and
    water flows of the Everglades’ two million acres of wetlands.
    Thriving wetlands will also filter out pollution to improve water
    quality for the one-third of Floridians who rely on the Everglades
    for drinking water, and will help improve resilience to flooding
    that impacts the state.  In addition, this month the Department of
    the Interior established the Everglades to Gulf Conservation Area, a
    four-million-acre National Wildlife Refuge, where tools like
    voluntary conservation easements can be used to protect wildlife
    corridors, enhance outdoor recreation access, and bolster climate
    resilience.  
     
-   **Leading a comprehensive effort to **[**make Western communities
    more resilient to climate change and ongoing
    megadrought**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-protects-stability-and-sustainability-of-colorado-river-basin-advances-water-conservation-across-the-west/) by
    harnessing the full resources of President Biden’s historic
    Investing in America agenda. As climate change has accelerated over
    the past two decades, the Colorado River Basin experienced the
    driest period in the region in over one thousand years. Together,
    the Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    provide the largest investment in climate resilience in our nation’s
    history, including $15.4 billion for western water to enhance the
    West’s resilience to drought and deliver unprecedented resources to
    protect the Colorado River System for all whose lives and
    livelihoods depend on it. Following extensive engagement with
    States, Tribes, and water users, the Administration announced a
    historic agreement to conserve at least 3 million-acre-feet of water
    in the Colorado River Basin through the end of 2026.  
     
-   **Restoring wild salmon, steelhead and other native fish, in
    the **[**Columbia River
    Basin**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2023/12/14/biden-harris-administration-announces-ten-year-partnership-with-tribes-states-to-restore-wild-salmon-expand-clean-energy-production-increase-resilience-and-provide-energy-stability-in-the-col/).
    Building on President Biden’s direction to Federal agencies, the
    Biden-Harris Administration announced a historic agreement to work
    in partnership with Pacific Northwest Tribes and States to restore
    wild salmon populations, facilitate the development of Tribally
    sponsored clean energy production, and provide stability for
    communities that depend on the Columbia River System. The
    Administration committed more than $1 billion to the effort, which
    will, among other things, be used to restore freshwater habitat.  
     
-   **Restoring the **[**Klamath River
    Basin**](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-reaches-landmark-agreement-klamath-basin-tribes-project)** ecosystem
    and building drought resilience.** With the removal of four dams
    underway, the Klamath Basin Drought Resilience Keystone Initiative
    is reestablishing wetlands and their functions, and advancing
    post-fire restoration efforts. The Department of the Interior,
    working in a whole of government approach, has leveraged funding
    from additional federal agencies as well as from Tribal, state, and
    other partners to restore the ecological function of the river and
    its associated river systems. The dam removals alone will open
    access to more than 400 miles of habitat for salmon and steelhead
    trout, help restore Tribal food sovereignty, and improve the health
    and water quality of the river.  
     
-   **Providing** [**rapid-response American expertise to international
    partners**](https://www.doi.gov/sites/doi.gov/files/expert-factsheet-u.s.-global-water-strategy-ambassadors-water-experts-program-november-2022_0.pdf)** on
    critical water and climate adaptation challenges. **Through the
    Ambassador’s Water Experts Program (AWEP), the Department of State
    and the Department of the Interior have deployed over 30 U.S.
    experts to support more than 20 technical and capacity building
    engagements since 2019, and already have six AWEP engagements
    underway in 2024. AWEP works through U.S. diplomatic posts to
    respond to time sensitive requests for support on a broad range of
    water and climate resilience topics and promotes long-term
    collaboration on water security.  
     
-   **Strengthening **[**data for decision-making and early warning
    systems**](https://www.nasa.gov/servir/)** to protect communities
    worldwide. **The U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration
    (NASA) and USAID are working with over 50 countries in Asia, Africa,
    and the Americas through the SERVIR Initiative, which uses satellite
    data to address critical challenges in food security, water
    resources, weather and climate, land use, and water-related
    disasters. NASA is also working with the U.S. Department of State to
    provide advanced remote-sensing, modeling, and capacity building
    activities through the Strategic Hydrologic and Agricultural
    Remote-sensing for Environments Program, which brings data and
    technical resources to end-users in some of the most complex
    hydrologic domains in the world. These efforts are supported by the
    launch of NASA’s [Surface Water Ocean Topography
    (SWOT)](https://swot.jpl.nasa.gov/) mission, a new satellite that
    will establish the first-ever global survey of Earth’s surface
    water. This innovation will improve our understanding of how water
    bodies change over time and will aid in freshwater management around
    the world.

**Expanding access to clean drinking water and wastewater by investing
more than $50 billion from the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
– the largest investment in clean water in American
history.** Highlights of this effort and other steps to address water
pollution include:

-   [**Removing all lead service
    lines**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-nearly-6-billion-for-clean-drinking-water-and-wastewater-infrastructure-as-part-of-investing-in-america-tour/)**.** Over
    9 million homes, schools, and businesses receive their drinking
    water through a lead pipe. Exposure to lead can cause irreversible
    brain damage in children, even knocking off several IQ points. The
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law includes a historic $15 billion in
    dedicated funding for lead pipe replacement, in support of President
    Biden’s goal of replacing all lead pipes within a decade.  
-   **Combatting toxic **[**“forever
    chemicals”**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution/#:~:text=President%20Biden%20has%20secured%20historic,reduce%20levels%20in%20drinking%20water.)** in
    drinking water and wastewater.** The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    invests $10 billion to address harmful PFAS pollution in drinking
    water and wastewater. EPA has also proposed the first-ever national
    standard to address these “forever chemicals” in drinking water.
    This builds on President Biden’s action plan to combat PFAS
    pollution, safeguarding public health and advancing environmental
    justice.  
-   **Ensuring **[**no community is left
    behind**](https://www.epa.gov/water-infrastructure/water-technical-assistance-programs)**.** Thanks
    to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, nearly half of these clean
    drinking water and wastewater investments will be provided as grants
    or forgivable loans to disadvantaged communities, advancing
    President Biden’s [Justice40
    Initiative](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/).
    In addition, EPA has launched several initiatives to partner with
    underserved communities nationwide to provide the support and
    technical assistance they need to access clean water funding. EPA
    will partner with 200 communities to help them replace lead pipes,
    while the initiative will help an additional 150 communities execute
    wastewater and sanitation projects. For example, in Lowndes County,
    Alabama, roughly 90 percent of households have failing wastewater
    systems and many children and families are exposed to raw sewage in
    their own backyards. EPA and USDA have worked with the Lowndes
    County community of White Hall to secure over $500,000 in federal
    funding for wastewater projects. In nearby Hayneville, EPA has
    awarded a 100% forgivable $8.7 million loan to address failing or
    non-existent wastewater systems in 650 homes.  
     
-   **Investing more than $1 billion to **[**restore the Great
    Lakes**](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/president-biden-epa-announce-1-billion-investment-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-will)**, **a
    vital economic engine that supplies drinking water for more than 20
    million Americans, supports more than 1.3 million jobs, and sustains
    life for thousands of species. With the largest investment in the
    Great Lakes in two decades through the Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law, EPA is cleaning up and restoring the Great Lakes’ most
    environmentally degraded sites, including the Milwaukee Estuary in
    Wisconsin and the Cuyahoga River in Ohio.  
     
-   **Delivering **[**clean water to Tribal
    Nations**](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-announces-27-million-presidents-investing-america-agenda-tribal)**. **For
    years, Tribal Nations have been left without access to safe, clean
    water for drinking and sanitation; today, approximately 48% of
    Tribal communities go without this human right. The Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law has delivered $4.2 billion to date to provide
    safe, clean water for Tribal Nations and secure historic Tribal
    water rights. This includes over $8 million to remediate arsenic
    contamination that has been in the Hopi Tribe’s water supply since
    the 1960s. The Hopi Arsenic Management Project will make necessary
    infrastructure improvements to provide clean drinking water to over
    5,000 people.  
     
-   **Increasing access to safe and sustainable drinking water and
    sanitation services **[**around the
    world**](https://www.globalwaters.org/sites/default/files/gws_2023_usaid_annual_report.pdf)**.** The
    U.S. Agency for International Development’s (USAID’s) recent annual
    report shows that since the passage of the Water for the World Act
    ten years ago, USAID’s water, sanitation, and hygiene investments
    have resulted in more than 42 million people gaining access to
    sustainable drinking water and 38 million gaining access to
    sustainable sanitation services. With a focus on climate resilience,
    inclusivity and gender equality, locally-led development, and
    private-sector engagement, these investments are contributing to
    progress toward UN Sustainable Development Goal 6 to achieve
    universal access to clean water and sanitation. 

\###
