---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 18:36:35-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-delivers-on-his-commitment-to-tribal-nations-and-native-communities/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Delivers on His Commitment to Tribal\
  \ Nations and Native\_Communities"
---
 
Since taking office, President Biden has been committed to strengthening
the Nation-to-Nation relationships between the United States and Tribal
Nations and advancing Tribal sovereignty. Over the past three years, the
Administration has taken steps to strengthen its understanding of Tribal
needs and priorities, respect and support Tribal sovereignty, reform
critical federal processes for Tribal Nations, and improve health,
education, safety, and welfare across Indian Country—particularly for
Native women, children, and families. The American Rescue Plan made the
largest direct federal investment in Indian Country in history, and
through the President’s Investing in America agenda, the Biden-Harris
Administration has made additional record-setting investments in Tribal
Nations and Native communities.

The President’s Budget, which is informed by direct consultation with
Tribal leaders, demonstrates the President’s continued commitment to
Indian Country, including through historic investments in the Indian
Health Service, Tribal public safety, educational equity, environmental
justice, affordable housing, and more. Moreover, through the President’s
Executive Order on Reforming Federal Funding and Support for Tribal
Nations, the Biden-Harris Administration is committing providing this
funding in a manner that is more effective, efficient, and accessible
for Tribal Nations—part of the President’s vision for the next era of
federal policies that better support Tribal Nations as they govern and
grow on their own terms. **The President’s Budget:**

**Guarantees Adequate and Stable Funding for Indian Health Services
(IHS).** The Administration is committed to upholding the United States’
trust and treaty responsibilities to Tribal nations by addressing the
historical underfunding of IHS. The enactment of an advance
appropriation for 2024 for IHS was a historic and welcome step toward
the goal of securing adequate and stable funding for IHS that will
provide needed improvements in access to care and the overall health
status of American Indians and Alaska Natives. The Budget requests $8
billion in discretionary resources in 2025, including increases for
clinical services, preventative health, facilities construction,
contract support costs, and Tribal leases. Beginning in 2026, the Budget
proposes all resources as mandatory. Mandatory funding would close
longstanding service and facility shortfalls over time; improve access
to high-quality healthcare; and fund key Administration priorities, such
as the Biden Cancer Moonshot. The Budget also proposes to reauthorize
and increase funding for the Special Diabetes Program for Indians, which
has been critical in lowering the prevalence of diabetes in Indian
Country.  
  
**Honors Commitments to Support Tribal Communities.** Incorporating
feedback from Tribal consultations, the Budget continues to provide
robust support for Indigenous communities in keeping with our federal
trust and treaty responsibilities. The Budget invests $4.6 billion for
the Department of the Interior’s (DOI) Tribal programs, more than $1
billion over the 2021 enacted level, to support public safety and
justice, human and social services, and education. The Budget continues
to propose reclassification of Contract Support Costs and Indian
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 Section 105(l)
leases as mandatory spending, beginning in 2026, to provide certainty
for tribal communities in meeting these ongoing requirements with
dedicated funding. The Budget’s investment in DOI’s tribal programs
build on historic investments in Indian Country under the American
Rescue Plan and complement Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law investments to ensure long-term success by addressing
critical infrastructure and climate adaptation needs in Indigenous
communities. The Budget supports and protects funding for economic
development and other tribal community programs at DOI, including for
climate resilience and natural resources management, education programs
across Bureau of Indian Education schools, tribal human services
programs. It also supports Native language and cultural revitalization
programs to meet the needs highlighted by the Federal Boarding School
Initiative and the recently concluded Road to Healing Tour.

At the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Budget allows
more Tribes to be able to claim reimbursement for prevention services
and programs, including traditional healing programs that are consistent
with meeting mental health and substance abuse treatment needs of
children, parents, and caregivers. The Budget also invests $66 million
for HHS’s Native American Programs to ensure the survival and continuing
vitality of Native American languages by using current grant programs
and funding strategies for Native American language preservation and
maintenance. 

**Supports Tribal Conservation Through Co-Stewardship of Public Lands
and Waters.** The Administration is committed to a new chapter of the
United States’ Nation-to-Nation relationship with Tribal Nations that
includes innovative new partnerships with Tribal Nations to steward the
public lands, waters, and wildlife that are most precious to Tribal
Nations and where they bring invaluable expertise. The Administration is
investing in this new chapter by providing resources in this Budget that
will facilitate and support these agreements with Tribal Nations to
co-steward Federal lands and water across the Bureau of Land Management,
National Park Service, and U.S. Forest Service. The Budget also includes
a new $8 million allocation of mandatory funding from the Land and Water
Conservation Fund to support Tribal land acquisition for conservation
and outdoor recreation. 

**Invests in Salmon Restoration in the Columbia River Basin.** The
Budget supports the Administration’s recent commitment to prioritize
restoration of healthy and abundant wild salmon, steelhead, and other
native fish populations in the Columbia River Basin, and honors the
United States’ obligations to Tribal Nations. 

**Supports Child Welfare in Tribal Communities.** To support child
welfare across Indian Country, the Budget proposes to allow Tribes to
use a new, optional grant program that consolidates certain existing
mandatory and discretionary child welfare funding streams to be used for
any child welfare service need, including culturally appropriate
prevention and support services, foster care, kinship supports,
reunification services, guardianship or adoption support, and child
welfare staff and training. The new grant program would remove
burdensome plan requirements originally designed for state agencies and
instead create a streamlined application process grounded in the
principles of Tribal self-determination and ensuring the safety and
well-being of children and families. 

**Invests in Affordable Housing in Tribal Communities**. Native
Americans are seven times more likely to live in overcrowded conditions
and five times more likely to have inadequate plumbing, kitchen, or
heating systems than all U.S. households. The Budget provides $1.1
billion at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to
support Tribal efforts to expand affordable housing, improve housing
conditions and infrastructure, and increase economic opportunities for
low-income families. Of this total, $150 million would prioritize
activities that advance resilience and energy efficiency in
housing-related projects.  
  
**Commits to Tribal Water Rights Settlements Funding.** The Budget
builds on Bipartisan Infrastructure Law investments by providing $2.8
billion in additional mandatory funding to the Indian Water Rights
Settlement Completion Fund, as well as $226 million in discretionary
funding to meet existing settlement obligations. This funding would
ensure stable, dedicated funding for Tribal water rights settlements,
which is crucial for safe, reliable water supplies to improve public and
environmental health and support economic opportunity in tribal
communities.  
  
**Prioritizes Efforts to End Gender-Based Violence Against Native
Women.** The Budget proposes $800 million at the Department of Justice
to support programs under the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (VAWA),
which was reauthorized in 2022 with enhanced Tribal for expanded
criminal jurisdiction over non-Native offenders, including an Alaska
Native Pilot Program. This represents a $100 million—or 14
percent—increase over the 2023 enacted level, which was the highest
funding level in history. The Budget strongly supports underserved and
Tribal communities by providing $15 million for culturally-speciﬁc
services, $5 million for underserved populations, $25 million to assist
enforcement of Tribal special domestic violence jurisdiction, $3 million
to support tribal Special Assistant U.S. Attorneys, and $10 million for
a new special initiative to address the intersection of Missing and
Murdered Indigenous Persons, domestic violence, sexual assault,
stalking, and human trafficking.  
  
**Connects Indian Country to High-Speed, Affordable, and Reliable
Internet.** The President is committed to ensuring that everyone has
access to affordable broadband internet, including Tribal
communities—and thanks to his Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, under the
Biden-Harris Administration, USDA has provided $2.3 billion to people
living and working across 35 States and Territories, which is expected
to expand broadband access to more than 137,000 households. Building on
the $2 billion for USDA broadband programs provided in the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law for 2023, the Budget provides $112 million for the
ReConnect program, which provides grants and loans to deploy broadband
to unserved areas, especially Tribal areas. 

**Advances Environmental Justice in Indian Country.** The Administration
continues to take bold steps and prioritize efforts to deliver
environmental justice in communities across the United States, including
throughout Indian Country. The Budget bolsters these efforts by
supporting several key initiatives to accelerate energy equity and
justice. This includes a new $25 million grant to develop Direct
Implementation Tribal Cooperative Agreements to carry out crucial EPA
programs in Indian Country with an emphasis on addressing the impacts of
climate change. The Budget also includes funding for the Tribal
Partnership Program at EPA which supports technical and planning
assistance for Tribal communities who want to participate in these
programs. Additionally, the Budget includes $95 million at the
Department of Energy (DOE) to electrify Tribal homes and transition
Tribal colleges and universities to renewable energy. It also advances
the President’s Justice40 Initiative goal that 40 percent of the overall
benefits of certain federal investments flow to disadvantaged
communities that are marginalized by underinvestment and overburdened by
pollution, including Tribal communities.

**Expands Access to Quality Education for Tribal Nations and Tribal
Communities.** Recognizing the pathways to opportunity that Historically
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Tribally Controlled Colleges
and Universities (TCCUs), and Minority-Serving Institutions (MSIs)
represent, the Budget includes $30 billion in mandatory funds over 10
years for eligible 4-year HBCUs, TCCUs, and MSIs to provide two years of
subsidized tuition for students from families earning less than
$125,000. The Budget increases institutional capacity at these
institutions and provides $100 million—doubling funding—for four-year
HBCUs, TCCUs, and MSIs to expand research and development
infrastructure, a program the President has championed since his first
year in office to address historic disparities in Federal research and
development funding. The Budget also includes funding for programs
focused on increasing the participation of groups historically
underrepresented in science and engineering fields, as well as $256
million in funding to build capacity for advancing energy research and
developing a new energy workforce at HBCUs, TCCUs, MSIs, Tribal
Colleges, Community Colleges, and emerging research institutions. The
Budget provides $46 million to the Minority University Research and
Education Project to increase competitive awards to HBCUs, TCCUs, and
other MSIs to recruit and retain underrepresented and underserved
students in STEM fields.

\###
