---
date: '2024-03-14'
modified_time: 2024-03-14 14:39:24-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-14 15:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/14/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-68/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his Administration:

-   Jennifer Lynn Homendy, Nominee for Chair and Member of the National
    Transportation Safety Board
-   Kelly Adams-Smith, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Moldova
-   Jeremey Neitzke, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Lesotho
-   Peter W. Lord, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Senegal and to serve concurrently
    and without additional compensation as the Ambassador to the
    Republic of Guinea-Bissau

**<u>Jennifer Lynn Homendy, Nominee for Chair and Member of the National
Transportation Safety Board</u>**

Jennifer Lynn Homendy is the 15th Chair of the National Transportation
Safety Board (NTSB). She is the fourth woman to serve as Chair since the
agency was created in 1967. As Chair, Homendy is the agency’s chief
executive, managing an annual budget of $140 million and more than 440
full-time employees across the country. Homendy has also served as the
NTSB’s 44th Board Member since 2018. She has presided over numerous
public meetings to deliberate and finalize NTSB investigations in all
modes of transportation, provided expert testimony at the federal and
state levels on a wide range of transportation safety issues, and
launched with the NTSB “Go Team” on myriad investigations. She is a
staunch advocate for improving safety across all modes of
transportation.

From 2004 to 2018, Homendy served as the Staff Director of the
Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials for the
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the U.S. House of
Representatives. Prior to that, she held positions with the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Transportation Trades Department
of the AFL-CIO, American Iron and Steel Institute, and National
Federation of Independent Business.

Homendy is a graduate of the Pennsylvania State University and is
pursuing a Master of Transportation Safety Administration degree at the
Institute for Global Road Safety and Security at Clemson University.
Homendy is a native of Plainville, Connecticut, and currently resides in
Fredericksburg, Virginia, with her husband, their daughter, and two
dogs.

**<u>Kelly Adams-Smith, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Moldova</u>**

Kelly Adams-Smith, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Minister-Counselor, is currently Deputy Chief of Mission at
the U.S. Mission to the European Union. Prior to that, Adams-Smith was
the Senior Coordinator for National Security Affairs in the Office of
the Vice President. Previously, she served as Chargé d’Affaires, ad
interim. and Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Prague,
Czech Republic. She has also served as Economic Counselor at the U.S.
Embassy in London, as Deputy Executive Secretary of the White House
National Security Council, and as a faculty member at the National War
College. Other overseas assignments include Sofia, Bulgaria; Tallinn,
Estonia; and Moscow, Russia. Washington assignments include operations
officer at the State Department’s Operations Center.

Prior to joining the Foreign Service, Adams-Smith was a Presidential
Management Fellow at the U.S. Department of Commerce. A New Jersey
native, Adams-Smith holds a B.A. from American University and an A.M.
from Harvard University. She is the recipient of a Presidential
Distinguished Service Award. Her languages include Russian, Bulgarian,
Estonian and Czech.

**<u>Jeremey Neitzke, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Lesotho</u>**

Jeremey Neitzke, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Counselor, is currently Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S.
Embassy in Maputo, Mozambique. Prior to that, Neitzke served as Deputy
Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Lilongwe, Malawi. Other
assignments include Management Counselor in both Buenos Aires, Argentina
and Bridgetown, Barbados. In Washington, Neitzke served in the Bureau of
Conflict and Stabilization Operations, where he oversaw a wide variety
of conflict response efforts. Other overseas assignments include Maputo,
Durban, and Panama City. Prior to joining the Foreign Service, he was a
Peace Corps Volunteer in Kenya.

Son of parents from Illinois and South Dakota, Neitzke holds a B.S. from
Truman State University and a Masters in National Resource Strategy from
the National Defense University. He speaks Portuguese and Spanish.

**<u>Peter W. Lord, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Senegal and to serve concurrently and
without additional compensation as the Ambassador to the Republic of
Guinea-Bissau</u>**

Peter W. Lord, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of
Counselor, currently serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for East
Africa, Sudan, and South Sudan in the Bureau of African Affairs at the
Department of State. He has previously served as the Deputy Chief of
Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Windhoek, Namibia and the U.S. Mission to
the African Union in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia as well as the Director of
the Office of Southern African Affairs, Deputy Director of the Office of
East African Affairs, and Deputy Political Counselor at the U.S. Mission
to the United Nations. Other diplomatic postings include Malawi, Syria,
Iraq, and the United Kingdom. A native of Florida, he holds a B.A. in
philosophy and French literature from Furman University and a Master of
Strategic Studies from the U.S. Army War College. He speaks French and
some Arabic.

  
   

\###
