---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 18:47:17-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-protects-and-strengthens-social-security-and-medicare/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Protects and Strengthens Social Security\
  \ and\_Medicare"
---
 
President Biden’s Fiscal Year 2025 Budget lays out his plan to invest in
America and the American people, lower costs for families, protect and
strengthen Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, and reduce the
deficit.

Millions of Americans have been working their whole lives, paying into
Social Security and Medicare with every working day, and want to know
that they can count on these programs to be there when they need them.
The President’s Budget extends the life of the Medicare Hospital
Insurance (HI) Trust Fund permanently and reinforces the President’s
commitment to protect Social Security and work with Congress to
strengthen the program for the long haul, including by asking the
highest-income Americans to pay their fair share—while rejecting all
proposals to cut benefits.

***The President’s Budget Protects and Strengthens Social Security***

Social Security is the bedrock of financial security for American
seniors and for millions of Americans with disabilities. As detailed in
the President’s Budget, President Biden looks forward to working with
Congress to protect and strengthen Social Security, based on these key
principles:

-   **No benefit cuts.** The President opposes any proposal to cut
    benefits, as well as proposals to privatize Social Security.

<!-- -->

-   **Extending solvency by asking the highest-income Americans to pay
    their fair share.** Currently, middle-class and lower-income
    Americans pay Social Security taxes on all of their earnings, but
    higher-income Americans do not. That’s not fair. The President
    believes that protecting Social Security should start with asking
    the highest-income Americans to pay their fair share.

<!-- -->

-   **Improving financial security for seniors and people with
    disabilities.** The President supports efforts to improve Social
    Security benefits, as well as Supplemental Security Income benefits,
    for seniors and people with disabilities, especially for those who
    face the greatest challenges making ends meet.

<!-- -->

-   **Ensuring that Americans can access the benefits they’ve earned.**
    The President supports investments in Social Security Administration
    (SSA) services so that seniors and people with disabilities can
    access the benefits they’ve earned.

Consistent with the final principle, the Budget invests in staff,
information technology, and other improvements at SSA. The Budget would
increase SSA’s funding by 9 percent from the 2023 enacted level, which
would improve customer service at SSA’s field offices, State disability
determination services, and teleservice centers for retirees, and for
individuals with disabilities, and their families.

***The President’s Budget Protects and Strengthens Medicare***

The President’s Budget extends the life of the Medicare HI trust fund
indefinitely, the Medicare Office of the Chief Actuary estimates. It
achieves these gains without any benefit cuts—while, in fact, lowering
costs for Medicare beneficiaries—by:

**Extending Medicare HI trust fund solvency permanently by requiring
wealthy people to pay their fair share toward Medicare and reducing
prescription drug costs.** The Budget extends HI trust fund solvency
indefinitely by modestly increasing the Medicare tax rate on incomes
above $400,000, closing loopholes in existing Medicare taxes, and
directing revenue from the Net Investment Income Tax into the HI Trust
Fund as was originally intended. Current law lets certain wealthy
business owners avoid Medicare taxes on some of the profits they get
from passthrough businesses. The Budget closes this loophole and raises
Medicare tax rates on earned and unearned income from 3.8 percent to 5
percent for those with incomes over $400,000. In addition, the Budget
directs an amount equivalent to the savings from its proposed Medicare
drug reforms into the HI trust fund.

**Lowering out-of-pocket costs and payments to Big Pharma.** The
Inflation Reduction Act gave Medicare the authority for the first time
to negotiate prices for high-cost drugs in order to lower costs for
seniors and people with disabilities. Medicare has already begun
negotiating for lower prices on drugs to treat everything from diabetes,
Crohn’s disease, arthritis, heart disease, cancer, and more. The
President’s Budget would build on this progress by giving Medicare
additional authority to negotiate down prices for more drugs and start
negotiating prices sooner after drugs launch—which would not only save
billions of dollars annually for the federal government, but would also
save billions of dollars in out-of-pocket costs for consumers each year.
It would also cap Medicare Part D cost-sharing on certain generic drugs,
such as those used to treat chronic conditions like hypertension and
high cholesterol, to $2 per monthly prescription. The President’s Budget
would also lower behavioral health costs by eliminating cost-sharing for
three mental health or other behavioral health visits per year and
requiring parity between physical and mental health coverage in
Medicare.

\###
