---
date: '2024-03-25'
modified_time: 2024-03-25 17:56:55-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-25 16:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/25/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-announces-month-of-action-on-care-with-new-actions-to-support-small-businesses/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Month of Action\
  \ on Care with New Actions to Support Small\_Businesses"
---
 
Today, the White House and Small Business Administration (SBA) announced
new actions to support small businesses that offer child care for
millions of working families.  These announcements were made at a
roundtable discussion with small business owners, lenders, and resource
partners hosted at the White House by Director of the Gender Policy
Council Jennifer Klein, Domestic Policy Advisor Neera Tanden, and Small
Business Administrator Isabel Guzman. The new actions include: 

-   **Funding Opportunities to Support Small Businesses in the Child
    Care Sector**. In the coming months, SBA will make available new
    funding opportunities to support small businesses in the child care
    sector through SBA’s Women Business Center (WBC) program.  WBCs are
    a part of a national network of entrepreneurship centers designed to
    assist women in starting and growing small businesses. The
    additional funds will support the expansion of child care delivery
    systems, increase child care slots, and improve child care access,
    affordability, and quality.  
     
-   **Development of a Child Care Guide.** SBA announced it will make
    funding available to create a child care business development guide,
    which would provide resources on starting and running a business
    throughout the child care business life cycle, including information
    on accessing capital, licensing requirements, and tax
    considerations.   
     
-   **Lender Campaign**. SBA is launching a lender campaign to highlight
    the resources SBA has available to support small, minority-owned,
    and women-owned businesses, including child care businesses.  As
    part of this campaign, SBA will discuss with stakeholders the
    potential for additional reforms to support the growth of child care
    capacity across the country, including the expansion of eligibility
    to nonprofit child care providers under the signature 7(a) loan
    program, which supports financing to small businesses for working
    capital and a range of other uses, and the 504 loan program, which
    provides financing for major fixed asset purchases.

The roundtable kicks off the Biden-Harris Administration’s “Month of
Action on Care” in April, which the President designated [Care Worker
Recognition
Month](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/31/a-proclamation-on-care-workers-recognition-month/#:~:text=BIDEN%20JR.%2C%20President%20of%20the,as%20Care%20Workers%20Recognition%20Month)
last April when he signed a historic [Executive Order on Increasing
Access to High-Quality Care and Supporting
Caregivers](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/18/executive-order-on-increasing-access-to-high-quality-care-and-supporting-caregivers/),
directing nearly every cabinet-level agency to expand access to
affordable, high-quality care and provide increased support for care
workers and family caregivers.  As the cabinet-level agency dedicated to
supporting small businesses, SBA plays a critical role in these
efforts.  Under the Biden-Harris Administration, SBA lending for child
care businesses has increased by more than $200 million and is up nearly
10% compared to the same period in the previous Administration.  
  
The announcements made today are part of President Biden’s economic
agenda to address challenges in the care economy and answer the call for
investments in the fragile child care industry, which faces numerous
challenges impacting the country’s child care supply.  Those interested
in starting a child care business—95% of which are small
businesses—often struggle to access credit and find the significant
start-up capital necessary to begin operating.  And once up and running,
many child care businesses struggle to break even and keep their doors
open—as most child care facilities operate on profit margins less than
1%.   
  
**The Biden-Harris Administration’s Record on Child Care**  
Since day one of the Administration, President Biden and Vice President
Harris have been committed to addressing the structural challenges
within the child care ecosystem, including low wages for workers, high
costs for families, and inadequate supply of high-quality care. The
President’s American Rescue Plan (ARP) not only helped keep over 225,000
child care providers open, but had a significant impact on the economy. 
According to the President’s [Council of Economic
Advisers](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/07/fact-sheet-historic-biden-harris-administration-investments-in-child-care-recovery-lowered-costs-for-millions-of-families-helped-speed-the-return-to-work-of-hundreds-of-thousands-mothers-and-grew-t/),
that investment alone brought hundreds of thousands of women with young
children into the workforce, lowered child care costs per child by
$1,250, and increased wages for child care workers by 10%.   
  
Pursuant to the Care Executive Order, this Administration has taken a
broad range of actions across different agencies to make child care more
accessible and support child care workers. These historic actions
include:
[steps](https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/3662171/dod-reduces-on-base-child-care-fees-for-military-families/)
to lower child care costs for military families; a
[proposal](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/education/2023/11/15/head-start-teacher-pay-may-increase/71592951007/)
to increase pay for Head Start teachers; [sample employment
agreements](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/wb/Domestic-Workers) to ensure
domestic care workers and their employers understand their rights and
responsibilities; and a [final
rule](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/29/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-action-to-lower-child-care-costs-for-more-than-100000-families/)
that will lower child care costs for over 100,000 families that rely on
federal child care assistance.  
  
Finally, the President’s commitment to care is reflected in his most
recent budget.  The Fiscal Year 2025 Budget, released earlier this
month, proposes major investments to increase accessibility and reduce
child care costs, guaranteeing affordable, high-quality child care from
birth until kindergarten, with most families paying no more than $10 a
day and the lowest income families paying nothing at all.

\###
