---
date: '2024-03-15'
published_time: 2024-03-15 17:45:12-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/15/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-taoiseach-leo-varadkar-of-ireland-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with Taoiseach Leo Varadkar\
  \ of\_Ireland"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. welcomed Taoiseach Leo Varadkar of
Ireland to the White House today to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day and
continue their close coordination on shared priorities. A longstanding
tradition, the leaders’ annual meeting was an opportunity to discuss a
range of issues. They reaffirmed their unwavering support for Ukraine as
it defends against Russia’s continued aggression. President Biden
commended Ireland’s support to over 100,000 Ukrainians who have sought
refuge in Ireland. They reaffirmed their commitment to Israel’s right to
self-defense consistent with international law, underscored the urgent
need to significantly increase deliveries of life-saving humanitarian
assistance throughout Gaza, discussed the crucial need to prevent
regional escalation, and emphasized their shared view that a two-state
solution remains the viable path to lasting peace.  The leaders also
highlighted growing economic and people-to-people ties between the
United States and Ireland, building on our strong historic connections.
They welcomed the restoration of Northern Ireland’s Executive and
Assembly, reaffirming the critical role these institutions play in
preserving the gains of the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement. They looked
forward to continuing to build a vibrant future for U.S.-Irish
relations.

\###
