---
date: '2024-03-14'
modified_time: 2024-03-14 09:18:23-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-14 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-protect-communities-from-dangers-of-ethylene-oxide-pollution-and/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes Action to Protect Communities\
  \ from Dangers of Ethylene Oxide Pollution and Secure America\u2019s Medical Supply\_\
  Chains"
---
 
In 2022, the President and First Lady reignited the [Cancer
Moonshot](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cancermoonshot/progress-updates/fact-sheets/)
with the goals of reducing the cancer death rate in the United States by
at least half by 2047—preventing more than 4 million cancer deaths—and
improving the experience of people who are touched by cancer. The
President also established a Cancer Cabinet to mobilize the entire
Biden-Harris Administration in pursuit of these ambitious goals.

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing a critical action
to bring us closer to achieving these goals and advance President
Biden’s historic commitment to environmental justice. The Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) is issuing a final rule that will significantly
strengthen and update Clean Air Act standards for ethylene oxide (EtO)
emitted into the air from commercial sterilizing facilities. EtO is a
highly potent carcinogen that can be particularly harmful to children
and communities that are already overburdened by pollution. The new rule
will safeguard public health by cutting emissions of EtO from these
facilities by over 90 percent. This represents an important step to
advance the Biden Cancer Moonshot’s efforts to prevent cancer before it
starts by protecting communities around the country from cancer risk
from EtO emitted at these facilities.

One of the uses of EtO is for medical device sterilization, a critical
function that ensures a safe supply of medical devices for patients and
hospitals. The Biden-Harris Administration believes securing our supply
of medical devices is essential, and EPA worked closely with the Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) to develop a final rule that protects
communities located near sterilizing facilities while also mitigating
and managing the potential risk of medical device shortages, or other
unintended supply disruptions, to products Americans need to support
positive health outcomes as sterilizing facilities adjust to the new
standards in an orderly way.

The Clean Air Act authorizes the President to provide a compliance
exemption for a facility subject to this type of emission standard for a
period of up to two years “if the President determines that the
technology to implement such standard is not available and that it is in
the national security interests of the United States to do so.” The risk
of unintended disruption to the supply of critical medical devices would
implicate the national security interests of the United States;
therefore, it would be appropriate to exercise this authority if a
sterilizer of medical devices was working in good faith to come into
compliance with the rule, but the technology to implement these
standards was not available for installation in the facility. 

The federal government will provide more information in the coming
months about how such compliance exemptions from EPA’s commercial
sterilization rule may be made available, if necessary. 

\###
