---
date: '2024-03-29'
modified_time: 2024-03-29 15:31:06-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-29 15:40:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/29/fact-sheet-update-on-the-united-states-commitment-to-expanding-access-to-medicines-around-the-world-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Update on the United\_States Commitment to Expanding Access to\
  \ Medicines Around the\_World"
---
 
Since Day One, the Biden-Harris Administration has worked to ensure the
United States is better prepared for the next pandemic. U.S. national
security and prosperity depend on countries around the world being
prepared to prevent outbreaks when possible, and to rapidly detect and
respond to emerging infectious disease threats when they occur.
Detecting infectious disease threats quickly, and sharing that
information widely, is critical to limit global transmission, and to
rapidly develop necessary diagnostics, vaccines, treatments, personal
protective equipment, and other countermeasures. Once available,
facilitating equitable domestic and global access to medical
countermeasures, like vaccines, tests and treatments, is the best way to
minimize global morbidity and mortality, as well as to reduce economic
and other disruptions. Collectively, these actions will make the United
States, and the world, safer from the risk posed by pandemics and other
biological events.

Coupled with broader investments in health, the United States is
supporting countries around the world to expand access to quality
medical countermeasures (MCMs), including vaccines, tests, and
treatments, to end long-standing threats such as HIV, growing threats
such as measles, and novel threats like COVID-19. These investments
built on decades of global health and health security leadership by the
United States. In the first three years of the Biden-Harris
Administration, the United States invested nearly $32 billion globally
to: better prepare for the next pandemic; fight existing epidemics like
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB), and malaria; and ensure high-need
communities have access to essential health services like routine
childhood immunization and maternal and child healthcare. Starting in
2021, the United States also invested $16 billion in the global COVID-19
response, including sharing nearly 700 million COVID-19 vaccine doses
with countries around the world. The President’s FY 2025 Budget includes
nearly $10 billion to continue these investments in critical global
health programs, strengthen health systems, and enhance pandemic
preparedness.

The Biden-Harris Administration remains committed to expanding access to
MCMs around the world, including through investments in innovation,
research and development; building sustainable global manufacturing and
supply chain capacity; providing vaccines, tests and treatments and
support for their delivery; expanding pandemic response financing for
MCMs; and strengthening legal and regulatory systems. Examples include:

**Investing in Innovation, Research and Development**

The U.S. government invested billions of dollars in mRNA technology in
advance of the COVID-19 pandemic. These public investments translated
into millions of lives saved in the United States and around the world,
and were crucial to developing the mRNA vaccine technology that can be
leveraged in a future pandemic, as well as potentially treating other
diseases.

The Biden-Harris Administration’s historic investments in science and
technology, from basic science to piloting innovative financing
mechanisms to real-time research during health emergencies, are
transforming the tools and approaches we use to detect, contain and
respond to health threats. This work is often done in partnership with
biopharmaceutical innovators and manufacturers that have unique roles to
play in global health security. Examples include:

-   **Public-private partnership on the Ebola virus.** Public-private
    partnerships through the Biomedical Advanced Research and
    Development Authority (BARDA), resulted in a licensed Ebola vaccine,
    two licensed monoclonal antibody treatments, and one cleared
    diagnostic for Ebola; technologies that are now being applied to
    other viruses such as Marburg.

<!-- -->

-   **Support for the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations**
    (CEPI), which is working to accelerate the development of
    life-saving vaccines against emerging disease threats, and to
    transform capability for rapid countermeasure development in
    response to future threats. Notable achievements include: the market
    authorization of the world’s first Chikungunya vaccine; the
    advancement through clinical development of vaccine candidates
    against Lassa, Nipah, and coronaviruses, among others; and the
    launch of a new Disease X Vaccine Library with six viral families
    prioritized as high risk.

<!-- -->

-   **Innovation in TB and HIV prevention and treatment.** Pretomanid, a
    treatment for drug-resistant TB, developed with support from the
    National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the U.S. Agency for
    International Development (USAID), has reduced TB treatment time
    from up to 18 months to 6 months and dramatically improved outcomes.
    New long-acting HIV/AIDS prevention options such as cabotegravir, a
    single bi-monthly injection, could avert many new future HIV
    infections in low- and middle-income countries. The dapivirine
    vaginal ring, a long-acting HIV prevention tool, is a breakthrough
    innovation that offers women another method of discreet protection.

<!-- -->

-   **New products to address drug-resistant infections.** BARDA is
    investing over $2 billion in new products to address drug-resistant
    infections that have resulted in 10 therapeutics and diagnostics
    receiving Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval or clearance
    and revitalizing late-stage antimicrobial product development across
    dozens of products for both adults and children.

**Building Sustainable Global Manufacturing and Supply Chain Capacity**

The United States is investing in sustainable and resilient global
medical manufacturing and supply chain capacity. Robust systems for
production and delivery of MCMs not only helps improve health – ensuring
more people are able to routinely receive life-saving vaccines and
therapeutics like antiretrovirals (ARVs) – they also serve as an
essential foundation for effective emergency response. Sustainable
systems must provide the infrastructure, resilience, quality assurance,
operational efficiency, steady demand, and public confidence necessary
to respond promptly and effectively to emergencies while ensuring the
continuity of essential healthcare services. Examples of United States
investments in sustainable manufacturing systems include:

-   **U.S. Development Finance Corporation (DFC) finances and catalyzes
    investments** by the private sector and other development finance
    institutions in health commodity manufacturing and supply chain for
    MCMs in developing countries, with a focus on Africa. DFC, along
    with International Finance Corporation and other like-minded
    development finance institutions (DFIs), is supporting the Institut
    Pasteur de Dakar in Senegal to become a key hub in the African
    Union’s vaccine production network. DFC previously provided a $3.3
    million technical assistance grant for early-stage project
    development and is evaluating additional financing for expansion of
    the industrial-scale facility. DFC is also working with peer DFIs to
    provide working capital to regional manufacturers to enable
    producers to pivot and scale up efforts during a health emergency.

<!-- -->

-   **Accelerating the expansion of vaccine manufacturing in Africa.**
    The United States is supporting Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance (Gavi),
    working in collaboration with the Africa Centres for Disease Control
    and Prevention (Africa CDC), to establish the African Vaccine
    Manufacturing Accelerator, a $1 billion advanced market commitment
    financial instrument that would provide financial support over the
    next ten years to accelerate the expansion of commercially viable
    vaccine manufacturing in Africa.

<!-- -->

-   **Sourcing MCMs from African manufacturers.** The United States is
    sourcing MCMs from African producers to address African needs
    through programs such as the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS
    Relief (PEPFAR) and the President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI). PEPFAR
    aims to procure 15 million HIV tests produced in Africa by 2025, and
    work alongside other partners to shift 2 million patients on
    first-line ARV treatments to African-produced products. Since 2023,
    PEPFAR has procured nearly 100,000 HIV tests from the Africa-based
    manufacturers towards that goal, and has worked with the World
    Health Organization (WHO), the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
    Tuberculosis, and Malaria (Global Fund) and Unitaid to launch an
    open Expert Review Panel for Diagnostics for African manufacturers
    of HIV rapid tests to accelerate the availability of HIV rapid tests
    produced in Africa. PMI is committed to building a more resilient
    supply chain and is leveraging its procurement volume to accelerate
    growth in African regional manufacturing. PMI is actively working,
    in coordination with partners like the Global Fund and Medicines for
    Malaria Ventures, to increase the number of African suppliers they
    procure from and their share of PMI’s total procurement. In FY 2023,
    PMI doubled the share of its procurements sourced from Africa to 10
    percent.

<!-- -->

-   **Medical supply chain studies in the Americas Region.** Through the
    Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity, the United States is
    working closely with the Inter-American Development Bank to carry
    out supply chain competitiveness studies in three critical sectors:
    clean energy, semiconductors, and medical supplies.

**Providing Vaccines, Tests and Treatments and Supporting Delivery**

The Biden-Harris Administration provides MCMs for ongoing and emergency
health threats, and makes significant long-term investments to support
country readiness to receive, deliver and effectively use vaccines,
tests, PPE and treatments. These investments range from bed nets to
protect children and families from malaria, to ARVs for those living
with HIV, to supporting skilled health workers, and to MCMs to support
outbreak response. Examples include:

-   **Provision of HIV treatment.** The PEPFAR program continues to
    support the African continent with the provision of more than $700
    million in health commodities to African HIV programs in 2023,
    alongside the more than $2.1 billion in health commodities provided
    to Africa in 2023 through the Global Fund, to which the United
    States is the largest donor.   

<!-- -->

-   **Provision of and improvement in Ebola treatments.** Since the
    2014-2016 outbreak of Ebola in West Africa, the Department of Health
    and Human Services (HHS) Administration for Strategic Preparedness
    and Response (ASPR) has worked with impacted nations to supply the
    standard-of-care treatments for Ebola patients. In 2018, HHS made
    existing therapeutics available to support the international
    response to the second largest Ebola outbreak in history, partnering
    with researchers in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) on a
    randomized controlled trial that demonstrated superior efficacy of
    two therapeutics. The United States has since made those treatments
    available to impacted nations and WHO in every outbreak of Ebola in
    Africa since 2018. This includes an outbreak in Guinea in February
    2021 in which U.S.-supplied therapeutic doses were available for use
    in a remote Guinean treatment facility less than one week after the
    identification of the first case.

<!-- -->

-   **Public-private partnerships to deliver vaccines.** Project Last
    Mile collaborates with regional Coca-Cola bottlers and suppliers to
    strengthen public health systems capacity in supply chain. This
    partnership between the Coca-Cola Company and Foundation, the Bill
    and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Global Fund, and USAID applies
    Coca-Cola’s expertise in route-to-market, cold chain, and marketing
    for improved vaccine distribution and uptake. 

<!-- -->

-   **Responding to mpox outbreaks.** The Biden-Harris Administration is
    currently working to make a vaccine available to African nations
    where mpox is endemic. For all donations, technical experts from
    ASPR, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and
    NIH are supporting the recipient nation in the development of
    vaccination strategies based on local epidemiology. Discussions
    about vaccine donations are ongoing with multiple countries,
    including DRC, which is responding to an unprecedented surge in mpox
    cases.

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting access to medicines in Ukraine.** Since the start of
    Russia’s full-scale war against Ukraine on February 24, 2022, the
    United States has focused on meeting Ukraine’s urgent needs, while
    maintaining support for long-term development goals. For example, in
    March 2022, USAID rapidly expanded support for Ukraine’s public
    health supply chain systems, enabling Ukraine to transparently and
    efficiently receive, distribute and account for more than $400
    million in medicines and supplies donated from around the world
    during the first six months of the war, helping to sustain access to
    lifesaving medicines.

**Expanding Pandemic Response Financing**

Since Day One, the Biden-Harris Administration has prioritized
transforming the global financing architecture to better support
pandemic prevention, preparedness and response. One of the causes of
disparities in delivery times for vaccines and medical countermeasures
in the COVID-19 response was that many health organizations and national
health systems lacked the capital they needed to place early orders with
vaccine manufacturers. Ensuring funding is available to accelerate MCM
access during health emergencies is vital for achieving health security.

-   **Supporting multilateral development bank (MDB) evolution.** MDBs
    have a key role to play in helping countries address global
    challenges. The United States is working with other shareholders to
    evolve the visions, incentive structures, operational approaches,
    and financial capacity of the MDBs to equip these institutions to
    respond to transboundary global challenges with sufficient speed and
    scale. The United States and other shareholders have urged the World
    Bank to prioritize pandemics along with climate change and
    fragility, and in response it has expanded its crisis preparedness
    and response toolkit and announced a Global Challenge Program aimed
    at enhancing health emergency prevention, preparedness, and
    response.  The United States is also exploring how the World Bank
    can strengthen partnerships, enable coordinated and right-timed
    financing in the event of a pandemic, and help client countries
    assess critical pandemic preparedness gaps. 

<!-- -->

-   **G7 partnership on surge financing.** The DFC is partnering with G7
    DFIs to transform institutional capacity individually and
    collectively to effectively provide surge financing for procurement,
    production, and delivery of medical countermeasures in low- and
    middle-income countries. This partnership is working toward the
    launch of at least two new DFI-led and shared MCM surge financing
    facilities in 2024 and is working to develop viable options, with
    the G7 DFIs, including the European Investment Bank and IFC, to
    enhance pooled procurement instruments and delivery of tests,
    treatments, supplies and vaccines, by the end of 2024.

<!-- -->

-   **Support for Gavi’s Day Zero Financing Facility.** The United
    States has supported Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance in establishing the
    Day Zero Financing Facility, a suite of tools that will mobilize,
    for example, up to $2 billion in risk-tolerant surge and contingent
    capital to enable Gavi to quickly meet the demand for vaccines in a
    pandemic. The United States also supports the roles of CEPI, the
    Global Fund, and other regional and multilateral organizations in
    the development of analogous capacity to surge financing for MCMs.

<!-- -->

-   **Support for the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator (ACT-A).**
    The United States was the world’s largest donor to ACT-A and
    provided global leadership to raise additional billions in critical
    funding through the U.S.-hosted and co-hosted Global COVID-19
    Summits to save lives globally, end the pandemic, and build stronger
    health security.

**Strengthening Regulatory and Legal Systems**

Under President Biden’s leadership, the United States is working to
promote and strengthen global regulatory and legal systems to better
prepare for health emergencies and otherwise ensure the safety, efficacy
and accessibility of MCMs. Examples include:

-   **Strengthening regulatory systems.** FDA advances multi-lateral and
    bilateral regulatory systems strengthening by providing technical
    support to FDA counterparts in foreign countries and international
    organizations as part of cooperative regulatory activities. The
    United States also actively engages in diverse multilateral health
    and regulatory forums such as the International Coalition of
    Medicines Regulatory Authorities, International Convention on
    Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals of Human
    Use, and the International Medical Device Regulators Forum to inform
    internationally recognized technical guidance documents, standards
    and scientific principles, common or similar practices and
    procedures, related to MCMs. FDA also provides technical assistance
    to WHO’s efforts.

<!-- -->

-   **Support for the Legal Preparedness Action Package.** The HHS
    Office of Global Affairs (OGA) and CDC co-Chair the Global Health
    Security Agenda (GHSA) Legal Preparedness Action Package to develop
    and promote guidance and capacity building tools on legal mapping,
    regulatory strengthening, and liability risk management with a
    network of experts from around the world to support efforts in
    strengthening legal preparedness, including to promote equitable
    access to medical countermeasures.

\###
