---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 18:18:03-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-wasteful-spending-on-big-pharma-big-oil-and-other-special-interests-cracks-down-on-systemic-fraud-and-makes-programs-more-cost-effective-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Cuts Wasteful Spending on Big Pharma,\
  \ Big Oil, and Other Special Interests, Cracks Down on Systemic Fraud, and Makes\
  \ Programs More Cost\_Effective"
---
 
The President’s FY 2025 Budget lays out President Biden’s plan to lower
costs for families, invest in America and the American people, uphold
the President’s commitment to protecting and strengthening Medicare and
Social Security, and reduce the deficit.

Alongside major reforms to the individual and corporate tax codes to
ensure that the wealthy and big corporations pay their fair share, the
Budget cuts wasteful spending on Big Pharma, Big Oil, and other special
interests, cracks down on systemic fraud and identity theft, and makes
programs more efficient and cost-effective. These proposals build on
measures President Biden has already signed into law, including the
first-ever Medicare prescription drug negotiation program, a new minimum
tax on the largest corporations, and investments to ensure that the
wealthy and large corporations pay the taxes that they owe. All told,
the President’s Budget improves the fiscal outlook by reducing the
deficit by about $3 trillion over the next decade. The Budget is able to
achieve this deficit reduction even while making investments that lower
costs for families, strengthen our economy and our future, and protect
the most vulnerable Americans because it proposes tax reforms to ensure
the wealthy and large corporations pay their fair share and tackles
wasteful special interest giveaways.

Congressional Republicans have so far rejected this approach to reducing
the deficit, just as they have rejected reducing the deficit by asking
the wealthy and big corporations to pay their fair share in taxes. In
fact, Republicans are actively fighting to increase giveaways to [Big
Pharma](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/14/the-congressional-republican-agenda-on-prescription-drugs-giveaways-to-big-pharma-and-higher-costs-for-seniors-and-families/)
and [Big
Oil](https://hern.house.gov/uploadedfiles/202306141135_fy24_rsc_budget_print_final_c.pdf)
and make it easier for the wealthy to cheat on their taxes. Meanwhile,
Republican members of Congress continue to
[propose](https://budget.house.gov/imo/media/doc/reverse_the_curse_fy2024-fy2033_budget_blueprint.pdf)
cuts to Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act,
and other programs critical to seniors and middle-class and working
families.

President Biden will always reject cuts that take away people’s health
care, raise costs for seniors, people with disabilities, middle-class
families, and students, increase poverty, or reverse our economic
progress. But—as his Budget shows—he stands ready to work with members
of both parties to cut wasteful spending on special interests and crack
down on systemic fraud. 

***Cuts Wasteful Spending on Big Pharma***

Building on the prescription drug reforms in the Inflation Reduction
Act, **the President’s Budget:**

**Negotiates Lower Drug Prices and Expands Access to Prescription
Drugs.** Thanks to action taken by this Administration, millions of
seniors and people with disabilities are saving money on their drug
costs, and the Administration announced the first ten drugs for which
prices will be negotiated by Medicare as it continues implementation of
the Inflation Reduction Act. The Budget builds on this success by
significantly increasing the pace of negotiation, bringing more drugs
into negotiation sooner after they launch, expanding the Inflation
Reduction Act’s inflation rebates and $2,000 out-of-pocket prescription
drug cost cap beyond Medicare and into the commercial market, and other
steps to build on the Inflation Reduction Act drug provisions.

**Strengthens** **the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program.** While drug
manufacturers are already required to pay rebates to Medicaid, the
Budget will give the Department of Health and Human Services the
authority to negotiate additional, supplemental Medicaid drug rebates on
behalf of states in order to pool and increase purchasing power. In
addition, the Budget allows states to extend Medicaid drug rebates to
separate Children’s Health Insurance Programs. These actions will reduce
federal spending by almost $7.5 billion, help lower prescription drug
spending, and ensure that both states and the federal government are
prudent purchasers of prescription drugs.

***Cuts Other Wasteful Spending on Special Interests***

The Budget proposes to eliminate wasteful corporate subsidies, whether
these are delivered through federal programs or through the tax code.
**The President’s Budget:**

**Eliminates** **Tax Subsidies for Oil and Gas.** The President is
committed to ending tens of billions of dollars of federal tax subsidies
for oil and gas companies. Even as they benefit from billions of dollars
in special tax breaks, oil companies have failed to invest in
production. For the last two years, they have realized record profits,
but instead of lowering prices for consumers or investing these funds,
they have undertaken record stock buybacks, mergers, and acquisitions
that benefited executives and wealthy shareholders. The Budget saves $35
billion by eliminating special tax treatment for oil and gas company
investments, as well as other fossil fuel tax preferences. 

**Invests in Prevention and Treatment Options for HIV/AIDS, Hepatitis C,
and Vaccine-Preventable Diseases to Reduce Costs.** The Budget will
lower Medicaid costs by over $10 billion by requiring that insurance
companies pay Medicaid back when they are charging far more than they
actually spend on patient care. Currently, only about half of states
require private insurance companies that provide Medicaid coverage to
pay money back when they realize outsize profits. Without this
requirement, insurance companies are keeping [millions of
dollars](https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/OEI-03-20-00230.pdf) each year
in excessive payments. The Budget would apply this requirement
nationwide, consistent with similar requirements in Medicare Advantage
and Affordable Care Act plans. With it, insurance companies will no
longer be able to charge for unnecessary administrative expenses or
sacrifice quality patient care to increase their profit margins, and if
they charge too much, they will have to pay it back to the Medicaid
program rather than keeping the profits and, in some cases, making
larger payments to shareholders.

**Eliminates** **Tax Subsidies for Real Estate.** The Budget saves $20
billion by closing the “like-kind exchange” loophole, a special tax
subsidy for real estate. This loophole lets real estate investors—but
not investors in any other asset—put off paying tax on profits from
deals indefinitely as long as they keep investing in real estate. This
amounts to an indefinite interest free loan from the government. Real
estate is the only asset that gets this sweetheart deal.

***Cracks Down on Bad Actors, Systemic Fraud, and Identity Theft***

The Administration is committed to improving program integrity and
ensuring effective stewardship of taxpayer dollars, including through
implementation of the American Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation
Reduction Act. To deliver on those commitments, the Administration has
provided agencies with the tools to strengthen program integrity and
deliver results. The President has made clear that results,
transparency, and accountability go hand-in-hand, which is why the
Budget includes robust legislative and funding proposals that would
ensure agencies and their Inspectors General have the resources and
authorities they need for appropriate oversight of these programs. The
Budget ensures additional resources and time for investigations and
prosecution of those engaged in major or systemic pandemic fraud,
invests in identity theft and fraud prevention to stop fraud before
funds are ever paid out, and provides much-needed help for innocent
victims recovering from having their identities and benefits stolen.

Building on that progress, the Budget includes proposals to crack down
on systemic fraud and identity theft, hold bad actors accountable, and
cut or recoup spending stolen by the most sophisticated criminals. Each
dollar spent on enforcement and oversight saves American taxpayers
exponentially more. **The President’s Budget:** 

**Cracks Down on Wealthy and Big Corporate Tax Cheats.** The Inflation
Reduction Act addressed long-standing Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
funding deficiencies by providing stable, multi-year funding to improve
tax compliance by finally cracking down on high-income individuals and
corporations who too often avoided paying their lawfully owed taxes, and
to improve service for the millions of Americans that do pay their
taxes. Already, the IRS is using these resources to crack down on tax
evasion by the wealthy and big businesses. For example, it is collecting
taxes owed by tax-delinquent millionaires and addressing complex tax
schemes used by the largest partnerships and multinational corporations,
along with improving customer service and modernizing IT infrastructure.
The Budget proposes to restore the full Inflation Reduction Act
investment and provide new funding over the long-term to continue
cutting the deficit by making sure that wealthy Americans and big
corporations pay the taxes they owe. This investment will raise over
$340 billion in additional revenue over the next decade.

**Pursues, Investigates, and Punishes Systemic Fraudsters.** Past
underinvestment in basic government technology and the crush of demand
during the pandemic, combined with decisions to take down basic fraud
controls at the onset of the pandemic, led to a historic degree of
outright fraud and identity theft of emergency benefits. The Budget will
empower law enforcement, investigators, and watchdogs to pursue,
investigate, punish, and recover money from those who were engaged in
the most major or sophisticated frauds—from well-off individuals who
took hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of dollars from taxpayers
to sophisticated criminal syndicates engaging in systemic identity
theft. It will extend the statute of limitations for serious instances
of fraud in pandemic programs, and would extend the statute of
limitations for the Employee Retention Tax Credit, giving the IRS the
time it needs to evaluate potentially erroneous claims and crack down on
bad actors. The Budget would also increase funding to triple the number
of COVID-19 Fraud Strike Forces, provide historic funding to Inspectors
General in agencies hit the hardest by Pandemic fraud who are saving
billions already with funds provided by the Administration, and expand
analytic tools to audit and investigate possible fraud. Investigators
and watchdogs have already recovered or prevented billions of dollars
from being stolen, enabling these programs to better serve eligible
Americans.  

**Invests in Fraud Prevention and Stopping Identity Theft.** The
pandemic exposed significant vulnerabilities in our government benefits
systems, especially in regard to preventing systemic identity theft as a
means to steal benefits designed for Americans coping with the health
and economic impacts of the pandemic. The Budget proposes significant
resources to support stronger preventative steps to prevent identity
theft in public benefits, including funding to establish a permanent
antifraud data and analytics capability analogous to the Pandemic
Response Accountability Committee’s (PRAC) Pandemic Analytics Center of
Excellence, and significant investments in Inspectors General to ensure
lessons learned are applied going forward.

**Combats** **Identity Theft and Other Unemployment Insurance (UI)
Fraud.** Emergency unemployment benefits were a critical lifeline for
millions of workers who lost jobs through no fault of their own during
the pandemic. But the pandemic exposed the need for stronger fraud
prevention systems and greater investment in technology to modernize
unemployment systems. The Biden Administration changed the previous
Administration’s policy to allow the oversight community quick access to
all State information necessary to stop billions of dollars in systemic
multi-state UI fraud. The Administration also secured significant
funding in the American Rescue Plan to help 53 states and territories
modernize and prevent future fraud and identity theft, while protecting
benefits for workers who have earned them. The Budget builds on this
work with new proposals for modernizing, protecting, and strengthening
the UI program that will lead to over $3 billion in budgetary savings.
These provisions will tackle fraud, support more robust identity
verification for UI applicants, help states develop and test
fraud-prevention tools and strategies, and increase investigations of
fraud rings targeting the UI program. For example, these reforms would
require States to use the National Directory of New Hires and prisoner
datasets to check UI claims and allow States to use 5 percent of
recovered fraudulent overpayments for improper payment prevention and
recovery. These proposals are designed to provide states with new tools
and resources to combat UI fraud and reduce and recoup fraudulent and
other improper payments and contrast with congressional Republican
proposals that could actually impede and distract from efforts to
address systemic fraud.

**Expands Penalties When Employers Violate Workers’ Rights to Organize,
Receive Fair Wages, or Have a Safe and Healthy Workplace Free from
Discrimination**. For too long, employers have only received a slap on
the wrist—at most—when they fire or retaliate against workers for
exercising their right to organize and collectively bargain, steal wages
from workers, force workers to work in unsafe conditions, exploit
children, or otherwise flagrantly violate the Nation’s labor laws. To
create meaningful deterrence for employers from violating workers’
rights, ensure those who do violate their rights are held accountable,
and level the playing field for responsible employers, the Budget
proposes instituting and significantly increasing penalties levied by
the Department of Labor, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission,
and the National Labor Relations Board for employers that violate
workplace safety and, health, wage and hour, child labor, equal
opportunity, and labor organizing rules. This will deter employers from
violating workers’ rights, leveling the playing field for responsible
employers, and ensure those who do violate their rights are held
accountable, while also increasing federal government collections.

***Cuts Wasteful Spending Through the Tax Code***

The Budget cuts wasteful spending through the tax code and ends tax
loopholes that provide billions of dollars in unwarranted subsidies to
high-income people with the ability to exploit them. **The President’s
Budget:**

**Prevents** **Wealthy Investment Fund Managers from Avoiding Tax on
Their Earnings.** The carried interest loophole allows wealthy
investment managers to pay a 20 percent rate on the pay they receive for
managing fund assets, instead of the current 37 percent rate that
comparable wage earners pay. This loophole has allowed some investment
fund managers to pay lower taxes than many American workers. The Budget
would finally close this loophole, saving $7 billion.

**Ends** **Loopholes that Let Billionaires Exploit Middle-Class
Retirement Savings Incentives.** Tax breaks for retirement savings are
supposed to help middle-class workers put a little aside for the future.
But some billionaires have used a loophole in the law to accumulate tens
of millions of dollars in tax-favored retirement accounts—far in excess
of what’s needed for retirement security—and never taking distributions
from those accounts. The Budget limits the amount taxpayers with incomes
over $400,000 can hold in tax-favored retirement accounts, along with
other safeguards to prevent abuse of these accounts by some of the
nation’s wealthiest individuals. These reforms will save $24 billion.

**Cracks Down on Corporate Jet Loopholes.** The Budget eliminates a tax
break that gives preferential treatment for writing off corporate jet
purchases, compared to commercial aircraft. It would also increase the
fuel tax on corporate and private jet travel, so that corporate
executives and other wealthy Americans pay their fair share for the use
of airspace and other public services related to air travel. Together,
these reforms will save $4 billion.

**Eliminates** **Tax Subsidies for Cryptocurrency Transactions.** The
Budget saves $26 billion by eliminating a special tax subsidy for crypto
currency and certain other transactions. Right now, crypto investors
aren’t subject to the same rules of the road that investors in stocks or
other securities have to follow, allowing them to report excessive
losses. For example, a crypto investor—unlike an investor in stocks or
bonds—can sell a cryptocurrency at a loss, take a substantial tax loss
to reduce their tax burden, and then buy back that same cryptocurrency
the very next day. The Budget eliminates this tax subsidy for crypto
currencies by modernizing the tax code’s anti-abuse rules to apply to
crypto assets just like they apply to stocks and other securities.

**Ends Life Insurance-Related Tax Shelters.** Insurance companies have
developed abusive tax shelters that take advantage of tax benefits
available for life insurance. The Budget cracks down on these tax
shelters used by the very wealthy, while preserving the tax benefits for
life insurance for everyday Americans. The Budget ends tax benefits for
“private placement life insurance,” which is a customized investment
product sold only to the very wealthy—who generally pay annual premiums
at least $1 million a year, and often substantially more, for these
policies—the opportunity to earn substantial tax-free or tax-deferred
investment income. It would also address loopholes related to
business-owned life insurance policies taken out on the business’s
officers and employees and “frozen cash value” contracts that exploit
weak insurance regulations in certain foreign jurisdictions to avoid
U.S. income taxes. These proposals would raise $14 billion.

***Saves Taxpayer Dollars by Making Programs More Cost Effective***

The Budget also proposes reforms to save taxpayer dollars by making
programs more efficient and effective at a lower cost to the American
people. **The President’s Budget:**

**Lower Medicaid Spending by Expanding Access to Prevention and
Treatment Options for HIV/AIDs and Hepatitis C.** The Budget invests in
the treatment and prevention of infectious diseases, including Hepatitis
C, HIV, and vaccine-preventable diseases. The Budget proposes a national
program to significantly expand screening, testing, treatment,
prevention, and monitoring of Hepatitis C infections in the United
States, with a specific focus on populations with high infection levels.
To help end the HIV epidemic, the Budget eliminates barriers to
accessing PrEP for Medicaid beneficiaries and proposes a new mandatory
program to guarantee PrEP at no cost for all uninsured and underinsured
individuals and provide essential wrap-around services. In addition, the
Budget proposes a new Vaccines for Adults program to provide uninsured
adults with access to routine and outbreak vaccines at no cost. The
Budget also expands the Vaccines for Children program to include all
children under age 19 enrolled in CHIP and covers the vaccine
administration fee for all VFC-eligible uninsured children.

**Extends** **Spectrum Auctions.** The Budget proposes to extend
authority for the Federal Communications Commission to auction radio
spectrum, which is an important national resource needed for a wide
variety of uses including high-speed Internet, satellite communications,
radio broadcasting, national security, and public safety. Managing
diverse and sometimes competing demands requires planning and
coordination. Ensuring the government can make efficient use of this
valuable and finite resource will generate over $54 billion in savings.

**Eliminate Duplicative or Inefficient Programs.** The Budget proposes
to eliminate programs that provide inefficient reimbursements or operate
less effectively than programs with similar missions, including the
State Criminal Alien Assistance Program.

**Consolidations to Increase Program Efficiency.** The Budget
streamlines programs to be more effective, including a proposal that
will increase funding for the flagship Community Development Financial
Institution assistance program by eliminating duplicative
program-specific funding requirements.**  **

\###
