---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 18:51:53-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-tackles-crime-keeps-americans-safe-at-home/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Tackles Crime, Keeps Americans Safe\
  \ at\_Home"
---
 
From the day he was sworn in, President Biden has taken bold action to
reduce crime and make America’s communities safer. He has worked to fund
effective, accountable policing; invest in intervention and prevention
strategies; and keep especially dangerous guns off our streets and out
of dangerous hands. From combatting hate in America’s communities to
tackling gun violence, the Biden-Harris Administration has worked
tirelessly to keep Americans safe. The President’s American Rescue
Plan—which every Republican in Congress opposed—helped states and over
one thousand cities, towns, and counties across the country invest over
$15 billion in public safety and violence prevention. Communities have
invested those funds to support additional police officers, expand
community violence intervention, add crisis responders, and more. The
President signed and is continuing to implement a historic Executive
Order to advance police reform. The President took on the gun lobby and
signed the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act into law, the first
significant gun violence legislation in nearly 30 years, which includes
enhanced background checks for buyers under 21 who pose a danger to
themselves and others, expanded mental health programs, and support for
implementation of red flag laws that keep guns away from dangerous
people. The President also created the first-ever White House Office of
Gun Violence Prevention in American history, overseen by the Vice
President, and has announced nearly 40 executive actions to keep guns
out of dangerous hands. Working with Congress, the Administration
secured the greatest increase in funding in the Nation’s history for the
physical security of non-profits—including churches, gurdwaras, mosques,
synagogues, temples, and other places of worship. The Administration has
also delivered the most funding ever for the bipartisan Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA) to combat gender-based violence, in addition to issuing
our nation’s first-ever National Plan to End Gender-Based Violence.

The President and Vice President continue to take other action to combat
hate which undermines democracy, including by releasing the first-ever
[National Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/U.S.-National-Strategy-to-Counter-Antisemitism.pdf),
[announcing the
development](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/01/statement-from-white-house-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-on-president-bidens-establishment-of-first-ever-national-strategy-to-counter-islamophobia/)
of a National Strategy to Counter Islamophobia and Related Forms of Bias
and Discrimination, signing legislation to enhance State and local law
enforcement’s ability to respond to hate crimes, and signing legislation
to make lynching a federal crime. The President and Vice President have
continued to speak out against discrimination, racism, sexism,
anti-LGBTQI+ hate, and more—so that all Americans can live freely and
without fear of attack or harassment. 

The President and Vice President continue to call on Republicans in
Congress to listen to the majority of Americans—and the majority of
gunowners—who want to see more commonsense gun safety measures, such as
universal background checks, a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity
magazines, an end to the gun industry’s immunity from liability, and the
passing of a national red flag law, and to support additional lifesaving
law enforcement actions, rather than standing in the way. In order to
keep Americans safe, **the President’s Budget**: 

***Tackles Crime, Protects Victims***

**Pursues New Mandatory Investments to Combat Violent Crime and Support
Victims.** The Budget builds upon the Safer America Plan by investing an
additional $1.2 billion over five years to launch a new Violent Crime
Reduction and Prevention Fund to give federal, state, local, Tribal, and
territorial law enforcement the dedicated, seasoned support they need to
focus on violent crime. This includes hiring new Federal law enforcement
agents, prosecutors, and forensic specialists to address violent crime;
expand Federal operations to combat fentanyl and apprehend dangerous
fugitives; and support the hiring of 4,700 detectives at the State and
local level to drive down the high rate of unsolved homicides, non-fatal
shootings, and other violent crimes and the lengthy delays that
undermine public trust and public safety. The Budget also includes $1.9
billion for the U.S. Marshals Service to support efforts to reduce
violent crime, including through fugitive apprehension and enforcement
operations, as well as $7.3 billion to replenish the Crime Victims Fund
and ensure a stable and predictable source of funding is available to
support critical victim service and compensation programs over the next
decade.

**Supports Effective and Accountable State, Local, and Tribal Law
Enforcement and Public Safety.** The Budget supports the President’s
Safer America Plan which aims to protect U.S. communities and promote
public safety with evidence-informed strategies that promote effective
and accountable crime prevention. Specifically, the Budget provides $3.7
billion in discretionary resources at the Department of Justice (DOJ)
for State and local grants to enhance public safety, as well as $31.8
billion in mandatory resources to support programs associated with the
President’s Safer America Plan. This includes $1.5 billion in mandatory
funding to support Community Violence Intervention (CVI) programs at DOJ
over the next 10 years and $10.9 billion in support of the President’s
goal to recruit, train, support, and hire 100,000 additional police
officers for effective, accountable community policing consistent with
the standards of the President’s Executive Order on Advancing Effective,
Accountable Policing and Criminal Justice Practices to Enhance Public
Trust and Public Safety. The Budget, through the Safer America Plan,
further supports the evidence-informed training and technical assistance
of law enforcement on topics including crime control and deterrence
tactics, community engagement, use of force, interacting with people
with disabilities, and responding to persons in mental health crisis and
to domestic violence calls, while providing funds to support the
purchase and operation of body-worn cameras, modernize police academies
and training, comprehensively reform public safety systems, and combat
crime to keep the Nation’s streets safe. Through FEMA, the Budget
invests $385 million for the Nonprofit Security Grant Program, an
increase of $80 million above the 2023 enacted level, to support the
physical security of community institutions and non-profits—including
churches, gurdwaras, mosques, synagogues, temples, and other places of
worship, as well as minority-serving institutions and Historically Black
Colleges and Universities. At the Department of the Interior, the Budget
invests $703 million in Tribal Public Safety and Justice programs and
related construction, supporting critical law enforcement needs in
Indian Country and the vital work of Tribal courts.

**Prioritizes Efforts to End Gender-Based Violence.** The Administration
has prioritized funding for programs under VAWA, which was reauthorized
and strengthened in 2022. Since 2021, DOJ’s funding for VAWA programs
has increased by over 36 percent, and the President’s Budget proposes
further expanding this funding to $800 million. This increase includes
key investments in sexual assault services, transitional housing, and
legal assistance for survivors. Moreover, the Budget strongly supports
underserved and Tribal communities by providing $15 million for
culturally-speciﬁc services, $5 million for underserved populations, $25
million to assist enforcement of Tribal special domestic violence
jurisdiction, $3 million to support Tribal Special Assistant U.S.
Attorneys, and $10 million for a new special initiative to address
Missing and Murdered Indigenous People (MMIP).  The Budget also provides
$10 million in innovative funding to address technology-facilitated
abuse through VAWA programs that address cybercrimes against
individuals, including the non-consensual distribution of intimate
images. In addition, the Budget provides $55 million to the Ofﬁce of
Justice Programs for the Sexual Assault Kit Initiative to address the
rape kit backlog.

***Addresses the Gun Violence Epidemic***

**Invests in Federal Law Enforcement to Combat Gun Violence.** The
Budget makes significant investments to bolster Federal law enforcement
capacity to strengthen public safety. The Budget includes $17.7 billion
for DOJ law enforcement, including $2.0 billion, an increase of over 30
percent since 2021, for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives (ATF) to implement the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. This
increase reflects the President’s commitment to reducing gun violence by
arresting and prosecuting illegal firearm traffickers and preventing
guns from falling into dangerous hands. These investments support the
full implementation of the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act in closing
legal loopholes that allowed illegal firearms traffickers to evade
justice. The Budget also includes an additional $51 million for the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to support the continued
implementation of enhanced background checks, a key provision of the
Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. 

**Helps Communities Respond to and Recover from Gun Violence.** Gun
violence is a significant public health problem in the United States and
is the leading cause of death for children and teens. The effects of gun
violence extend beyond victims and their families. Gun violence can
overwhelm communities and leads to short- and long-term needs. The
Budget invests a total of $2.5 billion in discretionary and mandatory
funds over 10 years in the Center for Disease Control (CDC) to support
an evidence-informed community violence initiative, and an additional
$2.5 billion in discretionary and mandatory funds over 10 years for DOJ
grants to support state and local community violence intervention
programs to support the President’s commitment to provide $5 billion
over 10 years for CVI programs. The initiative would address the causes
of violence in communities and help reduce the health inequities that
characterize such violence across the United States. The Budget also
includes $60 million for gun violence research across CDC and National
Institute of Health (NIH).

***Makes Communities Safer***

**Combats Narcotics Trafficking Networks.** The Budget provides $3.3
billion to the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to combat drug
trafficking, including $1.2 billion to combat opioid trafficking, save
lives, and make our communities safer. The Budget invests an additional
$18 million in Domestic Counter-Fentanyl Threat Targeting Teams at the
DEA to enhance America’s fight against the transnational criminal
networks pushing deadly illicit fentanyl in America’s communities. These
interdisciplinary teams of special agents, intelligence analysts, and
data experts will map criminal organizations and build cases that lead
to the dismantlement of entire drug trafficking networks and the
deprivation of hundreds of millions of dollars to the Sinaloa and
Jalisco cartels. In addition, the Budget provides $494 million in grants
supporting efforts to address substance use, including $190 million for
the Comprehensive Opioid, Stimulant, and Substance Use Program, $95
million to support Drug Courts, and $51 million for anti-drug task
forces.

**Disrupts the International Synthetic Drug Trade.**The Budget includes
$169 million to State for countering fentanyl and other synthetic drug
production and trafficking. These resources would counter the worldwide
flow of fentanyl and other synthetics that endanger public safety and
health, and contribute to tens of thousands of drug-overdose deaths in
the United States annually. The Budget also reiterates the
[Administration’s October 2023
request](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/10/20/letter-regarding-critical-national-security-funding-needs-for-fy-2024/)
for $1.2 billion at DHS and DOJ to counter fentanyl trafficking and
prevent the movement of dangerous drugs into the United States.

**Counters Cyber Threats.** In line with the National Cybersecurity
Strategy that emphasizes a whole-of-Nation approach to addressing
ongoing cyber threats, the Budget makes critical investments across the
Federal government to protect and defend sensitive agency systems and
information, including those designated as high-value assets, and to
safeguard the American public’s sensitive data housed within these
systems against future attacks. This includes investments to expand DHS
and DOJ’s ability to pursue threats through investments in FBI’s cyber
and counterintelligence investigative capabilities, and in CISA’s
internal cybersecurity and analytical capabilities. Cyber attacks on the
healthcare system disrupt patient care and put patient safety at risk,
and the healthcare system continues to be a target for cyber criminals.
Through proposed changes to Medicare, funding is available to bolster
HHS’s cybersecurity efforts, including $800 million to help high-need,
low-resourced hospitals cover the upfront costs associated with
implementing essential cybersecurity practices, and $500 million for an
incentive program to encourage all hospitals to invest in advanced
cybersecurity practices.  The Budget also provides $141 million to
continue strengthening HHS’s ability to protect and defend HHS systems
and information while supporting the Healthcare and Public Health
Sector.

***Improves the Fairness and Effectiveness of the Criminal Justice
System***

**Promotes Equity Across the Justice System.** The Budget invests over
$10 million in the Office of the Access to Justice to support its work
to increase the availability of legal assistance and eliminate barriers
to legal access based on economic, demographic, and geographic factors.
In addition, the Budget renews its investment in the Office of
Environmental Justice to protect overburdened and disadvantaged
communities from the harms caused by environmental crimes, pollution,
and climate change. The Budget further invests in State and local
efforts to promote equity and protect civil rights, including
$10 million for a new initiative to modernize outdated criminal statutes
with a discriminatory impact on HIV-positive individuals, $50 million in
VAWA programs specifically focused on delivering equitable services, and
$50 million for programs to combat hate crimes.

**Combats Hate Crimes and Reinvigorates Federal Civil Rights
Enforcement**. In order to address longstanding inequities and
strengthen civil rights protections, the Budget invests $201 million in
the DOJ Civil Rights Division. These resources would support police
reform via pattern-or-practice investigations, prosecuting hate crimes,
enforcing voting rights, and ensuring access to justice. In addition,
the Budget provides a total of $2.8 billion for the U.S. Attorneys,
which includes funding for 50 new attorneys to prosecute violent crimes.
The Budget also requests $15 million for the Khalid Jabara-Heather Heyer
NO HATE Acts, to provide grants for states and local governments to
improve data collection and hate crime prevention methods.

\###
