---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-11 13:02:52-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-lowers-costs-for-the-american-people/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Lowers Costs for the American\_People"
---
 
President Biden is fighting to lower costs for American families and has
made lowering costs his top domestic priority. From the first days of
the Administration, the President has moved swiftly to deliver results
for the American people and grow the economy from the middle out and
bottom up. Since the President took office, the economy has added about
15 million jobs and the unemployment rate has remained below 4 percent
for two years in a row. Under the President’s leadership, the Nation has
seen significant progress in bringing down inflation—which spiked
worldwide as a result of the global pandemic and Putin’s illegal war
against the people of Ukraine. Inflation is down by two-thirds from its
peak, and costs have fallen for everyday purchases from a gallon of gas
to a gallon of milk. Lower inflation alongside a strong labor market has
led to real wage gains for American families, with average hourly
earnings adjusted for inflation higher than before the pandemic and
growing at a solid pace over the last year. America has achieved faster
growth than any of our peer nations and has lower inflation than almost
any other major economy.

Unfortunately, some companies are keeping prices high—which is why
President Biden is calling on corporations to pass along savings to
consumers by bringing prices down. He is cracking down on corporate
rip-offs, including junk fees, price gouging and shrinking packages to
hide price increases— “shrinkflation.” The Administration has taken on
Big Pharma to lower prescription drug costs and cap insulin at $35 a
month, Big Banks to bring down overdraft fees from $35 to $4, and major
airlines to eliminate family seating fees.

Congressional Republicans have no plan to lower costs for Americans and
have instead proposed giveaways to the wealthy, big corporations, and
Big Pharma that will increase the cost of prescription drugs, utility
bills, health insurance premiums, and student loan payments for
millions. The Budget takes a different approach, building on the
Administration’s critical work to lower costs for the American people
with proposals to help more Americans keep more of their hard-earned
paychecks while tackling the challenges that remain. **The President’s
Budget:**

***Lowers Prescription Drug and other Healthcare Costs***

**Expands Access to Quality, Affordable Healthcare.** The President and
the Vice President believe that healthcare should be a right, not a
privilege. With enrollment in Marketplace coverage at an all-time high,
the Budget builds on the incredible success of the Affordable Care Act
by making permanent the expanded premium tax credits that the Inflation
Reduction Act extended and providing Medicaid-like coverage to
individuals in States that have not adopted Medicaid expansion, paired
with financial incentives to ensure States maintain their existing
expansions. For Medicaid and the Child Health Insurance Program (CHIP),
the Budget allows States to extend the existing 12-month continuous
eligibility for all children to 36 months, and allows States to provide
continuous eligibility for children from birth until they turn age 6.
Further, the Budget prohibits enrollment fees and premiums in CHIP. In
addition, the Budget includes funding for continued implementation of
the No Surprise Act, which protects Americans across the Nation from
surprise medical bills.

**Lowers Drug Prices and Expands Access to Prescription Drugs.** Thanks
to action taken by the Administration, millions of seniors and people
with disabilities are saving money on their drug costs, and the
Administration announced the first ten drugs for which prices will be
negotiated as it continues implementation of the Inflation Reduction
Act. The Budget builds on this success by significantly increasing the
pace of negotiation, bringing more drugs into negotiation sooner after
they launch, expanding the Inflation Reduction Act’s inflation rebates
and $2,000 out-of-pocket prescription drug cost cap beyond Medicare and
into the commercial market, and by taking other steps to build on the
Inflation Reduction Act drug provisions. In addition, the Budget extends
the $35 cost-sharing cap for a month’s supply of insulin to the
commercial market. The Budget also includes proposals to ensure Medicaid
and the CHIP are prudent purchasers of prescription drugs and limits
Medicare Part D cost-sharing for high-value generic drugs, such as those
used to treat hypertension and hyperlipidemia, to no more than $2 per
month for Medicare beneficiaries.

***Reduces Costs for Families***

**Lowers Child Care Costs for Hard-Working Families.** The President is
committed to providing relief to hard-working families. His Budget
creates a historic new program under which working families with incomes
up to $200,000 per year would be guaranteed affordable, high-quality
child care from birth until kindergarten, with most families paying no
more than $10 a day, and the lowest income families paying nothing. This
would provide a lifeline to the parents of more than 16 million
children. The Budget also includes $8.5 billion for the Child Care and
Development Block Grant (CCDBG) which will allow states to expand child
care assistance and serve over 2 million low-income children.

**Builds a Strong Foundation for Families with Universal Pre-K and Head
Start**. The Budget funds voluntary, universal, free preschool for all
four million of the Nation’s four-year-olds and charts a path to expand
preschool to three-year-olds. High-quality preschool would be offered in
the setting of the parent’s choice—from public schools to child care
providers to Head Start. In addition, the Budget increases Head Start
funding by $544 million to support the Administration’s goal to reach
pay parity between Head Start staff and public elementary school
teachers with similar qualifications over time. Together these proposals
would support healthy child development, help children enter
kindergarten ready to learn, and support families by reducing their
costs prior to school entry and allowing parents to work.

**Cuts Taxes for Families with Children and American Workers.** The
Budget restores the full Child Tax Credit expansion enacted in the
American Rescue Plan, which helped cut child poverty nearly in half in
2021 to its lowest level in history. The Budget expands the credit from
$2,000 per child to $3,000 per child for children six years old and
above, and to $3,600 per child for children under six. In addition, the
Budget permanently reforms the credit to make it fully refundable, so
that it no longer excludes 18 million children in the lowest-income
families from receiving the full credit, and allows families to receive
monthly advance payments. In total, the Budget’s restoration of the full
Child Tax Credit expansion would lift 3 million children out of poverty
and cut taxes by an average of $2,600 for 39 million low- and
middle-income families that include 66 million children. The President
also calls on Congress to make permanent the American Rescue Plan’s
Earned Income Tax Credit expansion for workers not raising children in
their homes, which would boost the income of 19 million low-paid
workers.

**Supports a Strong Nutrition Safety Net.** The Budget provides $8.5
billion for critical nutrition programs, including $7.7 billion to fully
fund participation in the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for
Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) to serve all eligible participants,
which is critical to the health of pregnant women, new mothers, infants,
and young children. By investing in outreach and modernization, WIC
would reach 800,000 more women, infants, and children each month,
providing vital nutrition assistance to nearly seven million
individuals, up from 6.2 million in 2021. In addition, the Budget
includes an emergency contingency fund that would provide additional
resources when there are unanticipated cost pressures.

***Lowers Housing Costs***

**Increases Affordable Housing Supply to Reduce Housing Costs.** The
President and Vice President believe that all Americans should be able
to afford a quality home. That’s why the President’s Budget includes a
historic investment of more than $258 billion that would build or
preserve over 2 million units, support millions of first-time
homebuyers, guarantee affordable housing for hundreds-of-thousands of
extremely low-income veterans and youth aging out of foster care, and
advance efforts to end homelessness. The Budget expands the existing
Low-Income Housing Tax Credit and proposes a new Neighborhood Homes Tax
Credit. To further address the critical shortage of affordable housing,
the Budget provides $20 billion in mandatory funding for a new
Innovation Fund for Housing Expansion. The Budget also provides $15
billion combined in mandatory funding for new Project-Based Rental
Assistance contracts to incentivize the development of new
climate-resilient affordable housing as well as to preserve existing
public housing units. The Budget invests $1.3 billion in the HOME
Investment Partnerships Program to construct and rehabilitate affordable
rental housing and provide homeownership opportunities. Together, these
proposals would expand the supply of safe and affordable housing, bring
new units to market, and ultimately help curb cost growth across the
broader rental market.

**Expands Access to Homeownership and Reduces Down Payments for
First-Time and First-Generation Homebuyers.** The Budget proposes a new
Mortgage Relief Credit to help increase access to affordable housing.
The proposal includes a new tax credit for middle-class first-time
homebuyers of $10,000 over two years, and to unlock starter home
inventory for first-time homebuyers and help middle-class families who
are “locked in” to their current homes due to lower mortgage rates on
their mortgages than current rates, this proposal includes a credit of
up to $10,000 for one year to middle-class families who sell their
starter home. The Budget also provides $10 billion in mandatory funding
for a new First-Generation Down Payment Assistance program to address
homeownership and wealth gaps. The Budget preserves the Administration’s
progress expanding access to homeownership for underserved borrowers,
including many first-time and minority homebuyers, through Federal
Housing Administration (FHA) and Ginnie Mae credit guarantees.

**Expands Access to Affordable Rent through the Housing Choice Voucher
(HCV) Program.** The HCV program currently provides 2.3 million
low-income families with rental assistance to obtain housing in the
private market, but many families who are eligible do not receive
assistance due to limited funding. The Budget proposes $32.8 billion in
discretionary funding to maintain and protect critical services for all
currently assisted families and support an additional 20,000 households.
The Budget also provides $9 billion to establish a housing voucher
program for all 20,000 youth aging out of foster care annually, and
provides $13 billion to incrementally expand rental assistance for
400,000 extremely low-income veteran families, paving a path to
guaranteed assistance for all who have served the Nation and are in
need. Since the beginning of this Administration, HUD has expanded
voucher assistance to over 100,000 additional families, and the Budget
continues this progress.

***Makes College More Affordable***

**Improves College Affordability and Provides Free Community College.**
To help low-and middle-income students overcome financial barriers to
postsecondary education, the Budget proposes to increase the
discretionary maximum Pell Grant by $100 and thereby expand the reach of
the program to over 7 million students. The Budget builds on successful
bipartisan efforts to increase the maximum Pell Grant award by $900 over
the past two years – the largest increase in more than 10 years. The
Budget provides a path to double the maximum award by 2029 for students
attending public and non-profit institutions. The Budget also expands
free community college across the Nation through a Federal-State
partnership. In addition, the Budget provides two years of subsidized
tuition for students from families earning less than $125,000 enrolled
in a four-year Historically Black College and University (HBCU),
Tribally Controlled College and University (TCCU), or Minority-Serving
Institution (MSI). 

**Reduces the Cost of Education Pathways that Connect to Growing Jobs.**
From Day One of his Administration, President Biden vowed to fix the
student loan system and make sure higher education is a pathway to the
middle class – not a barrier to opportunity. The Budget includes a $12
billion mandatory Reducing the Costs of College Fund that will fund
strategies to lower college costs for students, including a new $7.2
billion Classroom to Career program which will enable students to more
affordably obtain postsecondary degrees and certificates by providing
states with matching funds to offer at least 12 no-cost postsecondary
credits through career-connected dual enrollment to all interested
students.

***Cuts Energy Costs and Expands Access to Affordable Internet***

**Lowers Energy Costs and Catalyzes Clean Energy and Economic Growth in
Rural Communities.** The Budget builds on the $13 billion provided in
the President’s historic Inflation Reduction Act for rural development
programs at the Department of Agriculture to reduce energy bills for
families, expand clean energy, transform rural power production, and
create thousands of good-paying jobs for people across rural America.
The Budget provides $1 billion for loan guarantees for renewable energy
systems to bring down energy costs, as well as $53 million in
zero-interest loans for the Rural Energy Savings Program, which would
help rural Americans implement durable cost-effective energy efficiency
measures in their homes, which lowers energy costs and contributes to
the President’s clean energy goals. In addition to these investments,
the Budget provides over $5 billion to support energy communities, many
of which are rural. These investments are also in addition to the $10.7
billion provided government-wide to accelerate clean energy innovation,
which will help make clean energy an affordable and reliable option for
everyone.

**Reduces Home Energy and Water Costs.** Reducing household energy and
water costs continues to be a priority for the Administration. The
Budget provides $4.1 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance
Program (LIHEAP)—building on the $7 billion in additional funding the
Administration has secured for LIHEAP since 2021—to help families access
home energy and weatherization assistance, which are vital tools for
protecting vulnerable families’ health in response to extreme weather
and climate change. In addition, since the Low-Income Household Water
Assistance Program (LIHWAP) expired at the end of 2023, the Budget
proposes to allow States the option to use a portion of their LIHEAP
funds to provide water bill assistance to low-income households. EPA
programs like the State Revolving Funds and water infrastructure grant
programs can provide cost savings to water utilities, which can also
save ratepayers money.

**Connects More Americans to Affordable, High-Speed, and Reliable
Internet.** The President is committed to ensuring that every American
has access to affordable broadband internet—and thanks to his Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the Affordable Connectivity Program has provided
high-speed Internet service to over 23 million eligible low income
households at low or no cost; the Department of Commerce has allocated
nearly $42 billion in Broadband Equity, Access and Deployment program
funding to deploy reliable high-speed Internet service; and USDA
investments are expected to expand broadband access to more than 137,000
households. Building on Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding, the
Budget provides $112 million for USDA’s ReConnect program, which
provides grants and loans to deploy broadband to unserved areas,
especially tribal areas. The Budget also includes the Administration’s
pending supplemental request for $6 billion to continue the Affordable
Connectivity Program in 2024, and the Administration will work with the
Congress to secure additional funding for this important need in 2025
and beyond.

***Bolsters Competition and Takes on Junk Fees***

**Bolsters Antitrust Enforcement.** The Budget proposes $288 million for
the Department of Justice’s Antitrust Division, which is a 56 percent
increase since 2021, and $535 million for the Federal Trade Commission,
which is a 52 percent increase since 2021, to strengthen antitrust
enforcement efforts to promote vigorous marketplace competition and
reduce costs and raise wages for the American people. In addition, the
President will work with Congress to make fee funding from pre-merger
filing fees mandatory, so that agencies would always have access to the
full amount of fees.

**Eliminates the Origination Fee on Student Loans.** The Budget builds
on the President’s historic actions to reduce student debt and the cost
of college by eliminating the origination fees charged to borrowers on
every new federal student loan. These unnecessary fees burden anyone who
needs to borrow to help get an education and cost American families
billions. A typical teacher or nurse taking out federal loans for
undergraduate and graduate degrees will pay $1000 or more over the life
of their loan because of these fees. Parents often fare even worse, with
the average parent borrowing on behalf of their child paying out an
additional $2800 or more because of these fees. Eliminating this fee
will reduce costs for student and parent borrowers.

\###
