---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-11 14:54:00-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-advances-president-bidens-unity-agenda/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Advances President\_Biden\u2019s Unity\_\
  Agenda"
---
 
From Day One, President Biden has delivered on his promise to be a
President for all Americans. The Biden-Harris Administration has taken
decisive action to improve the lives of Americans across the
country—from rural communities and bustling cities, to coastal regions
and the heartland, and in both red states and blue states. As part of
his work to bring America together in the pursuit of progress, President
Biden has pursued a Unity Agenda focused on areas where members of both
parties can come together: beating the opioid epidemic; tackling the
mental health crisis; promoting tech accountability and the responsible
development of artificial intelligence (AI); delivering on the sacred
obligation to veterans and military families; and ending cancer as we
know it.

From signing into law the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act and the PACT
Act, to securing historic investments in cancer research and working
with Congress to fundamentally change substance use disorder treatment
in America, the President has been proud to work with Democrats and
Republicans to achieve major progress that delivers on all aspects of
this agenda. But there is still work to be done.

The Budget builds on the progress made over the past three years by
making investments to accelerate and expand the President’s Unity
Agenda. **The President’s Budget:**

*Accelerates the Fight Against the Opioid Epidemic*

**Expands Access to Treatment for Substance Use Disorder and Invests in
Overdose Prevention.** The Administration has made historic advances in
expanding access to treatment for opioid use disorder, including signing
into law a bipartisan provision to expand the number of medical
providers who can initiate treatment for opioid use disorder from
129,000 to nearly 2 million. The Budget includes $21.8 billion for
substance use disorder treatment and recovery. The Budget increases
funding for the State Opioid Response grant program, which has provided
treatment services to over 1.2 million people and enabled States to
reverse more than 500,000 overdoses with over 9 million purchased
overdose reversal medication kits. The Budget also invests $713 million
toward opioid use disorder prevention and treatment programs for
veterans, as well as funding for a new technical assistance center to
strengthen health providers’ understanding and treatment of women’s
mental health and substance use. 

**Combats** **Opioid** **Trafficking Networks.** The Budget provides
$2.3 billion to the Department of Justice to combat opioid trafficking
and reduce the supply and demand of deadly illicit fentanyl in American
communities, including $1.2 billion for the Drug Enforcement
Administration (DEA), $367 million for the Organized Crime Drug
Enforcement Task Forces, and $61 million for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI). This also includes an additional $18 million in
Counter-Fentanyl Threat Targeting Teams at the DEA to enhance America’s
fight against the transnational criminal networks pushing deadly illicit
fentanyl. These interdisciplinary teams of special agents, intelligence
analysts, and data experts will map criminal organizations and build
cases that lead to the dismantlement of entire drug trafficking networks
and the deprivation of hundreds of millions of dollars to the Sinaloa
and Jalisco cartels. This also includes $494 million in grants
supporting efforts to address opioid use and trafficking, including $190
million for the Comprehensive Opioid, Stimulant, and Substance Use
Program, $95 million to support Drug Courts, and $51 million for
anti-drug task forces.The Budget further invests $290 million in the
High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program to provide state and local
law enforcement with resources to combat the most dangerous illicit drug
threats in their communities.

**Disrupts the International Synthetic Drug Trade.** The Budget includes
$169 million to State for countering fentanyl and other synthetic drug
production and trafficking. These resources would counter the worldwide
flow of fentanyl and other synthetics that endanger public safety and
health, and contribute to tens of thousands of drug-overdose deaths in
the United States annually.

**Reiterates the Administration’s Request for Immediate Funding to
Counter Fentanyl at the Border.** The Budget includes, and therefore
reiterates the need for [the Administration’s October 2023 supplemental
request](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/10/20/letter-regarding-critical-national-security-funding-needs-for-fy-2024/).
The supplemental request includes investments to build longer-term
capacity to counter fentanyl, totaling $1.2 billion for the Department
of Homeland Security (DHS). This amount includes $239 million to hire
1,000 additional CBP Officers to stop fentanyl and other contraband from
entering the U.S., $100 million for Homeland Security Investigations to
investigate and disrupt transnational criminal organizations and drug
traffickers, and $849 million for cutting-edge detection technology at
ports of entry.

The FY 2025 DHS Budget request for Customs and Border Protection (CBP)
and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) contains a combined $4.5
billion for counternarcotics operations and fighting the flow of deadly
fentanyl at the border. Additionally, the Administration remains
committed to providing law enforcement with the resources and necessary
personnel to defend our borders from illicit drug trade by reiterating
the October 2023 emergency supplemental request for an additional $849
million for cutting edge drug detection technology at the border, $239
million for 1,000 additional CBP officers, $100 million to expand
Homeland Security Investigations’ (HSI) capacity for counter-fentanyl
investigations and enforcement, and $14 million for additional research
and development of narcotics detection and forensics, for a total
supplemental request for DHS of $1.2 billion. These resources are
critical to the fight against illicit opioids. HSI fentanyl and opioid
seizures have increased over 650 and 180 percent, respectively, between
FY 2018 and FY 2022. In FY 2023, CBP and HSI seized over 43,000 pounds
of fentanyl, leading to the arrest of over 5,600 individuals.

***Tackles the Mental Health Crisis***

**Strengthens Mental Health Parity Protections**. The Budget requires
all health plans to cover mental health and substance use disorder
benefits, ensures that plans have an adequate network of behavioral
health providers, and improves the Department of Labor’s (DOL) ability
to enforce the law. In addition, the Budget includes $275 million over
10 years to increase the Department’s capacity to ensure that large
group market health plans and issuers comply with mental health and
substance use disorder requirements, and to take action against plans
and issuers that do not comply.

**Expands Coverage and Invests in Behavioral Healthcare Services.** In
2022, almost a quarter of adults suffered from mental illness, 13
percent of adolescents had serious thoughts of suicide, and overdose
deaths continued near record highs. As a core pillar of his Unity
Agenda, the President released a national strategy to transform how we
understand and address mental health in America—and the Budget makes
progress on this agenda by improving access to care for individuals and
communities. The Budget makes significant investments in expanding the
988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline that is projected to respond to 7.5
million contacts from individuals in distress in 2025 alone. The Budget
expands mental health care and support services in schools; expands
CDC’s suicide prevention program to additional States, and tribal and
territorial jurisdictions; and invests in strengthening the behavioral
health workforce – including through the integration of behavioral
health services into primary care settings. The Budget also expands
access to behavioral health services through significant investments in
Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics and Community Mental
Health Centers. In addition, the Budget provides $1 billion to advance
Health IT adoption and engagement in interoperability for certain
behavioral health providers.

**Bolsters Mental Health Supports for All Students.** The mental health
of students, teachers, and school staff is essential for their overall
well-being and continued academic recovery, and continues to be a high
priority of the Administration, which has delivered an additional $2.1
billion to mental health programs for students since 2021. Research
shows that students who receive social, emotional, and mental and
behavioral supports have better outcomes, including better academically.
The Budget provides a combined total of $216 million for mental health
programs, including $200 million from the Bipartisan Safer Communities
Act, a 900 percent increase in program funding since 2021. The funds
will help to increase the number of school-based counselors,
psychologists, social workers, and other mental health professionals in
K-12 schools.

***Promotes Tech Accountability and Responsible Innovation in Artificial
Intelligence (AI)***

**Advances the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of
AI.** In 2023, the President issued the landmark Executive Order 14110,
“Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial
Intelligence” to ensure that America leads the way in seizing the
promise and managing the risks of AI. The Executive Order establishes
new standards for AI safety and security, protects Americans’ privacy,
advances equity and civil rights, stands up for consumers and workers,
promotes innovation and competition, advances American leadership around
the world, and more. The Budget provides over $3 billion across agencies
in order to responsibly develop, test, procure, and integrate
transformative AI applications across the Federal Government and
supports the implementation of the Administration’s Executive Order. The
Budget also proposes $300 million in mandatory funding to increase
agency funding for AI, both to address major risks and to advance its
use for public good.

**Invests in New AI Safety Institute to Protect the American Public’s
Safety, Security, and Rights.** The Budget invests $65 million with the
Department of Commerce to support the AI Safety Institute’s ambitious
mandate to ensure AI models are safe, secure, and trustworthy, as well
as other critical AI work. This funding would allow the Department to
successfully implement central components of the Administration’s
Executive Order. Specifically, the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) U.S. AI Safety Institute will create guidelines,
tools, benchmarks, and best practices to evaluate and mitigate risks
using red-teaming and other methods. The Institute will develop
technical guidance on issues such as authenticating content created by
humans, watermarking AI-generated content, identifying and mitigating
against harmful algorithmic discrimination and the creation of harmful
synthetic content (such as deepfake image-based abuse), ensuring
transparency, and enabling adoption of privacy-preserving AI, and would
support the development of safe and trusted AI and support enforcement
agencies’ efforts to protect the American public’ rights and safety.

**Strengthens U.S. Leadership in AI by Democratizing AI innovation.**
The Budget also includes $30 million for the National AI Research
Resource pilot (NAIRR), which is a crucial step in building a shared
research infrastructure to strengthen and democratize access to
computing and data resources for bold AI discoveries and innovations.
The NAIRR creates public-private partnerships that will provide
researchers and educators across the country with the tools and support
to build an AI future that supports every member of the public and
achieves America’s great aspirations.

**Advances AI Governance, Innovation, and Risk Management Across the
Federal Government.** To capitalize on the opportunities and mitigate
the risks of AI used by Federal agencies, the Administration is
committed to advancing its use and management of AI for public purposes.
The Budget provides $70 million for Federal agencies to establish agency
Chief AI Officers accountable for their agency’s use of AI, adopt new AI
technologies to improve Government services, and establish minimum
safeguards for Government use of AI to protect the rights and safety of
the public.

**Bolsters AI and Tech Talent in the US Government.** Executing on our
ambitious AI agenda starts with people. The Budget includes $32 million
to the U.S. Digital Service, General Services Administration, and Office
of Personnel Management to support the AI Talent Surge, bringing AI and
AI-enabling talent into government service and advancing AI priorities
across the Federal Government. The AI Talent Surge is bringing dedicated
people into service to leverage AI to improve government services; make
smart policies and regulations around AI to protect people’s rights,
safety, and privacy; and further AI research and development (R&D), so
that the United States continues to lead the world in cutting-edge AI
innovation.

***Honors Our Nation’s Sacred Commitment to Veterans and Military
Families***

**Expands Healthcare, Benefits, and Services for Veterans’ Environmental
Exposures.** The PACT Act represented the most significant expansion of
VA healthcare and disability compensation benefits for veterans exposed
to military related environmental exposures, including burn pits and
Agent Orange, in 30 years. As part of the PACT Act, the Congress
authorized the Cost of War Toxic Exposures Fund (TEF) to fund increased
costs above 2021 funding levels for healthcare and benefits delivery for
veterans exposed to certain environmental hazards—and ensure there is
sufficient funding available to cover these costs without shortchanging
other elements of veteran medical care and benefits delivery. The Budget
continues this commitment and includes $24.5 billion for the TEF in
2025, through funds appropriated by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which
is $19.5 billion above the 2023 enacted level.

**Strengthens VA Medical Care and Invests in Critical Veteran Medical
Facilities.** In addition to fully funding inpatient, outpatient, mental
health—including substance use treatment—and long-term care services,
the Budget supports programs that enhance VA healthcare quality and
delivery, including a $2 billion investment for non-recurring
maintenance to improve medical facility infrastructure, and continued
efforts to address the opioid and drug overdose epidemic. The Budget
includes $2.8 billion in budgetary resources for construction and
expansion of critical infrastructure and facilities, as well as provides
$141 million for grants for construction of State extended care
facilities to deliver high-quality healthcare, benefits, and services
for veterans.

**Prioritizes Veterans’ Mental Health Services and Suicide Prevention
for Military Servicemembers and Veterans.** The Budget invests $135
million within VA research programs, together with $17.1 billion within
the VA Medical Care program, to increase access to quality mental
healthcare, with the goal of helping veterans take charge of their
treatment and live full, meaningful lives. In addition, the Budget
provides $583 million to further advance the Administration’s veteran
suicide prevention initiatives, including continued support of the
Veterans Crisis Line’s 988 and additional support for VA’s National
Suicide Prevention Strategy. The Budget also includes funding to support
the Department of Defense’s efforts on Suicide Prevention and Response
and implements recommendations from the Suicide Prevention and Response
Independent Review Committee. This funding will support improving the
delivery of mental healthcare, addressing stigma and other barriers to
care, revising suicide prevention training, and promoting a culture of
lethal means safety within the military. It also includes funding to
support the Department of Defense’s effort to continue implementing
recommendations from the Independent Review Commission on Sexual Assault
in the Military, with an emphasis on Sexual Assault Prevention
activities designed to increase awareness, provide support mechanisms to
victims, and significantly reduce the environment for, tolerance of, and
occurrence of sexual assault in the Joint Force.

**Invests in Overdose Prevention and Treatment Programs for Veterans.**
The Budget invests $713 million toward opioid use disorder prevention
and treatment programs for veterans, including using predictive
analytics to stratify a patient’s risk of overdose, provide enhanced
care as appropriate, and to support programs authorized in the Jason
Simcakoski PROMISE Act. In addition, investments contribute to the
distribution of life saving opioid reversal medications, such as
naloxone, to veterans, and development of an opioid safety toolkit that
provides clinicians materials that aid in decisions related to safe
opioid prescribing and non-opioid pain management options.

**Supports Women Veterans’ Healthcare.** The Budget invests $13.7
billion for women veterans’ healthcare, including $1.1 billion toward
women’s gender-specific care. More women are choosing VA healthcare than
ever before, with women accounting for over 30 percent of the increase
in enrolled veterans over the past five years. Investments support
comprehensive specialty medical and surgical services for women
veterans, improve maternal health outcomes, increase access to
infertility counseling and assisted reproductive technology, and
eliminate copayments for contraceptive coverage. The Budget also
improves the safety of women veterans seeking healthcare at VA
facilities by supporting implementation of the zero-tolerance policy for
sexual harassment and assault.

**Bolsters Efforts to End Veteran Homelessness.** The President believes
that every veteran should have permanent, safe, and sustainable housing
with access to healthcare and other supportive services. The Budget
invests $3.2 billion in VA resources to end current veteran homelessness
and prevent veterans from becoming homeless in the future. In addition
to investments made in VA programs, the Budget for the Department of
Housing and Urban Development provides $13 billion in mandatory funding
to expand the Housing Choice Voucher program to reach an additional
400,000 extremely low-income veteran families, paving a path to
guaranteed assistance for all who have served the Nation and are in
need.

**Fulfills America’s Commitment to Military Families.** Military
families are key to the readiness and well-being of the All-Volunteer
Force, and therefore are critical to national security. The Budget
continues to support military families by prioritizing programs,
including the Secretary of Defense’s Taking Care of People initiatives,
that seek to increase access to behavioral health providers; advance
military spouse employment opportunities, including through
implementation of the Executive Order on Advancing Economic Security for
Military and Veteran Spouses, Military Caregivers, and Survivors; and
support the establishment of full-day pre-school for military children
at DoDEA schools both stateside and overseas. The Budget continues to
support increases to high-quality childcare for military families via
the Child Care Workforce Initiative. The Budget also proposes to
increase the income eligibility threshold for the Basic Needs Allowance
from 150 percent to 200 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines to
help promote military families’ economic security. The Budget also
provides critical funding for the Department of Veteran Affairs Program
of General Caregivers Support Services, and specifically provides $2.9
billion for the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family
Caregivers, which includes stipend payments and support services to help
empower family caregivers of eligible veterans.

**Honors the Memory of All Veterans.** The Budget includes $495 million
to ensure veterans and their families have access to exceptional
memorial benefits. These funds maintain national shrine standards at the
158 VA-managed cemeteries.

***Invests in Health Innovation to End Cancer as We Know It***

**Advances Progress toward Biden Cancer Moonshot Goals.** The President
and First Lady reignited the Biden Cancer Moonshot to mobilize a
national effort to end cancer as we know it—spurring tremendous action
across the Federal Government and from the public and private sectors,
and building a strong foundation for the work ahead. To date, the Cancer
Moonshot has announced more than 60 new programs, policies, and
resources to address five priority actions including improving access to
cancer screening, understanding and addressing environmental and toxic
exposures, making progress on cancer prevention, driving innovation to
reach communities and individuals, and boosting support for patients,
families, and caregivers. More than 120 private companies, non-profits,
academic institutions, and patient groups have also stepped up with new
actions and collaborations.

The Budget makes significant investments to work toward the President
and First Lady’s signature Cancer Moonshot goal of reducing the cancer
death rate by at least 50 percent over the next 25 years and improving
the experience of people who are living with or who have survived
cancer. These investments include an increase of more than $2 billion
across the National Cancer Institute, the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), cancer
projects, and additional funding for research, precision oncology, and
cancer care across Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) programs, as well
as mandatory funds for the Indian Health Service beginning in 2026. The
Budget provides $1.5 billion for the Advanced Research Projects Agency
for Health (ARPA-H) to supercharge high-impact research and development
to improve American health outcomes and deliver breakthroughs on cancer
as well as diabetes, dementia, and more. The Budget also provides $661
million for EPA’s Superfund program to continue cleaning up some of the
Nation’s most contaminated land and respond to environmental emergencies
and natural disasters as part of a cancer prevention strategy of the
Biden Cancer Moonshot.

\###
