---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 22:54:56-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-creates-good-paying-clean-jobs-cuts-energy-costs-and-delivers-on-the-presidents-ambitious-climate-agenda/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Creates Good-Paying Clean Jobs, Cuts\
  \ Energy Costs, and Delivers on the President\u2019s Ambitious Climate\_Agenda"
---
 
Since taking office, President Biden has delivered on the most ambitious
climate, conservation, and environmental justice agenda in
history—taking bold action to reduce climate pollution across every
sector of the economy, protecting more than 26 million acres of lands
and waters, and restoring the vital role of science in guiding federal
decision-making. The Administration continues to implement the
President’s historic Investing in America agenda—including the Inflation
Reduction Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law—the largest investment
by any country in history in in clean energy, energy security, clean air
and water, environmental justice, combatting climate change, and to
enhance our climate resilience.

As a result of the President’s economic and climate leadership, clean
energy jobs are on the rise across the country, American manufacturing
is booming, companies have announced hundreds of billions of dollars in
clean energy investments, and the country is on a path toward cutting
climate pollution in half from 2005 levels by 2030 and achieving
economy-wide, net zero emissions by no later than 2050. The President
also launched the Justice40 Initiative to embed environmental justice
into clean energy and climate programs; this goal ensures that
communities that are on the frontlines of climate change benefit from
this historic investment in climate solutions.

The Budget protects and builds on this monumental progress, making
pro-growth investments in clean energy across the Nation, cutting energy
bills for families, creating good-paying jobs, advancing environmental
justice, ensuring critical technologies are made in America, supporting
locally led conservation of our lands and waters, and building climate
resilience for American communities and infrastructure. **The
President’s Budget:**

***Reduces Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Advances Clean Energy While
Creating Jobs and Cutting Energy Costs***

Creates Jobs by Building Clean Energy Infrastructure. The Budget invests
$1.6 billion through the Department of Energy (DOE), more than double
from when President Biden took office, to support clean energy workforce
and infrastructure projects across the Nation, including $385 million to
weatherize and retrofit homes of low-income Americans, $113 million to
create good jobs and ensure reliable supply chains by manufacturing
clean energy components here at home, $95 million to electrify Tribal
homes and transition Tribal colleges and universities to renewable
energy, and $102 million to support utilities and State and local
governments in building a grid that is more secure, reliable, resilient,
and able to integrate electricity from clean energy sources. These
investments, which complement and bolster the historic funding in the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act, will create
good-paying jobs and help revitalize American manufacturing—all while
driving progress toward the Administration’s climate goals, including
100% carbon pollution-free electricity by 2035. 

Lowers Energy Costs and Catalyzes Clean Energy and Economic Growth in
Rural Communities. The Budget builds on the $13 billion provided in the
President’s historic Inflation Reduction Act for rural development
programs at the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to reduce energy bills
for families, expand clean energy, transform rural power production, and
create tens of thousands of good-paying jobs for people across rural
America. The Budget provides $1 billion for loan guarantees for
renewable energy systems and energy efficiency improvements for farmers
and rural small businesses, and $6.5 billion in authority for rural
electric loans to support additional clean energy, energy storage, and
transmission projects that would create good-paying jobs. In addition,
the Budget includes $60 million in zero-interest loans for the Rural
Energy Savings Program, which would help rural Americans implement
durable cost-effective energy efficiency measures in their homes,
lowering energy costs and contributing to the President’s clean energy
goals. Additionally, the Budget includes over $5 billion, an increase of
nearly $900 million from the FY 2023 enacted level without earmarks, for
efforts across the Federal Government that support economic
revitalization, job creation, and other priority needs in hard-hit coal,
oil and gas, and legacy power plant communities.

**Reduces Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Tackles the Climate Crisis.** The
Budget builds on the historic climate investments made in the Inflation
Reduction Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and includes over $2.9
billion in Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) climate-related
programs to address the climate crisis by reducing greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, expanding upon the GHG Reporting Program and Sinks Inventory,
implementing provisions in the American Innovation and Manufacturing Act
to continue phasing out the production and import of hydrofluorocarbons,
advancing equitable implementation of EPA authorities and directives in
Indian Country, and engaging with the global community to respond to the
shared challenge of building resilience in the face of climate impacts.
The Budget includes $10.6 billion in the DOE climate and clean energy
research, development, demonstration, and deployment programs, which
advances efforts crucial for achieving the goal of a 50- to 52-percent
reduction from 2005 levels of economy wide net greenhouse gas pollution
in 2030 and economy wide net-zero emissions no later than 2050, while
also cutting energy bills for American families and building U.S.
leadership in the global clean energy economy.

**Reduces Home Energy and Water Costs.** Reducing household energy and
water costs continues to be a priority for the Administration. The
Budget provides $4.1 billion for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance
Program (LIHEAP)—building on the $7 billion in additional funding the
Administration has secured for LIHEAP since 2021—to help families access
home energy and weatherization assistance, which are vital tools for
protecting vulnerable families’ health in response to extreme weather
and climate change. In addition, since the Low-Income Household Water
Assistance Program (LIHWAP) expired at the end of 2023, the Budget
proposes to allow States the option to use a portion of their LIHEAP
funds to provide water bill assistance to low-income households.

**Continues to Advance Clean Energy Development on Public Lands.** The
Budget includes $142 million to continue the Administration’s progress
in deploying clean energy on public lands and waters, spurring economic
development and creating thousands of good-paying jobs. This funding
supports the leasing, planning, and permitting of solar, wind, and
geothermal energy projects, and associated transmission infrastructure
that would help mitigate the impacts of climate change.

**Strengthens and Accelerates Permitting Activities.** The Budget
invests in environmental permitting capacity to ensure the effective and
efficient delivery of modernized infrastructure across the Nation while
promoting positive environmental and community outcomes. The Budget
includes over $1 billion to support environmental review and permitting
processes that are effective, efficient, and transparent, guided by
science and shaped by early and meaningful public engagement and input.

***Invests in Climate Science and Innovation***

Builds the Clean Energy Innovation Pipeline. The Budget includes $10.7
billion, an increase of $2.7 billion over FY 2021 Enacted levels, across
DOE, NASA, the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Department of
Defense (DOD), and other agencies to support researchers and
entrepreneurs transforming innovations into commercial clean energy
products, including in areas such as offshore wind, industrial heat,
sustainable aviation fuel, and grid infrastructure. Since the start of
the Administration, the President has requested and Congress has enacted
year-over-year increases in the total government-wide funding for clean
energy innovation. Across DOE, the Budget provides over $325 million to
support the research, development, and demonstration of technologies and
processes to increase the domestic supply of sustainable critical
minerals and materials essential for several clean energy technologies.
The Budget provides more than $500 million for green aviation at NASA,
over $500 million for clean energy research at the NSF, and $845 million
for DOE efforts to accelerate the viability of commercial fusion energy.
The Budget also funds eight crosscutting DOE Earthshots initiatives
which could substantially reduce the cost of energy for the American
consumer through innovations in clean energy generation, energy
efficiency, and storage.

**Advances Climate Science.** The Budget includes $4.5 billion for
climate research across NASA, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), NSF, and other agencies. This includes $150
million at NASA to develop the next-generation land-imaging mission
(Landsat Next) and more than $600 million for NASA in research grants to
enhance understanding of Earth systems, including climate and natural
hazards. It includes $900 million for NSF, which supports a broad
portfolio of research that includes atmospheric composition, water and
carbon cycles, climate resilience technologies including for communities
heavily affected by climate change, social, behavioral, and economic
research on human responses to climate change, among other topics. The
Budget also invests $275 million at the Department of the Interior (DOI)
to continue to leverage science to better understand the impacts of
climate change, and to inform and improve land management practices from
the Federal to the local level. The Budget invests $407 million at DOE
to support fundamental research, including modeling and scientific user
facilities to enable enhanced predictability of dynamically changing
climate, environmental, and Earth systems, which includes predictability
of climate trends and extremes that influence the design and deployment
of next generation energy systems.

Maintains World Leading Research through the CHIPS and Science Act
Investments. The Budget invests $20 billion across major research
agencies to boost American innovation and re-establish American
leadership in research and scientific discovery. At the National Science
Foundation, these investments include support for regional innovation
programs, investments in emerging technologies (such as artificial
intelligence and quantum information science), and STEM workforce
programs. Funding for the Department of Commerce’s (DOC) National
Institute for Standards and Technology will support activities
responsive to the President’s *Executive Order on the Safe, Secure and
Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence* and fund
construction and maintenance of research and development facilities. In
the Department of Energy’s Office of Science, the Budget supports
artificial intelligence, high performance computing to improve climate
modeling, clean energy technologies including fusion, and positions the
United States to meet the demand for isotopes.

***Strengthens Resilience***

**Strengthens Climate Resilience in Communities and Ecosystems.** Across
America, communities are enduring historic and catastrophic flooding,
wildfires, extreme heat, drought, and more, while longer-term changes in
temperature affect ecosystems and the economies that depend on them. The
intensifying impacts of climate change are costing lives, disrupting
livelihoods, and causing billions of dollars in damages. The
Biden-Harris Administration has made historic investments in climate
adaptation and resilience, including more than $50 billion from the
President’s Investing in America agenda. Building on the National
Climate Resilience Framework, the Budget invests $23 billion in climate
adaptation and resilience across the Department of Commerce (DOC), DOI,
the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), USDA, Army Corps of
Engineers, EPA, and DOD to address the increasing severity of extreme
weather events fueled by climate change. This includes resources for
flood hazard mapping, including the development of new data to support
future flood conditions so that communities and Americans have the most
up-to-date information regarding their flood risk; investments to
mitigate the impacts of extreme heat in low-income and disadvantaged
communities; and $105 million for DOE to plan, design and demonstrate
community-scale energy solutions to support grid resilience. The Budget
also provides funding to ensure farmers, ranchers, and forestland owners
meet production goals in the face of a changing climate while
conserving, maintaining, and restoring natural resources on their lands.

Invests in America’s Brave Wildland Firefighters. The Budget builds on
the Administration’s historic investments in the wildland firefighting
workforce at USDA and DOI by supporting the implementation of permanent
and comprehensive pay reform, the enhancement of health services, the
hiring of additional permanent and temporary wildland firefighters to
increase capacity, and the improvement of Government housing. These
investments would help address long-standing recruitment and retention
challenges, increase the departments’ capacity to complete critical risk
mitigation work, and further the Administration’s commitment to build a
more robust and resilient wildland firefighting workforce as the
frequency and intensity of catastrophic wildfires continue to increase
due to climate change.

**Increases Drought Resilience.** The Budget helps ensure communities
across the West have access to a resilient and reliable water supply by
investing in rural water projects, water conservation, development of
desalination technologies, and water recycling and reuse projects. The
Budget complements the nearly $1.7 billion provided in 2025 for western
water infrastructure through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, as well
as the nearly $4.6 billion that was provided by the Inflation Reduction
Act for drought mitigation and domestic water supply projects through
the Bureau of Reclamation. 

Strengthens Climate Resilience and Reduces Housing Insecurity in Rural
Communities. A lack of adequate affordable housing has been a
long-standing problem in rural communities—one that is exacerbated by
low energy efficiency of the aging housing stock, meaning higher costs
for families. To help address this, the Budget proposes additional
funding for USDA multifamily and single-family housing, and again
proposes to eliminate the gap that penalizes low-income rural borrowers
by inequitably requiring repayment for certain USDA Direct loans.  The
Budget provides strong support for USDA’s multifamily housing and
housing preservation programs. Through these investments, the
Administration advances equity by reducing rent burdens for low-income
borrowers and preserving low-income tenant-based housing in rural
America. The Budget again proposes to reduce operating costs and
increase the resilience of rural housing to the impacts of climate
change through a proposal to require energy and water efficiency
improvements and green features in USDA’s rural housing programs that
include construction, such as housing repair loans and grants.

***Advances Environmental Justice***

**Delivers for Communities Often Left Behind.** The Administration
continues to take bold steps and prioritize efforts to deliver
environmental justice in communities across the United States, including
implementing the President’s Justice40 Initiative and keeping up the
momentum of the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation
Reduction Act environmental justice investments. The Budget bolsters
these efforts by supporting several key initiatives to accelerate energy
equity and justice for all Americans, including communities overburdened
by pollution, investing nearly $1.5 billion across EPA in support of
environmental justice efforts, including investments that will support
cleaner air and cleaner water in frontline communities. This includes a
new $25 million grant to develop Direct Implementation Tribal
Cooperative Agreements to carry out crucial EPA programs in Indian
Country with an emphasis on addressing the impacts of climate change.

**Reduces Health and Environmental Hazards for At-Risk Communities.**
The Budget provides $8.2 billion to address DOE legacy waste and
contamination in communities used during the Manhattan Project and the
Cold War for nuclear weapons production. The Budget includes other key
investments in programs that reduce environmental hazards like EPA’s
Superfund program, Brownfields program, and Toxic Substances Control Act
implementation. The Administration will ensure the investments for the
management of toxic chemicals, including per-and polyfluoroalkyl
substances, cleanup of legacy pollution, and long-term stewardship of
these sites align with the Justice40 Initiative to benefit disadvantaged
communities.

**Invests in Clean Air.** The Administration continues to support
investment in EPA’s work of limiting emissions of harmful air pollutants
and tackling the climate crisis. The Budget provides a total of $1.5
billion for EPA’s Office of Air and Radiation, an increase of $690
million since the beginning of the Administration, to continue the
development of national programs, policies, and regulations that control
air pollution and radiation exposure. This funding includes a historic
$187 million for the Atmospheric Protection Program to support
implementation and compliance with greenhouse gas emission standards and
to tackle the climate crisis at home and abroad. Also included is $100
million for the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act (DERA) grant program,
which funds grants and rebates to reduce harmful emissions from diesel
engines, and $70 million for the Targeted Airshed Grants (TAG), which
helps reduce air pollution in the most polluted nonattainment areas.

**Advances Climate Justice and Ensures Compliance with the Nation’s
Environmental Laws.** At DOJ, the Budget renews its investment in the
Office of Environmental Justice to protect overburdened and
disadvantaged communities from the harms caused by environmental crimes,
pollution, and climate change. The Administration continues investments
at EPA to ensure compliance with environmental laws, including $172
million for compliance monitoring efforts including funds to conduct
inspections in underserved, disadvantaged, and overburdened communities,
and funds to rebuild the inspector corps.

***Trains the Next Generation of Leaders in Emerging Fields***

**Supports and Expands the American Climate Corps.** Last year, the
Administration announced the launch of the American Climate Corps (ACC)
to mobilize a new, diverse generation of more than 20,000 clean energy,
conservation, and climate resilience workers and leaders, and this year,
the first cohort of ACC members will begin their service. The ACC will
provide job training and service opportunities on a wide range of
projects that tackle climate change in communities around the country.
The Budget provides $15 million to support and expand AmeriCorps’ ACC
hub and $23 million to support over 1,700 additional ACC members, as
well as $8 billion in mandatory funding to support an additional 50,000
ACC members annually by 2031. This builds on additional investments to
support climate-related workforce development and service initiatives
across all seven ACC agencies.

**Promotes Equity in STEM Education and Workforce Training.** In support
of the CHIPS and Science Act’s priority of building a diverse,
STEM-capable workforce, the Budget provides $1.4 billion for STEM
education and workforce development programs at NSF that have an
emphasis on diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility. The Budget
also includes funding for programs focused on increasing the
participation of groups historically underrepresented in science and
engineering fields by supporting curriculum program design, research on
successful recruitment and retention methods, development of outreach or
mentorship programs, fellowships, and $256 million in funding to build
capacity for advancing energy research and developing a new energy
workforce, as well as an additional $100 million for enhancing general
research capacity at HCBUs, TCCUs, and MSIs through the Department of
Education. The Budget also provides $46 million to NASA’s Minority
University Research and Education Project, to increase competitive
awards to minority-serving institutions to recruit and retain
underrepresented and underserved students in STEM fields.

**Broadens Access to Registered Apprenticeships in Clean Energy and the
Industries of the Future.** The Budget increases support for Registered
Apprenticeships, an evidence-based earn-as-you-learn model that is a
critical tool for training future workforces for good jobs that don’t
require a college degree in the clean energy, construction,
semiconductor, transportation and logistics, education, health, and
other growing and in-demand industries. The Budget invests $335 million,
a $50 million increase above the 2023 enacted level, and supports
expanding existing Registered Apprenticeship programs in clean
energy-related occupations.  This investment would also be used to
reduce barriers and expand access, training, and opportunities that can
increase the number of workers from historically underrepresented
groups, including people of color, women, and people with disabilities,
who participate in Registered Apprenticeships.

***Doubles Down on America’s Global Climate Leadership***

**Achieves the Administration’s Historic Climate Finance Pledge.** The
Budget provides a path to achieving the President’s $11 billion
commitment for international climate finance, including $3 billion for
the *President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation and Resilience*
(PREPARE). A signature initiative, PREPARE supports more than half a
billion people in developing countries to adapt to and manage the
impacts of climate change, including through private sector
mobilization. In 2023, PREPARE brought 21 new companies and partners on
board, with commitments to accelerate adaptation action in vulnerable
developing countries that have mobilized more than $2 billion. The
Budget also supports a $500 million FY 2025 contribution through
mandatory funding to finance the Green Climate Fund (GCF), as part of
the $3 billion multi-year pledge to expand climate adaptation and
mitigation projects in developing countries, and $100 million for the
Amazon Fund to combat deforestation and preserve the world’s largest
tropical rainforest. The Budget builds on historic international climate
finance progress made over the course of this Administration, in which
estimated 2023 levels of $9.5 billion represent a near-sixfold increase
from 2021.

\###
