---
date: '2024-03-20'
modified_time: 2024-03-19 23:29:28-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-20 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/20/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-up-to-8-5-billion-preliminary-agreement-with-intel-under-the-chips-science-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Up To $8.5 Billion Preliminary Agreement\
  \ with Intel under the CHIPS & Science\_Act"
---
 
*Funding catalyzes $100 billion in private investment from Intel to
build and expand semiconductor facilities in Arizona, Ohio, New Mexico,
and Oregon and create nearly 30,000 jobs*

Today, President Biden will travel to Chandler, Arizona, to visit
Intel’s Ocotillo campus and announce that the Department of Commerce has
reached a preliminary agreement with Intel to provide up to $8.5 billion
in direct funding along with $11 billion in loans under the CHIPS and
Science Act. The announcement will support the construction and
expansion of Intel facilities in Arizona, Ohio, New Mexico, and Oregon,
creating nearly 30,000 jobs and supporting tens of thousands of indirect
jobs. During his visit to Arizona, President Biden will discuss the
vision that he laid out in his State of the Union, underscoring how his
Investing in America agenda is building an economy from the middle out
and bottom up, creating good-paying jobs right here in America,
strengthening U.S. supply chains, and protecting national security.  
  
Semiconductors were invented in America and power everything from cell
phones to electric vehicles, refrigerators, satellites, defense systems,
and more. But today, the United States produces less than 10 percent of
the world’s chips and none of the most advanced ones. Thanks to
President Biden’s CHIPS and Science Act, that is changing. Companies
have announced over $240 billion in investments to bring semiconductor
manufacturing back to the United States since the President took office.
Semiconductor jobs are making a comeback. And thanks to CHIPS
investments like the one today, America will produce roughly 20% of the
world’s leading-edge chips by the end of the decade.  
  
Today’s announcement is critical to realizing President Biden’s vision
to reestablish America’s leadership in chip manufacturing. In
particular, this CHIPS investment will support Intel’s construction and
expansion projects across four states and will create nearly 30,000
jobs:

-   **Chandler, Arizona: **Funding will help construct two leading-edge
    logic fabs and modernize one existing fab, significantly increasing
    manufacturing capacity to produce Intel’s most advanced
    semiconductors in the United States. This investment will create
    over 3,000 manufacturing jobs, 7,000 construction jobs, and
    thousands of indirect jobs. Intel’s investment in Arizona is among
    the largest private sector investments in the state’s history.
-   **New Albany, Ohio:** Funding will establish a new regional economic
    cluster for U.S. chipmaking with the construction of two
    leading-edge logic fabs. This investment will create 3,000
    manufacturing jobs, 7,000 construction jobs, and an estimated 10,000
    indirect jobs. Intel’s investment in Ohio is the largest
    private-sector investment in the state’s history.
-   **Rio Rancho, New Mexico:** Funding will support the nearly complete
    modernization and transformation of two fabs into advanced packaging
    facilities, where chips are assembled together to boost their
    performance and reduce costs. Advanced packaging is critical for
    artificial intelligence (AI) applications and the next generation of
    semiconductor technology. It also allows manufacturers to improve
    performance and function and shorten the time it takes to get many
    advanced chips to market.  When completed, these facilities will be
    the largest for advanced packaging in the United States. This
    investment will create 700 manufacturing jobs and 1,000 construction
    jobs.
-   **Hillsboro, Oregon:** Funding will expand and modernize facilities
    to increase clean-room capacity and utilize advanced lithography
    equipment, further strengthening this critical innovation hub of
    leading-edge development and production in the United States. This
    investment will support several thousand new permanent and
    construction jobs and thousands of indirect jobs.  
     

**Creating Good-Paying and Union Jobs with Good Benefits Across
America**

President Biden promised to be the most pro-worker, pro-union President
in American history, and his Administration has committed to ensuring
that workers have the free and fair choice to join a union and equitable
training pathways to good jobs. As part of the Administration’s effort
to connect workers with good-paying jobs created by the President’s
Investing in America agenda, the White House announced five initial
Workforce Hubs across the country – two of which have focused on
building pipelines to good jobs in the semiconductor industry: Phoenix,
Arizona, and Columbus, Ohio. And, last year, the National Science
Foundation and Intel announced $100 million to expand semiconductor
workforce training opportunities, education, and research across the
nation.  
  
Under their preliminary agreement with the Department of Commerce, Intel
has committed to work closely with workforce training providers (e.g.,
educational institutions, state and local agencies, labor unions) to
develop and train workers for jobs created by the investment announced
today. The Ohio State Building Trades signed a Project Labor Agreement
(PLA) for the Ohio construction site, and there is a majority-union
construction crew in both the Arizona and Oregon sites. The
Administration strongly supports workers’ right to organize and expects
Intel to continue its longstanding tradition of creating good jobs and
respecting workers’ rights, including expecting Intel to neither hold
mandatory captive audience meetings nor hire anti-union consultants.  
  
The announcement today also includes significant funding to train and
develop the local workforce, including $50 million in dedicated CHIPS
funding. The focus of this funding will be further determined in the
coming months based on the Department of [Commerce’s labor and workforce
priorities](https://www.nist.gov/document/chips-america-labor-fact-sheet) in
partnership with the Department of Labor. Those priorities include
funding workforce intermediaries and labor-management partnerships,
promoting inclusive and equitable training and hiring across the
construction and facilities workforces, and providing supportive
services, such as child care. Intel’s construction spending is
contributing to union apprentice programs across all four sites—expected
to amount to over $150 million in apprenticeship contributions.
Additionally, Intel has committed to providing affordable, accessible,
high-quality child care for its workers across its facilities. Intel
will be increasing the reimbursement amount and duration for its back-up
care program, adding additional access to discounted primary child care
providers, and expanding access to a vetted network of child care
providers for its employees. In addition, Intel will pilot a primary
child care reimbursement program for non-salary employees.  
 

**Strengthening Local Economies**

Today’s announcement is also poised to strengthen the local economies of
these states and cities, and is part of the President’s commitment to
investing in all of America and leaving no community behind. Intel’s
investments in Arizona and Ohio are among the largest private-sector
investments in each state’s history, and Arizona has received the
highest level of private sector manufacturing investment per capita of
any state since the President took office. Intel’s investment in Arizona
is expected to create tens of thousands of indirect jobs across
suppliers and supporting industries – on top of the nearly 30,000
manufacturing and construction jobs it will create, fostering a more
resilient semiconductor supply chain in the U.S.  
  
In Arizona, Intel’s investments
have [grown](https://spectrumnews1.com/oh/columbus/news/2022/06/30/a-look-at-what-s-to-come-in-ohio--economic-impact-of-intel-s-arizona-campus-) the
surrounding community, attracting opportunities for professional growth
and upward economic mobility for everyone – from graphic designers to
restaurants and small businesses. And in Ohio, Intel continues expanding
their partnerships with local businesses to support their construction
projects and operations at other facilities – growing from 150
Ohio-based suppliers in 2022 to over 350 today.   
  
Intel has also prioritized sustainability and being responsible stewards
of the environment at its facilities. It currently uses 100% renewable
electricity in its fabs and factories in the United States, and plans to
achieve net-positive water and zero waste to landfill by 2030.

**Building on Historic Progress Under the CHIPS and Science Act**

Today’s announcement is the fourth and largest preliminary memorandum of
terms (PMT) under the CHIPS and Science Act:

-   In February 2024, the Biden-Harris Administration announced $1.5
    billion for GlobalFoundries to support the development and expansion
    of facilities in Malta, NY, and Burlington, VT.
-   In January 2024, the Administration announced $162 million for
    Microchip Technology Inc. to increase its production of
    microcontroller units and other specialty semiconductors, and to
    support the modernization and expansion of fabrication facilities in
    Colorado Springs, CO, and Gresham, OR.
-   In December 2023, the Administration announced $35 million for BAE
    Systems Electronic Systems to support the modernization of the
    company’s Microelectronics Center in Nashua, NH. This facility will
    produce chips that are essential to our national security, including
    for use in F-35 fighter jets.

  
President Biden’s Investing in America agenda – including the CHIPS and
Science Act – is spurring a manufacturing and clean energy boom. Since
President Biden took office, companies have announced over $675 billion
in private sector investments in manufacturing and clean energy, and
over 50,000 infrastructure and clean energy projects are underway. This
announcement is part of the President’s broader commitment to build an
economy from the middle out and bottom up, not the top down, and invest
in all of America. 

\###
