---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 18:23:02-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget for Fiscal Year\_2025"
---
 
***Budget Details Vision to Protect Progress, Lower Costs, Protect and
Strengthen Social Security and Medicare, Invest in America and the
American People, and Reduce the Deficit***

From Day One of this Administration, President Biden has tackled
challenges head-on while delivering long-lasting results. Over the past
three years, he has overseen a strong economic recovery, amassed one of
the most successful legislative records in generations, grown the
economy from the middle out and bottom up, and delivered important
progress for the American people.

Since the President and Vice President took office, the economy has
added about 15 million jobs, the unemployment rate has remained below 4
percent for two years in a row—a more than 50-year record—while
inflation has fallen by two-thirds. Our strong labor market has meant
higher paychecks for working Americans, with inflation-adjusted wages
and wealth higher now than before the pandemic. The President’s top
economic priority remains lowering costs for hardworking Americans.
Under his leadership, the Administration is working to bring down
prescription drug costs, health insurance premiums, utility bills, and
costs for everyday goods and services—all while taking on junk fees that
some banks, airlines, and other big corporations use to rip off
Americans. At the same time, he has also restored U.S. leadership on the
world stage while keeping Americans safe and promoting democracy at home
and abroad.

The President has delivered this progress while fulfilling his
commitment to fiscal responsibility. The deficit is over $1 trillion
lower than when President Biden took office, thanks in large part to the
strength of our economic recovery. In addition, the President has also
enacted another roughly $1 trillion in savings over the next decade
through the Fiscal Responsibility Act, and through Inflation Reduction
Act provisions that empower Medicare to negotiate lower prescription
drug prices, cap insulin at $35 per month for seniors, and make our tax
system fairer by making billion-dollar corporations pay a minimum tax
and enabling the IRS to crack down on wealthy and corporate tax cheats.

The Budget details the President’s vision to protect and build on his
Administration’s progress by continuing to lower costs for working
families, protect and strengthen Social Security and Medicare, invest in
America and the American people to make sure the middle class has a fair
shot and we leave no one behind, and reduce the deficit by cracking down
on fraud, cutting wasteful spending, and making the wealthy and
corporations pay their fair share. Building on the President’s record of
fiscal responsibility, his Budget reduces the deficit by $3 trillion
over the next 10 years—on top of paying for new investments.

The President’s vision of progress, possibilities, and resilience is in
stark contrast to Congressional Republicans, who have repeatedly fought
to slash critical programs the American people count on and increase the
deficit by hundreds of billions of dollars, including by attempting to
repeal the parts of the Inflation Reduction Act that take on special
interests like Big Pharma, big corporations, and wealthy tax cheats.
**The President’s Budget:**

***<u>Lowers Costs for the American People</u>***

The President has made lowering costs for hardworking families his top
domestic priority. Under his leadership we have seen significant
progress bringing down inflation. Inflation is down by more than
two-thirds, and costs have fallen for key household purchases from a
gallon of gas to a gallon of milk. While Congressional Republicans have
consistently taken actions that would raise costs for working families,
the President’s Budget would continue lowering costs for families.

**Lowers Drug Prices and Expands Access to Prescription Drugs.** Thanks
to action taken by the Administration, millions of seniors and people
with disabilities are saving money on their drug costs, and the
Administration announced the first ten drugs for which prices will be
negotiated as it continues implementation of the Inflation Reduction
Act. The Budget builds on this success by significantly increasing the
pace of negotiation, bringing more drugs into negotiation sooner after
they launch, expanding the Inflation Reduction Act’s inflation rebates
and $2,000 out-of-pocket prescription drug cost cap beyond Medicare and
into the commercial market, and other steps to build on the Inflation
Reduction Act drug provisions. In addition, the Budget extends the $35
cost-sharing cap for a month’s supply of insulin to the commercial
market. The Budget also includes proposals to ensure Medicaid and the
Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) are prudent purchasers of
prescription drugs and limits Medicare Part D cost-sharing for
high-value generic drugs, such as those used to treat hypertension and
hyperlipidemia, to no more than $2 per month for Medicare beneficiaries.
These reforms will not only cut costs for the Federal government by $200
billion; they will also save billions of dollars for seniors.

**Cuts Taxes for Families with Children and American Workers.**
President Biden’s tax cuts
[cut](https://www.census.gov/library/stories/2022/09/record-drop-in-child-poverty.html#:~:text=Related%20Statistics&text=The%20Current%20Population%20Survey%20Annual,not%20statistically%20different%20from%202020.&text=The%20majority%20of%20America%27s%2072.6,with%20two%20parents%20(70%25).)
child poverty in half in 2021 and are saving millions of people an
average of about $800 per year in health insurance premiums today. Going
forward, in addition to honoring his pledge not to raise taxes on anyone
earning less than $400,000 annually, President Biden’s tax plan would
cut taxes for middle- and low-income Americans by $765 billion over 10
years. The Budget restores the full Child Tax Credit enacted in the
American Rescue Plan, which helped cut child poverty nearly in half in
2021 to its lowest level in history and narrowed racial disparities in
access to the credit. The President’s Budget would restore the expanded
Child Tax Credit, lifting 3 million children out of poverty and cutting
taxes by an average of $2,600 for 39 million low- and middle-income
families that include 66 million children. This includes 18 million
children in low-income families who would be newly eligible for the full
credit, and 2 million children living with a caregiver who is at least
60 years old. It would also provide breathing room for day-to-day
expenses by allowing families to receive their tax credit through
monthly payments. And by strengthening the Earned Income Tax Credit for
low-paid workers who aren’t raising a child in their home, the
President’s Budget would cut taxes by an average of $800 for 19 million
working individuals or couples. That includes 2 million older workers
age 65 and older and 5 million young adults age 18 to 24 who would be
newly eligible for the credit.

**Lowers Child Care Costs for Hard-Working Families.** The President is
committed to providing relief to hard-working families. His Budget
creates a historic new program under which working families with incomes
up to $200,000 per year would be guaranteed affordable, high-quality
child care from birth until kindergarten, with most families paying no
more than $10 a day, and the lowest income families paying
nothing—providing a lifeline to the parents of more than 16 million
children. The Budget also includes $8.5 billion for the Child Care and
Development Block Grant (CCDBG) which will help states expand child care
assistance to serve over 2 million low-income children.

**Increases Affordable Housing Supply to Reduce Housing Costs.** The
President believes that all Americans should be able to afford a quality
home, which is why the Budget includes a historic investment of more
than $258 billion that would build or preserve over 2 million units. The
Budget builds on previous investments and actions by this Administration
to boost housing supply and lower housing costs, particularly for lower-
and middle-income households. The Budget expands the existing Low-Income
Housing Tax Credit and proposes a new Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit. To
further address the critical shortage of affordable housing in
communities throughout the Nation, the Budget provides $20 billion in
mandatory funding for a new Innovation Fund for Housing Expansion. The
Budget invests $1.3 billion in the HOME Investment Partnerships Program
(HOME) to construct and rehabilitate affordable rental housing and
provide homeownership opportunities. The Budget also provides $7.5
billion in mandatory funding for new Project-Based Rental Assistance
contracts to incentivize the development of new climate-resilient
affordable housing. Together these proposals would expand the supply of
safe and affordable housing, bring new units to market, and ultimately
help curb cost growth across the broader rental market.

**Expands Access to Homeownership and Affordable Rent and Reduces Down
Payments for First-Time and First-Generation Homebuyers.** The Budget
proposes a new Mortgage Relief Credit to help increase access to
affordable housing. The proposal includes a new tax credit for
middle-class first-time homebuyers of up to $10,000 over two years to
ease affordability challenges. In addition, to unlock starter home
inventory and allow middle-class families to move up the housing ladder
and empty nesters to right size, the President is calling on Congress to
provide a one-year tax credit of up to $10,000 to middle-class families
who sell their starter home. The Budget also provides $10 billion in
mandatory funding for a new First-Generation Down Payment Assistance
program to address homeownership and wealth gaps. For renters, the
Budget proposes $32.8 billion in discretionary funding for the Housing
Choice Voucher Program to maintain and protect critical services for all
currently assisted families and support an additional 20,000 households.
The Budget also provides $9 billion to establish a housing voucher
program for all 20,000 youth aging out of foster care annually, and
provides $13 billion to incrementally expand rental assistance for
400,000 extremely low-income veteran families, paving a path to
guaranteed assistance for all who have served the Nation and are in
need.

**Reduces the Cost of College and Lifts the Burden of Student Debt.**
From Day One of his Administration, President Biden vowed to fix the
student loan system and make sure higher education is a pathway to the
middle class—not a barrier to opportunity. Already, the President has
cancelled more student debt than any President in history, approving
debt cancellation for nearly 4 million borrowers through more than two
dozen executive actions. The Budget includes a $12 billion mandatory
Reducing the Costs of College Fund that will fund strategies to lower
college costs for students, including a new *Classroom to Career Fund*
that will enable students to more affordably obtain postsecondary
degrees by increasing access to career-connected dual enrollment
opportunities. The Budget also builds on the President’s historic
actions to reduce student debt and the cost of college by eliminating
the origination fees charged to borrowers on every new federal student
loan, which costs families billions. In addition, to help low- and
middle-income students overcome financial barriers to postsecondary
education, the Budget proposes to increase the discretionary maximum
Pell Grant by $100 and thereby expand the reach of the program to help
over 7.2 million students attend a public or non-profit college. The
Budget builds on successful bipartisan efforts to increase the maximum
Pell Grant award by $900 over the past two years—the largest increase in
more than 10 years. The Budget also expands free community college
through a Federal-State partnership and provides two years of subsidized
tuition for students from families earning less than $125,000 enrolled
in a four-year Historically Black College and University (HBCU),
Tribally Controlled College and University (TCCU), or Minority-Serving
Institution (MSI). 

**Lowers Health Care Costs.** The President believes that healthcare is
a right, not a privilege. With enrollment in Marketplace coverage at an
all-time high, the Budget builds on the incredible success of the
Affordable Care Act by making permanent the expanded premium tax credits
that the Inflation Reduction Act extended, and providing Medicaid-like
coverage to individuals in States that have not adopted Medicaid
expansion, paired with financial incentives to ensure States maintain
their existing expansions. For Medicaid and CHIP, the Budget allows
States to extend the existing 12-month continuous eligibility for all
children to 36 months, and allows States to provide continuous
eligibility for children from birth until they turn age 6. Further, the
Budget prohibits enrollment fees and premiums in CHIP.

**Reduces Home Energy and Water Costs.** The Budget provides $4.1
billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP),
helping families access home energy and weatherization assistance—vital
tools for protecting families from extreme weather and climate change.
In addition, the Budget proposes to allow States the option to use a
portion of their LIHEAP funds to provide water bill assistance to
low-income households.

***<u>Protects and Strengthens Social Security and Medicare</u>***

Social Security and Medicare are more than government programs, they’re
a promise—a rock-solid guarantee that generations of Americans have
counted on—that after a life of hard work, you will be able to retire
with dignity and security. As the President has made clear, he will
reject any efforts to cut or undermine the Medicare or Social Security
benefits that seniors and people with disabilities have earned and paid
into their entire working lives. The Budget honors that ironclad
commitment by firmly opposing benefit cuts to either program and by
embracing reforms that would protect and strengthen these programs. The
President remains committed to working with the Congress to protect and
strengthen Medicare and Social Security for this and future generations
and strongly rejects Congressional Republicans’ attempts to cut benefits
for hardworking Americans.

**Protects and Strengthens Medicare.** The Budget strengthens Medicare
by extending the solvency of the Medicare Hospital Insurance (HI) trust
fund indefinitely by modestly increasing the Medicare tax rate on
incomes above $400,000, closing loopholes in existing Medicare taxes,
and directing revenue from the Net Investment Income Tax into the HI
trust fund as was originally intended. The Budget closes the loophole
that allows certain business owners to avoid paying Medicare taxes on
these profits and raises Medicare tax rates on earned and unearned
income from 3.8 percent to 5 percent for those with incomes over
$400,000. In addition, the Budget directs an amount equivalent to the
savings from the proposed Medicare drug reforms into the HI trust fund.

**Protects the Social Security Benefits that Americans Have Earned.**
The Administration is committed to protecting and strengthening Social
Security. In particular, the Administration looks forward to working
with Congress to responsibly strengthen Social Security in a way that
ensures no benefit cuts; extends solvency by asking the highest-income
Americans to pay their fair share; and improves financial security for
seniors and people with disabilities, especially those who face the
greatest challenges making ends meet.

**Ensures That Americans Can Access the Benefits They’ve Earned.** The
Budget also invests in staff, information technology, and other
improvements at the Social Security Administration (SSA), which will
improve customer service at SSA’s field offices, State disability
determination services, and teleservice centers for retirees,
individuals with disabilities, and their families.

***<u>Cuts the Deficit by Promoting Tax Fairness</u>***

The President has demonstrated that we can invest in America while
achieving meaningful deficit reduction. The deficit is over $1 trillion
lower than when President Biden took office, and the President has
enacted roughly $1 trillion in additional deficit reduction, including
through provisions that empower Medicare to negotiate lower prescription
drug prices, cap insulin at $35 per month for seniors and people with
disabilities, and establish a minimum tax for large corporations. The
Administration looks forward to building on this progress with
responsible investments that continue to grow America’s economy from the
middle out and bottom up while improving the long-term budget outlook.
The Budget proposes another roughly $3 trillion in savings over the next
10 years by making the wealthy and large corporations pay their fair
share and closing tax loopholes and cutting wasteful spending on Big
Pharma, Big Oil, corporate jets and other special interests, and
cracking down on wealthy tax cheats. The President’s proposals to reduce
the deficit are in sharp contrast to Congressional Republicans plans for
tax giveaways skewed to wealthy and big corporations.

**Requires Billionaires to Pay at Least 25 Percent of Income in Taxes.**
Billionaires make their money in ways that are often taxed at lower
rates than ordinary wage income, or sometimes not taxed at all, thanks
to giant loopholes and tax preferences that disproportionately benefit
the wealthiest taxpayers. As a result, many of these wealthy Americans
are able to pay an average income tax rate of just 8 percent on their
full incomes—a lower rate than many firefighters or teachers. To finally
address this glaring inequity, the President’s Budget includes a 25
percent minimum tax on the wealthiest 0.01 percent, those with wealth of
more than $100 million.

**Raises Tax Rates for Large Corporations.** Corporations received an
enormous tax break in 2017. While their profits soared, their investment
in their workers and the economy did not. Their shareholders and top
executives reaped the benefits, without the promised trickle down to
workers, consumers, or communities. The President’s Budget would set the
corporate tax rate at 28 percent, still well below the 35 percent rate
that prevailed prior to the 2017 tax law. In addition, the Budget would
raise the Inflation Reduction Act’s corporate minimum tax rate on
billion-dollar corporations that the President signed into law from 15
percent to 21 percent, ensuring the biggest corporations pay more of
their fair share. These policies are complemented by other proposals to
incentivize job creation and investment in the United States to help
ensure broadly shared prosperity.

**Cracks Down on Tax Avoidance by Large Multinationals and Big Pharma.**
For decades, countries have competed for multinational business by
slashing tax rates, at the expense of having adequate revenues to
finance core services. Thanks in part to the Administration’s
leadership, more than 130 nations signed on to a global tax framework to
finally address this race to the bottom in 2021. Many of our
international partners, including many of the world’s largest economies,
have implemented or will soon implement this transformational agreement.
The President’s Budget proposes to do the same by reforming the
international tax system to reduce the incentives to book profits in
low-tax jurisdictions, stopping corporate inversions to tax havens, and
raising the tax rate on U.S. multinationals’ foreign earnings from 10.5
percent to 21 percent. These reforms would ensure that profitable
multinational corporations, including Big Pharma pay their fair share.

**Denies Corporations Deductions for All Compensation Over $1 Million
Per Employee.** Executive pay has skyrocketed in recent decades, with
CEO pay averaging more than 300 times that of a typical worker in 2022.
The 2017 tax law’s corporate tax cuts only made this problem worse,
producing massive boosts to executive compensation while doing nothing
for low- and middle-income workers. While corporations can choose to
give huge pay packages to their executives, President Biden believes
that they don’t deserve a tax break when they do. His Budget proposes
new policy to deny deductions for all compensation over $1 million paid
to any employee of a C corporation, which would discourage companies
from giving their executives massive pay packages and help level the
playing field across C corporations.

**Ends Capital Income Tax Breaks and Other Loopholes for the Very
Wealthy.** The President’s Budget will end one of the most unfair
aspects of our tax system—the fact that the tax rate the wealthy pay on
capital gains and dividends is less than the tax rate that many
middle-class families pay on their wages. Households making over $1
million—the top 0.3 percent of all households—will pay the same 39.6
percent marginal rate on their income just like a high-paid worker pays
on their wages. Moreover, the Budget eliminates the loophole that allows
the wealthiest Americans to entirely escape paying taxes on their wealth
by passing it down to heirs.

**Ensures That the IRS Can Continue to Collect Taxes Owed by Wealthy Tax
Cheats.** The Inflation Reduction Act addressed long-standing IRS
funding deficiencies by providing stable, multi-year funding to improve
tax compliance by finally cracking down on high-income individuals and
corporations who too often avoided paying their lawfully owed taxes, and
to improve service for the millions of Americans that do pay their
taxes. Already, the IRS is using these resources to crack down on tax
evasion by the wealthy and big businesses. It has
[collected](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/irs-has-already-collected-more-than-500-million-in-back-taxes-from-delinquent-millionaires-b70fe240)
more than $500 million in unpaid taxes from fewer than 2,000 delinquent
millionaires, is
[recouping](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-launches-new-effort-aimed-at-high-income-non-filers-125000-cases-focused-on-high-earners-including-millionaires-who-failed-to-file-tax-returns-with-financial-activity-topping-100-billion)
taxes from thousands of millionaires who did not fulfill their basic
civic duty by filing a tax return, and is
[cracking](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-begins-audits-of-corporate-jet-usage-part-of-larger-effort-to-ensure-high-income-groups-dont-fly-under-the-radar-on-tax-responsibilities)
down on high-end tax evasion like deducting personal use of corporate
jets as a business expense. At the same time, the IRS is
[improving](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1421)
customer service and modernizing IT infrastructure. The President’s
Budget would restore the full Inflation Reduction Act investment and
provide new funding over the long-term to continue cutting the deficit
by making sure that wealthy Americans and big corporations pay the taxes
they owe through tax compliance initiatives and to continue improving
service for taxpayers who are just trying to pay what they owe.

***<u>Invests in America and the American People</u>***

*Expands and Protects Access to Health Care*

**Supports Family Planning Services, Maternal Health, and Health
Equity.** Americans deserve access to the healthcare they need,
including maternal healthcare, contraception, and family planning
services, which are essential to ensuring control over personal
decisions about their own health, lives, and families. The Budget
includes $390 million for the Title X Family Planning program to
increase the number of patients served to 3.6 million. The Budget also
builds on a nearly 200 percent funding increase for key programs that
address maternal mortality over the course of the Administration,
including $376 million to support the ongoing implementation of the
White House Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis to
reduce maternal mortality and morbidity rates, and address the highest
rates of perinatal health disparities.

**Saves Lives by Advancing Behavioral Healthcare.** In 2022, almost a
quarter of adults had a mental illness, 13 percent of adolescents had
serious thoughts of suicide, and overdose deaths continued near record
highs. As a core pillar of his Unity Agenda, the President released a
national strategy to transform how we understand and address mental
health in America—and the Budget makes progress on this agenda by
improving access to care for individuals and communities. The Budget
requires all health plans to cover mental health and substance use
disorder benefits, ensures that plans have an adequate network of
behavioral health providers, and improves the Department of Labor’s
(DOL) ability to enforce the law. The Budget builds on historic
investments to improve access to mental health services, and makes
significant investments in expanding the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline
that is projected to respond to 7.5 million contacts from individuals in
distress in 2025 alone and expands mental health care and support
services in schools. Additionally, the Administration has made historic
advances in expanding access to treatment for opioid use disorder,
including signing into law a bipartisan provision to expand the number
of medical providers who can initiate treatment for opioid use disorder
from 129,000 to nearly 2 million. The Budget increases funding for the
State Opioid Response grant program, which has provided treatment
services to over 1.2 million people and enabled States to reverse more
than 500,000 overdoses with over 9 million purchased overdose reversal
medication kits.

**Drives Healthcare Innovation to Discover New Treatments and Improve
Health Outcomes.** Investing in health care innovation and new
treatments is a direct investment in the American people. The
President’s Budget advances progress toward Biden Cancer Moonshot Goals
and the White House Initiative on Women’s Health Research, enhances
biodefense and public health infrastructure, and directly invests in
treatment and prevention of infectious diseases. The Budget makes
significant investments to work toward the President and First Lady’s
signature Cancer Moonshot goals of reducing the cancer death rate by at
least 50 percent over 25 years and improving the experience of people
and families who are living with or who have survived cancer. The
President and the First Lady launched the first-ever White House
Initiative on Women’s Health Research, recognizing that women have been
understudied and underrepresented in health research for far too long.
The Administration proposes to transform the way the government funds
women’s health research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH),
including by increasing interdisciplinary research at NIH and creating a
new nationwide network of centers of excellence and innovation in
women’s health—and the Budget would double existing funding for the
Office of Research on Women’s Health at NIH, to improve women’s health
outcomes. Additionally, over the past three years, substantial progress
has been made toward developing and implementing transformational
capabilities to increase the Nation’s ability to respond to and prepare
for emerging health threats. Building upon this progress, the Budget
invests $9.8 billion to bolster public health capacity that will enable
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to better serve and
protect the American public. The Budget also invests in the treatment
and prevention of infectious diseases, including Hepatitis C, HIV, and
vaccine-preventable diseases.

**Expands Healthcare, Benefits, and Services for Environmental
Exposures.** The Honoring our PACT Act of 2022 (PACT Act) represents the
most significant expansion of veterans’ healthcare and disability
compensation benefits for veterans exposed to toxins and other
environmental exposures, including burn pits and Agent Orange, in 30
years. As part of the PACT Act, Congress authorized the Cost of War
Toxic Exposures Fund (TEF) to fund increased costs above 2021 funding
levels for healthcare and benefits delivery for veterans exposed to
certain environmental hazards—and ensure there is sufficient funding
available to cover these costs without shortchanging other elements of
veteran medical care and benefits delivery. The Budget continues this
commitment and includes $24.5 billion for the TEF in 2025, through funds
appropriated by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which is $19.5 billion
above the 2023 enacted level.

**Prioritizes Veterans’ Mental Health Services and Suicide Prevention
for Veterans and Military Servicemembers.** The Budget invests $135
million within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) research
programs, together with $17 billion within the VA Medical Care program,
to increase access to quality mental healthcare, with the goal of
helping veterans take charge of their treatment and live full,
meaningful lives. In addition, the Budget provides funding to further
advance the Administration’s veteran suicide prevention initiatives and
to support the Department of Defense’s efforts on Suicide Prevention and
Response.

*Supports America’s Workforce and Prepares America’s Economy for
21<sup>st</sup> Century Challenges*

**Continues Implementation of the President’s Investing in America
Agenda.** The Budget provides a total of $78.4 billion for highway,
highway safety, and transit formula programs, supporting the amounts
authorized for year four of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. The
Budget also reflects an additional $9.5 billion in advance
appropriations provided by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for bridge
replacement and rehabilitation, electric vehicle charging
infrastructure, and other programs to improve the safety,
sustainability, and resilience of America’s transportation network.

**Provides National, Comprehensive Paid Family and Medical Leave and
Calls for Paid Sick Days.** The Budget proposes a national,
comprehensive paid family and medical leave program, providing up to 12
weeks of leave to allow eligible workers to take time off to care for
and bond with a new child; care for a seriously ill loved one; heal from
their own serious illness; address circumstances arising from a loved
one’s military deployment; or find safety from domestic violence, sexual
assault, or stalking. The President also calls on Congress to require
employers to provide seven job-protected paid sick days each year to all
workers.

**Empowers, Protects, and Invests in Workers.** Workers power America’s
economic prosperity, building the economy from the middle out and bottom
up. To ensure workers are treated with dignity and respect in the
workplace and are paid the wages they’re owed, the Budget invests $2
billion in the Department of Labor’s worker protection agencies. The
Budget also proposes funding for the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission to support implementation and enforcement of the Pregnant
Workers Fairness Act and advancement of pay equity through the
collection and analysis of employer pay data. Additionally, the Budget
includes funding to strengthen the National Labor Relations Board’s
capacity to enforce workers’ rights to organize and collectively bargain
for better wages and working conditions.

*Confronts the Climate Crisis While Spurring Clean Energy Innovation,
Increasing Resilience, and Protecting Natural Resources*

**Lowers Energy Costs and Catalyzes Clean Energy and Economic Growth in
Rural Communities.** The Budget builds on the President’s historic
Inflation Reduction Act to reduce energy bills for families, expand
clean energy, transform rural power production, and create thousands of
good-paying jobs for people across rural America. The Budget provides
funding for loan guarantees for renewable energy systems and energy
efficiency improvements for farmers and rural small businesses, and
authority for rural electric loans to support additional clean energy,
energy storage, and transmission projects that would create good-paying
jobs.

**Invests in Clean Air and Reduces Health and Environmental Hazards for
At-Risk Communities.** The Budget provides a total of $1.5 billion for
the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Air and Radiation to
continue the development of national programs, policies, and regulations
that control air pollution and radiation exposure. The Budget provides
$8.2 billion for the Department of Energy (DOE) to address legacy waste
and contamination in communities, as well as funding for EPA’s Toxic
Substances Control Act enforcement. The Administration will ensure the
investments for the management of toxic chemicals, including per-and
polyfluoroalkyl substances, cleanup of legacy pollution, and long-term
stewardship of these sites align with the Justice40 Initiative to
benefit disadvantaged communities.

**Creates Jobs by Building Clean Energy Infrastructure.** The Budget
invests $1.6 billion through the DOE to support clean energy workforce
and infrastructure projects across the Nation, including funding to
weatherize and retrofit homes of low-income Americans, create good jobs
and ensure reliable supply chains by manufacturing clean energy
components here at home, electrify Tribal homes and transition Tribal
colleges and universities to renewable energy, and support utilities and
State and local governments in building a grid that is more secure,
reliable, resilient, and able to integrate electricity from clean energy
sources. These investments, which complement and bolster the historic
funding in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction
Act, will create good-paying jobs and revitalize American manufacturing
while driving progress toward the Administration’s climate goals,
including 100% carbon pollution-free electricity by 2035.

**Strengthens Climate Resilience in Communities and Ecosystems.**
Building on the National Climate Resilience Framework, the Budget
invests $23 billion in climate adaptation and resilience across the
federal government to address the increasing severity of flood,
wildfire, drought, and other extreme weather events fueled by climate
change, including funding to support the wildland firefighting workforce
through permanent and comprehensive pay reform. The Budget also provides
funding to help farmers, ranchers, and forestland owners meet production
goals in the face of a changing climate while conserving, maintaining,
and restoring natural resources on their lands. The Budget complements
the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction
Act, which dedicate more than $50 billion across the Federal government
to advance climate resilience strategies in every community in America.

**Supports and Expands the American Climate Corps.** Last year, the
Administration announced the launch of the American Climate Corps (ACC)
to mobilize a new, diverse generation of more than 20,000 clean energy,
conservation, and climate resilience workers, and this year, the first
cohort of ACC members will begin their service. The Budget would provide
mandatory funding to expand the ACC over the next decade by supporting
an additional 50,000 ACC members annually by 2031. The ACC will provide
job training and service opportunities on a wide range of projects that
tackle climate change in communities around the country.

**Doubles Down on America’s Global Climate Leadership**. Beyond leading
by example through domestic investments, the Budget provides a path to
achieving the President’s $11 billion commitment for international
climate finance. The Budget also supports $3 billion contribution
through mandatory funding to finance the Green Climate Fund. The Budget
builds on historic international climate finance progress made over the
course of this Administration, in which estimated 2023 levels of $9.5
billion represent a near-sixfold increase from 2021.

*Invests in America’s Families*

**Supports a Strong Nutrition Safety Net.** The Budget provides $8.5
billion for critical nutrition programs, including $7.7 billion to fully
fund the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and
Children (WIC) to serve all eligible participants, which is critical to
the health of pregnant women, new mothers, infants, and young children.
By investing in outreach and modernization, WIC would reach 800,000 more
women, infants, and children each month, providing vital nutrition
assistance to nearly 7 million individuals, up from 6.2 million in 2021.
In addition, the Budget includes an emergency contingency fund that
would provide additional resources when there are unanticipated cost
pressures.

**Builds a Strong Foundation for Families with Universal Pre-K and Head
Start.** The Budget funds voluntary, universal, free preschool for all
four million of America’s four-year-olds and charts a path to expand
preschool to three-year-olds. High-quality preschool would be offered in
the setting of the parent’s choice—from public schools to child care
providers to Head Start. The Budget also increases Head Start funding by
$544 million to support the Administration’s goal to reach pay parity
between Head Start staff and public elementary school teachers with
similar qualifications over time. Together these proposals would support
healthy child development, help children enter kindergarten ready to
learn, and support families by reducing their costs prior to school
entry and allowing parents to work.

*Expands Opportunity and Advances Equity*

**Advances Efforts to End Homelessness.** The Budget provides $4.1
billion for Homeless Assistance Grants to continue supporting
approximately 1.2 million people experiencing homelessness each year and
to expand assistance to approximately 25,000 additional households,
specifically survivors of domestic violence and homeless youth. These
new resources build on Administration efforts that have expanded
assistance to roughly 140,000 additional households experiencing
homelessness since the President took office. The Budget further
reflects the Administration’s commitment to make progress toward ending
homelessness by providing $8 billion in mandatory funding for the
acquisition, construction, or operation of housing to expand housing
options for people experiencing or at-risk of homelessness, as well as
$3 billion in mandatory funding for grants to provide counseling and
emergency rental assistance to older adult renters at-risk of
homelessness.

**Honors Commitments to Support Tribal Communities.** Incorporating
feedback from Tribal consultations, the Budget continues to provide
robust support for Tribal Nations and Native communities in keeping with
our federal trust and treaty responsibilities. For example, the Budget
invests $4.6 billion for the Department of Interior’s (DOI) Tribal
programs. This investment in DOI’s Tribal programs build on historic
investments in Indian Country under the American Rescue Plan, Inflation
Reduction Act, and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and promote long-term
success by addressing critical infrastructure and climate adaptation
needs in Native communities.

**Expands Access to Capital for Small Businesses**. Building on the
historic growth in small business applications under the President and
Vice President’s leadership, the Budget supports historic lending levels
across the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) business lending
programs. The over $58 billion in lending provided in the Budget would
address the need for greater access to affordable capital, particularly
in underserved communities. The Budget proposes a new direct 7(a)
lending program, which would further enable SBA to address gaps in
access to small dollar lending.

**Promotes Equity in Education and Builds a Diverse, Capable STEM
Workforce.** The Budget increases institutional capacity at HBCUs,
TCCUs, MSIs, and under-resourced institutions, including community
colleges, and doubles funding by providing $100 million for four-year
HBCUs, TCCUs, and MSIs to expand research and development
infrastructure. In support of the CHIPS and Science Act’s priority of
building a diverse, STEM-capable workforce, the Budget provides $1.4
billion for STEM education and workforce development programs at the
National Science Foundation that have an emphasis on diversity, equity,
inclusion, and accessibility. The Budget also includes funding for
programs focused on increasing the participation of groups historically
underrepresented in science and engineering fields, including women and
girls and people of color.

***<u>Protects Americans at Home and Abroad</u>***

From taking action to combat hate in America’s communities, tackle gun
violence, and strengthen trust in the Nation’s democratic institutions,
to defending freedom around the globe, and rebuilding key alliances, the
Administration has taken decisive action to strengthen America at home
and abroad, all with the goal of keeping Americans safe. The Budget
builds on this progress with proposals to continue investing in State,
local, Tribal, and Federal law enforcement, reducing gun violence and
crime, securing the border and strengthening the immigration system, and
revitalizing U.S. alliances and partnerships while confronting global
threats and strengthening America’s military.

**Secures the Border and Strengthens the Immigration System.** In
October 2023, the Administration transmitted an emergency supplemental
request for managing the southwest border and migration totaling $13.6
billion. The Budget includes, and therefore reiterates the need for, the
unmet needs from the October supplemental request. The Budget includes
investments to build longer-term capacity in the areas of border
security, immigration enforcement, and countering illicit fentanyl. This
amount includes funding to hire 1,300 additional Border Patrol Agents to
secure the border, 1,000 additional Customs and Border Protection
Officers to stop illicit fentanyl and other contraband from entering the
U.S., an additional 1,600 Asylum Officers and support staff to
facilitate timely immigration dispositions, as well as $849 million for
cutting-edge detection technology at ports of entry. The Budget also
reiterates the ask for funding to hire 375 new immigration judge teams
to help reduce the immigration case backlog. Taken together, these
long-term capacity building investments equip the Nation’s border
security and immigration system to more effectively respond to
challenges present along the border.

**Tackles Crime, Reduces Gun Violence, and Makes America’s Communities
Safer.** The Budget makes significant investments to bolster Federal law
enforcement capacity to strengthen public safety and it also pursues new
mandatory investments to combat violent crime and support victims. The
Budget includes $17.7 billion for Department of Justice law enforcement,
including $2 billion, an increase of over 30 percent since 2021, for the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives to effectively
investigate and prosecute gun crimes. To support state, local, and
Tribal law enforcement efforts, the Budget proposes $31.8 billion in
mandatory funding to support President Biden’s Safer America Plan, and
complements this plan with proposed discretionary investments of $270
million for the COPS Hiring Program and $100 million for community
violence intervention and prevention. The Budget also builds upon the
Safer America Plan by investing an additional $1.2 billion over five
years to launch a new Violent Crime Reduction and Prevention Fund to
give law enforcement the support they need to focus on violent crime,
including support to hire 4,700 detectives to help drive down the high
rate of unsolved violent crimes. In support of victims of crime, the
Budget also requests $7.3 billion to replenish and reform the Crime
Victims Fund to ensure a stable and predictable source of funding is
available to support critical victim service and compensation programs
over the next decade.

**Prioritizes Efforts to End Gender-Based Violence.** The Administration
has prioritized funding for programs under the Violence Against Women
Act of 1994 (VAWA). These programs have seen funding increased by over
35 percent since 2021 and the Budget proposes further expansion to $800
million for programs under VAWA, including key investments in sexual
assault services, transitional housing, and legal assistance for
survivors. The Budget also makes clear the Administration’s priority to
strongly support underserved and Tribal communities by providing $15
million for culturally-speciﬁc services, $5 million for underserved
populations, $25 million to assist enforcement of Tribal special
domestic violence jurisdiction under VAWA 2022’s expansions, $3 million
to support Tribal Special Assistant U.S. Attorneys, and $10 million for
a new special initiative to address Missing and Murdered Indigenous
People (MMIP).

**Combats Narcotics Trafficking.** The Budget provides $3.3 billion to
the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to combat drug trafficking,
including $1.2 billion to combat opioid trafficking, save lives, and
make our communities safer. The Budget invests an additional $18 million
in Domestic Counter-Fentanyl Threat Targeting Teams at the Drug
Enforcement Administration to enhance America’s fight against the
transnational criminal networks pushing deadly illicit fentanyl in
America’s communities. The Budget also provides $494 million in grants
supporting efforts to address substance use. The Budget includes funding
to disrupt the international synthetic drug trade which would counter
the worldwide flow of fentanyl and other synthetics that endanger public
safety and health, and contribute to tens of thousands of drug-overdose
deaths in the United States annually.

**Reiterates the Administration’s Request for Immediate Funding for
Urgent National Security Priorities Related to Ukraine, Israel, and the
Indo-Pacific.** In October 2023, the Administration transmitted an
emergency supplemental request totaling $92 billion to Congress for
urgent national security needs. This request included funding to support
Ukraine as it continues to defend itself against Russian aggression,
Israel’s defense against terrorism, the Indo-Pacific’s regional
security, life-saving humanitarian assistance, including for the
Palestinian people, and other national security priorities. The request
would also make significant and much needed investments in the American
defense industrial base, benefitting U.S. military readiness and helping
to create and sustain jobs in dozens of states across America. Absent
congressional action on this emergency request, the United States will
not be able to continue to provide support to Ukraine to meet their
battlefield needs as they defend against Russian attacks every day,
provide urgently needed military support to allies and partners, make
critical DIB investments, or sustain life-saving assistance and
development in some of the world’s most vulnerable areas. The
Administration appreciates the bipartisan supplemental legislation that
passed the Senate, which would address these urgent needs and advance
our own national security.

**Supports Ukraine, European Allies, and Partners.** The Budget
continues critical support for Ukraine, the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) allies, and other European partner states by
prioritizing funding to enhance the capabilities and readiness of U.S.,
allied, and partner forces in the face of continued Russian aggression.
However, this Budget cannot address the critical support to Ukraine that
requires congressional action on the Administration’s October 2023
National Security Supplemental request.

**Promotes Integrated Deterrence in the Indo-Pacific and Globally**. To
sustain and strengthen deterrence, the Budget prioritizes China as
America’s pacing challenge in line with the 2022 National Defense
Strategy. The Department of Defense’s 2025 Pacific Deterrence Initiative
highlights some of the key investments the Federal government is making,
focuses on strengthening deterrence in the region, and demonstrates the
Administration’s long-term commitment to the Indo-Pacific. DOD is
building the concepts, capabilities, and posture necessary to meet these
challenges, working to integrate deterrence efforts across the U.S.
Government and with U.S. allies and partners.

**Ensures Readiness Across America’s Armed Forces.** The Budget
continues to ensure that U.S. Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, Coast
Guardsmen, and Guardians remain the best trained and equipped fighting
forces in the world. The Budget places additional emphasis on
foundational investments to sustain current weapon systems and support
increased training across DOD.

**Invests in the Submarine Industrial Base.** DOD conducted the 2025
Submarine Industrial Base (SIB) study to determine how to complete the
once-in-a-generation recapitalization of the Submarine Force needed to
increase the United States’ ability to build and sustain attack
submarines to meet U.S. military requirements. These investments will
also support the Administration’s commitments under AUKUS, the first
major deliverable of which was the historic decision to support
Australia acquiring conventionally-armed, nuclear-powered submarines. In
line with the results on this study, the Budget includes $3.4 billion
for the SIB in 2025.

**Provides Life-Saving Humanitarian Assistance and Combats Global Food
Insecurity.** The Budget provides $10.3 billion in life-saving
humanitarian and refugee assistance to support more than 330 million
people in need in more than 70 countries in addition to the emergency
supplemental request of $10 billion to address unprecedented global
humanitarian needs, including the dire humanitarian situation facing
Palestinians in Gaza. The Department of State and the United States
Agency for International Development will have to reduce life-saving
assistance around the globe without the additional $10 billion in
humanitarian assistance requested in the Administration’s October 2023
National Security Supplemental Request.

\###
