---
date: '2024-03-01'
modified_time: 2024-03-01 10:48:04-05:00
published_time: 2024-03-01 11:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/01/readout-white-house-office-of-gun-violence-prevention-hosts-briefing-on-mental-health-with-department-of-education-and-hbcus/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout: White\_House Office of Gun Violence Prevention Hosts Briefing on\
  \ Mental Health with Department of Education and\_HBCUs"
---
 
On February 29, the White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention (OGVP)
and the Department of Education hosted a briefing with Historically
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) on gun violence prevention and
the importance of mental health support for victims of gun violence. The
briefing was led by OGVP Deputy Director Gregory Jackson and Jessica
Gall, Special Assistant for the Office of Planning, Evaluation, and
Policy Development at the Department of Education.  
  
Students across the country are reeling from the epidemic of gun
violence, which has taken the lives of their family members, friends and
classmates. That’s why President Biden and the entire Biden-Harris
Administration are focused on providing resources and support for those
affected by the trauma of gun violence. The President’s Bipartisan Safer
Communities Act (BSCA), which is the most significant gun safety
legislation in the last 30 years, set forth crucial mental health
investments to ensure that those experiencing grief and trauma resulting
from gun violence have access to high-quality mental health services,
and supports to make our schools safer and expand community violence
interventions.  
  
During the mental health briefing, OGVP uplifted two recent grant
announcements from the Department of Education which provide funding to
increase school based mental health services.  
  
Specifically, the [School-Based Mental Health Services Grant
Program](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/office-of-formula-grants/safe-supportive-schools/school-based-mental-health-services-grant-program/)
provides grants to state and local educational institutions to increase
the number of credentialed mental health services providers for students
in need, while the [Mental Health Service Professional Demonstration
Grant
Program](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/office-of-formula-grants/safe-supportive-schools/mental-health-service-professional-demonstration-grant-program/)
provides competitive grants to support the training of school-based
mental health service providers.  
  
Thanks to BSCA, the Department of Education has awarded more than $280
million in funding to bolster the pipeline of mental health
professionals serving in schools and expand school-based mental health
services and supports. These critical investments have funded the hiring
or training of an additional 14,000 school based mental health
professionals—a 35% increase nationwide.  
  
These efforts are part of the President’s whole-of-government approach
to prevent crime, promote public safety, and end the epidemic of gun
violence tearing apart communities nationwide. Last month, the Office of
Gun Violence Prevention, in partnership with the U.S. Department of
Education and the Department of Justice, also announced [new executive
actions to help promote safe storage of
firearms](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/25/white-house-announces-new-actions-to-promote-safe-storage-of-firearms/) that
implement President Biden’s Executive Order on promoting safe gun
storage, which has been shown to dramatically reduce children’s risk of
self-inflicted harm and unintentional shootings.  
  
The President’s American Rescue Plan also helped states and over one
thousand cities, towns, and counties across the country to invest over
$15 billion in public safety and violence prevention.  Communities have
invested those funds to support additional police officers, expand
community violence intervention, add crisis responders, and more. And in
addition to key investments for schools to expand mental health services
and violence intervention programs, BSCA provides $250 million in
funding for community-based violence prevention initiatives.   
  
We are already seeing the positive impacts of the President’s strategy
to prevent and reduce crime and gun violence nationwide. According to
2023 FBI data, [there has been a significant drop in
crime](https://www.fbi.gov/news/press-releases/fbi-releases-2022-crime-in-the-nation-statistics) –
including one of the largest yearly declines in homicides ever. By
comparison, during the final year of the prior administration in 2020,
the United States saw the largest increase in murders ever recorded. We
have also seen key provisions created by the BCSA begin to deliver
results in making communities safer against gun violence, including
enhanced background check provisions that have enabled the Department of
Justice to [stop more than 600 illegal gun
purchases](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/05/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-stopping-over-500-illegal-under-21-gun-purchases-through-the-bipartisan-safer-communities-act/#:~:text=January%2005%2C%202024-,Statement%20from%20President%20Joe%20Biden%20on%20Stopping%20Over%20500%20Illegal,the%20Bipartisan%20Safer%20Communities%20Act&text=Today%20is%20an%20important%20milestone,fabric%20of%20our%20nation%20apart.) by
prohibited persons under 21 years old, and the first ever federal gun
trafficking and straw purchasing law.  
  
The President knows more can and must be done, which is why OGVP,
overseen by Vice President Kamala Harris, continues to implement BSCA
and identify executive orders to save lives, while also announcing new
initiatives to encourage action at the state and local level. This past
December, the Vice President convened 100 state legislators at the White
House to launch [the Biden-Harris Administration’s Safer States
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/OGVP-Safer-States-Policy-Agenda.pdf),
providing states with additional tools and the support they need to
reduce gun violence—and we have already seen states begin to [answer the
call and implement these critical
measures](https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2024/01/09/maryland-juvenile-justice-wes-moore/).
And earlier this week, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff, OGVP and the
Department of Labor DOL, [hosted a
roundtable](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/29/readout-of-white-house-roundtable-on-improving-job-opportunities-for-communities-affected-by-gun-violence/)
on improving job opportunities for communities affected by gun violence
and to discuss the connection between workforce development and violence
intervention and prevention.  
  
These are just a few examples of the progress that is being made under
the leadership of President Biden and Vice President Harris to protect
our communities, schools and children, and end the epidemic of gun
violence that is leaving empty seats at dinner tables across the
country. 

\###
