---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 22:50:37-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-improves-customer-experience-to-better-serve-the-american-people/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Improves Customer Experience to Better\
  \ Serve the American\_People"
---
 
To build on the historic progress made under President Biden’s
leadership, the American people need a modern and effective government.
A high-performing Federal government—staffed by expert civil
servants—plays a critical role in ensuring Americans can easily access
reliable services and resources, from helping the American people file
taxes and apply for benefits, to confronting the risks and opportunities
presented by Artificial Intelligence (AI). The Budget funds the
expertise and tools necessary to ensure excellent service delivery and
customer experience across the Federal government. **The President’s
Budget:**

***Modernizes Service Delivery***

**Provides More Passport Services Online.** The Budget increases
investments for the Department of State to improve on and expand online
passport renewal, delivering on the commitment outlined in the [Customer
Experience Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/13/fact-sheet-putting-the-public-first-improving-customer-experience-and-service-delivery-for-the-american-people/) to
enable Americans to renew their passport without having to go in-person
and mail original documents.

**Improves Social Security Administration (SSA) Services.** The Budget
builds the capacity of SSA’s Customer Experience team to fulfill
commitments outlined in the [Customer Experience Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/13/fact-sheet-putting-the-public-first-improving-customer-experience-and-service-delivery-for-the-american-people/).
The Budget also supports SSA’s efforts to take a customer-focused
approach to service delivery, such as by improving how people access SSA
services online, on mobile devices, by phone, and in-person. SSA will
also work with states to enable online replacement of social security
cards and name changes due to marriage nationwide.

**Modernizes Taxpayer Services.** By protecting annual funding for the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and restoring and extending Inflation
Reduction Act investments, the Budget continues initiatives that are
already expanding digital, phone, and in-person taxpayer assistance
options. Improved data analytics are helping the IRS work smarter by
staffing customer service functions to meet projected demand. With
ongoing investment, taxpayers can expect easier, secure access to their
data, as well as the tools to help them use it, to meet their tax
obligations and receive the incentives for which they are eligible.

**Improves Traveler Experience.** The Budget includes $3 million for the
Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to continue piloting the
Customer Experience Manager model at four airports focused on
streamlining passenger screening, easy-to-understand signage, and better
collection and analysis of customer feedback to take improvement
actions.

**Modernizes Federal Retirement Services.** The Budget invests in the
Office of Personnel Management to reduce processing times for Federal
retirement and improve customer satisfaction, including hiring
additional employees to process cases and $3 million to continue to
develop a digital file system and online retirement application.

**Brings America’s Great Outdoors Online.** The Budget makes investments
to better connect Americans with public lands through updates, added
features, and performance improvements to the National Park Service app,
NPS.gov, Recreation.gov, and Volunteer.gov. Funds will also support the
expanded use of digital activity passes to access the more than 560
national wildlife refuges managed by the Fish and Wildlife Service and
digital special use permits issued by the Forest Service.

**Improves Service Access for Rural Communities.** The Budget includes
$3 million for the Farm Service Agency to modernize its information
technology systems and pilot a technical assistance program to better
support farmers and ranchers applying for farm loans. The Budget also
includes $1 million for the development of digital tools and customer
feedback activities at Rural Development within the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.

**Supports Services for Senior Homeowners and Low-Income Renters.** The
Budget for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
supports an expansion of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA)
digital self-service portal that would streamline customer support for
seniors with FHA-held reverse mortgages. HUD will also pilot a
customer-centered approach for individuals and families seeking
affordable housing that aims to increase their understanding of
available housing options and reduce the time spent on waiting lists for
HUD-assisted rental housing.

**Builds Shared Products and Platforms to Enable Simple, Seamless, and
Secure Services Across the Federal Government.** The Budget provides
funding for continued maintenance of the Federal Website Standards, U.S.
Web Design System, Digital Analytics Program, Site Scanning Program,
Digital.gov, Search.gov, Touchpoints, and Feedback Analytics. The Budget
also supports design exploration for creating government-wide web
content standards and search engine optimization practices, including
the potential of using Search.gov to better structure and connect
information across agency websites.

***Builds On Lessons from Life Experience Pilot Projects***

**Supports Parents Following the Birth of a Child.** The Budget
increases funding for the Health Resources and Services Administration’s
Healthy Start program to improve health outcomes for parents and
infants, including by building on lessons learned through the Benefits
Bundle pilot to connect families welcoming a baby to a bundle of
supportive services. The Budget additionally directs the Veterans Health
Administration to develop a maternal supply kit pilot for veteran
mothers.

**Improves Efficiency, Program Integrity, and Accessibility of Safety
Net Benefits.** The Budget provides $11 million for HHS to work with
cross-agency partners to improve benefits-related income verification
services and determinations for benefits programs. In doing so, multiple
agencies will simplify access to supports for families facing a
financial shock and improve administrative efficiency.

**Supports Underserved Seniors Making Retirement Decisions.** The Budget
continues efforts by the Administration for Community Living to develop
a new model of community outreach to connect older adults with resources
to inform their retirement and healthcare decisions, building on lessons
learned from a community stakeholder-centered design process pilot.

***Invests In Customer Experience Capacity Across Government***

**Increases Customer Experience Teams, Digital Service Capabilities.**
The Budget invests in the retention and hiring of more than 170
full-time employees with customer experience and digital service
delivery experience across Federal agencies. These customer experience
strategists and digital service experts will conduct customer research,
analyze quantitative and qualitative feedback, and lead iterative design
sprints to power the Federal government’s service improvements.The
Budget also makes investments to support more than fifteen customer
experience teams across government.

**Helps Improves Service Accessibility for Tribal Communities.** In
keeping with [Executive Order 14112 on Reforming Federal Funding and
Support for Tribal
Nations](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/12/11/2023-27318/reforming-federal-funding-and-support-for-tribal-nations-to-better-embrace-our-trust),
the Budget makes investments in dedicated and coordinated work, in
partnership with the General Services Administration’s Technology
Transformation Services, that will make it easier for Tribal Nations and
members to navigate federal services provided by the Bureaus of Indian
Affairs and Trust Funds Administration. Additionally, the designation of
the Indian Health Service (IHS) as a High Impact Service Provider
supports IHS collecting feedback and implementing targeted reforms that
will improve the quality and accessibility of health services for Native
communities.

**Builds Digital Service Capacity, Helps Agencies Listen to Their
Customers.** The Budget addresses long-standing challenges in accessing
digital service expertise across the Federal government by investing $55
million across 11 eleven agencies to more effectively deliver critical
government services through priority projects with the U.S. Digital
Service (USDS). The Budget also includes $30 million for USDS to further
integrated, efficient, secure, and effective uses of information
technology in the Federal government, as well as an additional $30
million in agency contribution to USDS for digital service expertise and
assistance to attract and hire top technical talent.

\###
