---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 18:58:13-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-housing-costs-boosts-supply-and-expands-access-to-affordable-housing/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Cuts Housing Costs, Boosts Supply,\
  \ and Expands Access to Affordable\_Housing"
---
 
President Biden and Vice President Harris believe everyone deserves to
live in a safe and affordable home. Whether you rent or own, having a
place to live that you can afford in a neighborhood with opportunities
is the foundation for so much else in life. The Administration has made
progress toward delivering this reality for the American people. The
homeownership rate is higher now than before the pandemic, and there are
more housing units under construction right now than at any time in the
last 50 years, thanks in part to actions taken under this
Administration. This increase in construction is contributing to a
flattening rental market after years of increases.

But President Biden believes that housing costs are still too high for
too many families and bold investments are needed to address the large
deficit in accessible and affordable homes this Administration
inherited. In his State of the Union Address, President Biden called on
Congressional Republicans to end years of inaction and pass legislation
to lower costs by providing a $10,000 tax credit for first-time
homebuyers and people who sell their starter homes. The Budget includes
that proposal as part of a historic investment of more than $258 billion
that would build or preserve over 2 million housing units, support
millions of first-time homebuyers, guarantee affordable housing for
hundreds of thousands of extremely low-income veterans and youth aging
out of foster care, and advance efforts to end homelessness.

Together, the Budget proposes investments and actions that will lower
costs for renters and homebuyers, address the shortage of housing, make
our economy stronger and more resilient, and advance equity, economic
opportunity, and fair housing principles that are central to the
President’s economic agenda.

***Builds and Preserves More Than Two Million Housing Units***

America faces a longstanding and nationwide shortfall in affordable
housing that has been growing for decades. In May 2022, the
Administration released a [Housing Supply Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/) that
included administrative and legislative actions to close the housing
supply shortfall in five years. The Administration has
already [delivered on many of those
commitments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/07/biden-harris-administration-announces-progress-in-implementing-its-housing-supply-action-plan/),
added new areas of focus including [commercial-to-residential
conversions](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/27/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-create-more-affordable-housing-by-converting-commercial-properties-to-residential-use/),
and will continue to build on the historic number of multifamily units
under construction through additional administrative actions that: make
it easier to build and preserve affordable, multifamily housing; advance
the production and preservation of homes like accessory dwelling units
and manufactured housing; and incentivize state and local governments to
reduce barriers to affordable housing development. **The President’s
Budget:**

**Expands the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC).** LIHTC is the
largest Federal incentive for affordable housing construction and
rehabilitation. The Budget invests $37 billion in expanding this tax
credit in order to boost the supply of housing that is affordable for
low-income renters. Specifically, the Budget permanently increases the
allocation of tax credit states receive. It also reduces the private
activity bond financing requirement from 50 percent to 25 percent in
order to leverage more private capital into LIHTC deals and build more
units of affordable housing. And it repeals the qualified contract
provision and right of first refusal provision – both of which allowed
some owners of LIHTC units to exit requirements to keep rents at
affordable levels. These proposals would build or preserve 1.2 million
affordable rental units.

**Creates a New Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit.** The Budget proposes a
new Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit, which would be the first tax
provision to directly support building or renovating affordable homes
for homeownership. At a cost of $19 billion over ten years, the credit
would cover the gap between the cost of construction and the sale price
for rehabilitated or newly constructed single-family homes in low-income
communities, encouraging investment in homes that would otherwise be too
costly or difficult to develop or rehabilitate – and spurring investment
and economic activity in communities that have long suffered from
disinvestment. The tax credit would be provided on the condition that
the home is occupied by low- or middle-income homeowners. This proposal
would lead to the construction or preservation of over 400,000 starter
homes in communities throughout the country. 

**Incentivizes More Housing Supply through Housing Innovation.** The
Budget includes $20 billion for competitive grants to incentivize State
and local jurisdictions and tribes to expand supply. The grants will
fund multifamily developments, including commercial-to-residential
conversions and projects near transit and other community amenities;
support planning and implementation grants to help jurisdictions
identify and remove barriers to building more housing; launch or expand
innovative housing models that increase the stock of permanently
affordable rental and for-sale housing, including community land trusts,
mixed-income public development, and accessory dwelling units; and
construct and rehabilitate starter homes. This Budget also requests up
to $100 million—$15 million over the FY23 enacted level—to continue the
Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing program, which helps local
governments to remove barriers to building more affordable housing.

**Increases Banks’ Contributions Towards Building Affordable Housing**.
The President is proposing that each Federal Home Loan Bank double its
annual contribution to the Affordable Housing Program, which will raise
an additional $3.79 billion for affordable housing over the next decade
and assist nearly 380,0000 households. These funds will support the
financing, acquisition, construction, and rehabilitation of affordable
rental and for-sale homes, as well as help low- and moderate-income
homeowners to purchase or rehabilitate homes.

**Preserves Public Housing through Rehabilitation and
Redevelopment**. Over 1.7 million Americans live in public housing, and
over half of those households are led by seniors or people with
disabilities. The Budget proposes a one-time a one-time $7.5 billion
investment to address the capital needs of more than a hundred thousand
distressed public housing properties nationwide, which is on top of the
recurring annual investments of $8.5 billion to enable public housing
agencies to operate, maintain, and make capital improvements to the
approximately 900,000 public housing units. Providing additional funds
for public housing rehabilitation and modernization is critical to
providing safe and sustainable living conditions for all – and to
ensuring housing shortages aren’t exacerbated.

**Provides New Project-Based Rental Assistance (PBRA) for Extremely
Low-Income households**. Eleven million of the 44 million renter
households in the U.S. have extremely low incomes—incomes at or below
the Federal poverty level or 30% of the area median income. Producing
and preserving housing that is affordable for those households—and
ensuring rents remain affordable for those households—is a critical
component of tackling the Nation’s housing challenges that often
requires additional subsidy. The Budget includes $7.5 billion in funding
for new HUD Project-Based Rental Assistance (PBRA) contracts, which are
long-term contracts with private for-profit or non-profit owners to rent
new affordable housing units. These new contracts, in combination with
other low-income housing programs and incentives, will attract
development capital for the creation of new affordable homes for
America’s most vulnerable families.

**Increases the Supply of Affordable Housing Financed by Existing HUD
programs**. During the Biden-Harris Administration, HUD has allocated
$4.35 billion in funding to build and preserve affordable rental homes
and make homeownership a reality for thousands of families. In
collaboration with states, cities, local elected officials, stakeholder
organizations, and local community development partners, HOME has
assisted over 45,000 households since 2021. The Budget provides $1.25
billion for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) to construct
and rehabilitate affordable rental housing and provide homeownership
opportunities. This investment would help create or preserve 12,000
units of housing and provide more than 6,000 households with tenant
based rental assistance. In addition, the Budget provides $931 million
to support housing for older adults and $257 million to support housing
for persons with disabilities.

**Supports Affordable Housing in Rural Areas**. The Budget provides $2.1
billion for USDA’s housing programs, an increase of $191 million over
the 2023 enacted level, and continues the proposal to eliminate the
low-income borrower penalty that requires individuals to repay subsidy
costs for Single-Family Direct loans. Housing funding reflects the
Administration’s priority to preserve low-income multifamily (MF)
housing in rural areas by increasing the MF Housing Preservation and
Revitalization program to $90 million, $54 million over the 2023 enacted
level, while maintaining the rest of the MF loan portfolio at the 2023
levels. The Budget also continues the proposal, known as decoupling,
that incentivizes property owners to maintain property for low-income
tenants in exchange for the continued federal rental assistance after
the USDA loan is paid off.

The Administration also plans to explore updating the statutory
definition of manufactured housing—for example, through amending the
chassis requirement—with the goal of identifying options that could
provide manufactured homebuilders with more design flexibility and
consumers with more options beyond local site-built homes for
single-family homes and accessory dwelling units.

***Makes Homeownership a Reality for Millions of First-Time and
First-Generation Homebuyers***

Achieving and maintaining homeownership is the primary way that American
families build wealth and create economic security. That’s why the
Administration implemented a series
of [measures](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/23/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-additional-actions-to-prevent-foreclosures/) that
protected homeowners from foreclosure during the pandemic, including
enhanced loan modifications to resolve delinquencies. In addition, the
American Rescue Plan’s [Homeowner Assistance
Fund](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/coronavirus/assistance-for-state-local-and-tribal-governments/homeowner-assistance-fund) has
helped over 400,000 homeowners catch up on their mortgage payments and
utility costs and avoid foreclosures. These actions have not just helped
keep foreclosures below pre-pandemic levels, but have led there to be
fewer foreclosures under President Biden than any President in recent
history. In 2023, the Administration also lowered Federal Housing
Administration annual mortgage insurance premiums by about one-third,
saving more than 680,000 Americans—including many first-time
homebuyers—an average of nearly $900 over the first year of their
mortgages with continued savings in subsequent years.

But limited inventory and high interest rates continue to make it
difficult to become a homeowner for the first time and prevent existing
homeowners from right-sizing their house to fit their households’
evolving needs. **That’s why the Budget calls on Congress to:  **

**Provide Mortgage Payment Relief for First-time Homeowners**. President
Biden is calling on Congress to pass a Mortgage Relief Credit that would
provide middle-class first-time homebuyers with a tax credit of up to
$10,000, paid over two years. This is the equivalent of reducing the
mortgage rate by 1.5 percentage points for two years on the median home,
to help more than 3.5 million middle-class families purchase their first
home over the next two years.

**Provide Incentives to Unlock Starter Home Supply**. Many existing
homeowners have lower rates on their mortgages than current rates,
making homeowners more reluctant to sell, even in circumstances where
their current homes no longer fit their household needs. To unlock
starter home inventory and allow middle-class families to move up the
housing ladder and empty nesters to right size, the President is calling
on Congress to provide a one-year tax credit of up to $10,000 to
middle-class families who sell their starter home, defined as homes
below the area median home price in the county, to another
owner-occupant. This proposal is estimated to help nearly 3 million
families.

**Launch a First-Generation Down Payment Assistance Program**. The
Budget provides $10 billion for a program to target down payment
assistance to first-time homebuyers whose parents do not own a home and
are at or below 120% of the area median income or 140% of the area
median income in high-cost areas. This would help an estimated 400,000
homebuyers. Eligible activities would include costs in connection with
acquisition such as down payment costs, closing costs, and costs to
reduce the rates of interest on eligible mortgage payments. The Budget
also includes up to $50 million for a HOME Down Payment Assistance Pilot
that would reduce mortgage down payments for first-generation as well as
low-wealth first-time homebuyers.

***Promotes Rental Affordability and Fairness, and Makes Progress Toward
Universal Housing Vouchers for Extremely Low-Income Households***

While around 2.3 million low-income households receive rental assistance
through the HUD Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program, another roughly 10
million are eligible and do not receive assistance due to funding
limitations and wait lists. The Administration has secured rental
assistance for more than 100,000 additional households through the
American Rescue Plan and the 2022 and 2023 appropriations bills. And in
January 2023, the Administration announced a [Blueprint for a Renters
Bill of
Rights](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/White-House-Blueprint-for-a-Renters-Bill-of-Rights-1.pdf),
which enumerated principles to shape Federal, state, and local action,
and announced agency commitments to strengthen tenant protections and
encourage rental affordability.

But there is more work to do. The Budget includes a voucher guarantee
for two population groups that are acutely vulnerable to
homelessness: [youth](https://www.chapinhall.org/wp-content/uploads/Midwest-Eval-Outcomes-at-Age-23-and-24.pdf) aging
out of foster care and extremely
low-income [veterans](https://www.usich.gov/resources/uploads/asset_library/Homelessness_in_America._Focus_on_Veterans.pdf).
Between discretionary funding, program reserves, and these mandatory
proposals, these vouchers would serve hundreds of thousands of
additional households. **The President’s Budget:**

**Creates a Housing Voucher Guarantee for Extremely Low-Income
Veterans**. An estimated 398,000 veteran renter households with
extremely low incomes currently do not receive rental assistance and
have what HUD terms “worst-case housing needs.” These veterans: 1) have
incomes that do not exceed the higher of the Federal Poverty Line or 30
percent of the Area Median Income; 2) either pay more than half of their
income for rental costs or live in housing with severe problems such as
faulty heating or plumbing; and 3) receive no housing assistance. Over a
ten-year period, HUD would expand rental assistance to extremely
low-income veteran families, starting with an allocation of 50,000
targeted vouchers in 2026 and paving a path to guaranteed assistance for
all veterans in need by 2034.

**Creates a Housing Voucher Guarantee for Youth Aging out of Foster
Care**. Approximately 20,000 youth exit foster care annually, typically
between the ages of 18 and 21, and these young people face greater
obstacles to maintaining housing and experience higher rates of
homelessness and housing instability compared to the general population.
To ensure these young people are stably housed and better able to focus
on their education or building a career during this difficult
transition, HUD would provide guaranteed housing voucher assistance for
all youth aging out of foster care beginning in 2026.

**Supports the HCV Program**. The Budget provides $32.8 billion, an
increase of $2.5 billion (including emergency funding) over the 2023
enacted level, and an increase of $7.0 billion, or 27 percent, since the
start of the Administration.

**Continues to Invest in Fair Housing Programs**. The Budget includes
$86 million for targeted and coordinated fair housing enforcement,
education, and outreach to prevent and redress housing-related
discrimination.

***Advances Efforts to Prevent Evictions and End Homelessness***

During the pandemic, the Administration stood up a first-of-its-kind
national eviction prevention infrastructure, which helped [8
million](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1213) renter
households at risk of eviction and kept evictions below pre-pandemic
levels. In late 2022, President Biden released [All In: The Federal
Strategic Plan to Prevent and End
Homelessness](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-plan-to-prevent-and-end-homelessness/).
The Administration’s roadmap is not only about getting people into
housing, but also ensuring that they have access to the support,
services, and income that allow them to thrive. The plan focuses
attention on homelessness prevention and actions to ensure an adequate
and diverse stock of affordable housing, renter protections, and social
service supports. The plan also seeks to promote and expand
eviction-prevention reforms, including those advocated as part of the
Biden Administration’s implementation of the Emergency Rental Assistance
program. The Budget seeks to continue the policies that are most
effective in preventing avoidable evictions and help hard pressed
American families stay in their homes, even during hard times. **The
President’s Budget:**

**Bolsters Efforts to Prevent and End Homelessness**. To prevent and
reduce homelessness, the Budget provides $8 billion for a grant program
to rapidly expand temporary and permanent housing strategies for people
experiencing or at risk of homelessness. Funds from this proposal would
support non-congregate emergency shelter solutions, interim housing,
rapid rehousing, permanent supportive housing, and rental housing for
extremely low-income households experiencing housing instability or
homelessness. The budget also provides over $4 billion in Homeless
Assistance Grants, a $427 million increase from the 2023 enacted level
and $1.1 billion, or 35 percent, above the 2021 enacted level. In
addition, the Administration plans to use approximately $100 million in
program recaptures to fund coordinated interventions to support nearly
11,000 additional homeless individuals and families. The Budget also
provides $505 million for Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS,
serving a population with a disproportionately high rate of homelessness
and providing a critical link to services.

**Supports, Solidifies, and Encourages State and Local Reforms to Avoid
Evictions**. The Administration stood up [a
historic](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/02/fact-sheet-white-house-summit-on-building-lasting-eviction-prevention-reform/) national
eviction prevention infrastructure during the pandemic, helping keep
eviction filings 20% below historical averages, even after the eviction
moratorium ended. The Budget provides $3 billion to build on these
efforts, with a focus on upstream prevention and eviction diversion,
improving renters’ access to resources, and making the legal process for
renters fairer. This funding can be used to develop or implement policy
reforms and program improvements such as providing emergency rental
assistance or other forms and new models of rent relief, and expanding
access to legal counsel, housing counselors, and court navigators. The
Budget also includes an additional $10 million for HUD’s Eviction
Protection Grant Program, which provides legal assistance to low-income
tenants at risk of or subject to eviction and has served over 25,000
households.

**Creates More Housing Stability for Older Adults**. To counteract the
growing numbers of older adults who are experiencing homelessness or at
risk of homelessness, the Budget includes a $3 billion grant program to
help communities provide targeted support for older adults in unstable
housing situations and support those currently experiencing
homelessness. Eligible uses include short- or longer-term cash
assistance to cover rental arrears or other housing costs to prevent
eviction, emergency home modification or emergency relocations, provide
resources to help cover unexpected financial shocks (e.g.,
medical/health costs), and other legitimate needs determined by the
grantee.

\###
