---
date: '2024-03-23'
modified_time: 2024-03-23 06:38:14-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-23 06:38:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/23/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-gun-safety-solutions-while-continuing-efforts-to-keep-schools-safe-from-gun-violence/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Kamala\_Harris Announces Two Gun Safety Solutions\
  \ While Continuing Efforts to Keep Schools Safe from Gun\_Violence"
---
 
*During her visit to Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland,
Florida, Vice President Harris is announcing two solutions to keep guns
out of the hands of people in crisis.*

Keeping students safe from gun violence in their school communities is a
top priority for the Biden-Harris Administration. According to the
[Washington
Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/education/interactive/school-shootings-database/),
there have been 394 school shootings that exposed more than 360,000
students to gun violence since the mass shooting at Columbine High
School in Colorado in 1999.

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to preventing gun violence.
President Biden and Vice President Harris worked to enact the Bipartisan
Safer Communities Act (BSCA), the most significant gun safety law in
nearly 30 years. Following this, the President created the White House
Office of Gun Violence Prevention, which is being overseen by Vice
President Harris. The unprecedented Office is accelerating the
implementation of BSCA, identifying new executive actions, partnering
with state and local officials, and coordinating the first ever federal
interagency response to mass shootings and concentrations of community
violence. The President has also taken more executive actions on
preventing gun violence than any other President.

The Biden-Administration has invested more resources in school safety
and taken significant steps to keeps firearms out of school. The
strategy has focused on (1) stopping people in crisis and juveniles from
accessing firearms, (2) implementing evidence-based school-based
preventative solutions, and (3) addressing the mental health needs of
students, particularly those impacted by gun violence.

**<u>During her visit to Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in
Parkland, Florida, the Vice President is announcing two solutions to
keep guns out of the hands of people in crisis:</u>**

**<u>First</u>, Vice President Harris is announcing the launch of the
first-ever National Extreme Risk Protection Order (ERPO) Resource
Center, which will support the effective implementation of state red
flag laws.**

-   The Resource Center will assist states, local governments, law
    enforcement, prosecutors, attorneys, judges, clinicians, victim
    service providers, and behavioral health and other social service
    providers in optimizing the usage of red flag laws – laws that
    allows a family member or law enforcement to seek a court order to
    temporarily take away access to guns if they feel a gun owner may
    harm themselves or others.
-   The Resource Center will provide training and technical assistance,
    which will include developing and disseminating educational
    opportunities and workshops for a wide variety of stakeholders,
    providing implementation support, supporting peer-to-peer
    engagements with model learning sites, performing site assessments,
    and developing presentations and webinars that will advance states
    and localities’ knowledge in key areas related to ERPOs.
-   The Resource Center is funded by a Department of Justice’s (DOJ)
    Bureau of Justice Assistance grant made possible by BSCA, and is run
    by the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Violence Solutions.

**<u>Second</u>, the Vice President is calling on states to pass red
flag laws and to use BSCA funding to help implement laws already
enacted.**

-   The Biden-Harris Administration made $750 million in federal funding
    to implement state crisis intervention programs, which includes red
    flag programs, mental health courts, drug courts, and veteran
    treatment courts. In February 2023, DOJ
    [awarded](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-over-200-million-investments-state-crisis-intervention)
    over $238 million (covering FY22 and FY23) to 51 states,
    territories, and the District of Columbia that applied to use the
    funds to implement state crisis intervention programs. DOJ
    anticipates making up to an additional $141 million in awards in
    FY24.
-   When it comes to red flag programs, this funding can be used to
    train (1) judiciary and court staff on red flag proceedings, (2)
    what family members can do when they see warning signs, and (3)
    first responders on recognizing signs of crisis. The funding can
    also be used to raise public awareness about red flag laws,
    distribute written and multimedia materials (including in multiple
    languages), and publish best practices.
-   Of the 21 states and territories with red flag laws, only 6 are
    accessing the BSCA funding to implement their red flag laws. The
    remaining 15 states with red flag laws are strongly encouraged to
    use BSCA’s funding to implement their red flags laws.
-   The 29 states without red flag laws should enact those laws and
    ensure effective implementation, supported by this BSCA funding.

**Extreme Risk Protection Order or “Red Flag” Laws Can Prevent
Shootings**

The Department of Homeland Security’s [National Threat Assessment
Center](https://www.secretservice.gov/sites/default/files/2020-04/Protecting_Americas_Schools.pdf)
conducted a systematic review of targeted school violence incidents and
found that there were often warning signs. The review, which is
corroborated by other analysis, found that these incidents were often
preceded by observed warning signs, including instances where the
individual told other about their plan ahead of time.

ERPO or “red flag” laws generally create a civil process for law
enforcement (and often times family members) to seek a judicial order
that a person is a danger to themselves or others and should temporarily
lose the ability to purchase and possess firearms. The laws have due
process protections that ensure people’s rights are respected, but also
enable a concrete way to intervene.

The shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School occurred after
there were clear warning signs, but there were no tools to remove the
shooter’s firearm. The survivors of the shooting advocated for passage
of a red flag law in Florida, and the tragedy helped to inspire the
passage of red flag laws in other states across the country. Currently,
21 states and the District of Columbia have red flag laws on the books.
These laws have been shown to prevent mass shootings and suicides, but
the tools made available under these laws are only effective [if people
are aware of
them](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/red-flag-laws-get-little-use-even-as-mass-shootings-gun-deaths-soar)
and can properly invoke them.

**<u>Additional Biden-Harris Administration Actions to Keep Schools
Safe:</u>**

**Addressing Access to Firearms by People in Crisis or Under 21**

**The National Threat Assessment Center**
[found](https://www.secretservice.gov/sites/default/files/2020-04/Protecting_Americas_Schools.pdf)
**that 76 percent** of incidents of targeted [school
shootings](https://www.secretservice.gov/data/protection/ntac/usss-analysis-of-targeted-school-violence.pdf) are
committed with guns from the home. There are approximately [4.6 million
children](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2789269) living
in homes with unsecured firearms, [so the Biden-Harris Administration
has prioritized raising
awareness](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/25/white-house-announces-new-actions-to-promote-safe-storage-of-firearms/)
about how safe gun storage can keep schools and young people safe. For
example, U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel A. Cardona sent [a letter
and template to school
principals](https://www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/secletter/012524.html) across
the country explaining the importance of safe storage and encouraging
them to communicate with parents, families, caregivers, and the broader
community about how safe storage can protect students in school and in
their communities.

The DOJ released a comprehensive [guide to safe storage of
firearms](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/DOJ-Safe-Firearm-Storage-Guide.pdf) in
order to provide subject matter expertise on different types of storage
devices and best practices for safely storing firearms. This is the most
comprehensive guide on safe storage ever released by the federal
government. In addition, DOJ’s Byrne State Crisis Intervention
Program [made grant funds
available](https://bja.ojp.gov/funding/O-BJA-2023-171458.pdf) for law
enforcement to acquire gun locks and storage devices that can be
distributed to individuals and businesses.

The Biden-Harris Administration has quickly implemented BSCA to enhance
background check for individuals under 21 who seek to purchase a firearm
at a licensed gun dealer. Federal law has long-prohibited firearms
dealers from selling handguns to  persons under 21 . The BSCA requires
enhanced background checks before any sale or transfer of a firearm to a
person under the age of 21. Since implementing BSCA’s enhanced
background checks in October 2022, [DOJ has
conducted](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-marks-more-500-illegal-firearm-purchases-stopped-new-enhanced-background)
enhanced background checks on more than 230,000 transactions. Those
checks have kept more than 2,300 firearms out of the hands of dangerous
and prohibited persons, and over a quarter of those denials — 667 as of
this month — were based solely on information received through the
additional BSCA-enabled outreach. Just a
[few](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-marks-more-500-illegal-firearm-purchases-stopped-new-enhanced-background)
of the transactions denied under the new background check illustrate how
important this new tool is working:

-   A sheriff’s office responded to the NICS Section with an incident
    report indicating that the U21 firearm purchaser had been arrested
    for attempted murder and other offenses. The NICS Section obtained
    court documentation showing that the U21 purchaser was released on
    bond with court-ordered firearm restrictions pending the resolution
    of those charges. The transaction was denied based on a state
    prohibitor for active court-ordered firearm restrictions.
-   During BSCA-mandated outreach, a juvenile court provided
    documentation establishing that a U21 firearm purchaser was found to
    be mentally ill and involuntarily committed for mental-health
    treatment. The transaction was denied based on the federal firearm
    prohibitor relating to mental-health adjudications.
-   During BSCA-mandated outreach, a county court provided the NICS
    Section with documentation that the U21 firearm purchaser had
    sustained juvenile adjudications for sexual battery, possession of a
    knife at school, and intimidation. The transaction was denied based
    on a state prohibitor for disqualifying juvenile adjudications.

Lastly, untraceable ghost guns that could be ordered online and easily
completed at home [were starting to show up in school
shootings](https://abcnews.go.com/US/ghost-guns-showing-school-shootings-experts-fear-trend/story?id=83346844).
The Biden-Harris Administration cracked down on ghost guns by [making
clear](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/frame-and-receiver-rule-goes-effect)
that businesses manufacturing the most accessible ghost guns, including
“buy-build-shoot” kits, must comply with federal firearm laws requiring
background checks, a federal license, and inclusion of serial numbers.

**Largest Dedicated Effort on Evidence-Based School-Based Solutions**

The Biden-Harris Administration provided $1 billion to schools through
the [Stronger Connections
Grant](https://lnks.gd/l/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJidWxsZXRpbl9saW5rX2lkIjoxMDEsInVyaSI6ImJwMjpjbGljayIsImJ1bGxldGluX2lkIjoiMjAyMjEwMDMuNjQ1NjU0MDEiLCJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3d3dy5lZC5nb3YvbmV3cy9wcmVzcy1yZWxlYXNlcy9taWR3ZXN0LXJlZ2lvbi1kZXBhcnRtZW50LWF3YXJkcy1uZWFybHktMS1iaWxsaW9uLTU2LXN0YXRlcy1hbmQtdGVycml0b3JpZXMtcHJvdmlkZS1zdHVkZW50cy1zYWZlci1hbmQtaGVhbHRoaWVyLWxlYXJuaW5nLWVudmlyb25tZW50cz91dG1fY29udGVudD0mdXRtX21lZGl1bT1lbWFpbCZ1dG1fbmFtZT0mdXRtX3NvdXJjZT1nb3ZkZWxpdmVyeSZ1dG1fdGVybT0ifQ.jFf_3Jeb5NMljaklAQot7Lph4CS-xljF8NJZoqM8MYg/s/1441582011/br/145087213069-l?utm_content=&utm_medium=email&utm_name=&utm_source=govdelivery&utm_term=) program,
which helps provide students with safe and supportive learning
opportunities and environments that are critical for their success and
overall well-being. Stronger Connections funding is allocated to
underserved school districts (including those that have a high rate of
community or school violence) on a competitive basis and may be used for
a variety of strategies, including school-based mental health services,
safety and violence prevention and intervention programs, and physical
security measures. 

Over the past 3 years, the Biden-Harris Administration has awarded
nearly $500 million for schools to invest in evidence-based solutions
through the STOP School Violence Program, with funding supplemented by
BSCA. The program is designed to improve K-12 school security by
providing schools, students and teachers with the tools they need to
recognize, respond quickly to, and help prevent acts of violence and
ensure a positive school climate. This includes developing and operating
anonymous reporting systems and training school personnel on preventing
school violence. The DOJ anticipates approximately $160 million in
additional funding opportunities for the STOP program this year.

The Biden Harris Administration has established the Federal School
Safety Clearinghouse pursuant to the Luke and Alex School Safety Act
that was part of BSCA. The Clearinghouse, located at
[SchoolSafety.gov](https://www.schoolsafety.gov/), provides
evidence-based practices and recommendations to improve school safety
for use by states, local educational agencies, institutions of higher
education, state and local law enforcement agencies, health
professionals, and the general public.

**Historic Investment in Student Mental Health**

The Biden-Harris Administration awarded $122 billion in American Rescue
Plan Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief funds to help
schools reopen and recover, and experts indicate more than [$2 billion
has been
directed](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/biden-harris-administration-takes-action-help-schools-deliver-critical-health-care-services-millions-students#:~:text=ED%20also%20awarded%20%24122%20billion,professionals%20in%20K%2D12%20schools.)
to hire more school psychologists, counselors, and other mental health
professionals in K-12 schools. With the help of these funds, the number
of school social workers, school counselors, school nurses, and school
psychologists have all increased over pre-pandemic levels.

The Biden-Harris Administration will invest more than $1 billion to help
underserved school districts hire and train school-based mental health
professionals over the next five years. To date, the U.S. Department of
Education (ED) has awarded $571 million across 264 grantees in 48 states
and the District of Columbia to boost the training, hiring, and
diversity of mental health professionals in schools. The funding was
made available through BSCA, and grantees estimate that these funds will
collectively support the training and hiring of more than 14,000 new
mental health professionals to serve America’s school children. ED
anticipates making approximately $38 million of new funding available
for new applicants his year.

**The Biden-Harris Administration will continue to take action to ensure
that our schools and our communities are safe from gun violence.**

At the same time President Biden and Vice President Harris call on
Congress to pass universal background checks, a national red flag law,
an assault weapons ban, and a secure storage law; to repeal the
Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (PLCAA), which gives gun
dealers and manufactures special immunity from certain liability for
their products; and to increase appropriations to support youth mental
health and violence prevention strategies.

\# \# \#
