---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-11 16:02:12-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-secures-our-border-combats-fentanyl-trafficking-and-calls-on-congress-to-enact-critical-immigration-reform/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Secures Our Border, Combats Fentanyl\
  \ Trafficking, and Calls on Congress to Enact Critical Immigration\_Reform"
---
 
From his first day in office, President Biden has called on Congress to
act to address our broken immigration system. Over the past three years,
while waiting for Congress to act, the Administration has taken
important steps to secure our border. The President has secured more
resources for border security than any President before him, and in
October he requested even more funding to secure the border, build
capacity to enforce immigration law, and counter illicit fentanyl. The
Administration has deployed the most agents and officers ever to address
the situation at the southwest border, seized record levels of illicit
fentanyl at our ports of entry, and brought together world leaders on a
framework to deal with changing migration patterns that are impacting
the entire Western Hemisphere.

Just recently, the President led the way on achieving a bipartisan
agreement for the toughest, fairest border reform legislation in
decades. The President and his team reached a historic bipartisan
agreement with Senate Democrats and Republicans on border policy reforms
and funding in February that would provide a fairer and more efficient
process for asylum claims. The agreement also provides for emergency
authority for the President to shut down the border when the system is
overwhelmed, additional immigrant visas for families and workers,
expedited work permits for those already here, and significant funding
for more immigration judges, asylum officers, and Border Patrol agents
and officers to secure the border and combat illicit fentanyl.
Congressional Republicans should stop stonewalling this historic deal
and work to send the legislation to the President’s desk.

The President’s Budget builds on these measures by ensuring adequate
base resources for border enforcement, while continuing to reiterate the
need for Congress to pass legislation and provide meaningful reforms and
supplemental funding to secure the border. The Budget includes a $1.9
billion (7 percent) base budget increase for U.S. Customs and Border
Protection (CBP) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), as well
as funds to expand and improve the immigration courts, address the root
causes of migration, and combat illicit fentanyl trafficking. **The
President’s FY25 Budget:**

**Reiterates the Administration’s Request for Immediate Funding to
Secure the Border, Build Capacity to Enforce Immigration Law, and
Counter Illicit Fentanyl.** In October 2023, the Administration
transmitted [an emergency supplemental
request](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/20/fact-sheet-white-house-calls-on-congress-to-advance-critical-national-security-priorities/)
to Congress for the southwest border and migration issues totaling $13.6
billion. The Budget includes, and therefore reiterates the need for, the
unmet needs from the October supplemental request. In addition to urgent
requirements, the request includes investments to build longer-term
capacity in the areas of border security, immigration enforcement, and
countering illicit fentanyl, totaling $4.3 billion for the Department of
Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ). This amount
includes $405 million to hire 1,300 additional Border Patrol Agents to
secure the border, $239 million to hire 1,000 additional CBP Officers to
stop illicit fentanyl and other contraband from entering the U.S., $755
million to hire an additional 1,600 Asylum Officers and support staff to
facilitate timely immigration dispositions, $100 million for Homeland
Security Investigations to investigate and disrupt transnational
criminal organizations and drug traffickers, $1.3 billion for the
Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) to fund the hiring of 375
new immigration judge teams to help reduce the immigration case backlog,
and $849 million for cutting-edge detection technology at ports of
entry. Taken together, these long-term capacity building investments
equip the Nation’s border security and immigration system to more
effectively respond to challenges present along the border. In addition,
the Administration appreciates the Senate’s bipartisan border
legislation that would make additional investments in DHS and provide
authorities to bolster the Department’s efforts to secure and manage the
border.

**Continues to Invest in Critical Capabilities Needed for Border and
Immigration Enforcement.**  Strengthening border security and providing
safe, lawful pathways for migration remain top priorities for the
Administration. The Budget builds on the Administration’s October
supplemental request to include an additional $25.9 billion for CBP and
ICE, an increase of $1.9 billion over the 2023 enacted level when
controlling for border management amounts. The Budget includes funds for
CBP to hire an additional 350 Border Patrol Agents and 310 processing
coordinators, $127 million for border security technology between ports
of entry, and $86 million in air and maritime operational support that
is central to efforts to secure the border. The Budget also includes
funds to support 34,000 ICE immigration detention beds; $225 million to
address increased transportation and removal costs; and $34 million to
combat child exploitation, forced labor, and human trafficking.

**Enables Access to Resources to Scale Border Enforcement Capacity for
Conditions on the Southwest Border.** Given the uncertainty surrounding
border conditions in any given year, the Budget proposes a $4.7 billion
contingency fund to aid the Department and its components when
responding to migration surges along the Southwest border. Modeled on a
contingency fund provided for unaccompanied children, each fiscal year,
the fund would receive appropriations incrementally and above the base
appropriation as Southwest border encounters reach pre-identified
levels. DHS could use these funds for surge-related functions only, and
would transfer funds to CBP, ICE, and FEMA accounts when appropriate
conditions are met.

**Supports America’s Promise to Resettle Refugees and Care for
Unaccompanied Children**. The Budget builds on the Administration’s
October supplemental request and provides an additional $9.3 billion for
the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) to help rebuild the Nation’s
refugee resettlement infrastructure and support the resettling of up to
125,000 refugees in 2025. The Budget also helps ensure that
unaccompanied immigrant children receive appropriate support and
services while they are in ORR’s care and are unified with relatives and
sponsors as safely and quickly as possible. This funding would allow ORR
to continue the programmatic improvements the Administration has made,
including expanding access to counsel to help children navigate complex
immigration court proceedings and enhancing case management and
post-release services. In addition, the Budget includes an emergency
contingency fund that would provide additional resources, beyond the
$9.3 billion, when there are unanticipated increases in the number of
unaccompanied children.

**Improves Immigration Courts.** The Budget builds on the
Administration’s October supplemental request and invests $981 million,
an increase of $121 million above the 2023 enacted level, in the
Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) to enhance America’s
immigration courts and help address the backlog of over 2.4 million
currently pending cases. This funding supports 25 new immigration judge
teams, which includes the support personnel necessary to ensure
efficient case processing. The Budget also invests $30 million for EOIR
to partner to with the U.S. Digital Service to develop and implement
digital court operations strategies that will maximize each judge’s
adjudicatory capacity and help reduce the case backlog.

**Addresses the Root Causes of Migration.** The Budget provides
approximately $1 billion for Central American programming to meet the
President’s commitment to invest $4 billion in Central America over four
years to address the root causes of migration. The Budget also supports
hemispheric programs to advance economic prosperity and regional
security through key initiatives such as the America’s Partnership for
Economic Prosperity, including $75 million for a capital increase to the
Inter-American Development Bank’s (IDB Invest) to advance clean energy
projects, modernize agriculture, strengthen transportation systems, and
expand access to financing. The Budget further reserves $35 million in
additional targeted funding for regional migration management, including
$25 million for the IDB’s Migration Grant Facility to support
integration efforts for migrants and host communities and address the
root causes of irregular migration.

**Combats Narcotics Trafficking Networks and Secures the Border and Our
Communities.** The Budget allocates $6.6 billion for DHS to invest in
its counternarcotics efforts, including $4.5 billion for drug-related
resources associated with border security, immigration enforcement, and
countering illicit fentanyl. Additionally, the Administration remains
committed to providing law enforcement with the resources and necessary
personnel to defend our borders from illicit drug trade by reiterating
the October 2023 emergency supplemental request for an additional $849
million for cutting edge drug detection technology at the border, $239
million for 1,000 additional CBP officers, $100 million to expand
Homeland Security Investigations’ capacity for counter-fentanyl
investigations and enforcement, and $14 million for additional research
and development of narcotics detection and forensics, for a total
supplemental request for DHS of $1.2 billion. These resources are
critical to the fight against illicit opioids.

The Budget also provides $2.3 billion to the Department of Justice to
combat opioid trafficking and reduce the supply and demand of deadly
illicit fentanyl in American communities, including $1.2 billion for the
Drug Enforcement Administration, $367 million for the Organized Crime
Drug Enforcement Task Forces, and $61 million for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. This also includes an additional $18 million in
Counter-Fentanyl Threat Targeting Teams at the DEA to enhance America’s
fight against the transnational criminal networks pushing deadly illicit
fentanyl. These interdisciplinary teams of special agents, intelligence
analysts, and data experts will map criminal organizations and build
cases that lead to the dismantlement of entire drug trafficking networks
and the deprivation of hundreds of millions of dollars to the Sinaloa
and Jalisco cartels. This also includes $494 million in grants
supporting efforts to address opioid use and trafficking, including $190
million for the Comprehensive Opioid, Stimulant, and Substance Use
Program, $95 million to support Drug Courts, and $51 million for
anti-drug task forces.The Budget further invests $290 million in the
High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program to provide state and local
law enforcement with resources to combat the most dangerous illicit drug
threats in their communities. The Budget further includes $1.1 billion
for the Department of Defense to support security cooperation efforts
with partner nations; counterdrug operations, detection and monitoring
efforts in support of drug interdiction operations; and treatment,
recovery, and education efforts.

**Disrupts the International Synthetic Drug Trade.** The Budget includes
$169 million across State and USAID to counter illicit fentanyl and
other synthetic drug production and trafficking, 58 percent above 2023
estimated levels. These resources would counter the worldwide flow of
fentanyl and other synthetics that endanger public safety and health,
and contribute to tens of thousands of drug-overdose deaths in the
United States annually.

**Combats Corruption and Increases Corporate Transparency.** Treasury
plays a leading role in monitoring and disrupting corruption, money
laundering, terrorist financing, the use of the financial system by
malicious actors domestically and abroad, and combatting the trafficking
of illicit substances such as fentanyl in American communities. The
Budget provides $216 million for the Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network, $26 million above the 2023 level, to support Beneficial
Ownership Information reporting which will be required for existing
covered companies beginning in 2025. This reporting will provide
investigative tools making it harder for bad actors—including major
narcotics traffickers—to hide or benefit from their ill-gotten gains
through shell companies or other opaque ownership structures.

\###
