---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 22:39:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-creates-opportunity-advances-equity/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Creates Opportunity, Advances\_Equity"
---
 
Since taking office, the President has fought to create opportunity and
advance equity—not as a one-year project, but as part of a sustained
commitment to make the promise of America real for every American,
including communities of color, rural communities, women and girls,
Tribal communities, LGBTQI+ individuals, people with disabilities, and
communities impacted by persistent poverty.

Over the last three years, the Administration made significant progress
advancing equity across the Federal government, including by
reinvigorating Federal civil rights enforcements, increasing procurement
opportunities for small disadvantaged businesses, prioritizing the
advancement of gender equity and equality, expanding access to economic
opportunities in underserved communities, expanding community
engagement, increasing food security, advancing efforts to end
homelessness, improving children’s education, robustly supporting Tribal
sovereignty, and honoring the Nation’s sacred obligation to America’s
veterans and servicemembers.

The President’s Budget builds on this progress by making historic
investments to support the advancement of all Americans—especially in
underserved communities—and combat racial and gender disparities across
the Nation. **The President’s Budget:**

***Addresses Inequity in Health Care***

**Expands Access to Quality, Affordable Health Care.** The Budget allows
states to extend continuous eligibility for children in the Medicaid and
the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) from 12 to 36 months and
provide continuous eligibility for children from birth until they turn
age 6. The Budget also prohibits enrollment fees and waiting periods in
CHIP. The Budget also provides Medicaid-like coverage to individuals in
States that have not adopted Medicaid expansion under the Affordable
Care Act to expand coverage and advance health equity.

**Advances Maternal Health and Health Equity.** The United States has
the highest maternal mortality rate among developed nations, and rates
are disproportionately high for Black and American Indian and Alaska
Native women. The Budget includes $376 million to support maternal
mortality initiatives across the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS). The Budget provides $172 million to the Health Resources
& Services Administration (HRSA) for the Healthy Start Initiative, a
program designed to improve health outcomes before, during, and after
pregnancy and reduce disparities in rates of infant death and adverse
perinatal outcomes. The Budget expands Medicaid maternal health support
services during the pregnancy and postpartum period by incentivizing
States to reimburse a broad range of providers including doulas,
community health workers, peer support initiatives, and nurse home
visiting programs. In addition, the Budget builds on the success of the
more than 40 States, Washington D.C., and the U.S. British Virgin
Islands, that extended Medicaid postpartum coverage by requiring all
States to provide continuous Medicaid coverage for 12 months postpartum,
eliminating gaps in health insurance at a critical time for all women.
In addition, the Budget includes resources for HHS to launch a new
initiative focused on maternal health and hypertension and directs the
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to develop a pilot to provide
maternal health care kits for veteran mothers.

**Promotes Mental and Behavioral Health Equity**. The Budget proposes
investments to expand access to mental health and substance use care,
including for underserved communities. The Budget provides resources for
behavioral health, including a nearly $200 million increase for the
Substance use And Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to
reduce suicide, improve women’s and children’s mental health, and
support the Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics that serve
anyone who needs care, regardless of ability to pay. Further, the Budget
provides $17.1 billion to the VA for mental health, which includes
resources for treatment and healthcare costs, in addition to initiatives
that improve suicide prevention and address post-traumatic stress
disorder (PTSD) for the Nation’s veterans.

**Invests in the Treatment and Prevention of Infectious Diseases.** A
critical component of the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to
addressing health equity is addressing the disproportionate impact of
infectious diseases, including HIV, on racial and ethnic minorities and
LGBTQI+ communities. The Budget invests in the treatment and prevention
of infectious diseases, including Hepatitis C, HIV, and
vaccine-preventable diseases. The Budget proposes a national program to
significantly expand screening, testing, treatment, prevention, and
monitoring of Hepatitis C infections in the United States, with a
specific focus on populations with high infection levels. The Budget
also includes proposals to expand access to Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis
(PrEP) to end the HIV epidemic and to vaccines for adults and children.

**Closes Research Gaps in Women’s Health.** The President and the First
Lady launched the first-ever White House Initiative on Women’s Health
Research, recognizing that women have been understudied and
underrepresented in health research for far too long. The Initiative is
working across government to better integrate women’s health within the
Federal research portfolio and catalyze significant private and
philanthropic commitments to increase funding for women’s health
research. The Administration proposes to transform the way the
government funds women’s health research at the National Institutes of
Health (NIH), including by creating a new nationwide network of centers
of excellence and innovation in women’s health—and the Budget would
double current funding for the Office of Research on Women’s Health at
NIH.

***Expands Housing Access, Builds Thriving Communities***

**Increases Access to Safe and Affordable Housing.** The Housing Choice
Voucher (HCV) program at the Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) currently provides 2.3 million low-income families with rental
assistance to obtain housing in the private market. The Budget includes
$32.8 billion, and assumes Public Housing Agencies will draw from HCV
program reserves to maintain services for all currently assisted
families. The Budget also expands assistance to an additional 20,000
households, particularly those who are experiencing homelessness or
fleeing domestic violence. Additionally, the Budget provides up to $100
million through HUD for Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing (PRO
Housing), a competitive program that rewards State, local, and regional
jurisdictions that make progress in removing barriers to affordable
housing developments, such as restrictive zoning. Finally, the Budget
provides $18 million for the Tribal Housing program at the Department of
the Interior (DOI) to support critical housing needs in Tribal
communities.

**Bolsters Efforts to End Homelessness.** The Budget provides more than
$4 billion, an increase of $427 million over 2023 levels, for HUD
Homeless Assistance Grants. This funding level enables HUD to continue
supporting approximately 1.2 million people experiencing homelessness
each year and includes $134 million to expand assistance to 25,000
additional households, specifically homeless youth and survivors of
domestic violence. The Budget also provides $8 billion for competitive
grants to rapidly expand temporary and permanent housing strategies for
people experiences or at risk of homelessness. It also provides $505
million for Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) Program,
serving a population with a disproportionately high rate of homelessness
and providing a critical link to services.  In addition, the
Administration plans to use approximately $100 million in program
recaptures to fund coordinated interventions to support nearly 11,000
additional homeless individuals and families. These new resources
support the Administration’s commitment to the goals laid out in the All
In: Federal Strategic Plan to Prevent and End Homelessness and build on
efforts that have expanded assistance to roughly 140,000 additional
households experiencing homelessness since the President took office.

**Prevents and Redresses Housing Discrimination.** The Budget provides
$86 million to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to
support State and local fair housing enforcement organizations and to
further education, outreach, and training on rights and responsibilities
under Federal fair housing laws. This investment continues the
Administration’s efforts to fight discrimination in housing and real
estate related transactions. The Budget also preserves robust funding
for HUD staffing and technical assistance to affirmatively further fair
housing and improve access to affordable housing.

**Prevents Evictions.** The Administration stood up [a
historic](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/02/fact-sheet-white-house-summit-on-building-lasting-eviction-prevention-reform/) national
eviction prevention infrastructure during the pandemic, helping keep
eviction filings 20% below historical averages in 2021. The Budget
provides $3 billion in mandatory funding for competitive grants to
promote and solidify State and local efforts to reform eviction policies
by providing access to legal counsel, emergency rental assistance, and
other forms of rent relief. The Budget also includes $10 million for
HUD’s Eviction Protection Grant program, which provides legal assistance
at no cost to low-income renters at risk of or subject to eviction.

**Increases National and Global Food Security.** The Budget includes
$7.7 billion to support nearly seven million individuals expected to
participate in the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women,
Infants, and Children (WIC). The Budget also includes funding to
increase food security among children in low-income households during
the summer through the new Summer Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT)
program and the rural non-congregate Summer Food Service Program. In
addition, the Budget provides $1.1 billion, an increase of $83 million
above the 2023 enacted level, for senior nutrition programs that work
to reduce food insecurity, hunger, and malnutrition among older
Americans. Lastly, the Budget provides more than $1 billion to support
the President’s pledge to alleviate global food insecurity, including
$100 million for the Vision for Adapted Crops and Soils (VACS)
initiative to foster more resilient food systems and nutritious food
crops in underserved regions.

**Helps Underserved Communities Navigate Infrastructure Funding.** The
Budget includes $25 million for the Department of Transportation’s (DOT)
Thriving Communities Program, which provides planning, technical
assistance, and capacity building support to underserved and
under-resourced communities, enabling them to successfully compete for
Federal funding and deliver transformative infrastructure projects that
support community-driven economic development, health, environment,
mobility, and access goals.

***Advances Education, Access to Opportunity***

**Invests in High-Poverty Schools.** To help ensure that every student
receives a high-quality education, the Budget includes $8 billion in
mandatory funding to provide Academic Acceleration and Achievement
Grants to close opportunity and achievement gaps and speed the pace of
learning recovery. These grants to school districts would support
evidence-based strategies to increase school attendance, provide
high-quality tutoring, and expand learning time, including both in the
summer and in extended day or afterschool programs. The Budget also
provides $18.6 billion for Title I, which would continue historic
progress for a program that has increased by over $2 billion since the
start of the Administration. Title I delivers critical funding to 90
percent of school districts across the Nation, helping them to provide
students in low-income communities the academic opportunities and
support they need to succeed. This funding works to narrow the chronic
funding gaps between high-poverty schools—which disproportionately serve
students of color—and their wealthier counterparts. In addition, the
Budget includes $200 million, to support Full-Service Community Schools
(FSCS) that provide comprehensive academic, social, and health services
for students, students’ family members, and community members that will
result in improved educational outcomes for children.

**Bolsters Support for Children with Disabilities.** Every child with a
disability should have access to the high-quality early intervention,
special education services, and personnel needed to thrive in school and
graduate ready for college or a career. The Budget invests over $14
billion, $1.5 billion higher than when the President took office, in
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) grants through the
Department of Education (ED) to support special education and related
services for more than seven million students with disabilities in
grades Pre-K through 12. The Budget also invests $545 million in IDEA
Grants for Infants and Families to support early intervention services
for infants and toddlers with disabilities.

**Builds a Strong Foundation for Families with Universal Pre-K and Head
Start.** The Budget funds voluntary, universal, free preschool for all
four million of the Nation’s four-year-olds and charts a path to expand
preschool to three-year-olds. High-quality preschool would be offered in
the setting of the parent’s choice—from public schools to child care
providers to Head Start. In addition, the Budget increases Head Start
funding by $544 million to support the Administration’s goal to reach
pay parity between Head Start staff and public elementary school
teachers with similar qualifications over time. Together these proposals
would support healthy child development, help children enter
kindergarten ready to learn, and support families by reducing their
costs prior to school entry and allowing parents to work.

**Improves Postsecondary Access and Success and Increases Equitable
Funding for Low-Resourced Institutions**. The Budget proposes to
increase the discretionary maximum Pell Grant by $100—helping more than
seven million students pay for college, building on successful
bipartisan efforts to increase the maximum Pell Grant award, and
maintaining a path to double the maximum award by 2029. In addition, the
Budget expands free community college across the Nation through a new
Federal-State partnership and provides two years of subsidized tuition
for students from families earning less than $125,000 enrolled in a
four-year Historically Black College and University (HBCU), Tribally
Controlled College and University (TCCU), or Minority-Serving
Institution (MSI). The Budget also increases institutional capacity at
HCBUs, TCCUs, MSIs—including HSIs—and under-resourced institutions,
including community colleges and provides $100 million to expand
research infrastructure at four-year HBCUs, TCCUs, and MSIs. The Budget
also invests $100 million to increase completion and retention rates
among underserved students.

***Expands Pathways for Economic Mobility***

**Increases Workforce Training and Career-Connected Learning that
Provide Pathways to Good Jobs.** The Budget proposes investments to help
ensure all students and workers—including women, workers of color, and
workers in rural areas—have the skills they need for the good jobs being
created by the President’s historic legislative accomplishments. The
Budget doubles funding for Career and Technical Education National
Programs to better connect high schools to employers and community
colleges through dual enrollment, work-based learning, and career
advising. Further, the Budget proposes a new $8 billion Career Training
Fund that would provide approximately 750,000 workers with training and
wrap-around supports to ensure that workers from all backgrounds have
access to high-quality training that leads to good jobs. The Budget also
provides $50 million for the Sectoral Employment through Career Training
for Occupational Readiness program, which supports the development and
expansion of public-private partnerships to equitably deliver
high-quality training in growing industries, and invests $70 million to
help community colleges partner with industry to develop and expand
high-quality training programs in communities across the Nation.

**Supports Minority-Owned Business to Narrow Racial Wealth Gaps.** The
Budget increases the capacity of the Minority Business Development
Agency (MBDA) by providing $80 million to bolster services provided to
minority-owned, including women of color-owned, enterprises by expanding
the Business Center program, funding Rural Business Centers, and
supporting innovative initiatives to foster economic resiliency.

**Helps Historically Marginalized Communities Catalyze Economic
Development.** The Budget builds on a more than 40 percent increase for
the Economic Development Administration (EDA) since the start of the
Biden-Harris Administration and proposes $41 million for the Good Jobs
Challenge to make equity-driven investments in high-quality, locally led
workforce systems that provide good job opportunities for American
workers and promote economic mobility and security. Further, the Budget
proposes $41 million for the Distressed Area Recompete Pilot Program,
which provides flexible investments that reduce prime-age (25-54 years)
employment gaps in communities experiencing significant disinvestment
and neglect. The Budget also provides $5 million for the Assistance to
Indigenous Communities program, with a focus on increasing outreach and
support for Indigenous communities, particularly through technical
assistance.

**Promotes Access to Credit.** The Budget provides $325 million for the
Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund, a 20 percent
increase since the President took office. This provides underserved and
often low-income communities access to credit, capital, and financial
support to grow businesses, increase affordable housing, and reinforce
healthy neighborhood development. Research continually demonstrates that
low-income communities, communities of color, and women have a harder
time accessing capital from traditional financial institutions overall.
[Nearly 70% of CDFI customers are low-income persons, 59% are racial
minorities, and 52% are
women.](https://nlihc.org/sites/default/files/AG-2020/8-03_Community-Development-Financial-Institutions-Fund.pdf)
To better address the shortage of long-term affordable credit for
development projects in disadvantaged communities, the Budget also
includes a $10 million subsidy for the CDFI Fund’s Bond Guarantee
Program. 

**Supports Economic Opportunity in Rural and Tribal Communities.** The
Budget provides resources for the Rural Partners Network (RPN), an
all-of-government program led by the U.S. Department of Agriculture that
partners with rural and Tribal communities to access resources and
funding to create and preserve good jobs, build infrastructure, and
support long-term economic stability on their own terms.

***Delivers Environmental Justice***

**Advances Equity and Environmental Justice.** The Administration
continues to prioritize efforts to deliver environmental justice in
communities across the United States, such as by meeting the President’s
Justice40 commitment to ensure at least 40 percent of the overall
benefits of certain Federal investments – including in climate and clean
energy – flow to disadvantaged communities, including rural, urban, and
Tribal communities. A total of 518 programs across 19 Federal agencies
are being reimagined and transformed through the Justice40 Initiative to
maximize benefits to disadvantaged communities such as cleaner air,
good-paying jobs, and affordable clean energy. The Budget bolsters these
efforts by investing nearly $1.5 billion through the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) to support creating high-quality jobs, cleaning
up pollution, and securing environmental justice for communities that
bear the brunt of toxic pollution and impacts of climate change,
including increased health risks.

**Accelerates the Replacement of All Lead Pipes and Upgrades the
Nation’s Drinking Water and Wastewater Infrastructure.** The Budget
includes $101 million to remediate lead contamination in water, nearly
doubling previous levels of funding. The Budget also provides EPA with
$2.6 billion for the water infrastructure State Revolving Funds that
upgrade drinking water and wastewater infrastructure nationwide, with a
focus on decreasing health disparities in disadvantaged and rural
communities that have historically been overlooked.

**Reduces Health and Environmental Hazards for At-Risk Communities.**
The Budget provides $661 million for EPA’s Superfund program to continue
cleaning up some of the Nation’s most contaminated land and respond to
environmental emergencies and natural disasters. This is in addition to
an estimated $2.2 billion in Superfund tax revenue estimated to be
available in FY 2025 by the Department of the Treasury. Further, the
Budget includes investments for the Department of Energy (DOE) to
address legacy waste and contamination in communities used during the
Manhattan Project and the Cold War for nuclear weapons production, and
resources for grants to reduce emissions in the most polluted areas of
the country. The Budget continues to build on core capacity under the
Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) and modernize Information Technology
and data software for the Chemical Risk Review and Reduction program
with an investment of $132 million.

**Supports Tribal Conservation Through Co-Stewardship of Public Lands
and Waters.** The Administration is committed to improving Federal
stewardship of public lands, waters, and wildlife by strengthening the
role of Tribal governments in Federal land management. The Budget
provides resources to facilitate and support agreements with Tribes to
collaborate in the co-stewardship of Federal lands and water across the
Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, and U.S. Forest
Service. The Budget also proposes a new $25 million grant to facilitate
direct implementation of EPA programs in Indian Country.

**Bolsters Climate Resilience.** Building on the National Climate
Resilience Framework, the Budget makes significant investments in
climate adaptation and resilience across the Federal government to
address the increasing severity of flood, wildfire, drought, and other
extreme weather events fueled by climate change. This includes expanding
conservation and ecosystem management, strengthening America’s natural
disaster response capabilities, increasing the resilience of rural
housing to the impacts of climate change, and ensuring the resilience of
our nation’s defense to climate change. The Budget provides $4.1 billion
for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to help
vulnerable families access home energy and weatherization assistance,
and proposes to allow States the option to use a portion of their LIHEAP
funds to provide water bill assistance to low-income households. The
Budget also includes specific investments to mitigate the impacts of
extreme heat in low-income and disadvantaged communities, including $105
million for DOE to plan, design and demonstrate community-scale energy
solutions.

***Strengthens Working Families and the Economy by Investing in Care
Infrastructure***

**Advances Equitable Access to Home and Community-Based Care.** The
President recognizes thatmore than three-quarters of home and
community-based care service providers are not accepting new clients,
leaving hundreds of thousands of older Americans and Americans with
disabilities on waiting lists for home and community-based services or
struggling to afford the care they need.The Administration invested $25
billion in American Rescue Plan funds to help states strengthen their
Medicaid home and community-based care programs, including over $9
billion in spending to boost wages for home care workers as well as
improve overall job quality.The President’s Budget invests $150 billion
over 10 years to improve and expand Medicaid home and community-based
services, which would allow older Americans and individuals with
disabilities to remain in their homes and stay active in their
communities as well as improve the quality of jobs for home care
workers.

**Provides National, Comprehensive Paid Family and Medical Leave.** The
vast majority of America’s workers do not have access to
employer-provided paid family leave, including 73 percent of private
sector workers. Among the lowest-paid workers, who are
disproportionately women and workers of color, 94 percent lack access to
paid family leave through their employers. The Budget proposes to
establish a national, comprehensive paid family and medical leave
program administered by the Social Security Administration (SSA) to
ensure that all workers can take the time they need to bond with a new
child; care for a seriously ill loved one; heal from their own serious
illness; address circumstances arising from a loved one’s military
deployment; find safety from domestic violence, sexual assault, or
stalking; or grieve the death of a loved one. The Budget also provides
funding to the Department of Labor (DOL) for grants and technical
assistance to support the development, improvement, and implementation
of paid family and medical leave programs in States and localities.

**Advances Equity in the Child Welfare System.** Improving the child
welfare system will benefit all Americans, including the Black and
Native American families who are overrepresented in, and too often
failed by, the current system. The Budget includes $4.9 billion over ten
years for the Administration for Children and Families (ACF) to expand
access to evidence-based and culturally appropriate foster care
prevention services while also improving child and family well-being in
the child welfare system. The Budget also doubles flexible funding
through the Promoting Safe and Stable Families program. Together, these
reforms are aimed at achieving better outcomes for children, enabling
children to remain safely with their families, and ensuring permanency
for children in foster care. In addition, the Budget provides States
with resources to reduce the number of children entering foster care,
decrease the over-representation of children of color in the system,
ensure that more children in foster care are placed with family members
or other kin caregivers and not in group homes, and increase supports to
youth aging out of foster care. At DOI, the Budget provides $26 million,
a nearly 50 percent increase over 2023 enacted levels, for
implementation of the Indian Child Welfare Act.

**Lowers Child Care Costs for Hard-Working Families**. The President is
committed to providing relief to hard-working families. His Budget
creates a historic new program under which working families with incomes
up to $200,000 per year would be guaranteed affordable, high-quality
child care from birth until kindergarten, with most families paying no
more than $10 a day, and the lowest-income families paying
nothing—providing a lifeline to the parents of more than 16 million
children. The Budget also includes $8.5 billion for the Child Care and
Development Block Grant (CCDBG) which will help states expand child care
assistance to serve over 2 million low-income children.

**Invests in Caregiving for Military Families and Veterans.** Caregivers
play an important role in supporting the health and wellness of
servicemembers, veterans, and their families. The Budget invests nearly
$3 billion in stipend payments and support services to help empower
family caregivers of eligible veterans. The Budget also includes
resources for the Department of Defense’s (DOD) Exceptional Family
Member Program, which provides a comprehensive, coordinated,
multi-agency approach for community support, housing, medical,
educational, and personnel services to military families with
disabilities.

***Makes Communities Safer, Invests in Civil Rights***

**Invests in Federal Law Enforcement, Public Safety, Community Violence
Interventions, and Prevention to Combat Gun Violence and Other Violent
Crime.** The Budget makes robust investments to bolster Federal law
enforcement capacity and reduce gun violence. The Budget includes $17.7
billion for Department of Justice (DOJ) law enforcement, including a
total of nearly $2 billion for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives to increase regulation of the ﬁrearms industry, an
increase of over 30 percent since the start of the Administration, and
$100 million for DOJ community violence intervention and prevention
initiatives. And the Budget provides $51 million to the Federal Bureau
of Investigation to support the continued implementation of enhanced
background checks required by the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. The
Budget also includes $100 million for CDC to fund evidence-informed,
community-based programs that reduce gun violence. Lastly, the Budget
proposes $60 million for CDC and the NIH to fund research into the
causes of and solutions for gun violence. In addition to these amounts,
the Budget requests $1.5 billion over 10 years in mandatory funding at
both DOJ and CDC to supplement funding for community violence
intervention programs.

**Reinvigorates Federal Civil Rights Enforcement.** In order to address
longstanding inequities and strengthen civil rights protections, the
Budget invests $201 million in the DOJ Civil Rights Division. These
resources would continue supporting vigorous prosecution of hate crimes,
enforcement of voting rights laws, and ending gender-based violence and
discrimination. Additionally, the Budget proposes a new $10 million DOJ
grant program supporting the modernization of HIV criminal statutes.

***Promotes Equity Across Government Services***

**Improves Language Access.** The Budget includes funding for multiple
agencies, including DOL, USDA, the Department of Homeland Security
(DHS), and DOE to strengthen language access services to promote
meaningful access to government programs, services, and benefits for
individuals with limited English proficiency.

**Enables Policymakers to Understand the Needs of the American People
and Economy.** The Budget provides resources at the Census Bureau to
support a Puerto Rico economic statistics program and to bolster the
Survey of Income and Program Participation, which is a leading source of
information on the economic wellbeing of Americans, including low income
and historically disadvantaged populations.

**Supports Public Participation and Community Engagement in Government
Decision Making.** The Administration is committed to ensuring that the
voices of all Americans, including underserved communities, inform and
shape the design and delivery of Federal programs, policies, and
services. The Budget includes resources for multiple agencies, including
DOE, DHS, SSA, HHS, and the VA, to strengthen their public participation
and community engagement activities across the country, with a focus on
hard-to-reach populations.

\###
