---
date: '2024-03-28'
published_time: 2024-03-28 15:58:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/28/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-passing-of-former-u-s-senator-joe-lieberman/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Passing of Former U.S. Senator\
  \ Joe\_Lieberman"
---
 
Joe Lieberman and I served together in the U.S. Senate for 20 years. He
was principled, steadfast, and unafraid to stand up for what he thought
was right. He was a friend.  
  
Joe’s fierce spirit of independence is the essence of the American
story. He was the grandson of immigrants; his dad ran a small business;
and Joe was the first in his family to graduate from college. After law
school, he quickly left a law firm job for a life of public service.  
  
As a leader in Connecticut’s legislature, as state Attorney General, and
as a committed Senate colleague, Joe championed the environment, gun
safety, and reproductive freedom. He wrote landmark legislation
repealing discriminatory restrictions on LGBTQ Americans serving in our
military. He played a key role in the creation of the Department of
Homeland Security in the wake of 9/11. And his historic bid for the Vice
Presidency, as the first Jewish candidate on a major party ticket, took
our nation one step closer to realizing the full promise of America.  
  
Joe believed in a shared purpose of serving something bigger than
ourselves. He lived the values of his faith as he worked to repair the
wounds of the world.  And he did so with his beloved family by his side
– his dear Hadassah, and his wonderful children and grandchildren.  
  
Jewish liturgy says of “﻿those who serve the needs of the community
faithfully, may God grant them their reward.”  Our hearts today are with
the Lieberman family, and with those who loved Joe across Connecticut
and across our nation, which he served faithfully for so long.

\###
