---
date: '2024-03-22'
modified_time: 2024-03-25 16:09:20-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-22 15:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/22/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-35/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Mark A. Milley, to be Member of the National Infrastructure Advisory
    Council
-   Martin L. Adams, to be Member of the National Infrastructure
    Advisory Council
-   David J. Grain, to be Member of the National Infrastructure Advisory
    Council
-   Kurt A. Summers, Jr., to be Member of the National Infrastructure
    Advisory Council
-   Gina Kay Abercrombie-Winstanley, to be Member of the National
    Security Education Board
-   Karl Eikenberry, to be Member of the National Security Education
    Board
-   M. Osman Siddique, to be Member of the National Security Education
    Board
-   Rory M. Brosius, to be Member of the National Security Education
    Board
-   Jeffrey L. Bleich, to be Member of the National Security Education
    Board
-   Patrick Mendis, to be Member of the National Security Education
    Board

**<u>National Infrastructure Advisory Council</u>**

The National Infrastructure Advisory Council (NIAC) advises the White
House on how to reduce physical and cyber risks and improve the security
and resilience of the nation’s critical infrastructure sectors. The four
new members will join 26 members previously announced by the President
in August 2022. Since its establishment in 2001, the NIAC has conducted
dozens of studies to address issues such as improving intelligence
information sharing across government and industry, identifying and
reducing complex cyber risks, better preparing for and responding to
disruptions that can ripple across multiple infrastructure systems,
facilitating cooperative decision-making among senior executives and
federal leaders during imminent threats and disaster responses, and
addressing the skill gaps and loss of institutional knowledge in key
national workforces.

**Mark A. Milley, to be Member of the National Infrastructure Advisory
Council**

General Mark A. Milley, U.S. Army, Retired, served as the 20th Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from October 2019 to September 2023. Prior
to becoming Chairman, Milley served as the 39th Chief of Staff of the
U.S. Army. Milley has held multiple command and staff positions in six
divisions and a Special Forces Group throughout the last 44 years to
include command of the 1st Battalion, 506th Infantry, 2nd Infantry
Division; the 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division; Deputy
Commanding General, 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault); Commanding
General, 10th Mountain Division; Commanding General, III Corps; and
Commanding General, U.S. Army Forces Command.

While serving as the Commanding General, III Corps, Milley deployed as
the Commanding General, International Security Assistance Force Joint
Command and Deputy Commanding General, U.S. Forces Afghanistan. Milley’s
joint assignments also include the Joint Staff operations directorate
and as Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense. His operational
deployments include the Multi-National Force and Observers Task Force,
Sinai, Egypt; Operation JUST CAUSE, Panama; Operation UPHOLD DEMOCRACY,
Haiti; Operation JOINT FORGE, Bosnia-Herzegovina; Operation IRAQI
FREEDOM, Iraq; and three tours during Operation ENDURING FREEDOM,
Afghanistan. He also deployed to Colombia, Somalia, and served two years
on the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) in the Republic of Korea.

In addition to his bachelor’s degree in political science from Princeton
University, Milley has a master’s degree in international relations from
Columbia University and a master’s degree in national security and
strategic studies from the U.S. Naval War College. He is also a graduate
of the MIT Seminar XXI National Security Studies Program. A native of
Massachusetts, Milley graduated from Princeton University in 1980, where
he received his commission from Army ROTC.

**Martin Lewis Adams, to be Member of the National Infrastructure
Advisory Council**

Martin L. Adams is the General Manager and Chief Engineer of the Los
Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP), the nation’s largest
municipally-owned water and power utility. Beginning his LADWP career in
1984, Adams served as both the Senior Assistant General Manager of Water
and as Chief Operating Officer overseeing the Water and Power systems
before taking the helm at LADWP in July 2019. A seasoned engineer and
recognized industry leader, Adams brings a wealth of practical, hands-on
experience spanning 40 years, centering on a unique combination of
creative planning and problem solving combined with years of direct
operational experience.

Adams currently oversees a $7+ billion annual budget and a workforce of
more than 11,000 employees dedicated to delivering water and power to
the four million residents of Los Angeles. He has spearheaded the
infrastructure investments needed to meet the agency’s ambitious
transition to a carbon-free energy future and led the planning and
implementation of sweeping changes to the city’s water storage,
conveyance, and treatment facilities to meet evolving water quality
regulations and post-911 security concerns. Adams has been a driving
force behind Los Angeles’s investment in a green hydrogen future.

A native of the greater Los Angeles area, Adams resides in Burbank,
California, with his family, where he previously served for nine years
on that city’s Water and Power board. He continues to serve on a number
of industry-related and community boards. Adams earned his degree in
Civil Engineering from Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles,
California.

**David J. Grain,** **to be Member of the National Infrastructure
Advisory Council**

David J. Grain is the Chief Executive Officer and Founder of Grain
Management, LLC. Prior to founding Grain Management in 2007, Grain led
Pinnacle Towers (later renamed Global Signal), transforming it into one
of the largest independent wireless communication tower companies in the
world. Grain previously served as Senior Vice President of AT&T
Broadband’s New England Region and was an Executive Director in the High
Yield Finance Department at Morgan Stanley.

Grain is the Lead Independent Director of Southern Company’s Board of
Directors, Independent Director of Dell Technologies, Director of New
Fortress Energy, Fiduciary Trustee of the Brookings Institution, a
member of the Advisory Council of the National Museum of African
American History and Culture, and Vice Chair of the Board of the
Martha’s Vineyard Museum. He is also a Lifetime Member of the Council on
Foreign Relations and a member of the Dartmouth Board of Trustees.

**Kurt A. Summers, Jr.,** **to be Member of the National Infrastructure
Advisory Council**

Kurt A. Summers is a Senior Managing Director and Head of Public-Private
Partnership Investments and ESG Strategy at Blackstone Infrastructure
Partners. He is responsible for investment strategies in partnership
with governments, public entities, civic and labor organizations, and
broader stakeholders to help advance local infrastructure priorities and
advancing Blackstone Infrastructure’s Environmental, Social and
Governance efforts. Prior, he served as Senior Advisor to Blackstone.
Summers was elected and served as Chicago’s 70th City Treasurer until
2019. He also served as both Chairman of the Chicago Infrastructure
Trust, where he led the largest lighting retrofit project in North
America, and Chairman of the Chicago Community Catalyst Fund, a
first-of-its-kind $100 million local investment fund focused on private
investments in Chicago neighborhoods. Prior to becoming Treasurer,
Summers served as a Senior Vice President and member of the Office of
the Chairman for GCM Grosvenor.

Summers began his career at McKinsey & Company and later worked as an
investment banker in both the leveraged finance and industrials groups
at Goldman Sachs. Summers received a BSBA with Management Distinction
High Honors in Finance and International Business with a minor in East
Asian Studies from Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri. He also
holds an MBA from Harvard Business School.

**<u>National Security Education Board</u>**

The 14-member National Security Education Board (NSEB) provides
strategic guidance and oversight for the National Security Education
Program. The National Security Education Program administers multiple
fellowships and awards including the David L. Boren Scholarships and
Fellowships with the aim of increasing the national capacity to
understand and interact effectively with foreign cultures and languages.
The NSEB is comprised of six Presidential appointees, including experts
from non-profit organizations and academia who provide valuable
assistance to the National Security Education Program.

**Gina Kay Abercrombie-Winstanley, to be Member of the National Security
Education Board**

Gina Kay Abercrombie-Winstanley, a 30-year diplomat, is the former Chief
Diversity and Inclusion Officer for the Department of State. Through her
career, she has held a series of senior positions including Ambassador
to the Republic of Malta from 2012 until 2016, Foreign Policy Advisor to
the Commander of U.S. Cyber Forces, and Deputy Coordinator for
Counterterrorism where she grew counterterrorism partners and programs.
Additionally, she coordinated the largest evacuation of American
citizens from a war zone since WWII.

Prior to joining the Foreign Service, Abercrombie-Winstanley served as a
Peace Corps Volunteer in Oman. She began her formal work in teaching and
leadership development as Chairwoman for Middle East Area Studies at the
Foreign Service Institute where U.S. diplomats are trained. Earlier in
her career, she served in Baghdad, Jakarta, and Cairo before taking on
the position of Special Assistant to the Secretary of State. She is a
strong proponent of excellence through inclusion across organizations
and strives to break down barriers to the full participation of women
and minorities. She currently serves as President of the Middle East
Policy Council, the organization’s first woman and African American
president.

Abercrombie-Winstanley, a Cleveland native, has degrees from George
Washington University and Johns Hopkins University. She was a co-Founder
of The Leadership Council for Women in National Security and an active
board member for several organizations, including the International
Career Advancement Program — ICAP committed to excellence in education
and leadership development. In 2019, she was voted into the American
Academy of Diplomacy.

**Karl Eikenberry, to be Member of the National Security Education
Board**

Karl Eikenberry is a Distinguished Senior Fellow at the Stimson Center.
He is also Senior Advisor to the United States Institute of Peace and
faculty member of Schwarzman College, Tsinghua University.

His almost four decades of national service culminated as the U.S.
Ambassador to Afghanistan from 2009 until 2011. Before his appointment
as Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan,
Eikenberry had a 35-year career in the United States Army, retiring in
2009 with the rank of Lieutenant General. His military operational posts
included commander and staff officer with mechanized, light, airborne,
and ranger infantry units in the continental U.S., Hawaii, Korea, Italy,
and in Afghanistan as the Commander of the American-led Coalition
Forces. He held various policy and political-military positions ranging
from Deputy Chairman of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
Military Committee in Brussels, Belgium, Director for Strategic Planning
and Policy for U.S. Pacific Command at Camp Smith, Hawaii, U.S. Security
Coordinator and Chief of the Office of Military Cooperation in Kabul,
Afghanistan, Senior Country Director for China and Taiwan, Office of the
Secretary of Defense, and Assistant Army and later Defense Attaché at
the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, China.

Eikenberry is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences,
serves on the boards of The Asia Foundation and American Councils for
International Education, and is the Chair of the Alumni Advisory Council
of the Regional Studies East Asia Program at Harvard University.

**M. Osman Siddique, to be Member of the National Security Education
Board**

M. Osman Siddique served as the U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Fiji
Islands with concurrent accreditations to the Kingdom of Tonga and the
Governments of Tuvalu and Nauru from 1999 until 2001. Appointed by
President Bill Clinton, he was the first American Muslim U.S. Ambassador
to serve as a Chief of Mission anywhere. After receiving his MBA degree
from the Indiana University’s Kelley School of Business, Siddique
started his professional career with a fortune 500 company, but soon
emerged as a successful entrepreneur and a prolific businessman in the
nation’s capital. Under the tutelage of Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA), he
became very active in the Democratic Party and national politics.

In 2011, President Obama appointed Siddique as a trustee to the Board of
Governors of the East West Center in Honolulu, Hawaii. Today, in
addition to being a strategic advisor to several multinational
organizations, Siddique serves on multiple boards including the Atlantic
Council as a non-resident senior fellow. Born in Bangladesh, Siddique
currently lives with his wife Catherine, in McLean, Virginia. He
recently authored his memoir *Leaps of Faith… an immigrant’s odyssey of
struggle, success and service to his country.*

**Rory M. Brosius,** **to be Member of the National Security Education
Board**

Rory M. Brosius is a partner at Cicero Group, a data-driven management
consulting firm, where she helps to lead social sector projects. Prior
to joining Cicero, Brosius served as the Special Assistant to the
President for Military Families and the Executive Director of Joining
Forces at the White House, where she oversaw a policy portfolio that
included economic opportunity, military child education, and health and
wellbeing for the families, caregivers, and survivors of service members
and veterans. A veteran of the Biden Presidential Transition Team and
2020 Presidential Campaign, she previously served as the Deputy Director
of Joining Forces during the Obama-Biden Administration.

A social worker by training and a military family member, Brosius has
more than a decade of public service, working in roles supporting
institutions of higher education, the United States military, federal
government, and two Presidential Administrations. Over the course of her
career, she has worked to identify and amplify innovative solutions to
pressing national security problems, specifically, retention and
recruitment of the Force through the lens of personnel and family
readiness. She earned her bachelor’s degree in Philosophy from Clemson
University, and after entering the workforce, earned a Master of Social
Work from the University of Southern California. Born in Lockport,
Illinois, she now resides in Washington, District of Columbia.

**Jeffrey L. Bleich,** **to be Member of the National Security Education
Board**

Jeffrey L. Bleich chairs the board of the Jeff Bleich Centre on
Democracy and Disruptive Technologies at Flinders University. He
previously served as a Special Master for the U.S. Courts, arbitrator,
and as the Chair of the boards of PG&E Co. and Nuix, Ltd. He formerly
served as Special Counsel to President Obama in the White House, and as
the 24th U.S. Ambassador to Australia from 2009 to 2013.

After receiving his B.A. in Political Science, magna cum laude, Bleich
earned an M.P.P. from Harvard with highest honors in 1986, and a J.D.
from the UC Berkeley School of Law with highest honors in 1989. At
Berkeley, he served as editor-in-chief of the California Law Review. He
clerked for Judge Abner Mikva on the D.C. Circuit and Chief Justice
William H. Rehnquist on the U.S. Supreme Court, before clerking at the
International Tribunal in the Hauge, Netherlands.

Prior to joining the Obama-Biden Administration, Bleich was a partner at
Munger, Tolles & Olson for 17 years where he handled significant pro
bono civil rights matters. He has also served as Chief Legal Officer at
Cruise, and as a partner and Group CEO at Dentons LLP. He has held
several leadership positions including as Chair of the Fulbright Board,
Chair of the California State University Board of Trustees, President of
the California State Bar, President of the Bar Association of San
Francisco, and President of the Barristers Club of San Francisco. In
1998, he was appointed by President Clinton to serve as director of the
White House Commission on Youth Violence following the tragic Columbine,
Colorado shootings. Bleich holds honorary degrees from San Francisco
State University, Griffith University, and Flinders University in
Adelaide, which in 2019 established the Jeff Bleich Centre in his honor.

**Patrick Mendis,** **to be Member of the National Security Education
Board**

Patrick Mendis is a former American diplomat and military professor in
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and Indo-Pacific Commands
during the Clinton, Bush, and Obama Administrations. Mendis has held
many senior government positions in the U.S. Departments of Agriculture,
Defense, Energy, and State. He is currently located in Washington,
District of Columbia, while serving as a distinguished visiting
professor of transatlantic relations at the University of Warsaw in
Poland as well as a distinguished visiting professor of global affairs
at the National Chengchi University in Taiwan.

Until recently, Mendis served two terms as a commissioner to the U.S.
National Commission for the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization at the Department of State. Previously, he worked
as the Secretariat Director of the Bureau of Educational and Cultural
Affairs under Secretary of State Colin Powell, as well as the Chairman
of the U.S. Interagency Policy Working Group on Science and Technology
in the Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific
Affairs under Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. He also served as a
Senior Policy Advisor to the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, an
advisor to the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory’s Center for
Global Security Research, and a consultant to the World Bank. Mendis
also served in the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

Mendis is an alumnus of the Hubert H. Humphrey School of Public Affairs
at the University of Minnesota and the John F. Kennedy School of
Government at Harvard University. He has authored over 200 books,
journal articles, newspaper columns, and government reports. Mendis has
taught at more than 25 Chinese universities and academies and worked in
and travelled to more than 130 countries.

\###
