---
date: '2024-03-08'
modified_time: 2024-03-08 13:50:03-05:00
published_time: 2024-03-08 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/08/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-34/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Denise Grant, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
    Board 
-   Lynn Tincher-Ladner, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign
    Scholarship Board 
-   Marsha Borin, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
-   David Cicilline, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
-   Paul R. Fine, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
-   Susan E. Lowenberg, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
-   Judith Schocken, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
-   Cynthia Simon Skjodt, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial
    Council
-   Samantha Vinograd, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council
-   Mark Wilf, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council

**<u>J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board</u>**

The J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board supervises the
Fulbright Program and certain programs authorized by the Fulbright-Hays
Act and for the purpose of selecting students, scholars, teachers,
trainees, and other persons to participate in the educational exchange
programs. Appointed by the President, the 12-member Board meets
quarterly in Washington, D.C. The Board establishes worldwide policies
and procedures for the Program and issues an annual report on the state
of the Program.

****Denise Grant, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
Board ****

Denise Grant, founder and CEO of Overlook Strategies, is a highly
regarded counsel to executives and Boards of Directors on complex issues
across a range of business, leadership, organizational, governance, and
policy matters. She has decades of experience developing strategies and
implementing solutions for some of the most high-profile entities in the
corporate and nonprofit sectors. She also serves as a Senior Advisor to
Heidrick & Struggles, a global leadership and organizational consulting
firm.

Her expertise is grounded in an extensive career spanning the global
business, legal, and public policy arenas. Grant was Managing Director
at Russell Reynolds where she led the Washington office and held other
leadership positions. Prior to 2005, Grant was a senior executive at
Fannie Mae where she served in a variety of roles including as head of
the multi-billion-dollar mortgage-backed securities issuance business.
She also was a practicing attorney for a decade, including at Morgan
Lewis and on Capitol Hill. In private practice, she provided strategic
representation on regulatory, litigation, compliance, and policy
matters.

Grant has been active with many nonprofit organizations that promote
opportunity, international diplomacy, culture, and education. She has
served on numerous boards, including the Wolf Trap Foundation for the
Performing Arts and Transylvania University. Grant has a B.A. from
Transylvania University and a law degree from the University of
Kentucky. A native of Kentucky, her home base is now Maryland and the
District of Columbia.

**Lynn Tincher-Ladner, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
Board **

Dr. Lynn Tincher-Ladner serves as President and CEO of Phi Theta Kappa,
the nation’s oldest and largest honor society for students seeking
associate degrees and credentials from community colleges. With over 30
years in higher education, she has been a community college math,
chemistry, and physics instructor; computer programmer; database
administrator; institutional researcher; and university faculty member.
She has served on national boards for the College Promise Campaign, the
Center for Community College Student Engagement, Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges, the Rural Community College
Alliance, and the American Association of Community Colleges.

As an advocate for community colleges and community college students,
Tincher-Ladner uses data to tell their stories and to advocate for the
support of America’s community colleges and their students. Her passion
and position have established her as a speaker with engagements
crisscrossing the country: she frequently presents her state-of-the-art
statistics on student success at national conferences and regularly
speaks at college convocations and commencements.

Tincher-Ladner holds a Ph.D. in Community College Leadership from
Mississippi State University and bachelor’s and master’s degrees in
mathematics from the University of Southern Mississippi.

**<u>United States Holocaust Memorial Council</u>**

The United States Holocaust Memorial Council was established by Congress
in 1980 to lead the nation in commemorating the Holocaust and to raise
private funds for and build the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.
Once the Museum opened in 1993, the Council became the governing board
of trustees of the Museum, an independent establishment of the United
States government operating as a public-private partnership that
receives some federal funding to support operations of the Museum
building.

**Marsha Borin, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council**

Marsha Borin practiced law in Delaware before directing a professional
ballet company composed of Russian dancers trained in renowned ballet
schools across the world who were stranded in the United States. She
then served as President of a pop ballet company that toured Europe with
works set to popular music, and as Executive Director for a celebrity
series presenting renowned guests.

In 2000, Borin worked with Celeste Maier of the United States Holocaust
Memorial Museum and The News Journal to develop *Why Remember,* a
year-long program in Delaware that cast light on the hatred of the
Holocaust as well as on those who did not turn their backs on humanity.
*Why Remember* presented survivor talks to high school students, a film
about the Kindertransport in colleges, extensive histories and
interviews of survivors printed in the News Journal, and a book and
author luncheon featuring the work of a Holocaust survivor.

Borin has served on many boards, including Delaware Sterling Bank which
was acquired by PNC, The United States International Ballet Competition
in Jackson, Mississippi, The Boston Foundation for Sight in Boston,
Massachusetts, and The Irish American University in Dublin, Ireland. In
2021, Borin was the recipient of the Community Service Award presented
by the Delaware Bar Association.

Borin is married to beloved Pediatrician, Howard Borin, M.D. They are
parents of a daughter, Lisa, who served in then-Senator Biden’s office
and the Obama-Biden Administration, parents to their late son, Joshua,
and grandparents to Jack, a college sophomore. Borin enjoys teaching
ballet, walking, travel, politics, and improving quality of life.

**David Cicilline, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council**

David Cicilline currently serves as President & CEO of the Rhode Island
Foundation, one of America’s oldest and largest community Foundations.
Prior to this position, Cicilline served for 12 years as a member of the
United States Congress representing Rhode Island’s First Congressional
District and served on the House Foreign Affairs and Judiciary
Committees. While in Congress, Cicilline chaired the LGBTQ Equality
Caucus, was vice-chair of the Progressive Caucus, and chaired the
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial and Administrative Law.

Prior to his Congressional service, Cicilline served as Mayor of
Providence and in the state legislature in Rhode Island. Cicilline also
served on the Board of the Sandra Bornstein Holocaust Education Center
in Rhode Island. He is a Senior Fellow at the Brown University Watson
Institute for International and Public Affairs, a member of the United
Nations Foundation Global Leadership Council, the United States Global
Leadership National Advisory Council, and the Council on Foreign
Relations. Cicilline attended Brown University and Georgetown University
Law Center.

**Paul R. Fine, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council**

Paul R. Fine is a longtime Delaware businessman, public servant, and
philanthropist. He began his career as a second-generation automobile
dealer. From 1989-1997, he was President of Delaware’s State Board of
Education, working closely with the Governor’s office and the General
Assembly to steer Delaware’s public school system through major
education reform.

Fine also served as Chairman of the Board and Campaign Chair of United
Way of Delaware. As one of the founding members of the Delaware
Community Foundation, Fine also served as its Chairman of the Board. He
also served as President of the Jewish Federation of Delaware and later
chaired the Annual Campaign for the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach in
2017 and 2018.

Along with his wife, Gloria, he established a “Vision of Hope”
scholarship trust for 30 students at Conrad Middle School in Wilmington.
These scholarships provided mentorship and full tuition for
post-secondary degrees. In 1989, both were recipients of the National
Conference of Community and Justice annual award for bringing together
diverse groups through education and were awarded the University of
Delaware’s Medal of Distinction in 2005: the University’s highest
non-academic award bestowed by the Board of Trustees. In 1998,
then-Governor Tom Carper presented Fine with Delaware’s highest honor,
The Order of the First State.

**Susan E. Lowenberg,** **Member, United States Holocaust Memorial
Council**

Susan E. Lowenberg is President of the Lowenberg Corporation. A graduate
of the University of Oregon with a degree in Finance and Real Estate,
Lowenberg is an active member of the real estate industry in Northern
California.

Currently, Lowenberg serves as a Gubernatorial Appointee to the
California Coastal Commission, Board Member of The Golden Gate National
Parks Conservancy, Board Member of American Jewish World Service, and
Board Member of the Jewish Family and Children’s Services Holocaust
Center. Lowenberg previously served as a Presidential Appointee to the
United States Holocaust Memorial Council from 2012-2020.

Lowenberg lives in San Francisco, California with her spouse Joyce
Newstat.

  
**Judith Schocken,** **Member, United States Holocaust Memorial
Council**

Judith Schocken is a daughter of survivors of the Holocaust. A member of
the Speakers Bureau of the Holocaust Center of Humanity in Seattle,
Schocken talks to schoolchildren about the escape from Europe just
before World War II. Schocken tells the story of her family in
Czechoslovakia as antisemitism increased and their harrowing immigration
to the United States.

Schocken and her husband Joe support various philanthropies, nationally
and in the Seattle area. They raised four children and have eight
grandchildren. They strongly believe in keeping Jewish traditions and
religion alive. Schocken, who formerly served as the owner and manager
of a restaurant in Seattle, spends time skiing, snowshoeing, and hiking
in the Cascades.

**Cynthia Simon Skjodt, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial
Council**

Cindy Simon Skjodt has spent most of her adult life serving the Marion
and Hamilton County, Indiana communities. She graduated from Carmel High
School in 1976, earned her bachelor’s degree from Indiana University in
1980, and earned her master’s degree in Family & Marriage Therapy from
Butler University in 1996. Simon Skjodt continues to dedicate her time,
attention, leadership, and financial resources to Central Indiana
nonprofit charity boards as well as a few national and international
charities. She was a founding director of the Pacer Foundation in 1981
and remains actively involved today. Simon Skjodt also meets the demands
of her beloved Samerian Foundation, of which she is Chairman.

Within the last 25 years, Simon Skjodt has served on many local Boards
of Directors, Action Committees, and Advisory Councils. Most recently,
she was appointed to the United States Holocaust Memorial Council by
President Obama. Twice she has been awarded the highest honor in the
State of Indiana, the Sagamore of the Wabash, by the Governor. She has
also been bestowed with the honor of “Cindy Simon Skjodt Day” by three
separate Indianapolis Mayors. Her additional honors include the Herman B
Wells Visionary, Profiles in Leadership, Woman of the Year, Anne Frank
Award, Living Legacy, and Major Benefactors Award.

Simon Skjodt remains active in civic and cultural organizations, in
addition to overseeing the perpetuity of her private family foundation.
She continues to lead the philanthropic legacy engrained within her as a
child by her parents, for whom she credits her work around the globe.
Simon Skjodt and her husband Paul Skjodt live in the Indianapolis area,
where they raised their children Erik, Samantha, and Ian.

**Samantha Vinograd,** **Member, United States Holocaust Memorial
Council**

Samantha Vinograd is the daughter of a Holocaust survivor and has long
been an advocate for Holocaust education and confronting antisemitism.
Vinograd has dedicated much of her career to public service, working in
critical security roles under three presidents.

She most recently served in the Biden-Harris Administration as the
Assistant Secretary for Counterterrorism, Threat Prevention, and Law
Enforcement Policy at the Department of Homeland Security. In that role,
she led efforts to address antisemitism and other forms of hate-fueled
violence. In the Obama-Biden Administration, she served on the National
Security Council as the Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor,
the Director for International Economics and Energy, and the Director
for Iraq. She also worked at the Department of the Treasury in the Bush
Administration as Deputy U.S. Treasury Attaché to Iraq and as an
International Economist.

Currently, Vinograd is a Partner at Brunswick Group where she leads the
firm’s U.S. geopolitical practice. She is also a Senior Advisor at the
University of Delaware’s Biden Institute, a Trustee at Save the Children
U.S., and a contributor at CBS News. Previously, Vinograd led global
public policy at Stripe and worked for Goldman Sachs where she focused
on building public-private sector partnerships on key policy issues.

**Mark Wilf, Member, United States Holocaust Memorial Council**

Mark Wilf is President of Garden Homes, his family-owned real estate
development firm. He is also Owner/President of the NFL’s Minnesota
Vikings and Owner/Chairman of the MLS’ Orlando City Soccer Club and
NWSL’s Orlando Pride. He graduated from Princeton University and then
received his law degree from NYU School of Law.

As the son of Holocaust survivors, Elizabeth Wilf and Joseph Wilf, z”l,
he has drawn upon his parents’ experiences to become an unwavering
advocate for the needs of the Jewish people and promote Holocaust
education. The Wilf family, through the Wilf Family Foundations, is a
longtime supporter of Yad Vashem in Jerusalem.

Wilf serves as the Chair of the Board of Governors of the Jewish Agency
for Israel. He previously served as Chair of the Board of Trustees of
The Jewish Federations of North America (JFNA). Wilf also chaired JFNA’s
national initiative that addresses the needs of impoverished Holocaust
survivors living in the United States. He serves on a variety of other
educational, philanthropic, and educational boards including the Jewish
Federation of Greater MetroWest, Hillel International, NYU School of
Law, Princeton University President’s Advisory Council, Yeshiva
University, and Vanderbilt University. Wilf and his wife Jane reside in
Livingston, New Jersey and have four children, Steven, Daniel, Rachel,
and Andrew.

\###
