---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 22:31:25-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-protects-and-increases-access-to-quality-affordable-healthcare/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Protects and Increases Access to Quality,\
  \ Affordable\_Healthcare"
---
 
The President and the Vice President believe that healthcare is a right,
not a privilege. The Administration’s actions to protect and expand
Americans’ access to quality, affordable healthcare have made a positive
difference for Americans’ well-being and wallets. The Administration
continues to build on, strengthen, and protect Medicare, Medicaid, and
the Affordable Care Act (ACA)—and now more Americans have health
insurance than under any other President.

Since taking office, the President has delivered the resources necessary
to end the COVID emergency; built on the success of the ACA to further
close the uninsured gap; reduced Americans’ healthcare premiums and
prescription drug costs; finally allowed Medicare to negotiate for lower
prescription drug prices and taken on Big Pharma; acted to protect
millions of consumers from surprise medical bills and junk fees; made
progress on bold new goals as part of the Biden Cancer Moonshot;
released a national strategy to tackle the mental health crisis; and
created new efforts dedicated to closing gaps in women’s health research
and preventing, detecting, and treating devastating diseases like cancer
and Alzheimer’s disease. The President signed into law the historic
Inflation Reduction Act, which is helping millions of Americans save an
average $800 per year on health insurance by extending the ACA enhanced
premium tax credit. The historic legislation reduced the burden of high
upfront out-of-pocket prescription drug costs for seniors and people
with disabilities with Medicare—including by capping the cost of a
month’s supply of insulin at $35 per insulin prescription—made certain
recommended vaccines free, and is requiring drug companies to pay
rebates to Medicare if they raise prices faster than inflation.

But Congressional Republicans have a different vision. Despite this
progress and the overwhelming popularity of these advancements, extreme
Republicans in Congress have blocked efforts to lower health care costs,
and they’re still trying to end the Affordable Care Act. If the extreme
Republicans in Congress get their way, millions of families would face
skyrocketing healthcare and prescriptions costs, and potentially lose
their health care altogether. And in the wake of the Supreme Court’s
decision to overturn nearly 50 years of precedent in *Roe v. Wade*,
Republican elected officials are advancing and enforcing dangerous,
extreme abortion bans that eliminate women’s ability to make their own
decisions about their health, force women to travel hundreds of miles
for care, and deny access to vital, evidence-based medical care. And
Congressional Republicans have proposed three national abortion bans
that would limit access to reproductive health care in every state in
the country.

The Administration recognizes that by investing in the health and
well-being of the American people, we can create healthier, safer, and
more productive communities. The Budget protects the progress this
Administration has made while proposing additional investments to
address the challenges that remain, including further expanding access
to high-quality healthcare and lowering costs, responding to mental
health needs, advancing health equity, honoring our sacred commitment to
our veterans, and strengthening America’s public health infrastructure.
**The President’s Budget:**

***Expands Access to High-Quality Healthcare and Lowers Costs***

**Lowers Drug Prices and Expands Access to Prescription Drugs.** Thanks
to action taken by the Administration, millions of seniors and people
with disabilities are saving money on their drug costs, and the
Administration announced the first ten drugs for which prices will be
negotiated as it continues implementation of the Inflation Reduction
Act. The Budget builds on this success by significantly increasing the
pace of negotiation, bringing more drugs into negotiation sooner after
they launch, expanding the Inflation Reduction Act’s inflation rebates
and $2,000 out-of-pocket prescription drug cost cap beyond Medicare and
into the commercial market, and by taking other steps to build on the
Inflation Reduction Act drug provisions. In addition, the Budget extends
the $35 cost-sharing cap for a month’s supply of a covered insulin
product to the commercial market. The Budget also includes proposals to
ensure Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) are
prudent purchasers of prescription drugs and limits Medicare Part D
cost-sharing for high-value generic drugs, such as those used to treat
hypertension and hyperlipidemia, to no more than $2 per month for
Medicare beneficiaries**.** These reforms will not only cut costs for
the Federal government by $200 billion; they will also save billions of
dollars for seniors and people with disabilities.

**Expands Access to Quality, Affordable Healthcare.** With enrollment in
Marketplace coverage at an all-time high, the Budget builds on the
incredible success of the ACA by making permanent the expanded premium
tax credits that the Inflation Reduction Act extended and providing
Medicaid-like coverage to individuals in States that have not adopted
Medicaid expansion, paired with financial incentives to ensure States
maintain their existing expansions. For Medicaid and CHIP, the Budget
allows States to extend the existing 12-month continuous eligibility for
all children to 36 months, and allows States to provide continuous
eligibility for children from birth until they turn age 6. Further, the
Budget prohibits enrollment fees and premiums in CHIP. The President
also supports eliminating Medicaid funding caps for Puerto Rico and
other Territories while aligning their matching rate with States—and
moving toward parity for other critical Federal programs including
Supplemental Security Income and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program. The Budget is also including an allowance to ban unwarranted
“facility fees” for telehealth and certain other outpatient services in
commercial insurance. In addition, the Budget includes funding for
continued implementation of the No Surprises Act, which protects
Americans across the Nation from surprise medical bills.

**Protects and Strengthens Medicare and Medicaid.** The Budget extends
HI trust fund solvency indefinitely by modestly increasing the Medicare
tax rate on incomes above $400,000, closing loopholes in existing
Medicare taxes, and directing revenue from the Net Investment Income Tax
into the HI Trust Fund as was originally intended. Current law lets
certain wealthy business owners avoid Medicare taxes on some of the
profits they get from passthrough businesses. The Budget closes this
loophole and raises Medicare tax rates on earned and unearned income
from 3.8 percent to 5 percent for those with incomes over $400,000. In
addition, the Budget directs an amount equivalent to the savings from
its proposed Medicare drug reforms into the HI trust fund. The Budget
also proposes to limit the portion of Medicaid and CHIP managed care
dollars spent on administration and incentivize more investments in
quality healthcare services by requiring managed care plans to pay
Medicaid back when they charge the program far more than they actually
spend on patient care.

**Advances Equitable Access to Home and Community-Based Care.** The
President recognizes thatmore than three-quarters of home and
community-based care service providers are not accepting new clients,
leaving hundreds of thousands of older Americans and Americans with
disabilities on waiting lists for home and community-based services or
struggling to afford the care they need.The Administration invested $25
billion in American Rescue Plan funds to help states strengthen their
Medicaid home and community-based care programs, including over $9
billion in spending to boost wages for home care workers as well as
improve overall job quality.The President’s Budget invests $150 billion
over 10 years to improve and expand Medicaid home and community-based
services, which would allow older Americans and people with disabilities
to remain in their homes and stay active in their communities as well as
improve the quality of jobs for home care workers.

**Protects Seniors’ Health and Dignity.** The Budget increases funding
for senior nutrition services to ensure seniors continue to receive
healthy meals by 8 percent above 2023 level, and 21 percent over 2021
levels. In addition, the Budget proposes to shift funding for nursing
home surveys from discretionary to mandatory beginning in 2026, and
increase funding to cover 100 percent of statutorily-mandated surveys,
which will guard against negligent care and ensure that Americans
receive high quality, safe services within these facilities. The Budget
also continues to build on the President’s commitment to protect the
Nation’s seniors and people with disabilities through a comprehensive
agenda that improves the safety and quality of nursing home care,
addresses the backlog of complaint surveys from nursing home residents,
expands financial penalties for underperforming facilities, requires
greater transparency of nursing facility ownership, and increases the
inspection of facilities with serious safety deficiencies.

***Transforms Behavioral Healthcare***

**Expands Coverage and Invests in Behavioral Healthcare Services.** In
2022, almost a quarter of adults suffered from mental illness, 13
percent of adolescents had serious thoughts of suicide, and overdose
deaths continued near record highs. As a core pillar of his Unity
Agenda, the President released a national strategy to transform how we
understand and address mental health in America—and the Budget makes
progress on this agenda by improving access to care for individuals and
communities. The Budget makes significant investments in expanding the
988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline that is projected to respond to 7.5
million contacts from individuals in distress in 2025 alone. The Budget
expands mental health care and support services in schools; expands
CDC’s suicide prevention program to additional States, as well as Tribal
and territorial jurisdictions; and invests in strengthening the
behavioral health workforce – including through the integration of
behavioral health services into primary care settings. The Budget also
expands access to behavioral health services through significant
investments in Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics and
Community Mental Health Centers. In addition, the Budget provides $1
billion to advance Health IT adoption and engagement in interoperability
for certain behavioral health providers.

**Strengthens Mental Health Parity Protections**. The Budget requires
all commercial market health plans to cover mental health and substance
use disorder benefits, ensures that plans have an adequate network of
behavioral health providers, and improves the Department of Labor’s
(DOL) ability to enforce the law. In addition, the Budget includes $275
million over 10 years to increase the Department’s capacity to ensure
that large group market health plans and issuers comply with mental
health and substance use disorder requirements, and to take action
against plans and issuers that do not comply.

**Bolsters Mental Health Supports for All Students.** The mental health
of students, teachers, and school staff is essential to their overall
well-being and continued academic recovery, and continues to be a high
priority of the Administration, which has delivered an additional $2.1
billion to mental health programs for students since 2021. Research
shows that students who receive social, emotional, and mental and
behavioral supports have better outcomes, including faring better
academically. The Budget provides a combined total of $216 million for
mental health programs, including $200 million from the Bipartisan Safer
Communities Act (BSCA), a 900 percent increase in program funding since
2021. The funds will help to increase the number of school-based
counselors, psychologists, social workers, and other mental health
professionals in K-12 schools.

**Expands Access to Treatment for Substance Use Disorder and Invests in
Overdose Prevention. **The Administration has made historic advances in
expanding access to treatment for opioid use disorder, including signing
into law a bipartisan provision to expand the number of medical
providers who can initiate treatment for opioid use disorder from
129,000 to nearly 2 million. The Budget increases funding for the State
Opioid Response grant program, which has provided treatment services to
over 1.2 million people and enabled States to reverse more than 500,000
overdoses with over 9 million purchased overdose reversal medication
kits. The Budget also invests $713 million toward opioid use disorder
prevention and treatment programs for veterans, as well as funding for a
new technical assistance center to strengthen health providers’
understanding and treatment of women’s mental health and substance use.

***Advances Health Equity***

**Closes Research Gaps in Women’s Health.** The President and the First
Lady launched the first-ever White House Initiative on Women’s Health
Research, recognizing that women have been understudied and
underrepresented in health research for far too long. The Initiative is
working across Government to better integrate women’s health within the
Federal research portfolio and catalyze significant private and
philanthropic commitments to increase funding for women’s health
research. The Budget would also double existing funding for the Office
of Research on Women’s Health at the National Institutes of Health
(NIH). These additional funds will allow NIH to support new and existing
initiatives that emphasize women’s health research, such as research in
menopause, heart health, and brain health. The Administration proposes
to transform the way the Government funds women’s health research at
NIH, including by creating a new nationwide network of centers of
excellence and innovation in women’s health.

Supports Family Planning Services, Maternal Health, and Health Equity.
Americans deserve access to the healthcare they need, including maternal
healthcare, contraception, and family planning services, which are
essential to ensuring control over personal decisions about their own
health, lives, and families. The Budget includes $390 million, a 36
percent increase, for the Title X Family Planning program to increase
the number of patients served to 3.6 million. The Budget builds on
success securing a nearly 200 percent funding increase for key maternal
health programs across HHS over the course of the Administration by
including $376 million to support the ongoing implementation of the
White House Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis to
reduce maternal mortality and morbidity rates, and address the highest
rates of perinatal health disparities.

**Provides National, Comprehensive Paid Family and Medical Leave and
Calls for Paid Sick Days**. The vast majority of America’s workers do
not have access to employer-provided paid family leave, including 73
percent of private sector workers. Among the lowest-paid workers, who
are disproportionately women and people of color, 94 percent lack access
to paid family leave through their employers. The Budget proposes to
establish a national, comprehensive paid family and medical leave
program administered by the Social Security Administration to ensure
that all eligible workers can take up to 12 weeks to bond with a new
child, care for a seriously ill loved one, heal from their own serious
illness, address circumstances arising from a loved one’s military
deployment, find safety from domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking—otherwise known as safe leave, or up to three days
to grieve the death of a loved one. Further, the President continues to
call on the Congress to require employers to provide seven job-protected
paid sick days each year to all workers, and ensure that employers
cannot penalize workers for taking time off to address their health
needs, or the health needs of their families, or for safe leave.

**Guarantees Adequate and Stable Funding for the Indian Health Service
(IHS)**. The Administration is committed to upholding the United States’
trust and treaty responsibilities to Tribal Nations, including by
addressing the historic chronic underfunding of IHS and fighting for IHS
to be funded like the essential service that it is. The enactment of an
advance appropriation for 2024 for IHS was a historic and welcome step
toward the goal of eventually securing adequate and stable funding for
IHS. This funding will provide needed improvements in access to care and
the overall health status of American Indians and Alaska Natives. The
Administration continues to prioritize this fight for adequate and
stable funding at IHS by including in this Budget an $8 billion request
in discretionary resources in 2025, an almost 28-percent increase over
the 2021 enacted level. This funding would improve clinical services,
expand preventative health, support constructing or updating facilities,
cover contract support costs, and support Tribal leases. Beginning in
2026, the Budget proposes all resources as mandatory. Mandatory funding
would close longstanding service and facility shortfalls over time;
improve access to high-quality healthcare; and fund key Administration
priorities, such as the Biden Cancer Moonshot.

**Advances Rural Health**. With over 60 million Americans living in
rural areas, the Budget invests in direct primary care and mental
healthcare services, expanded infrastructure, and assistance for rural
hospitals to remain open and provide high-quality services in rural
communities.

***Honors Our Sacred Commitment to American Veterans and Their Health***

**Expands Healthcare, Benefits, and Services for Environmental
Exposures.** The PACT Act represented the most significant expansion of
VA healthcare and disability compensation benefits for veterans exposed
to military related environmental exposures, including burn pits and
Agent Orange, in 30 years. As part of the PACT Act, the Congress
authorized the Cost of War Toxic Exposures Fund (TEF) to fund increased
costs above 2021 funding levels for healthcare and benefits delivery for
veterans exposed to certain environmental hazards—and ensure there is
sufficient funding available to cover these costs without shortchanging
other elements of veteran medical care and benefits delivery. The Budget
continues this commitment and includes $24.5 billion for the TEF in
2025, through funds appropriated by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which
is $19.5 billion above the 2023 enacted level.

**Strengthens VA Medical Care.** The Budget provides a total of $112.6
billion in discretionary medical care funding in 2025, equal to the 2025
advance appropriation request. In addition, the Budget, through funds
appropriated by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, includes $21.5 billion in
the TEF for medical care, bringing the medical care total to $134.0
billion in 2025, an $11.5 billion increase over the 2023 enacted level.
In addition to fully funding inpatient, outpatient, mental health, and
long-term care services, the Budget supports programs that enhance VA
healthcare quality and delivery, including a $2.0 billion investment for
non-recurring maintenance to improve medical facility infrastructure,
and continued efforts to address the opioid and drug overdose epidemic.

**Prioritizes Veterans’ Mental Health Services and Suicide Prevention
for Military Servicemembers and Veterans.** The Budget invests $135
million within VA research programs, together with $17.1 billion within
the VA Medical Care program, to increase access to quality mental
healthcare, with the goal of helping veterans take charge of their
treatment and live full, meaningful lives. In addition, the Budget
provides funding to further advance the Administration’s veteran suicide
prevention initiatives and to support the Department of Defense’s
efforts on Suicide Prevention and Response.

**Supports Women Veterans’ Healthcare.** The Budget invests $13.7
billion for women veterans’ healthcare, including $1.1 billion toward
women’s gender-specific care. More women are choosing VA healthcare than
ever before, with women accounting for over 30 percent of the increase
in enrolled veterans over the past five years. Investments support
comprehensive specialty medical and surgical services for women
veterans, improve maternal health outcomes, increase access to
infertility counseling and assisted reproductive technology, and
eliminate copayments for contraceptive coverage. The Budget also
improves the safety of women veterans seeking healthcare at VA
facilities by supporting implementation of the zero-tolerance policy for
sexual harassment and assault.

***Protects and Strengthens Public Health and Health Infrastructure***

**Advances Progress toward Biden Cancer Moonshot Goals.** The President
and First Lady reignited the Biden Cancer Moonshot to mobilize a
national effort to end cancer as we know it—spurring tremendous action
across the Federal Government and from the public and private sectors,
securing billions in new funding for the Advanced Research Projects
Agency for Health (ARPA-H) to support transformative research, and
building a strong foundation for the work ahead. The Budget makes
significant investments to work toward the President and First Lady’s
signature Cancer Moonshot goal of reducing the cancer death rate by at
least 50 percent over the next 25 years and improving the experience of
people who are living with or who have survived cancer. These
investments include an increase of more than $2 billion across the
National Cancer Institute, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), cancer projects at
ARPA-H, and mandatory funds for the Indian Health Service beginning in
2026.

**Enhances Biodefense and Public Health Infrastructure.** Over the past
three years, substantial progress has been made toward developing and
implementing transformational capabilities to increase the Nation’s
ability to respond to and prepare for emerging health threats. Building
upon this progress, the Budget invests $9.8 billion in discretionary and
Prevention and Public Health Fund funding, an increase of $499 million
over the 2023 enacted level, to bolster public health capacity that will
enable the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to better serve
and protect the American public. In addition, the Budget includes $20
billion in mandatory funding for HHS public health agencies in support
of the Administration’s biodefense priorities as outlined in the 2022
National Biodefense Strategy and Implementation Plan for Countering
Biological Threats, Enhancing Pandemic Preparedness, and Achieving
Global Health Security.

**Invests in the Treatment and Prevention of Infectious Diseases.** The
Budget invests in the treatment and prevention of infectious diseases,
including Hepatitis C, HIV, and vaccine-preventable diseases, like HPV
which causes some cancers. The Budget proposes a national program to
significantly expand screening, testing, treatment, prevention, and
monitoring of Hepatitis C infections in the United States, with a
specific focus on populations with high infection levels. To help end
the HIV epidemic, the Budget eliminates barriers to accessing PrEP for
Medicaid beneficiaries and proposes a new mandatory program to guarantee
PrEP at no cost for all uninsured and underinsured individuals and
provide essential wrap-around services. In addition, the Budget proposes
a new Vaccines for Adults program to provide uninsured adults with
access to routine and outbreak vaccines at no cost. The Budget also
expands the Vaccines for Children program to include all children under
age 19 enrolled in CHIP and covers the vaccine administration fee for
all VFC-eligible uninsured children.

**Strengthens Health Systems Globally.** The Budget provides nearly $10
billion for Global Health Programs through the Department of State and
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), which will
increase support for global health programs, strengthening health
systems, and pandemic preparedness. The Budget fulfills the President’s
commitment to the Seventh Replenishment of the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria by providing $1.2 billion to match $1
for every $2 contributed by other donors. The Budget also provides more
than $900 million for global health security, including $250 million for
the Pandemic Fund. The Budget invests $30 million in new resources for
the World Bank’s Global Financing Facility for Women, Children, and
Adolescents, a contribution anticipated to leverage at least $210
million to strengthen health systems, and $20 million for the
Administration’s Global Health Worker Initiative to better train, equip,
and protect the health workforce. The Budget also provides $594 million,
an increase of $37 million above 2023 levels, for USAID-directed
high-impact and lifesaving voluntary family planning and reproductive
health programs and America’s voluntary contribution to the United
Nations Population Fund. Additionally, the Budget includes loan
guarantees to the World Bank’s International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to support investments in global challenges, including
pandemic preparedness, which will bolster the impact of these global
health activities.  
  
**Accelerates Innovation through ARPA-H.** The Budget provides $1.5
billion for ARPA-H to supercharge high-impact research and development
to improve American health outcomes and deliver health breakthroughs.
ARPA-H, an agency created under the Biden-Harris Administration,
conducts health research that cannot be readily accomplished through
traditional research or commercial activity.

\###
