---
date: '2024-03-25'
published_time: 2024-03-25 16:53:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/25/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-meeting-with-president-arevalo-of-guatemala/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Meeting with President Ar\xE9valo\
  \ of\_Guatemala"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris met with President Bernardo Arévalo of
Guatemala today to strengthen the U.S.-Guatemala bilateral relationship
and make progress on addressing the root causes of migration. They
discussed the importance of good governance, economic opportunity,
security, and migration management and how the United States can work
with Guatemala to support these goals. 

The Vice President expressed support for President Arévalo’s efforts to
combat corruption in Guatemala and reaffirmed the U.S. commitment to
good governance and the rule of law. The Vice President underscored the
Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to hold corrupt actors accountable
in Guatemala and to support Guatemala’s efforts to strengthen democratic
institutions by involving more stakeholders, including representatives
of indigenous communities. The Vice President also commended Guatemala’s
support for other democracies around the world.

On migration, the two leaders discussed the importance of creating
conditions for safe and orderly migration in the region, including by
providing lawful pathways to migrants, increasing cooperation on border
enforcement, and through U.S. support for Guatemala’s migration
management efforts.

The Vice President and President Arévalo agreed on the urgent need to
address the drivers of irregular migration from northern Central America
and to continue cooperation under the Biden-Harris Administration’s Root
Causes Strategy. The Vice President discussed progress made under her
leadership of the Root Causes Strategy, including civilian security,
good governance, human rights and labor protections, gender-based
violence, and economic opportunity. Both leaders also discussed
commitments made through Central America Forward, the public-private
partnership that was created in response to the Vice President’s Call to
Action in May 2021 and which has mobilized more than $5.2 billion in
private sector commitments for northern Central America. 

\# \# \#
