---
date: '2024-03-25'
published_time: 2024-03-25 19:37:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/25/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-roundtable-with-central-america-forward-stakeholders/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Roundtable with Central America Forward\_\
  Stakeholders"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris convened Central America Forward (CAF)
stakeholders today at the White House. CAF is a public-private
partnership created in response to the Vice President’s 2021 Call to
Action to the private sector to deepen investment in northern Central
America. CAF is expanding economic opportunity and promoting good
governance in northern Central America, which helps reduce irregular
migration.

The Vice President announced that CAF has now generated more than [$5.2
billion in private sector
commitments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/25/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-public-private-partnership-has-generated-more-than-5-2-billion-in-private-sector-commitments-for-northern-central-america/) for
El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, including $1 billion of new
commitments announced today. These private sector investments have
already created more than 70,000 jobs in the region, provided skills
training for more than 1 million people, brought more than 2.5 million
people into the formal financial economy, and connected more than 4.5
million people to the internet.

The Vice President convened leaders from government, the private sector,
and civil society to discuss next steps for CAF. Vice President Harris
was also joined by special guest President Bernardo Arévalo of
Guatemala, marking the first time a foreign head of state has joined one
of these convenings. She thanked partners for their ongoing support and
underscored that, while this a long-term development effort, we are
making progress and giving people hope and economic opportunity. The
Vice President discussed the need to continue to advance good governance
efforts, create good paying jobs, reduce violence, empower women, and
promote labor rights.  

\# \# \#
