---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-10 18:06:25-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-confronts-global-challenges-and-defends-democracy/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Confronts Global Challenges and Defends\_\
  Democracy"
---
 
Since President Biden took office, he has restored U.S. leadership on
the world stage and protected democracy around the world. In the wake of
Putin’s brutal invasion and illegal war against Ukraine, he has rallied
the world to support Ukraine’s defense and stand up against tyranny. The
President continues to fight for critical support for Ukraine in the
face of continued Russian aggression while enhancing the collective
capabilities and readiness of the United States, our allies, and
partners. He has strengthened alliances across the globe, and bolstered
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Alliance, which is now
larger and more united than it has ever been.

After Hamas’s horrific terrorist attacks against Israel, the President
has led the United States to support Israel’s right to defend its
country and protect its people in a way that upholds international
humanitarian law, while ensuring the Palestinian people have access to
vital humanitarian aid and lifesaving assistance. He continues to press
for congressional support to provide the necessary security assistance
to Israel and to extend humanitarian assistance to civilians impacted by
conflict in the region, while working toward a future where Palestinians
have a state of their own and Israel’s security is assured.

Under the President’s leadership, the Administration continues to focus
on the Nation’s strategic competition with the People’s Republic of
China (PRC)—and promoting American competitiveness worldwide. The
President has advocated for congressional support to invest in the
American defense industrial base to ensure military readiness, while
also creating American jobs.

In addition to reiterating the urgent need to pass a national security
supplemental in this current fiscal year, the FY 2025 Budget builds upon
this progress with proposals to continue to revitalize U.S. alliances
and partnerships, confront global threats and strengthening America’s
military, advance U.S. national security to out-compete China and
counter Russian aggression, and address pressing global challenges.
**The President’s Budget:**

***Confronts Threats to Global Security and Strengthens America’s
Military***

**Supports Ukraine, European Allies, and Partners.** The Budget sustains
critical support for Ukraine, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) allies, and other European partner states by prioritizing funding
to enhance the capabilities and readiness of U.S., allied, and partner
forces in the face of continued Russian aggression. The Budget includes
a new capital increase to the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to maintain support to Ukraine and deliver on multilateral
development bank evolution reforms.

**Reiterates the Administration’s Request for Immediate Funding for
Urgent National Security Priorities Related to Ukraine, Israel, and the
Indo-Pacific**. In October 2023, the Administration transmitted an
[emergency supplemental
request](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/10/20/letter-regarding-critical-national-security-funding-needs-for-fy-2024/)
totaling $92 billion to Congress for urgent national security needs.
This request included funding to support Ukraine as it continues to
defend itself against Russian aggression, Israel’s defense against
terrorism, the Indo-Pacific’s regional security, life-saving
humanitarian assistance, including for the Palestinian people, and other
national security priorities. The request would also make significant
and much needed investments in the American defense industrial base
(DIB), benefitting U.S. military readiness and helping to create and
sustain jobs in dozens of states across America. Absent congressional
action on this emergency request, the United States will not be able to
continue to provide support to Ukraine to meet their battlefield needs
as they defend against Russian attacks every day, provide urgently
needed military support to allies and partners, make critical DIB
investments, or sustain life-saving assistance and development in some
of the world’s most vulnerable areas. The Administration appreciates the
bipartisan supplemental legislation that passed the Senate, which would
address these urgent needs and advance our own national security.

**Ensures Readiness Across America’s Armed Forces.** The Budget
continues to ensure that U.S. Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, Coast
Guardsmen, and Guardians remain the best trained and equipped fighting
forces in the world. The Budget places additional emphasis on
foundational investments to sustain current weapon systems and support
increased training across the Department of Defense while pursuing
technological enhancements to extend the service life of material vital
to the warfighter. The Budget also fulfills America’s commitment to
military families by providing a robust 4.5 percent pay raise for
servicemembers, increasing access to high-quality childcare for military
families and employment opportunities for military spouses, and focusing
on suicide and sexual assault prevention and response efforts. 

**Invests in the Submarine Industrial Base**. The Department of Defense
(DOD) conducted the 2025 Submarine Industrial Base (SIB) study to
determine how to complete the once-in-a-generation recapitalization of
the Submarine Force needed to increase the United States’ ability to
build and sustain attack submarines to meet U.S. military requirements.
These investments will also support the Administration’s commitments
under AUKUS, the first major deliverable of which was the historic
decision to support Australia acquiring conventionally-armed,
nuclear-powered submarines.

**Underpins Commitments to Nuclear Deterrence, Nonproliferation, and
Arms Control.** Nuclear deterrence remains a top priority for the Nation
and foundational to integrated deterrence. A safe, secure, and effective
nuclear force deters strategic attacks and assures allies and partners.
To ensure our nuclear deterrent remains responsive to all threats, DOD
and the Department of Energy (DOE) continue to modernize the nuclear
Triad, nuclear command, control, and communications, and nuclear weapons
infrastructure, while strengthening extended deterrence commitments to
our allies. The Budget also supports the President’s commitment to
reduce nuclear risks and strengthen the global non-proliferation regime
by simultaneously pursuing realistic goals for mutual, verifiable arms
control and efforts to protect against the existential threats posed by
weapons of mass destruction (WMD) terrorism.

**Addresses Emerging Cyber Threats.** The Budget expands the Department
of Justice’s (DOJ) ability to pursue cyber threats through investments
in FBI’s cyber and counterintelligence investigative capabilities. These
investments sustain the FBI’s cyber, counterintelligence, and analysis
capabilities and include an additional $25 million to enhance these
capabilities. The Budget also includes $5 million to establish a new
section within the DOJ’s National Security Division to focus on cyber
threats. The Budget also makes the U.S. cyber space more secure and
resilient by providing funding to the Department of Homeland Security’s
(DHS) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) to deploy
Federal network tools, such as endpoint detection and response, and
enhance critical infrastructure security coordination and cyber event
reporting. These investments are in line with the National Cybersecurity
Strategy that emphasizes a whole-of-Nation approach to addressing
ongoing cyber threats. The Budget also provides funding for DOJ, DHS,
and other agencies to support implementation of the President’s
Executive Order on Artificial Intelligence.

**Combats Terrorism and Corruption.** The Department of Treasury plays a
leading role in monitoring and disrupting corruption, money laundering,
terrorist financing, and the use of the financial system by malicious
actors domestically and abroad. The Budget provides $231 million to the
Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, $15 million above the
2023 level, to expand Treasury’s capacity to provide financial
intelligence and conduct sanctions-related economic analysis while
continuing to modernize the sanctions process. These investments would
expand Treasury’s ability to craft, implement, and enforce sanctions,
including the historic sanctions program targeting Russia’s illegal war
in Ukraine, and sanctions on key Hamas terrorist group members and
financial facilitators in Gaza.

***Outcompetes China on the World Stage***

**Drives Inclusive and Sustainable Economic Growth and Quality
International Infrastructure through the Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment (PGI).** The Budget advances the
President’s goal of mobilizing $200 billion for infrastructure
investment in low- and middle-income countries by 2027, building on the
more than $30 billion in financing already mobilized by this
Administration. PGI aims to promote infrastructure development along
critical economic corridors to drive inclusive and sustainable economic
growth, secure energy supply chains, fortify trusted digital
connectivity, build more resilient food and health systems, as well as
critical transport and logistics networks, while advancing gender
equality and equity. The FY 2025 Budget includes approximately $50
billion for PGI across all departments and agencies, inclusive of
private sector financing leveraged, including $250 million in flexible
resources to support strategic, high-quality infrastructure to connect
workers to good jobs, allow businesses to grow and thrive, and advance
our shared national security priorities. To further PGI goals, the
Budget includes $2 billion in mandatory funding over five years to
establish the International Infrastructure Fund to combat People’s
Republic of China (PRC) coercive financing.

**Promotes Integrated Deterrence in the Indo-Pacific and Globally**. To
sustain and strengthen deterrence, the Budget prioritizes China as
America’s pacing challenge in line with the 2022 National Defense
Strategy. DOD’s 2025 Pacific Deterrence Initiative highlights some of
the key investments the Federal Government is making, focuses on
strengthening deterrence in the region, and demonstrates the
Administration’s long-term commitment to the Indo-Pacific. DOD is
building the concepts, capabilities, and posture necessary to meet these
challenges, working to integrate deterrence efforts across the U.S.
Government and with U.S. allies and partners.

**Secures American Presence and Commitment in the Indo-Pacific.** The
Budget provides over $4 billion to realize a more free, open, secure,
and connected Indo-Pacific that bolsters U.S. alliances and
partnerships. This includes $2.1 billion in bilateral and regional
foreign assistance, including $100 million for a standalone request for
Taiwan military assistance, and $20 million for the Indo-Pacific
Economic Framework (IPEF). The Budget includes over $62 million in
support of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN),
demonstrating our continued commitment to ASEAN centrality. The
Indo-Pacific Strategy total also includes $2 billion to support
diplomatic presence and programs in the region, including new and
planned U.S. diplomatic posts in the Pacific and Indian oceans. The
Budget reflects $7.1 billion in mandatory funding for the renewal of our
Compact of Free Association (COFA) relationships with the Federated
States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the
Republic of Palau. The Budget reflects a substantial commitment to the
Indo-Pacific and reiterates the need for the $2 billion investment that
the Administration requested in the [October 2023 National Security
Supplemental
Request](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/10/20/letter-regarding-critical-national-security-funding-needs-for-fy-2024/)
in security assistance to fully address urgent regional security needs
and deter acts of aggression.

***Addresses Pressing Global Challenges and Doubles Down on America’s
Global Climate Leadership***

**Strengthens Health Systems Globally.** The Budget provides nearly $10
billion for Global Health Programs, which will increase support for
global health programs, strengthening health systems and pandemic
preparedness. The Budget fulfills the President’s commitment to the
Seventh Replenishment of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis,
and Malaria by providing $1.2 billion to match $1 for every $2
contributed by other donors. The Budget also provides more than $900
million for global health security, including $250 million for the
Pandemic Fund. The Budget invests $30 million in new resources for the
World Bank’s Global Financing Facility for Women, Children, and
Adolescents, a contribution anticipated to leverage at least $210
million to strengthen health systems, and $20 million for the
Administration’s Global Health Worker Initiative to better train, equip,
and protect the health workforce.

**Provides Life-Saving Humanitarian Assistance and Combats Global Food
Insecurity.** The Budget provides $10.3 billion in life-saving
humanitarian and refugee assistance to support more than 330 million
people in need in more than 70 countries in addition to the emergency
supplemental request of $10 billion to address unprecedented global
humanitarian needs, including the dire humanitarian situation
Palestinians are experiencing in Gaza. The Budget also fully supports
the President’s commitment to resettle up to 125,000 refugees in the
U.S, as well as the Enduring Welcome and Safe Mobility Office
initiatives. The Budget also provides more than $1 billion to support
the President’s pledge to alleviate global food insecurity, including
$100 million for the Vision for Adapted Crops and Soils (VACS), as part
of the overall U.S. Government’s flagship food security initiative, Feed
the Future, which works to build more resilient and sustainable food
systems and nutritious food crops in underserved regions**.** State and
USAID will have to reduce life-saving assistance around the globe
without the additional $10 billion in humanitarian assistance requested
in the Administration’s October 2023 National Security Supplemental
Request.

**Bolsters Sustainable, Inclusive, and Democratic Global Development.**
The Budget supports the President’s goal to strengthen American
development efforts through local expertise and by deploying a more
expansive set of development tools. The Budget provides over $3 billion
for bolstering global democracy, including $345 million for the
President’s Initiative for Democratic Renewal to foster transparent and
accountable governance. The Budget allocates more than $3 billion to
advance gender equity and equality worldwide, including $200 million for
the Gender Equity and Equality Action Fund. The Budget also includes
$110 million in support of Internet freedom, including $50 million for
the U.S. Agency for Global Media Open Technology Fund. The Budget
provides $594 million, an increase of $37 million from 2023 levels, for
high-impact and lifesaving voluntary family planning and reproductive
health programs and America’s voluntary contribution to the United
Nations Population Fund. The Budget continues America’s commitment to
contributions for the United Nations.

**Fulfills the President’s Commitment to Central America and Strengthens
America’s Partnership in the Western Hemisphere.** The Budget provides
approximately $1 billion for Central American programming to meet the
President’s commitment to invest $4 billion in Central America over four
years to address the root causes of migration. The Budget also supports
hemispheric programs to advance economic prosperity and regional
security through key initiatives such as the America’s Partnership for
Economic Prosperity, including $75 million for a capital increase to the
Inter-American Development Bank’s (IDB Invest) to advance clean energy
projects, modernize agriculture, strengthen transportation systems, and
expand access to financing. The Budget further reserves $35 million in
additional targeted funding for regional migration management, including
$25 million for the IDB’s Migration Grant Facility to support
integration efforts for migrants and host communities and address the
root causes of irregular migration.

**Achieves the Administration’s Historic Climate Finance Pledge.** The
Budget provides a path to achieving the President’s $11 billion
commitment for international climate finance, including $3 billion for
the *President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation and Resilience*
(PREPARE). A signature initiative, PREPARE supports more than half a
billion people in developing countries to adapt to and manage the
impacts of climate change. In 2023, PREPARE brought 21 new companies and
partners on board, with commitments to accelerate adaptation action in
vulnerable developing countries that have mobilized more than $2
billion. The Budget also supports a $500 million FY 2025 contribution
through mandatory funding to finance the Green Climate Fund (GCF), as
part of the $3 billion multi-year pledge to expand climate adaptation
and mitigation projects in developing countries, and $100 million for
the Amazon Fund to combat deforestation and preserve the world’s largest
tropical rainforest.

\###
