---
date: '2024-03-22'
modified_time: 2024-03-21 22:41:23-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-22 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/22/fact-sheet-during-visit-vice-president-kamala-harris-to-highlight-biden-harris-administrations-historic-investments-and-partnerships-that-have-helped-lead-to-puerto-ricos-economic/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: During Visit, Vice President Kamala\_Harris to Highlight Biden-\u2060\
  Harris Administration\u2019s Historic Investments and Partnerships That Have Helped\
  \ Lead to Puerto Rico\u2019s Economic\_Comeback"
---
 
*Jobs and People are Returning to Puerto Rico Thanks to Over $140
billion in Federal Obligations Since President Biden and Vice President
Harris Took Office*

Today, during the Vice President’s visit to Puerto Rico, she will
emphasize the Biden-Harris Administration’s ongoing commitment to
supporting the island’s recovery and renewal. Vice President Harris will
highlight how Puerto Rico’s economic turnaround has begun thanks to more
than $140 billion in Federal obligations for the island supported by
unprecedented whole-of-government partnerships through the Puerto Rico
Economic Dialogue.\[1\]

Since President Biden and Vice President Harris took office, Puerto Rico
has added more than 100,000 new jobs. \[2\] This includes construction
employment, which is up by close to 30 percent. \[3\] Unemployment is
now at a historic low of under six percent, \[4\] and labor force
participation is growing to the highest level in more than a decade.
\[5\] And in 2023, Puerto Rico had its first year of positive net
migration since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. \[6\]

The beginning of Puerto Rico’s economic turnaround has come as the
Biden-Harris Administration launched the Puerto Rico Economic Dialogue
in December 2022, an unprecedented whole of [government approach across
17
Departments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/20/readout-of-the-first-meeting-of-the-white-house-working-group-on-puerto-rico/) that
was organized in close collaboration with the Government of Puerto Rico.
It is being led by Commerce’s Deputy Secretary Graves, the Puerto Rico
Economic Recovery Coordinator. President Biden and Vice President Harris
have long been reliable champions for Puerto Rico as they have fought
for the health, wellbeing, and economic success of those who call the
island home.

**Infrastructure Investments are Creating Jobs and Rebuilding
Communities in Puerto Rico**

Construction employment has one of the fastest growth rates of any
sector of the Puerto Rico economy – with 7,800 more jobs since January
2021.

Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) officials have collaborated with
Puerto Rico government officials to facilitate an efficient deployment
of reconstruction funds. FEMA adopted a new island-wide method (the
Island-Wide Benefit Cost Analysis) to provide a holistic approach to
accelerate the completion of Hurricane Maria related resilience
projects. 

As of March 2024, Puerto Rico’s Central Office for Recovery,
Reconstruction, and Resiliency (COR3) reports that there are 2,725
projects with FEMA funding currently in the construction phase totaling
$1.39 billion in project costs. Another 1,769 projects with a total
projected cost of $814.3 million are in the procurement pipeline for
construction. \[7\]

  
These investments are starting to rebuild communities.

-   In San Juan, at Mirador Las Casas, new construction on the 294-unit
    apartment complex started in April 2023 and is funded by an
    investment of $96.2 million from a combination of permanent
    tax-exempt bonds, 4% Federal Low-Income Housing Tax Credits
    generating $26 million in equity and deferred developer fees, plus
    $66.9 million from HUD’s Community Development Block Grant-Disaster
    Recovery (CDBG-DR) program.  
     
-   In Carolina, CDBG-DR funds are being used for the renovation and
    remodeling of Sánchez Osorio and Galicia avenues.  The $43.4 million
    project will include improvements to the existing storm water system
    and replacing the lighting system.  The project which launched in
    January 2023 is creating 520 direct jobs according to the Department
    of Housing and Urban Development.  
-   When Hurricane Maria hit in 2017, Cataño lost more than 600 of its
    homes.  With a $44.1 million investment – including $29.2 million in
    CDBG-DR funds – the Bahia Apartments are rising in Cataño.  The new
    apartments will provide more than 100 new affordable housing units
    in the municipio of just over 20,000 residents.  
     
-   Under the CDBG-DR funded R3 Program, Puerto Rico’s Department of
    Housing is providing assistance to eligible homeowners to repair
    damaged homes or rebuild substantially damaged homes in
    non-hazardous areas. Priority is provided to “blue roof” homes,
    elderly applicants, disabled applicants and low to moderate income
    applicants.  As of March 2024, more than 6,100 homes have been
    repaired or reconstructed.

Under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) and the Inflation
Reduction Act (IRA) that Vice President Harris helped make possible with
her tie-breaking vote in the Senate, more than $2.1 billion in projects
have been announced. This includes $754.3 million in announced
transportation projects.\[8\]  With support from the U.S. Department of
Transportation, the Puerto Rico Highway and Transportation Authority is
managing the expansion of Rafael Hernández International Airport and the
PR-10 and PR-2 highways.  Puerto Rico’s Department of Transportation
will receive $51.4 million to install fast EV charging ports at 10
locations along a major roadway designated as an Alternative Fuel
Corridor. All charging stations will be within one mile of highway exits
and less than 30 miles from each other.  

The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers continues to award and implement key
construction contracts for four major projects:

-   [San Juan Harbor
    Improvements](https://www.saj.usace.army.mil/Missions/Civil-Works/Navigation/Navigation-Projects/San-Juan-Harbor/) includes
    the widening and deepening of the inner San Juan Harbor channels to
    improve efficiency of cruise ships, container vessels, and petroleum
    tanker operations. This project also federalized an additional
    1000-ft of the San Antonio channel making it more competitive for
    Oasis class cruise ships. Overall, this project sustains vital
    tourism, strengthens supply chains, and increases energy resilience
    on the island.  
     
-   [Caño Martin Peña Ecosystem Restoration
    Project](https://www.saj.usace.army.mil/Media/News-Stories/Article/3286560/usace-holds-groundbreaking-ceremony-for-cao-martn-peas-ecosystem-restoration-pr/) will
    re-establish the tidal connection between the San Jose Lagoon and
    San Juan Bay. The restoration project is critical for the
    revitalization of eight impoverished communities with a population
    of over 26,000 residents settled along the Martín Peña tidal
    channel.  
     
-   [Rio Puerto Nuevo Flood Control
    Project](https://www.saj.usace.army.mil/About/Divisions-Offices/Antilles-Office/Rio-Puerto-Nuevo/) will
    reduce the impact of flooding to over 150,000 residents and
    businesses in the metropolitan San Juan basin.  
     
-   [Rio de La Plata Flood Control
    Project](https://www.saj.usace.army.mil/RiodeLaPlata/) will provide
    flood reduction benefits to the municipalities of Dorado and Toa
    Baja.

**Clean Energy, Broadband and Resilience Investments Position Puerto
Rico for Sustainable Growth**

-   Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Granholm has traveled to Puerto
    Rico to convene stakeholders in support of Puerto Rico’s energy grid
    modernization; established an interagency Puerto Rico Grid Recovery
    and Modernization Team to accelerate the rebuilding of and upgrades
    to the island’s electrical infrastructure; and commissioned a 2-year
    study
    ([PR-100](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/puerto-rico-grid-resilience-and-transitions-100-renewable-energy-study-pr100))
    – funded by FEMA – analyzing stakeholder driven pathways to Puerto
    Rico’s clean energy future.   
     
-   In December 2022, President Biden signed the FY 2023 Consolidated
    Appropriations Act into law, which included $1 billion for the
    establishment of the [Puerto Rico Energy Resilience Fund
    (“PR-ERF”)](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/puerto-rico-energy-resilience-fund) to
    drive key investments in renewable and resilient energy
    infrastructure in Puerto Rico.  In November 2023, companies and
    non-profits were selected by DOE to negotiate awards of up to [$440
    million](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-announces-440-million-install-rooftop-solar-and-batteries-puerto-ricos-most-vulnerable) of
    the PR-ERF for the installation of solar systems in low-income
    houses across the island.   
     
-   In April 2023, DOE’s Loan Programs
    Office [announced](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/articles/loan-programs-office-offers-first-conditional-commitment-virtual-power-plant-sunnovas) a
    conditional commitment to a private operator to make distributed
    energy resources including rooftop solar, battery storage, and
    virtual power plant-ready software available to more American
    homeowners.  The project is expected to prioritize providing up to
    20% of installed systems through its loans to homeowners in Puerto
    Rico.  
     
-   With Inflation Reduction Act funds, the Department of Agriculture
    (USDA) has helped small businesses and farmers to obtain renewable
    energy systems and energy-efficient equipment, which enable them to
    have power consistently and at lower costs.

<!-- -->

-   Close to $1 billion in funding from [National Telecommunication and
    Information Administration’s BEAD
    Program](https://broadbandusa.ntia.doc.gov/), [The American Rescue
    Plan (ARP) ’s Capital Projects
    Fund](http://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1713), and the
    Federal Communications Commission’s Uniendo a Puerto Rico Fund will
    support the [Smart Island
    program](http://www.smartisland.pr.gov/) vision of building a new
    submarine cable to ensure network resilience and enabling programs
    that create equitable access to the Internet, including rural
    communities. Under the Smart Island program, the goal is to provide
    connectivity for all residential, commercial and government
    structures in Puerto Rico, so that every resident of the island has
    access to high speed Internet through the right infrastructure.  
     
-   The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) invested [$1.6 million
    across four municipalities in Puerto
    Rico](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-award-over-16-million-address-contaminated-sites-puerto-rico) (Aguas
    Buenas, Aibonito, Corozal, and Las Piedras) under the Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law to support brownfield cleanup, the first step in
    redeveloping land to support climate change mitigation and
    leveraging the land for projects such as solar farms.  
     
-   The Federal Transit Administration has awarded a total of $471
    million in American Rescue Plan – which the Vice President helped
    make possible by casting the tie-breaking vote to advance the
    legislation in the Senate – and BIL funding to Puerto Rico since FY
    2021 to support cleaner buses, train and ferry service. An
    additional $20 million has been awarded for the purchase of low and
    no emission buses.  
     
-   The Commerce Department’s National Oceanic and Atmospheric
    Administration (NOAA) [recommended $34.4 million in funding across
    eight
    projects](https://www.noaa.gov/news-release/noaa-bil-investments-2023-puerto-rico) partnering
    with non-government organizations s in Puerto Rico to mitigate the
    effects of extreme weather events, support coastal and marine
    research, improve safety in the marine and coastal environment, and
    ensure sustainable fisheries.

**Workforce Investments Ensure Puerto Rico’s Long-Term Competitiveness**

-   Through the American Rescue Plan’s Good Jobs Challenge, [the
    Economic Development Administration (EDA) invested $6.7 million in a
    partnership with UnidosUS and Puerto Rico’s One Stop Career
    Center ](https://www.eda.gov/news/press-release/2022/08/03/us-department-commerce-invests-114-million-develop-workforce-training) aimed
    at creating workforce development programs in the construction and
    aerospace industries. This innovative project was competitively
    selected as one of 32 winners out of more than 500 applicants.  
     
-   As of the end of 2023, the U.S. Department of Labor, in coordination
    with the Puerto Rico Department of Economic Development and
    Commerce, has introduced 24 new registered apprenticeship programs,
    and registered approximately 770 new apprentices, providing
    practical training and skills for workers.  
     
-   To help meet Puerto Rico’s need for a workforce to support
    reconstruction, the Government of Puerto Rico has discretion to use
    up to $225 million in BIL funds for workforce development. BIL
    provides that activities related to workforce development are funded
    at 100% federal share. Recent Federal Highway Administration
    guidance clarifies which federal-aid formula funds can be used by
    state departments of transportation and U.S. territories to support
    workforce development

<!-- -->

-   In a joint effort between Education Secretary Cardona and Governor
    Pierluisi, [the decentralization of the Puerto Rico Department of
    Education](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/us-department-education-supports-government-puerto-ricos-move-decentralize-puerto-rico-department-education) has
    begun. This significant transformation aims to make schools more
    responsive to the needs of school communities, potentially impacting
    workforce development by aligning education more closely with labor
    market requirements.  The first three decentralization pilot zones
    will take effect later in 2024.  
     
-   The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services established an MOU
    in March 2023 between the University of Puerto Rico and the PR
    Department of the Family, providing $12.5 million of Title IV-E
    funding for 5 years in support of hiring and training social
    workers, implementing retention strategies and mitigating
    high-caseloads. The first cohort of social work students began their
    studies in August 2023.

**Economic Development Investments Promote Innovation and
Entrepreneurship**

-   EDA [designated the PRBio Tech
    Hub](https://www.eda.gov/news/press-release/2023/10/23/PRBio-Tech-Hub) as
    one of 31 inaugural Tech Hubs in the U.S., a consortium led by the
    Puerto Rico Science and Technology and Research Trust that will
    advance the region as a global leader in biotechnology.    
     
-   The Department of Defense (DoD), in collaboration with the
    Government of Puerto Rico, invested close to [$4 million to launch a
    LIFT](https://www.dodmantech.mil/News/News-Display/Article/3284058/lift-manufacturing-innovation-institute-will-open-satellite-facility-in-puerto/) satellite
    facility to enhance advanced manufacturing technology and talent
    development opportunities. LIFT is the DoD Manufacturing Innovation
    Institute (MII) for Advanced Materials, one of nine DoD MIIs and one
    of 17 national MIIs under the Manufacturing USA network.  In
    addition, the Navy announced an [additional $1 million DoD
    investment](https://www.navy.mil/Press-Office/Press-Releases/display-pressreleases/Article/3670029/secretary-del-toro-meets-with-government-small-business-leaders-in-puerto-rico/) in
    LIFT Puerto Rico for manufacturing ecosystem development.  
     
-   DoD continues to provide funding and assistance to renovate the
    infrastructure of [Roosevelt
    Roads](https://www.rooseveltroads.pr.gov/) and lay the ground work
    for space commerce, tourism, and commercial marine operations.  
     
-   The [American Rescue Plan’s State Small Business Credit Initiative
    is investing up to $109
    million](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1259) so
    that the PR Economic Development Bank can provide capital to small
    businesses such as [Biosimilar who acquired specialized equipment to
    strengthen its production
    capacity](https://newsismybusiness.com/bde-provides-3-8m-in-financing-to-biosimilar-ocyonbio-for-expansion/) while
    contributing to the pharmaceutical industry in Puerto Rico.  
    Additionally, the [University of Sagrado Corazon received a Capital
    Readiness
    grant](https://newsismybusiness.com/sacred-heart-university-receives-1-8m-grant-to-boost-entrepreneurship/) from
    Commerce’s Minority Business Development Agency to prepare
    entrepreneurs to launch and scale businesses. The Small Business
    Administration conducted over 200 small business-focused events
    during 2023 and according to the Government of Puerto Rico, the
    Federal government granted over $500 million in contracts to Puerto
    Rico businesses in 2023.  
     
-   USDA established the [Rural Partners
    Network](https://www.rural.gov/community-networks/pr) to help
    communities navigate and access federal resources, while supporting
    long-term economic stability on their own terms with initiatives in
    sustainable energy, entrepreneurship, housing and healthcare, among
    others. The network supports communities in
    the [central](https://www.rural.gov/community-networks/pr/central-mountain-region), [eastern](https://www.rural.gov/community-networks/pr/eastern-region-community-network) and [southwest](https://www.rural.gov/community-networks/pr/southwest) regions
    of the island.

**Investments Continue to Support Puerto Rico Families and Children and
Reduce Poverty**

-   President Biden and Vice President Harris have spent their careers
    fighting for the wellbeing of children and families. To support
    Puerto Rico’s families, the American Rescue Plan (ARP) broadened tax
    benefits at an historic scale by expanding the Child Tax Credit
    (CTC) in Puerto Rico to all families with at least one child,
    permanently bringing CTC benefits into parity with the mainland. As
    a result, 225,00 families in Puerto Rico are now eligible for the
    credit—as opposed to just 20,000 families in 2019. A historic
    expansion in the American Rescue Plan and strong working partnership
    between the White House, the Government of Puerto Rico and countless
    community-based organizations also ensured that Puerto Rican
    families saw significant benefits from ARP’s expansion of the CTC in
    2021, dramatically cutting child poverty. The average annual benefit
    was $4,700 per family in 2021, with more than $1.2 billion disbursed
    to families in Puerto Rico for 2021. The American Rescue Plan’s
    changes to the CTC for Puerto Rico will continue to cut child
    poverty in Puerto Rico – and ensure a fairer tax system – for years
    to come.  
     
-   ARP also made historic investments in the Earned Income Tax Credit
    for Puerto Rico workers. It provided substantial funding to expand
    Puerto Rico’s version of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). This
    investment will quadruple the EITC for Puerto Rican workers and
    narrow longstanding disparities in access to the EITC between Puerto
    Rico and the mainland. These two expansions of the CTC and EITC will
    continue to reduce child poverty in Puerto Rico by about 11% in
    future years, and the President continues to fight to restore the
    additional expansions that cut child poverty nearly in half in
    2021.  
     
-   And with many struggling to make ends meet, ARP provided a
    permanent, annual increase of over $463 million for its food
    assistance block grant going forward, in addition to nearly $1
    billion in emergency food assistance for Puerto Rico to help them
    recover from the pandemic.  
     
-   President Biden has called on Congress to pass legislation to
    transition Puerto Rico from the current capped NAP federal nutrition
    block grant, which is insufficient to meet the island’s needs, to
    the SNAP program used by other states. To prepare for a transition,
    the USDA arranged six in-person and virtual state exchange visits
    for Puerto Rico officials to learn about SNAP operations; contracted
    for translation of handbooks, guides, and relevant SNAP materials
    into Spanish; and supported Puerto Rico’s efforts to give NAP
    participants access to job training and support services similar to
    what is required under SNAP. USDA will continue to work closely with
    Puerto Rico officials to support a successful transition from NAP to
    SNAP once Congress opens up this pathway. 

The Biden-Harris Administration will continue its focus on
reconstruction and efforts to advance the full and long-term economic
recovery of Puerto Rico – with active engagement with residents,
non-governmental organizations, the private sector, unions, academia and
local elected officials. 

\###

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[1\] Data is from USAspending.gov**.**

\[2\] Seasonally Adjusted Total Nonfarm Employment in Puerto Rico
increased from 851.1 in January 2021 to 956.4 in January 2024
(employment in thousands).  Data for January 2024 is Preliminary.  Data
is from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Current Employment
database. 

\[3\] Seasonally Adjusted Total Construction Employment in Puerto Rico
increased from 27.9 in January 2021 to 35.7 in January 2024 (employment
in thousands). Data for January 2024 is Preliminary.  Data is from the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Current Employment database.

\[4\] [Unemployment Rate in Puerto Rico (PRUR) | FRED | St. Louis Fed
(stlouisfed.org)](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/PRUR/)

\[5\] [Labor force participation rate, total (% of total population ages
15+) (modeled ILO estimate) – Puerto Rico | Data
(worldbank.org)](https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SL.TLF.CACT.ZS?locations=pr) and [PRMEI\_ENG.pdf](https://www.bde.pr.gov/BDE/PREDDOCS/PRMEI_ENG.pdf)

\[6\] [U.S. Population Trends Return to Pre-Pandemic Norms
(census.gov)](https://recovery.pr.gov/en/road-to-recovery/pa-qpr/map)

\[7\] Puerto Rico Disaster Recovery Transparency Portal – COR3 (pr.gov)

\[8\] Data last updated on February 6, 2024 and accessed
from [www.build.gov](http://www.build.gov/).
