---
date: '2024-03-18'
modified_time: 2024-03-18 10:39:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-18 11:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-historic-action-to-ban-asbestos-advancing-biden-cancer-moonshot/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes Historic Action to Ban\
  \ Asbestos, Advancing Biden Cancer\_Moonshot"
---
 
President Biden’s Cancer Moonshot is accelerating progress to prevent,
detect, and treat cancer while boosting support for families facing
cancer, including by undertaking an aggressive effort to protect
families and workers from hazardous chemicals like known carcinogens.
After more than three decades of inadequate protections, today the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) [is announcing a historic ban on
ongoing uses of
asbestos](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-ban-ongoing-uses-asbestos-protect-people-cancer).
This marks the first rule finalized under the nation’s updated chemical
safety law, a milestone in the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to
protect public health, advance environmental justice, and end cancer as
we know it.

Asbestos is a potent carcinogen that causes tens of thousands of deaths
in the United States each year and is linked to lung cancer, ovarian
cancer, colorectal cancer, and more. The EPA’s new ban prohibits ongoing
uses of chrysotile asbestos, the only known form of asbestos still used
or imported in the United States. This action represents an important
step to advance the [Biden Cancer
Moonshot](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cancermoonshot/) goal of reducing
the cancer death rate by at least half by 2047—preventing more than four
million cancer deaths—and preventing cancer before it starts by
protecting communities from known risks associated with asbestos
exposure.

The Biden Cancer Moonshot is a core component of the President’s Unity
Agenda, a set of priorities that Americans from every walk of life can
support. Prohibiting the manufacture, processing, and distribution of
asbestos is also part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s historic
commitment to advancing environmental justice. Asbestos is used in
facilities that are located disproportionately near communities with
environmental justice concerns and also particularly affects workers.  

Since the beginning of the Biden-Harris Administration, EPA and other
federal agencies have been delivering on the promise to protect
communities from the harmful effects of toxic substances, including
carcinogens. The Administration is coordinating across the federal
government to protect people from exposure to hazardous chemicals,
including through guidance, regulatory actions, investments through
President Biden’s Investing in America Agenda, and more.

Reducing exposure to toxic chemicals protects public health and advances
President Biden’s commitment to ensuring all people can breathe clean
air, drink clean water, and live in a healthy community. The
Biden-Harris Administration has delivered on additional protections to
protect communities from carcinogens, including:

-   **Protecting communities and workers from toxic chemicals that cause
    long-recognized health risks, including cancer.** In addition to
    today’s final rule on asbestos, EPA is advancing proposals to
    address cancer and other health risks from [methylene
    chloride](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-proposes-ban-all-consumer-most-industrial-and-commercial-uses-methylene-chloride),
    [carbon
    tetrachloride](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-workplace-safety-requirements-carbon),
    [perchloroethylene](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-proposes-ban-all-consumer-and-many-commercial-uses-perchloroethylene-protect),
    and
    [trichloroethylene](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-ban-trichloroethylene-protect-public-toxic),
    all of which are dangerous and sometimes fatal chemicals used in
    commercial and industrial settings. Additionally, EPA has proposed a
    rule to [strengthen its process for conducting risk evaluations on
    toxic
    chemicals](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-proposes-rule-strengthen-tsca-risk-evaluation-process-protect-workers-and),
    including carcinogens, and this includes specific consideration of
    overburdened communities. EPA is moving expeditiously to finalize
    these rules and realize the new public health protections enabled by
    Congress under the 2016 amendments to the nation’s chemical safety
    law, the Toxic Substances Control Act.

<!-- -->

-   **Slashing emissions** **of ethylene oxide** **and other
    cancer-causing air** **pollution.** Last week [EPA issued a final
    rule](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-announces-final-rule-slash-toxic-emissions-ethylene-oxide-and-reduce-cancer-risk#:~:text=EtO%20is%20a%20highly%20potent,facilities%20by%20over%2090%20percent.)
    that will significantly strengthen and update Clean Air Act
    standards for ethylene oxide (EtO) emitted into the air from
    commercial sterilizing facilities. EtO is a highly potent carcinogen
    that can be particularly harmful to children and communities that
    are already overburdened by pollution. The new rule will safeguard
    public health by cutting emissions of EtO from these facilities by
    over 90 percent. EPA is also working to advance research, and to
    strengthen standards to reduce toxic air pollution, including other
    cancer-causing pollutants, from chemical plants.

<!-- -->

-   **Combatting PFAS pollution in communities to address health and
    environmental risks.** The Biden-Harris Administration has announced
    a [government-wide
    plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution/)
    to address and prevent PFAS contamination. Per- and polyfluoroalkyl
    substances (PFAS), often referred to as ‘forever chemicals,’ are
    human-made chemicals that have been widely used in many different
    consumer, commercial, and industrial products for decades. They
    break down very slowly over time in the environment and in people’s
    bodies, and have been found to have harmful health effects including
    cancer, low birthweight, and reduced immune responses. EPA has
    proposed new rules to [strengthen protections for
    communities](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-steps-protect-communities-pfas-and-other)
    and [drinking water
    supplies](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-first-ever-national-standard-protect-communities),
    helping to address disparities in access to a clean and safe
    environment. The Administration also launched a comprehensive effort
    to combat cancer risks associated with PFAS that, for many years,
    have been in the gear, equipment, and fire suppression agents used
    by firefighters. The Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs are
    leading efforts to [measure blood PFAS levels in
    firefighters](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution/),
    and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [launched the
    National Firefighter Registry for
    Cancer](https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2023/p0417-firefighter-cance-registry.html)
    to collect detailed data to better understand the link between
    workplace exposures and cancer among firefighters.

\###
