---
date: '2024-03-12'
modified_time: 2024-03-12 18:29:24-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-12 18:29:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-over-3-billion-to-reconnect-communities-that-have-been-left-behind-and-divided-by-transportation-infrastructure/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Over $3 Billion to Reconnect Communities\
  \ That Have Been Left Behind and Divided by Transportation Infrastructure"
---
 
Today, President Biden will travel to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to announce
**$3.3 billion to reconnect and rebuild communities in more than 40
states, including  those that were divided by transportation
infrastructure decades ago and have long been overlooked.** These
projects will increase access to health care, schools, jobs, places of
worship, and other essential services and opportunities, and will
strengthen communities by covering highways with public spaces, creating
new transit routes, adding sidewalks, bridges, bike lanes, and more.

Coming off President Biden’s State of the Union Address, today’s
announcement is part of the President’s broader vision to rebuild the
country’s infrastructure and leave no community behind. To date, the
President’s Investing in America agenda has mobilized **47,000
infrastructure projects across the nation and $650 billion in private
sector manufacturing and clean energy investments** that are
revitalizing communities, creating good-paying jobs, and improving the
health and safety of families across the country. President Biden is
building an economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top
down – that means investing in all of America to make sure everyone has
a fair shot and to ensure a comeback story for thousands of communities.

At its best, transportation infrastructure connects people to
opportunity and spurs economic growth. But historically, some of our
nation’s infrastructure investments and decisions have done the
opposite.  The Department of Transportation estimates that at least one
million people and businesses were displaced by decades of harmful urban
renewal projects and legacy policy decisions in the buildout of the
Federal highway system. Highways and rail lines have disproportionately
torn through Black and other communities of color and low-income
communities, displacing residents and businesses, stifling economic
development, and cutting communities off from essentials such as
groceries, jobs, transportation, and health care.

Through the Department of Transportation’s first-of-its-kind
[Reconnecting Communities and Neighborhoods
Program](https://www.transportation.gov/grants/rcnprogram), funded by
both the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act,
the Biden-Harris Administration will help rectify the damage done by
past transportation projects and drive economic growth in communities in
every corner of the country. This program is a key component of the
Administration’s commitment to advancing racial equity and support for
underserved communities as defined in [President Biden’s executive
order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/16/executive-order-on-further-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/#:~:text=The%20Equity%20Action%20Plan%20shall,14008%2C%20and%20Executive%20Order%2014020.).
This program also advances the President’s commitment to delivering a
convenient, efficient, and clean transportation system, including in
proximity to affordable housing. Additionally, this program is a key
component of the Administration’s commitment to [environmental
justice](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-revitalize-our-nations-commitment-to-environmental-justice-for-all/),
including to deliver for disadvantaged communities as part of President
Biden’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/).

**In Milwaukee, President Biden will announce $36 million for the
6<sup>th</sup> Street Complete Streets Project**.

In the 1960s, the construction of I-94/I-43 in Milwaukee led to the
demolition of roughly 17,000 homes and 1,000 businesses, as
neighborhoods in the path of the highway were displaced and surrounding
roads like 6<sup>th</sup> Street were widened to accommodate interstate
traffic. This resulted in the creation of a street that prioritized
fast-moving car traffic over the people who live, walk, work, and shop
in these neighborhoods. The 6<sup>th</sup> Street Complete Streets
Project will reconnect communities along more than two and a half miles
of the 6<sup>th</sup> Street corridor, providing wider sidewalks for
children walking to school, safe bike lanes for residents and visitors,
dedicated bus lanes for faster transit, new trees to provide shade, and
green infrastructure to prevent sewage from flowing into the Milwaukee
River and Lake Michigan. These improvements will make the roadway and
surrounding communities safer, greener, and more welcoming.

Other projects across the country that will benefit from the funding
announced today **include the following:**

-   **“The Stitch” in Atlanta, Georgia** is receiving **$158 million**
    to reconnect midtown to downtown Atlanta. When constructed, I-75 and
    I-85—now called the Downtown Connector—sliced through Sweet Auburn,
    cutting it off from Downtown and displacing hundreds of homes and
    businesses in the working-class neighborhoods. The project will
    create a 14-acre mixed-use development cap on three-quarters of the
    Downtown Connector—increasing access to jobs, housing, education,
    and healthcare and creating public parks, plazas, and surface
    streets for walking and biking.
-   **The Chinatown Stitch in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania** is receiving
    **$159 million** to construct a cap over the Vine Street Expressway
    in Chinatown, which has been home to a Chinese-American immigrant
    community since the mid-1800s. The Expressway was constructed in the
    late 1980s and 1990s, demolishing significant portions of the
    neighborhood and displacing residents and businesses. The Chinatown
    Stitch project will cover about two and a half blocks of Expressway,
    creating new public green space, improving neighborhood connections,
    and creating equitable mixed-use development opportunities and
    inclusive mobility options.
-   **The I-5 Rose Corridor Project in Portland, Oregon**, is receiving
    **$450 million** to construct a highway cover and a pedestrian and
    bicycle-only bridge. The project will reconnect the predominantly
    Black neighborhood of Albina and improve safety and congestion along
    the interstate corridor with the highest crash rate in the state
    while supporting new community space and future development.
-   **The RIVER East Toledo project in Toledo, Ohio** is receiving
    **$29** **million** to reconnect residents of Toledo’s historic east
    side with the downtown riverfront. Decades of disinvestment and
    deindustrialization have turned this once thriving working-class
    immigrant community into one of the city’s most disadvantaged
    communities, with high poverty rates, heavy environmental burdens,
    and disproportionate barriers to safe transportation access. This
    project will make safety improvements along the roadway, add bike
    and pedestrian infrastructure, and add trees and streetscaping.
-   **The** **I-81 Viaduct Project in Syracuse, New York** is receiving
    **$180 million** to reconnect residents with a community grid that
    will disperse traffic among a network of neighborhood streets. A key
    feature of the community grid is the Business Loop, which will
    connect residents, including residents in low-income housing on
    either side of Almond Street, with economic opportunities. The
    project will also add active transportation – including sidewalks,
    bike paths, new shared use paths, and enhanced and new parks and
    public spaces – which will further reconnect and reinvigorate the
    neighborhoods.
-   **The Reconnecting 4<sup>th</sup> Ave N. in Birmingham, Alabama**,
    is receiving **$15 million** to redesign Birmingham’s Black Main
    Street to convert the one-way road to a two-way road, reconnecting
    downtown neighborhoods and businesses that were divided by the
    construction of Interstate 65 in the 1960s. The project encompasses
    the Historic 4th Avenue Business District, a once thriving hub of
    Black businesses and community in Birmingham.
-   **Removing Barriers and Creating Legacy** **– A Multimodal Approach
    in Los Angeles County, California** is receiving **$139 million** to
    create 14 miles of bus priority lanes on four corridors and
    implement mobility hubs. Los Angeles County has the greatest
    concentration of roadway fatalities in the nation, with almost
    double the concentration of fatalities than the second highest
    county. With the separation of bicycle and pedestrian
    infrastructure, the project will reduce collisions by up to an
    estimated 49%. These investments will directly benefit approximately
    one million disadvantaged Angelenos.

Today’s announcement builds on other investments the Biden-Harris
Administration is making through the President’s Investing in America
agenda to reconnect communities across the country. **In Buffalo, NY**,
the Administration is investing $56 million to reconnect the east and
west sides of the **Kensington Expressway**, which cuts through a
predominantly Black community – adding safe crossing options, investing
in green spaces and parks, and attracting new businesses. **In Detroit,
MI,** the Administration is investing $105 million to replace the sunken
**I-375** that cuts through the prosperous and vibrant Black
neighborhoods of Black Bottom and Paradise Valley, replacing it with a
new lower-speed boulevard with pedestrian walkways. **In New York City,
NY**, the Administration is investing $150 million to reconnect
communities divided by the **Cross Bronx Expressway** between the Harlem
River and the Hutchinson River Parkway, which is one of the most
congested stretches of interstate in the U.S. with some of the highest
rates of traffic, air pollution, and collisions. **And in Pelham, AL,**
the Administration is investing $42 million to construct a bridge and
eliminate two at-grade crossings on **Shelby County Road 52** to ensure
that stalled or slow trains do not prevent first responders and other
vehicles from crossing the city.  

In addition to the Reconnecting Communities and Neighborhoods Program,
the Biden-Harris Administration has already announced $285 billion in
transportation projects across the country, funded by President Biden’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. These projects advance equity, improve
safety, reduce pollution, and connect communities with jobs, school, and
health care, and make it easier for families and loved ones to come
together. To date, the Administration has launched local roadway safety
projects in over 1,000 communities across the country in cities and
rural communities – with a focus on improving safety for cyclists and
pedestrians, especially benefitting disadvantaged communities that have
been historically left behind. The Administration is also investing $108
billion in public transit – the largest investment in public transit in
our nation’s history – benefitting low-income communities that are more
likely to rely on public transit for access to jobs, education, and
health care.

The Biden-Harris Administration has also invested over $150 million to
protect fenceline communities from harmful air pollution, and made
available nearly $3 billion via the Environmental and Climate Justice
Program at the Environmental Protection
Agency to help local organizations engage meaningfully in infrastructure
and other investment decisions that impact their communities, increasing
access for local voices and participation for historically underserved
and overburdened populations.  

\###
