---
date: '2024-03-28'
modified_time: 2024-03-28 00:33:13-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-28 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/28/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-landmark-rule-to-protect-americans-from-junk-health-insurance/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces New Landmark Rule to Protect Americans\
  \ from Junk Health\_Insurance"
---
 
*Latest action to deliver better health care and prevent consumers from
getting ripped off*

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is taking a major step to crack
down on junk health insurance for American families and consumers and
deliver better health. As the President has said, people hate being
played for suckers and the current practice of offering low-quality
insurance that people pay into, but then provides no coverage when
people need it, is a bait and switch. That’s why the Biden-Harris
Administration is issuing a final rule that protects consumers from junk
health insurance and makes sure Americans aren’t scammed into
low-quality coverage that leaves consumers on the hook for thousands of
dollars in medical bills or denies life-saving care right before
treatment. The President is committed to building on the promise of the
Affordable Care Act and its critical consumer protections that ensure
meaningful coverage for people’s health care needs.

The Affordable Care Act has helped tens of millions of Americans access
high-quality, affordable health insurance and protects Americans from
being discriminated against because of pre-existing conditions.  But
actions by Republican elected officials, including the previous
administration, undermined the promise of the Affordable Care Act,
allowing insurance companies to take advantage of loopholes in the law
and sell “junk insurance” plans that evade its critical consumer
protections, like denying care based on pre-existing conditions. These
“junk insurance” plans leave families surprised by thousands of dollars
in bills, often because the insurance plan claims they have a
pre-existing condition that isn’t covered.  For example, a man in
Montana faced [$43,000 in health care
costs](https://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-pol-trump-shortterm-health-insurance-consumer-problems-20190402-story.html)
because his insurance plan claimed his cancer was a pre-existing
condition, and a Pennsylvania woman was surprised by nearly [$20,000 in
bills](https://www.inquirer.com/health/obamacare-skimpy-health-plan-villanova-professor-20190405.html)
for an amputation her junk plan refused to cover. 

**<u>With today’s rule, the Biden-Harris Administration is cracking down
on this junk health insurance as part of its continued efforts to
eliminate hidden fees and rip offs in every industry across the
economy.</u>  These actions will reduce scam insurance plans that offer
really no insurance at all.**

-   *“Short-term” plans must be truly short-term*.  Under the new rules,
    new plans that claim to be “short-term” health insurance are now
    limited to just 3 months, with renewal for a maximum of 4 months
    total, if extended – instead of up to 3 years as the previous
    administration allowed, causing junk health insurance plans to
    proliferate and confuse consumers that they were real, comprehensive
    coverage when they in fact provided little to no coverage.

<!-- -->

-   *Plans have to clearly disclose limits.* Insurance plans will now be
    required to provide consumers with a clear disclaimer that explains
    the limits of what services they cover and how much they cover. 

Today’s actions stand in stark contrast with an extreme House Republican
budget proposal released last week, which 100% of House Republican
leadership and 80% of House Republicans support.  They want to reverse
the Administration’s actions to protect consumers from junk health
insurance and other insurance plans that evade the Affordable Care Act’s
critical consumer protections, and take the country back to the days
where consumers think they’re buying quality, comprehensive health
insurance, only to find out at the last minute that they’ve been
hoodwinked into coverage that doesn’t cover the care they need or leaves
them saddled with huge medical bills. In fact, alongside promoting junk
health insurance, the House Republican budget calls to cut $4.5 trillion
from the Affordable Care Act and Medicaid, which would rip coverage away
from over 45 million people, eliminate pre-existing condition and other
consumer protections and jeopardize benefits, services, and coverage for
tens of millions more. 

\###
