---
date: '2024-03-14'
modified_time: 2024-03-14 18:11:57-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-14 18:11:53-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/14/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-doctor-sarah-traxler-during-the-nationwide-fight-for-reproductive-freedoms-tour-st-paul-mn/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Doctor Sarah Traxler During the Nationwide\
  \ \u201CFight for Reproductive Freedoms\u201D Tour | St. Paul,\_MN"
---
 
*Planned Parenthood  
St. Paul, Minnesota*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  I first want to thank
the governor, Tim Walz, for your leadership both for this beautiful
state, but nationally you’ve been a great friend and advisor to the
President and me.  And thank you for all of that.  
  
GOVERNOR WALZ: Thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Congresswoman — I mean, just an extraordinary
leader.  She is strong, she is powerful, she is committed, and always
working on behalf of the people of the state.  And I thank you, and
thank you for traveling with me to be here today.   
  
REPRESENTATIVE MCCOLLUM:  It was an honor.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And, Mayor, thank you, as well.  We shared a lot of
stories about your leadership.  And I know that you have a lot of
support here in the city for the work that you have done.  Thank you for
that.  
  
So, many of you have asked why am I here at this at — this facility, in
particular.  And I will tell you, it is because, right now in our
country, we are facing a very serious health crisis.  And the crisis is
affecting many, many people in our country, most of whom are, frankly,
silently suffering after the United States Supreme Court took a
constitutional right that had been recognized from the people of
America, from the women of America.  
  
In states around our country, extremists have proposed and passed laws
that have denied women access to reproductive healthcare.  And the
stories abound.   
  
I have heard stories of — and have met with women who had miscarriages
in — in toilets.  Women who were being denied emergency care because the
healthcare providers there, at an emergency room, were afraid that
because of the laws in their state, that they could be criminalized,
sent to prison for providing healthcare.  
  
So, I’m here at this healthcare clinic to uplift the work that is
happening in Minnesota as an example of what true leadership looks like,
which is to understand it is only right and fair that people have access
to the healthcare they need and that they have access to healthcare in
an environment where they are treated with dignity and respect.   
  
And please do understand that when we talk about a clinic such as this,
it is absolutely about healthcare and reproductive healthcare.  So,
everyone get ready for the language: uterus.  (Laughter.)  That part of
the body needs a lot of medical care from time to time.  (Laughter.)  
  
Issues like fibroids — we can handle this — breast cancer screenings,
contraceptive care — that is the kind of work that happens here, in
addition, of course, to abortion care.  
  
So, to have laws in states that have caused clinics like this to shut
down so that women have no access within any reasonable distance of
where they live to get this vital care that is necessary to address
their health needs and concerns.  
  
So, again, I say thank you to the governor, the congresswoman, the
mayor, and the doctor and all those who work here, and the staff.   
  
This work includes having people here who go out and talk to young
people — our young people in high schools.  And sadly, in so many places
around our country, Sex Ed is a thing of the past, which leaves our
young people to learn about their bodies and reproductive systems on
social media — often with a profound amount of misinformation, which
leaves them confused about what is happening to their own bodies.  
  
The work that happens here is about providing assistance to women who do
not live in the state of Minnesota, because, sadly, this state exists in
a neighborhood where laws have been passed to deny people reproductive
healthcare.  And so, women have to travel here.   
  
You know, the majority of women who receive an abortion are mothers. 
God help her that she’s got affordable childcare.  If she is working,
God help her she’s got paid family leave so she can figure out how is
she going to get to the place that will provide her the care she
needs.   
  
Well, the work that happens in a clinic like this includes answering
those questions for someone who might be in great distress, letting her
know what is available to her in terms of transportation, in terms of
housing or a hotel, what is available to her in terms of assistance for
her childcare needs.  
  
So, I’ll close with this.  In this environment, these attacks against an
individual’s right to make decisions about their own body are outrageous
and, in many instances, just plain old immoral.   
  
How dare these elected leaders believe they are in a better position to
tell women what they need, to tell women what is in their best
interest.  We have to be a nation that trusts women.  (Applause.)  
  
And with that, I will introduce this extraordinary healthcare provider. 
And, Doctor, please.   
  
DR. TRAXLER:  Thank you.  Thank you so much.   
  
I have to use my notes, folks.  (Laughter.)  I’m not used to doing
this.   
  
So, good afternoon, everyone.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  
  
DR. TRAXLER:  I’m Sarah Traxler.  I’m the Chief Medical Officer here at
Planned Parenthood North Central States.  I’m a board-certified
obstetrician-gynecologist with a subspecialty in complex family
planning, and I also have my masters of science in health policy.   
  
I am a proud abortion provider.  And I’m honored that Vice President
Kamala Harris has visited our clinic today.  It’s a historic moment and
one that demonstrates how critically important access to reproductive
healthcare is to people and their families across the country.  
  
So, thank you so much —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  
  
DR. TRAXLER:  — for being here today.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  
  
DR. TRAXLER:  Thank you.  
  
After the Dobbs decision a year and a half ago, Minnesota has become a
bastion of access for abortion care.  But abortion rights are not only a
Minnesota issue; it is a national issue.   
  
Our Planned Parenthood has seen a 25 percent increase in abortions here
in Minnesota since Roe was overturned.  We’ve seen nearly 100 percent
increase in patients coming here from outside of our state.   
  
This is not by accident.  Surrounding states have been limiting and
banning abortion, while Minnesota, with the help of our governor, has
been increasing access.   
  
Since Roe was overturned, I’ve cared for patients from everywhere, from
nearby states like South Dakota and North Dakota and Wisconsin, but from
far-away states like Texas, Alabama, Wyoming, Florida, Oklahoma,
Missouri, and the list goes on.   
  
I’ve seen patients who’ve flown from places like Louisiana only to have
me tell her that her complex pregnancy condition would keep her from
having her abortion here with me, forcing her to continue a dangerous
pregnancy because hospital-based care was not available to her in her
home state.   
  
Traveling to access essential healthcare can be intimidating and
overwhelming.  It is not an easy thing to do, as we have all pretended
that it is.   
  
Like the experience of our patient who traveled from a small rural town
and became lost in downtown Minneapolis with a dead cell phone after her
flight landed.  We were able to get her a Lyft driver, our patient
navigators, and she described that Lyft driver as a savior for her.  And
like our patient who drove hundreds and hundreds of miles through
blizzard conditions just to get her abortion.   
  
Our new abortion landscape is difficult, it is dangerous, and it is
putting my patients and healthcare providers at severe risk.  I’ve
talked to my colleagues practicing in states where abortion is now
illegal, and they are unnecessarily struggling with decisions around
providing ethical, proper medical care and conflicting with the law. 
This should never happen.  
  
Thankfully, providing abortion care has gotten less complicated in
Minnesota.  Here, I’m trusted as a provider and an expert to work with
my patients to provide the best care possible.   
  
To know that I’m trusted to do my job is a comfort to me, but it should
be the standard everywhere.  Private medical decisions should be made
between patients and their doctors without interference from politicians
or the protesters standing outside on the street in front of our clinic
today.  
  
You know, I didn’t always feel this way.  I came to understand bodily
autonomy after a long history of being anti-abortion and having a very
distorted point of view about abortion care.  It wasn’t until a friend
told me her abortion story that I came to see the light.   
  
After hearing her, knowing her history, I knew that an abortion was the
right choice for her, for her life, for her future and nobody else’s. 
And it dawned on me.  If she is making the right decision for her life,
then there are countless other people who are making the right decision
for their lives.  And no one should be interfering in that.  
  
From my — from that point on, my awakening into understanding bodily
autonomy and freedom grew to the point that I am today.  
  
Everyone should have the right to access healthcare.  Your ZIP Code
shouldn’t dictate the care that you can access.  Your race, your
socioeconomic status — none of that should determine it.  
  
So, in 2024 and beyond, we will keep fighting, we will keep working
until we live in a world where everyone can access the care they decide
is best for their futures and their bodies and in their own community.  
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
AIDE:  We’re going to take a couple of questions, and we’re — we’re
going to start with Rochelle from the Star Tribune.  
  
Q    Hi, Madam Vice President.  Why do you think it took so long for a
sitting president or vice president to visit an abortion provider?  And,
also, how concerned are you about the 20 percent who voted uncommitted
in the Minnesota presidential primary?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’ll tell you, the reason I’m here is because
this is a healthcare crisis.  And I think that of the many stories that
we can tell — excuse me.  (Coughs.)  
  
Of the many stories that we need to tell about what has happened after
the Dobbs decision, one of them is that part of this healthcare crisis
is the clinics like this that have had to shut down and what that has
meant to leave no options with any reasonable geographic area for so
many women who need this essential care.  
  
And, again, it runs the gamut of reproductive healthcare.  So, yes, it
is abortion care.  It is also, as I mentioned earlier, essential and
critical reproductive healthcare like paps, like breast cancer
screenings, things of that nature.  
  
So, I’m here to highlight that of the many, I believe, potentially
intended consequences of the Dobbs decision, one of them has been for
healthcare providers such as this in the states that have banned or
outlawed access to reproductive care — clinics like this to shut down. 
And it’s a travesty.  It’s a travesty.  
  
Q    Madam Vice President, can I —  
  
AIDE:  We’re going to go to our next question, Madam Vice President. 
Darlene, right to your left, with the AP.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you.  We were not able to go with you on the tour,
obviously.  Can you give us a sense of what you saw back there —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — and also what you learned by coming here today?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, what I saw were, I don’t know, maybe two
dozen healthcare workers who really care —  
really care about their patients and who understand that in the
healthcare delivery system, regardless of your gender or your healthcare
need, I think we should all expect and certainly we all desire that you
will be treated with dignity and you’ll be treated in an environment
where you feel safe.  And by that, I mean safe to be free from judgment,
to be in an environment where you are actually and really listened to,
where your needs and your expression of your needs are taken
seriously.  
  
And walking through this clinic, that’s what I saw are people who have
dedicated their lives to the profession of providing healthcare in a
safe place that gives people dignity.  
And I think we should all want that for each other.  
  
AIDE:  Thank you, Vice President.  We’ll going to Nick at the New York
Times.  
  
Q    Madam Vice President, what do you see as your role on this issue,
given that the administration has run up to the limit of what it can do
to protect abortion rights and Congress is unlikely to pass a bill
codifying them?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, Congress will pass that bill when we win back
the House.  (Applause.)  And so, I am sure of that.  
  
And I think that the — the point — one of the points that must be made
on this issue, as we attempt to uplift the real stories and the real
consequences of the Dobbs decision is to remind people elections
matter.  Elections matter.   
  
What happened here in Minnesota, with the reelection of the governor and
the turning of the state legislature is what has led to ensuring that
these fundamental rights are intact and are protected.  Elections
matter.  
  
And let me be very clear about this.  When it comes to national
elections and who sits in the United States Congress on this, there’s a
fundamental point on this issue that I think most people agree with,
which is that one does not have to abandon their faith or deeply held
beliefs to agree the government should not be telling women what to do
with their body.  If she chooses, she will consult with — with her
priest, her pastor, her rabbi, her imam.  But it’s not for the
government to tell her what she can and cannot do with her own body.  
  
Q    And so, what do you see as your role on this issue?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  My role is to do what I just did, which is to
articulate exactly these points and to continue to articulate them and
to organize folks around what I know is an issue that is impacting more
people than you’ll ever really know, who, as I said earlier, are
silently suffering.  
  
And so, we who have the ability to have a bouquet of microphones in
front of us, as I do, I take on then the responsibility of uplifting
these stories and reminding people — with some belief, by the way, when
I do it, that the vast majority of Americans do have empathy and that,
even if they don’t agree that this would be the best decision for
them,  
would agree that other people should not be suffering the way they
are.  
  
AIDE:  Thank you, Vice President.  We have one more question right here
from Patricia —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
AIDE:  — at Bloomberg.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  Hi.  
  
Q    Madam Vice President, Roe was always an imperfect vessel.  What
exactly would you like to see replace it?  What form should it take? 
What should the scope of it be?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  What we want is to put back in place the
protections that the Supreme Court took away, which is to codify, put
into law the protections of Roe v. Wade.  That’s what we want.  
  
AIDE:  Madam Vice President, thank you so much.   
  
                               END           
