---
date: '2024-03-26'
modified_time: 2024-03-26 15:05:27-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-26 15:05:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/26/readout-of-white-house-convening-with-mothers-affected-by-gun-violence/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Convening with Mothers Affected by Gun\_Violence"
---
 
On March 25, the White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention (OGVP)
hosted a convening with mothers affected by gun violence, who are also
leading victim service organizations and survivor support efforts in
their communities.  
  
During the convening, panelists shared their personal stories related to
gun violence, the work they are doing to help survivors and victims,
challenges they have faced in securing resources, and what else is
needed to help all those affected by the epidemic of gun violence. White
House officials briefed attendees on resources that are available to
victims following a shooting or other violent crime, and discussed ways
to improve access to these resources.  
  
The convening featured mothers from organizations active in victim
services, including Not Another Child, Mothers in Charge, R.O.A.R.,
Mothers Against Gang Violence, Guns Down Friday, Black Men Deserve to
Grow Old, Hustle Mommies and more.  
  
Yesterday’s convening comes on the heels of Vice President Kamala
Harris’ visit to Parkland, Florida, on Saturday, where the Vice
President and OGVP met with families whose loved ones were killed during
the 2018 mass shooting that took the lives of 14 students and three
staff members at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. In Parkland, the
Vice President called on states to pass red flag laws and announced the
launch of the first-ever national resource center to support the
implementation of these laws, which allow courts to remove firearms from
those at risk of harming themselves or others.  
  
Yesterday’s convening  highlighted the actions of the Biden-Harris
Administration to prevent crime and promote public safety, including the
President’s American Rescue Plan, which helped states and one thousand
cities, towns, and counties across the country to invest over $15
billion in public safety and violence prevention.  Communities have
invested those funds to expand community violence prevention and
intervention, add crisis responders and police officers, and more. And
in addition to key investments for schools to expand mental health
services and violence intervention programs, the Bipartisan Safer
Communities Act (BSCA) provides $250 million in funding for
community-based violence prevention initiatives.   
  
We are already seeing the positive impacts of the President’s actions
to prevent and reduce crime and gun violence nationwide. Cities around
the country are experiencing historic declines in violent crime, and
preliminary data show murders down nationally 13% from 2022 to 2023. By
comparison, during the final year of the prior administration in 2020,
the United States saw the largest increase in murders ever recorded. We
have also seen key provisions of the BCSA begin to deliver results in
making communities safer, including enhanced background check provisions
that have enabled the Department of Justice to [stop more than 600
illegal gun
purchases](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/05/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-stopping-over-500-illegal-under-21-gun-purchases-through-the-bipartisan-safer-communities-act/#:~:text=January%2005%2C%202024-,Statement%20from%20President%20Joe%20Biden%20on%20Stopping%20Over%20500%20Illegal,the%20Bipartisan%20Safer%20Communities%20Act&text=Today%20is%20an%20important%20milestone,fabric%20of%20our%20nation%20apart.) by
prohibited persons under 21 years old, and the first ever federal gun
trafficking and straw purchasing law.  
  
These are just a few examples of the progress that is being made under
the leadership of President Biden and Vice President Harris to protect
our communities, schools and children, and end the epidemic of gun
violence. 

\# \# \#
