---
date: '2024-03-10'
published_time: 2024-03-10 20:18:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/10/statement-from-president-joseph-r-biden-on-the-occasion-of-ramadan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joseph R. Biden on the Occasion of\_Ramadan"
---
 
Tonight—as the new crescent moon marks the beginning of the Islamic holy
month of Ramadan—Jill and I extend our best wishes and prayers to
Muslims across our country and around the world.

The sacred month is a time for reflection and renewal. This year, it
comes at a moment of immense pain. The war in Gaza has inflicted
terrible suffering on the Palestinian people. More than 30,000
Palestinians have been killed, most of them civilians, including
thousands of children. Some are family members of American Muslims, who
are deeply grieving their lost loved ones today. Nearly two million
Palestinians have been displaced by the war; many are in urgent need of
food, water, medicine, and shelter. As Muslims gather around the world
over the coming days and weeks to break their fast, the suffering of the
Palestinian people will be front of mind for many. It is front of mind
for me.

The United States will continue to lead international efforts to get
more humanitarian assistance into Gaza by land, air, and sea. Earlier
this week, I directed our military to lead an emergency mission to
establish a temporary pier on the coast of Gaza that can receive large
shipments of aid. We are carrying out airdrops of aid, in coordination
with our international partners, including Jordan. And we’ll continue to
work with Israel to expand deliveries by land, insisting that it
facilitate more routes and open more crossings to get more aid to more
people.

While we get more life-saving aid to Gaza, the United States will
continue working non-stop to establish an immediate and sustained
ceasefire for at least six weeks as part of a deal that releases
hostages. And we will continue building toward a long-term future of
stability, security, and peace. That includes a two-state solution to
ensure Palestinians and Israelis share equal measures of freedom,
dignity, security, and prosperity. That is the only path toward an
enduring peace.

Here at home, we have seen an appalling resurgence of hate and violence
toward Muslim Americans. Islamophobia has absolutely no place in the
United States, a country founded on freedom of worship and built on the
contributions of immigrants, including Muslim immigrants. My
Administration is developing the first-ever National Strategy to Counter
Islamophobia and Related Forms of Bias and Discrimination, to take on
hate against Muslim, Sikh, South Asian, and Arab American communities,
wherever it occurs. No one should ever fear being targeted at school, at
work, on the street, or in their community because of their background
or beliefs.

To Muslims across our country, please know that you are deeply valued
members of our American family. To those who are grieving during this
time of war, I hear you, I see you, and I pray you find solace in your
faith, family, and community. And to all who are marking the beginning
of Ramadan tonight, I wish you a safe, healthy, and blessed month.
*Ramadan kareem.  *

\###
