---
date: '2024-03-08'
modified_time: 2024-03-08 14:49:55-05:00
published_time: 2024-03-08 11:13:53-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/08/fact-sheet-president-bidens-unity-agenda-for-the-nation/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden\u2019s Unity Agenda for the\_Nation"
---
 
The day he took office, President Biden pledged to be a president for
all Americans. Since then, he has worked tirelessly to keep that promise
by advancing a Unity Agenda for the Nation.  The Unity Agenda calls for
solving big challenges that unite all Americans—beating the opioid
epidemic, tackling the mental health crisis, holding Big Tech
accountable, meeting our sacred obligation to veterans, and ending
cancer as we know it.

So far, President Biden has signed into law more than 400 bipartisan
bills to support his Unity Agenda. That includes the bipartisan MAT Act,
which has allowed over 1.8 million more medical practitioners across
America to provide life-saving treatment for opioid use disorder; the
Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, which is revolutionizing mental health
services in American schools; the PACT Act, the most significant
expansion of benefits and services for veterans in more than 30 years;
and bipartisan legislation to launch ARPA-H and drive breakthroughs
against deadly diseases such as cancer.

In his State of the Union Address, President Biden called on Congress to
come together, unite the country, and work with him to build on this
progress.

**<u>Beating the Opioid Epidemic</u>**

America is facing the deadliest drug threat in our history. More
Americans between the ages of 18 and 49 die from opioid overdoses than
any other cause. In tonight’s State of the Union Address, President
Biden will discuss his commitment to beating the opioid epidemic – a key
priority in his Unity Agenda for the Nation – and renew his call for
Republicans and Democrats to work together to stop fentanyl from flowing
into our communities, to bring to justice those who put it there, and to
deliver life-saving medication and care across America.

-   ***Seizing Deadly Drugs to Save American Lives*. President Biden
    believes that** ending the opioid epidemic starts with stopping
    fentanyl at our border.  Under his leadership,federal law
    enforcement agents are keeping more deadly drugs out of our
    communities than ever before. ** **Officials have stopped
    [more](https://www.cbp.gov/newsroom/national-media-release/cbp-releases-january-2024-monthly-update)
    fentanyl at ports of entry over the last two years than in the
    previous five years combined.  Last year, federal agents seized
    enough fentanyl powder and fentanyl-laced pills to kill every
    American.  The President has prioritized deploying cutting-edge drug
    detection technology across our southwest border.  And tonight, he
    will call on Congress to strengthen penalties on fentanyl
    trafficking and pass the bipartisan border security bill, which
    would deliver 100 more high-tech drug detection machines to stop
    fentanyl from entering through ports of entry and give the United
    States additional tools to crack down on the global criminal
    networks fueling American overdose deaths.

<!-- -->

-   ***Cracking Down on the Global Criminal Networks that Fuel American
    Overdose Deaths. *** President Biden has cracked down on the global
    criminal networks fueling American overdose deaths.  That means
    attacking the epidemic where it often begins: with China-based
    companies that manufacture and distribute chemicals for making the
    fentanyl that fuels American overdose deaths.  After years of
    refusing to cooperate with the United States on counternarcotics,
    President Biden convinced Beijing to deliver on concrete steps that
    will save American lives: they are shutting down companies that
    produce deadly drugs, placing controls on dangerous chemicals, and
    sharing information with U.S. authorities.  The United States has
    also criminally charged leaders of the world’s largest and most
    powerful drug cartel – including Ovidio Guzman Lopez, the son of “El
    Chapo” – and thousands of drug traffickers distributing fentanyl on
    our streets and on social media.  The Treasury Department also
    sanctioned more than 250 people and organizations involved in the
    global illicit drug trade.  And the United States stepped up
    counternarcotics cooperation with other key governments – including
    [India](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/22/fact-sheet-republic-of-india-official-state-visit-to-the-united-states/#:~:text=Counternarcotics%20Cooperation%3A%20The%20United%20States,a%20secure%2C%20resilient%2C%20reliable%20and),
    [Mexico, and
    Canada](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/19/readout-of-the-third-trilateral-fentanyl-committee-meeting-between-the-united-states-mexico-and-canada/)
    – and launched the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug
    Threats, which unites more than 140 countries in the fight against
    drug trafficking cartels and illicit finance.

<!-- -->

-   ***Delivering Life-Saving Medication and Care Across
    America.****** *** President Biden has taken [bold
    action](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2024/02/01/biden-harris-administration-marks-two-years-advancements-hhs-overdose-prevention-strategy-new-actions-treat-addiction-save-lives.html)
    to treat addiction and save American lives – including by expanding
    access to life-saving medications like naloxone – and to prevent
    drug use, delivering a 15-fold increase in the number of health care
    providers who can prescribe medications for opioid use disorder. 
    Under the Biden Administration, historic investments in the State
    Opioid Response (SOR) program have delivered free, life-saving
    medications across America, preventing more than 600,000 overdose
    deaths and delivering nearly 10 million naloxone kits.  The Biden
    Administration has also acted to make naloxone available
    over-the-counter at grocery stores and pharmacies, to increase
    naloxone at all federal facilities across America, and, through
    opioid treatment programs, to allow Americans with opioid use
    disorder to access the medications they need at home and through
    telehealth visits.  Building on this progress, this week the
    Administration will announce the White House Challenge to Save Lives
    from Overdose – a nationwide call to increase training on and access
    to life-saving opioid overdose reversal medications.  To continue
    this progress, the President calls on Congress to approve his
    budget, which includes more than $22 billion for substance use
    treatment to help more Americans achieve recovery.

**<u>Tackling the Mental Health Crisis</u>**

[](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/25/remarks-by-president-biden-on-expanding-access-to-mental-health-care/)President
Biden believesthat health care is a right, not a privilege, and that
mental health care is health care – period.  But for millions of
Americans, mental health care is out of reach.  [In
2020](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9938503/), less than
half of all adults with mental illness received treatment.  For
children, the numbers are even worse: nearly 70 percent of our kids who
seek care for mental health or substance use cannot get it.  We can and
must do better.  To advance his Unity Agenda, President Biden has taken
bold steps to transform how mental health is understood, accessed,
treated, and integrated in and out of health care settings aiming to
make mental health care more affordable and accessible for all
Americans.

-   ***Taking on Health Insurers to Expand Access to Mental Health Care
    for All Americans. *** Today, too many Americans struggle to access
    and afford the mental health care they need.  Health insurers make
    accessing it far too difficult, often forcing people to find mental
    health care from out-of-network providers – even though bipartisan
    legislation requires insurers to cover care for mental health and
    substance use at the same levels as physical health care.  The
    promise of mental health parity for all has united Republicans and
    Democrats for decades, and the President is committed to taking on
    health insurers and making it a reality.  To that end, the
    Administration is working to advance mental health parity rules,
    which would close loopholes by requiring insurers to evaluate access
    to mental health care in their networks and make changes to ensure
    equivalent access.  The President is also calling on Congress to
    enact strong bipartisan legislation to expand coverage in Medicare
    and private insurance, apply the same mental health parity
    protections to Medicare beneficiaries, **strengthen the
    Administration’s parity enforcement capabilities**, and extend
    workforce development and incentive programs to address shortages in
    mental health providers.

<!-- -->

-   ***Delivering the Largest Investment in School-Based Mental Health
    Ever. *** Thanks to the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, the Biden
    Administration is delivering the largest investment in school-based
    mental health services in American history, providing more than $280
    million to help schools across America.  These investments will help
    bring 14,000 mental health professionals into America’s schools – [a
    35% increase
    nationwide](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/01/readout-white-house-office-of-gun-violence-prevention-hosts-briefing-on-mental-health-with-department-of-education-and-hbcus/). 
    In the coming weeks, the Department of Health and Human Services
    (HHS) will award $50 million in grant funding for Medicaid
    school-based health services, while issuing guidance to help ensure
    children receive the behavioral health care they are entitled to
    under Medicaid.  HHS and the Department of Education (ED) will
    continue to provide technical assistance to states and schools
    seeking to deliver critical mental health care services. And, later
    this year, ED will award $38 million to help increase the pipeline
    of school based mental health professionals. ****

<!-- -->

-   ***Expanding Mental Health Services for Veterans. *** President
    Biden is working to protect America’s veterans and believes that
    every American veteran deserves access to timely, high quality
    mental health services.  Military service raises the risk of mental
    health problems while causing other adjustment challenges, and the
    President has worked to expand peer mental health counseling
    programs to help veterans live safe and healthy lives after their
    service.  Under his Administration, the Department of Veterans
    Affairs (VA) has hired – and will continue to hire – new Veteran
    Peer Specialists to serve in VA medical centers and in critical
    outreach roles nationwide.  These Specialists are trained and
    certified mental health professionals whose lived experiences help
    them connect fellow veterans to services. 

<!-- -->

-   ***Expanding America’s Mental Health Workforce and Clinics. ***
    America’s shortage of qualified mental health professionals and
    facilities makes it harder for people to get the care they need. 
    More than [122 million
    Americans](https://data.hrsa.gov/topics/health-workforce/shortage-areas)
    live in communities with severe shortages of mental health
    providers.** ** President Biden has taken bold steps to address
    these shortages.  He has delivered tens of billions to expand
    federal and state mental health and substance use services across
    America and called for permanent funding for Certified Community
    Behavioral Health Clinics, which provide 24/7 crisis care and
    treatment for mental health and substance use disorders, regardless
    of individuals’ ability to pay. And, the Bipartisan Safer
    Communities Act will help expand these clinics to all states across
    the United States.  The Biden Administration also launched 988, the
    National Suicide & Crisis Lifeline, which has connected millions of
    Americans in crisis to immediate, confidential, and free care from
    trained counselors, as well as the National Maternal Mental Health
    Hotline, which helps mothers navigate mental health issues by
    dialing 1-833-TLC-MAMA (1-833-852-6262).  And this summer, the
    Administration will release a roadmap for growing and diversifying
    the workforce trained to address mental health and substance use
    issues.  This work builds on recent actions to advance mental health
    careers, including AmeriCorps’s first-of-its-kind
    [partnership](https://www.youthmentalhealthcorps.org/) launched last
    month to support service-to-career pathways into behavioral health.

**<u>Holding Big Tech Accountable</u>**

President Biden believes that the American tech industry is the most
innovative in the world.  Although tech platforms can help share ideas,
stay connected, and access new products and services, they can also
divide us and wreak serious real-world harms.  Like most Americans, the
President has long been concerned about how some in the tech industry
collect, share, and exploit sensitive personal data, tilt our economy’s
playing field, violate the civil rights of women and minorities, and
even put our children at risk.  The President also recognizes that
recent advancements in artificial intelligence (AI), while carrying
enormous promise, also exacerbate these risks, introduce new ones, and
threaten to increase the influence that some tech companies wield over
our lives.  Since his
[first](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/01/remarks-of-president-joe-biden-state-of-the-union-address-as-delivered/)
State of the Union Address, President Biden has called on Congress to
pass strong bipartisan legislation holding tech companies accountable
for the harms they cause, and he renewed these calls. 

-   ***Protecting Americans’ Privacy and Safety*** ***Online, Especially
    Our Kids. *** Consistent with his commitment to tackle the mental
    health crisis, President Biden has acted to address the compelling
    and [growing
    evidence](https://www.hhs.gov/surgeongeneral/priorities/youth-mental-health/social-media/index.html)
    that social media and other tech platforms harm mental health and
    wellbeing of all Americans especially our kids.  In each of his
    State of the Union Addresses, President Biden has called for strong
    federal protections for Americans’ privacy, including clear limits
    on how companies collect, use and share highly personal data – your
    internet history, your personal communications, your location, and
    your health, genetic and biometric data.  Disclosure is not enough –
    President Biden believes much of that data should not be collected
    in the first place and that young people, who are especially
    vulnerable online, need even stronger protections.  Last month,
    President Biden took [the most significant federal
    action](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/28/fact-sheet-president-biden-issues-sweeping-executive-order-to-protect-americans-sensitive-personal-data/)
    any President has ever taken to protect Americans’ data security. 
    His Executive Order begins a process that will stop the large-scale
    transfer of this data—which includes intimate insights into
    Americans’ health, location, and finances—to countries like China
    and Russia.  But Congress must act.  Strong bipartisan legislation
    is necessary to regulate the types of data that is collected,
    protect kids online, and ensure the privacy of all Americans,
    including legislation that limits targeted advertising and bans it
    altogether for children. 

<!-- -->

-   ***Holding Companies Accountable for the Harms They Cause. ***
    President Biden believes that all companies – including technology
    companies – should be held accountable for the harms they cause,
    including the content they spread and the algorithms they use.  For
    this reason, President Biden has [long
    called](https://www.wsj.com/articles/unite-against-big-tech-abuses-social-media-privacy-competition-antitrust-children-algorithm-11673439411)
    on Congress for fundamental reform to Section 230 of the
    Communications Decency Act, which absolves tech companies from legal
    responsibility for content posted on their sites.  The President has
    also called on Congress to stop tech platforms from being used for
    criminal conduct, including sales of dangerous drugs like fentanyl. 
    The Biden Administration has also used all its authorities to crack
    down on algorithmic discrimination and algorithmic collusion and to
    bring more competition back to the tech sector.  The President’s
    vision for our economy is one in which everyone – small and midsized
    businesses, mom-and-pop shops, entrepreneurs – can compete on a
    level playing field with the biggest companies, including and
    perhaps especially in the tech sector. That’s why he has also worked
    with Congress to pass bipartisan legislation to boost funding for
    federal antitrust enforcers.

<!-- -->

-   ***Making Sure AI is Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy. *** Since taking
    office, President Biden has moved swiftly to seize the promise and
    manage the risks of AI.  Last year, he issued a [landmark Executive
    Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/30/fact-sheet-president-biden-issues-executive-order-on-safe-secure-and-trustworthy-artificial-intelligence/)
    on AI to ensure that America leads the way toward responsible AI
    innovation.  The Order directed federal agencies to establish new
    high standards for AI safety and security, protect Americans’
    privacy, advance equity and civil rights, stand up for workers and
    consumers, and much more.  In January, the White House announced
    that agencies had completed on schedule all of the 90-day actions
    tasked by the Order.  These actions included using the Defense
    Production Act to compel developers of the most powerful AI systems
    to report vital safety information, assessing the risks from AI’s
    use in every critical infrastructure sector, and launching a pilot
    of the National AI Research Resource to catalyze innovation and
    competition. Since then, agencies have completed other vital work.
     For example, the Federal Trade Commission proposed a new rule to
    provide for penalties and redress when AI is used to impersonate an
    individual for commercial purposes. Meanwhile, the National Science
    Foundation and Department of Energy announced funding to support a
    research network that will enable the development of more secure and
    privacy-safeguarding approaches in AI.  And the U.S. Patent and
    Trademark Office published guidance clarifying questions at the
    intersection of AI and intellectual property law—encouraging the use
    of AI to keep America at the frontlines of innovation while ensuring
    AI will not be used to create a minefield of patents to stifle
    competition.

**<u>Delivering on our Sacred Obligation to America’s Veterans and their
Families</u>**

President Biden believes there is no more sacred obligation than taking
care of our nation’s military service members, veterans, and their
families, caregivers, and survivors.  Simply put, we owe them a debt we
can never fully repay.  Delivering on our sacred obligation to those who
have worn the uniform is a commitment that unites all Americans and that
is why the President has made supporting our veterans a core pillar in
his Unity Agenda for the nation.  President Biden has signed into law
more than 30 bipartisan bills addressing critical issues facing veterans
today, including the PACT Act, which is most significant expansion of
benefits and services for toxic exposed veterans in more than 30 years.
 And the President and Congress have worked together to address veteran
homelessness, improve access to child and long-term care, and support
education and workforce opportunity for veterans and their families. 

-   ***Delivering Historic Expansion of Veterans’ Health Care under the
    PACT Act. *** President Biden believes that every veteran deserves
    access to quality health care.  This week, in one of the largest
    expansions of veterans’ health care in American history, President
    Biden delivered on the promise that any veteran exposed to toxins
    can enroll directly in VA health care—[nearly a decade ahead of
    schedule](https://news.va.gov/press-room/veteran-toxins-hazards-serving-eligible-va/). 
    Millions of veterans — including all veterans who served in the
    Vietnam War, the Gulf War, Iraq, Afghanistan, and any combat zone
    after 9/11 — can enroll directly in VA health.  President Biden
    encourages all eligible veterans to visit VA.gov/PACT or call
    1-800-MYVA411 to learn more and apply.  This week’s historic
    expansion builds on the other Administration work to deliver more
    benefits and health care more quickly to more veterans than ever
    before.  Since its 2022 enactment, VA has screened more than 5.25
    million veterans for toxic exposure, received more than 1.43 million
    PACT Act claims, and granted toxic exposure benefits to more than
    720,000 veterans and survivors.  Over 114,000 veterans eligible
    under the PACT Act also have newly enrolled in VA health care.  In
    addition, just last year, VA delivered $163 billion in earned
    benefits to 6.3 million veterans and survivors, and processed a
    record 1.98 million disability claims.  VA delivered more than 116
    million health care appointments, over 5.5 million dental
    procedures, and provided services and assistance to more than 74,000
    family caregivers. 

<!-- -->

-   ***Expanding Cancer Care for Veterans.* ** Under the PACT Act, the
    Biden Administration is making care and benefits available to
    veterans battling over 300 medical conditions, including more than
    100 cancers.  With President Biden’s leadership, [VA is
    expanding](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-expands-health-care-benefits-veterans-cancer/)
    the types of cancers for which veterans can get disability benefits
    if exposed to radiation, burn pits, or water contamination.* * In
    addition, this year VA will offer genetic testing to every veteran
    who may need it and make lung cancer screenings available in every
    VA facility nationwide, which will help save the lives of the nearly
    5,000 veterans who die from lung cancer every year.  VA is also
    taking action to expand at-home screenings for colorectal cancer,
    the second leading cause of cancer death in America.

<!-- -->

-   ***Ensuring Access to Affordable, Stable Housing***.  President
    Biden believes that every veteran should have a roof over their
    head.  But housing costs are too high, and significant investments
    are needed to address the large shortage of affordable homes that
    has been growing for more than a decade.  Tonight, President Biden
    will discuss his [plan to lower housing
    costs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/07/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-plan-to-lower-housing-costs-for-working-families/),
    including by building and preserving over 2 million new homes to
    lower rents and the cost of buying a home.  At the same time, the
    Biden Administration is taking steps to ensure access to affordable
    and stable housing for all veterans.  Last year alone, VA helped
    [more than 145,000 Veterans and their families retain their homes or
    otherwise avoid
    foreclosure](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-calls-on-mortgage-servicers-to-pause-foreclosures-of-va-guaranteed-loans-through-may-31-2024/)
    and permanently housed more than 46,000 Veterans.  The Biden
    Administration awarded more than [$1
    billion](https://news.va.gov/press-room/https-news-va-gov-press-room-homeless/)
    in grant funding to help homeless veterans.  The Administration also
    launched
    [first-of-its-kind](https://news.va.gov/press-room/first-of-their-kind-grants-for-legal-services-for-homeless-veterans/)
    funding for legal services for veterans experiencing or at risk of
    homelessness. 

<!-- -->

-   ***Lowering Costs for Veterans and Cracking Down on Fraud. ***
    President Biden is doing everything in his power to [lower costs for
    all
    Americans](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/07/fact-sheet-president-biden-is-taking-action-to-lower-costs-for-families-and-fight-corporate-rip-offs/),
    including America’s veterans, and to combat fraud and scams that
    target veterans, service members, and their families.  Fraud against
    veterans and service members is widespread. From 2015-2019,
    the [Federal Trade Commission received
    163,000](https://consumer.ftc.gov/consumer-alerts/2019/11/veterans-servicemembers-and-fraud-numbers)
    fraud reports from veterans and nearly 13,000 from active-duty
    service members.  Veterans face particularly high risks of fraud
    with the median loss for veterans from fraud 44% higher than for
    other civilians.  President Biden launched the [Veteran Scam and
    Fraud Evasion (VSAFE) Task
    Force](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/10/fact-sheet-to-mark-veterans-day-biden-harris-administration-highlights-historic-care-benefits-new-actions-to-support-veterans-and-their-families/)
    to crack down on these fraud and scams.  And today, VA is launching
    a new [National Veterans Financial Resource
    Center](https://www.mirecc.va.gov/visn19/finvet/) to promote
    financial stability, literacy, and debt management for veterans.

<!-- -->

-   ***Reducing Veteran Suicide*.**  President Biden is working to
    protect America’s veterans and released a [comprehensive
    strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Military-and-Veteran-Suicide-Prevention-Strategy.pdf)
    for reducing military and veteran suicide that directs bold and
    comprehensive action.  Alongside the Administration’s expansion of
    peer mental health counseling programs for Veterans, VA has expanded
    its Veteran Justice Outreach Specialist workforce by over 20 percent
    and will launch a new $10 million program to support states and
    territories in their efforts to prevent veteran suicide this
    spring.  In addition, building on the success of KeepItSecure.net,
    VA will launch a nationwide lethal means safety campaign which will
    include toolkits, technical assistance and training, and public
    service assets for veterans, providers, caregivers, and community
    organizations.

<!-- -->

-   ***Supporting Military and Veteran Families, Caregivers, and
    Survivors***.  As a military family, President Biden and the First
    Lady recognize the commitment and resilience of military-connected
    families as essential to the recruitment, retention, and readiness
    of our Armed Forces.  In June 2023, the President, alongside Dr.
    Biden, signed an [Executive Order on Advancing Economic Security for
    Military and Veteran Spouses, Military Caregivers, and
    Survivors](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/06/09/executive-order-on-advancing-economic-security-for-military-and-veteran-spouses-military-caregivers-and-survivors/). 
    This Executive Order is the most comprehensive set of administrative
    actions any President has directed to support military spouses, and
    it included nearly 20 new actions aimed at enhancing career
    stability, expanding employment resources, and improving transition
    assistance support for military-connected spouses.  Last month, the
    Biden Administration launched [new
    tools](https://www.whitehouse.gov/joiningforces/blog/2024/02/27/biden-administration-continued-efforts-to-recruit-hire-and-retain-military-connected-spouses-in-the-federal-government/#:~:text=This%20Executive%20Order%20is%20the,support%20for%20military%2Dconnected%20spouses.)
    designed to ensure the Federal government is a leader among
    employers, modeling approaches to hiring and retaining military
    spouse talent.

**<u>Ending Cancer as We Know It</u>**

Cancer has touched nearly every American family.  It is the second
leading cause of death in the United States.  Each year, more than
600,000 Americans die from cancer and nearly 1.8 million Americans are
diagnosed.  Beating cancer brings Americans together no matter where
they are, and President Biden made ending cancer as we know it a central
part of the Unity Agenda. 

Two years ago, the President and First Lady reignited the Cancer
Moonshot with the goals of reducing the cancer death rate in the United
States by at least half – preventing more than 4 million cancer deaths
by 2047 – and improving the experience of people who are touched by
cancer.  The President also established a Cancer Cabinet to mobilize
action in advancing these goals.  In the time since, the [Cancer
Moonshot has announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cancermoonshot/) more
than 60 new programs, policies, and resources, and more than 120 private
companies, non-profit organizations, patient groups, and academic
institutions have stepped up with new actions in support of these
goals.  In his State of the Union Address, President Biden will announce
a new advance in the fight to end cancer as we know it:

-   ***A New Revolutionary Treatment Program to Transform Outcomes for
    Americans Facing Cancer. *** Two years ago, President Biden and
    Congress worked together on a bipartisan basis to launch ARPA-H, the
    Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health, with an initial
    investment of $2.5 billion to drive breakthroughs in cancer,
    Alzheimer’s, diabetes, and other diseases.  Today, ARPA-H launched
    of a [revolutionary treatment
    program](https://arpa-h.gov/news-and-events/arpa-h-launches-program-transform-cancer-care)
    that will improve outcomes for people facing cancers that lead to a
    vast majority of cancer deaths in the United States each year.  Far
    too often, doctors lack the tools to determine when a tumor has
    changed to the point where a different or additional treatment is
    needed and struggle to accurately predict which treatment will be
    most effective at a particular point. As a result, people,
    especially those facing an advanced cancer, may receive treatments
    that are not effective.  ARPA-H’s Advanced Analysis for Precision
    cancer Therapy (ADAPT) program will develop next-generation tools
    that predict the optimal treatment for each person facing advanced
    cancer, monitor tumors and determine precisely when they change,
    ensure patients receive the right treatment at the right time, and
    ultimately, save and extend lives. Today’s announcement builds on
    other recent progress, including the launch of the National Cancer
    Institute’s [Clinical Trials Innovation
    Unit](https://www.cancer.gov/research/infrastructure/clinical-trials/ctiu),
    which is accelerating clinical testing of cutting-edge cancer
    prevention, diagnostic, treatment, and survivorship approaches.

<!-- -->

-   ***Lowering Costs and Delivering Patient Navigation Support.***
     Cancer is one of the costliest diagnoses a person can face in the
    United States.  Patient out-of-pocket costs for cancer care total
    [more than $16
    billion](https://www.cancer.gov/news-events/press-releases/2021/annual-report-nation-part-2-economic-burden#:~:text=Part%202%20of%20the%202021%20Annual%20Report%20to,billion%20and%20patient%20time%20costs%20of%20%244.87%20billion.)
    each year and approximately [40 percent of cancer
    patients](https://www.amjmed.com/article/S0002-9343(18)30509-6/abstract)
    fully deplete their assets by the second year of their diagnosis. 
    President Biden believes that access to health care is a right, not
    a privilege, and more Americans have health insurance today than
    under any President.  Starting next year, millions of seniors on
    Medicare will save up to tens of thousands a year when the $2,000
    out-of-pocket cap on prescription drugs goes into effect, especially
    those receiving cancer drugs, which are among the [most expensive
    drugs](https://www.kff.org/report-section/the-out-of-pocket-cost-burden-for-specialty-drugs-in-medicare-part-d-in-2019-findings/)
    for Medicare beneficiaries.  This week, President Biden announced
    [new
    steps](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/06/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-new-steps-to-lower-prescription-drug-and-health-care-costs-expand-access-to-health-care-and-protect-consumers/)
    to lower drug and health care costs, including for Americans facing
    cancer, and to deliver support to people with a cancer diagnosis
    through expanded patient navigation services.  Cancer navigation is
    personalized assistance to patients, caregivers, and families to
    help identify and resolve barriers to high-quality and timely cancer
    care through care coordination and advocacy.  Because these services
    improve patient outcomes, reduce healthcare costs, and advance
    health equity, President Biden has prioritized increasing access to
    navigation service and last year the [Biden Cancer Moonshot
    announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2023/11/27/cancer-navigation-improves-equity-outcomes-paying-for-it-matters-too/)
    [new
    steps](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2023/11/27/cancer-navigation-improves-equity-outcomes-paying-for-it-matters-too/)
    to deliver cancer navigation services across America.  With the
    First Lady’s leadership, today the Administration announced [new
    commitments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2024/03/08/fact-sheet-biden-cancer-moonshot-announces-commitments-from-leading-health-insurers-and-oncology-providers-to-make-navigation-services-accessible-to-more-than-150-million-americans/)
    from seven leading insurance companies which cover more than 150
    million Americans to reimburse for navigation services and new
    actions from 40 comprehensive cancer centers and community oncology
    practices to bring effective navigation support to more communities.

<!-- -->

-   ***Tackling the Drivers of Cancer and Cancer Deaths*. ** The Biden
    Administration is working to tackle the drivers of cancer in
    America, including by making the [largest investment in clean water
    in America
    history](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-nearly-6-billion-for-clean-drinking-water-and-wastewater-infrastructure-as-part-of-investing-in-america-tour/)
    thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  The President is
    committed to ensuring every community has access to clean drinking
    water, free of PFAS, or “forever chemicals,” that can cause cancer. 
    President Biden is delivering funding to every single state and
    territory in the country to expand access to clean drinking water,
    replace lead pipes, improve wastewater and sanitation
    infrastructure, and remove PFAS contamination in water.  And with
    billions of dollars of additional investment from the Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law, the Biden-Harris Administration is cleaning up
    toxic Superfund sites, an important step toward environmental
    justice and cancer prevention.  In addition, the Department of
    Health and Human Services is releasing a [Framework to Support and
    Accelerate Smoking
    Cessation](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2024/03/08/hhs-announces-new-smoking-cessation-framework-support-quitting.html),
    setting out an agenda and actions to expand equitable access and
    effectiveness of smoking cessation services to more Americans.  As
    an early step in the execution of this roadmap, CMS is supporting
    efforts [to reach Medicaid and CHIP
    beneficiaries](https://www.medicaid.gov/sites/default/files/2024-03/cib03072024.pdf)
    with effective support to quit smoking and the [Department of
    Veterans Affairs is
    expanding](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-expands-health-care-benefits-veterans-cancer/)
    its capacity to offer tobacco-use treatment to Veterans receiving
    lung cancer screening and through outreach.

\###
