---
date: '2024-11-03'
modified_time: 2024-11-04 16:01:34-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-03 23:59:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/03/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-press-gaggle-detroit-mi-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Press Gaggle | Detroit,\_MI"
---
 
Greater Emmanuel Institutional Church of God in Christ  
Detroit, Michigan

1:29 P.M. EST

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Hi.  Good afternoon, everyone.   
  
     Q    Good afternoon.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Well, we’re back in Michigan and
started the day in a really wonderful, joyful way.  And yesterday, of
course, we were in five states.  And today, I will be spending the rest
of the day here on the ground in Michigan, talking with voters and
reminding them of the stakes and reminding them of the power they
possess to actually determine the outcome of this election and the
direction of our country.   
  
So, I’m very much looking forward to today and the next 48 hours.

Any questions?  
  
     AIDE:  Todd, Detroit Free Press.  
  
     Q    Vice President, do you have any closing argument for Arab
American voters and voters in the Muslim community as to why they should
vote for you in this election?  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Sure.  Absolutely.  Well, first of all, I’m
honored to have the support of many Arab American leaders who represent
the interests and the — the concerns, also, of the Arab American
community.  But I also know well enough to know it is not a monolith. 
There are many issues that are the issues that all Americans face and
then, of course, some that are specific to what is happening in Gaza.   
  
And on the subject of Gaza, I have been very clear: The level of death
of innocent Palestinians is unconscionable.  We need to end the war, and
we need to get the hostages out.  And as president of the United States,
I will do everything in my power to achieve that end and a two-state
solution where Palestinians will have the right to self-determination
and security and — and stability in the region. 

But again, the issues are as varied as they are for any voter.  It
includes that, but it is also about bringing down the cost of living. 
It is about supporting small businesses in the community.  It is about
bringing down the cost of housing, groceries, extending the Child Tax
Credit. 

These are issues that resonate in that community, as well as every other
community.  And I will continue to speak to members of that community
and to ask for their vote, which I hope I earn.   
  
     AIDE:  Alex.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

Alex?  Alex who?  
  
     Q    Me?  
  
     AIDE:  Yeah, (inaudible).  
  
     Q    I’m Lauren.  (Laughs.)  
  
     AIDE:  Sorry.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  There we go.  
  
     AIDE:  You have the same last name as someone else.  (Laughter.)  
  
     Q    Oh.  (Laughs.)  
  
     AIDE:  Keep going.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You know what, it’s 48 hours out.  Everyone is
a little tired.  Who was with us last night?  (Laughs.) You’re right.  A
few sleep deprived.  
  
     Q    I guess —  
      
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Please.  
  
     Q    — simply, how are you feeling?  And have you submitted your
ballot?  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I am feeling great.  I am looking forward to
these next 48 hours to continue to talk with the voters and — and talk
about the stakes and — and talk about the future of our country, which I
think is bright when we are working with the same spirit of building
community, building coalitions, and building the strength of our economy
and our country.  
  
I have.  I actually just filled out my mail-in ballot.  So, I have
voted.  
  
     AIDE:  Darlene.  
  
     Q    Madam Vice President, have you returned the ballot to
California?  And how did you vote on Prop 36?  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I have — my ballot is on its way to
California, and I’m going to trust the system that it will arrive
there.  And I am not going to talk about the vote on that because,
honestly, it’s the Sunday before the election, and I don’t intend to
create an endorsement one way or another around it, so — but I did
vote.   
      
     AIDE:  Nandita.  
  
     Q    Thank you.  Madam Vice President, Donald Trump prematurely
declared victory in 2020.  Just his comments in the past weeks and days
seem to suggest, you know, that he’s thinking about it.  How will you
and your campaign respond if he does the same thing again?  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, here we are on the Sunday before the
election.  And I would ask, in particular, people who have not yet voted
to not fall for his tactic, which I think includes suggesting to people
that if they vote, their vote won’t matter; suggesting to people that
somehow the integrity of our voting system is not intact so that they
don’t vote.   
  
And again, I think that it is a tactic.  It is meant to distract from
the fact that we have and support free and fair elections in our
country.  We did in 2020.  He lost.  And the systems that are in place
for this election in 2024 have integrity.  They are good systems. 

And the vote of the people will determine the outcome of this election. 
And everyone must know that their vote is their power to determine the
outcome of the election, and their vote will count.  It does matter.   
  
     AIDE:  Thank you.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  All right.  Thank you all.  
  
                        END                     1:34 P.M. EST
