---
date: '2024-11-18'
modified_time: 2024-11-18 17:54:06-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-18 18:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/18/remarks-by-president-biden-during-the-first-session-of-the-g20-summit-rio-de-janeiro-brazil/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden During the First Session of the G20 Summit | Rio\
  \ de Janeiro,\_Brazil"
---
 
Museum of Modern Art  
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

11:26 A.M. BRT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  (In progress) everyone around this table.  It’s going to
take all of us — time.  It’s going to take all of us and the ability to
step up to take on responsibility.  
  
First — it seems to me there’s certain key steps.  First, we have to
invest at large scale to help countries meet Sustainable Development
Goals and tackle gloma- — global challenges.  We’ve made good progress
boosting the firepower of multilateral development banks so they have
more resources to address the challenges like pandemics and climate
change.  
  
Now we need to make sure the World Bank can continue its work in the
most vulnerable countries.  I’m proud to announce the United States is
pledging $4 billion over the next three years to the World Bank’s
International Development Association.  As my friend Ajay tells you, the
IDA is a first responder to the world’s poorest countries.  I encourage
everyone around this table to increase their pledges in December.  
  
In addition, we have to mobilize private capital at scale.  I’m proud of
my country’s work in this fund, including mobilizing $60 billion through
the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment.  That
partnership will be a game changer for food security, especially in the
Lobito Corridor in Africa.  
  
Second, debt relief.  Too many nations are fo- — forced to choose
between investing in the future and paying off their debt.  That’s why,
earlier this year, I came together with Kenya to announce the
Nairobi-Washington Vision.   
  
It boils down to a simple proposition.  For countries that are willing
to make bold reforms and smart investments, we should do three things:
mobilize more resources from the multilateral developments banks; two,
unlock low-cost private-sector financing; and three, commit the
following money into the- — to flowing money into these countries rather
than taking it out during their need — their moments of need.  And I
want to note: All creditors must play a role, in my view.    
  
Finally, we all have to work to end the conflicts and crises that are
eroding progress in food security around the world.   
  
Ukraine.  The United States strongly supports Ukraine’s sovereignty and
territorial integrity.  Everyone around this table, in my view, should
as well.   
  
And, by the way, Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine led to the
highest-record food crisis in all of history.   
  
On Gaza.  As I’ve said before, Israel has the right to defend itself
after the worst massacre of Jews since the Holocaust, but how it defends
itself — even as Hamas cruelly hides among civilians — matters a great
deal.   
  
The United States has led the world in humanitarian aid to Gaza, and
we’re going to keep pushing to accelerate a ceasefire deal that ensures
Israel’s security but brings hostages home and ends the suffering of the
Palestinian people and children.  
  
I ask everyone here to increase their pressure on Hamas that is
currently refusing this deal.  
  
And on Sudan.  We’re seeing one of the world’s most humani- — serious
humanitarian crisis: 8 million people on the brink of famine.  This
deserves our collective outrage and our collective attention.  External
actors must stop arming generals and speak with one voice to tell them,
“Stop tearing your country apart.  Stop blocking aid to the Sudanese
people.  Stop the violence.”  
  
Let me close with this.  As you know, this is my last G20 Summit.  We’ve
made progress together, but I urge you to keep going — and I’m sure you
will, regardless of my urging or not.   
  
This group is — within — has within its power to usher in a new era of
sustainable development, to go from billions to trillions in assistance
to those who — most in need.  
  
This all may sound lofty, but this group can lay the foundation to make
that achievable.  
  
Thank you very much, and I look forward to the rest of our discussion. 
(Applause.)

11:32 A.M. BRT
