---
date: '2024-11-01'
modified_time: 2024-11-04 17:02:52-04:00
published_time: 2024-11-01 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-little-chute-wi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Little Chute,\_WI"
---
 
Little Chute High School  
Little Chute, Wisconsin

5:58 P.M. CDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Can we hear it for Jennifer?  (Applause.)   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Oh, it’s good
to be back in Wisconsin.  (Applause.)  Hi, everyone.  Hi, everyone.  
  
Jen- — I just — first, I just want — Jennifer, I want to thank you. 
Jennifer and I had s- — time to visit backstage, and we first met in
2020 on a Zoom talking about the Affordable Care Act, and your son is
doing well now.  You are an incredible leader.  (Applause.)  And I thank
you so very much.  Let’s hear it for Jennifer, please.  (Applause.) 
Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
All right.  Wisconsin, are we ready to do this?  (Applause.)  Are we
ready to vote?  (Applause.)  Are we ready to win?  (Applause.)  
  
Oh, it’s good to be back.  And I want to thank all the leaders,
everyone.  And thank you for taking the time out of your busy lives to
be here this afternoon. 

You know, we are all here because we care and we know that this is about
community and of all of us being here together at one time.  And I thank
you all.   
  
And I want to thank my dear friend, Tammy Baldwin —  (applause) — send
her back to the United States Senate — (applause); Lieutenant Governor
Rodriguez — (applause); County Executive Nelson — (applause); and the
chair of our Democratic Party, Ben Wikler.  (Applause.)  
  
All right, we have work to do.   
  
Okay, Wisconsin, four days left in probably one of if not the most
consequential elections of our lifetime, and we have work to do still. 
We have a lot of work to do, but we like hard work.  Hard work is good
work.  Hard work is joyful work.  (Applause.)  And make no mistake: We
will win.  (Applause.)  We will win.  We will win.  We will win.  
  
And one of the reasons —

AUDIENCE:  We will win! 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — yes.

     AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We will win.  And we will win — and we will win
because we are the type of people who we know when you know what to
stand for, you know what to fight for — (applause) — you know what to
fight for.  Right?

And in this election, we have an opportunity to finally turn the page on
a decade of Donald Trump trying to keep us divided and afraid of each
other.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re done with that.  We’re done.  We’re exhausted
with that.  And we know that’s who he is, but, Wisconsin, that’s not who
we are.  That’s not who we are.  (Applause.)  That’s not who we are. 
And it is time for a new generation of leadership in America. 
(Applause.)  And I am ready to offer that leadership as the next
president of the United States of America.  (Applause.)  
  
And, Wisconsin, you know me, I’m not afraid of tough fights.  For
decades — clearly — (laughter) — for decades, I was a prosecutor and the
top law enforcement officer of the biggest state, and I won fights
against the big banks who ripped off homeowners, against for-profit
colleges that scammed veterans and students, against predators who
abused women and children, against cartels that trafficked in guns and
drugs and human beings.  And I pledge to you, if you give me the chance
to fight on your behalf as president, there is nothing in the world that
will stand in my way.  (Applause.)  Nothing in the world.  
  
And look — and on the other side, we know who Donald Trump is.  Now this
is not someone who is thinking about how to make your life better.  He
is someone who is increasingly unstable, obsessed with revenge, consumed
with grievance, and the man is out for unchecked power.  He’s out for
unchecked power.   
  
And in less than 90 days — you can picture the Oval Office.  In less
than 90 days, it’s either going to be him or me sitting in the Oval
Office.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But with your help —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  Okay.

  
     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  A- — a- — (laughs) —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)  Thank you.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But — but let’s help — let’s help the friends and
family and neighbors who is — who are not here right now imagine that
for a minute — right? 

January 20th.  Oval Office.  It’s either going to be him sitting in
there, poring over and stewing over his enemies list —  
      
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Or, when I am elected, it will be me walking in
there on your behalf, working on my to-do list — (applause) — because we
got work to do.  Because we have work to do.  
  
And at the top of my list is bringing down the cost of living for you. 
(Applause.)  That will be my focus every single day as president,
including I will give a middle-class tax cut to over 100 million
Americans.  (Applause.)  We will enact the first-ever federal ban on
corporate price gouging on groceries — (applause) — and fight to make
sure that hardworking Americans can actually afford a place to live. 
(Applause.)   
  
And one of the things that we were talking aba- — backstage is about the
importance of people being able to care for their family members, and,
including and in particular, their elder family members.  (Applause.) 
And some of you may know — and this is personal for me, as are so many
of these issues.   
  
I took care of my mother when she was sick.  And I — and I know what it
is in terms of taking care of someone and just trying to cook the things
that they feel like eating, right?  Just trying to help them put on a
sweater, trying to think from time to time, “What can I do to put a
smile on their face or make them laugh?”   
  
It is important work, and it is work that is about dignity.  It’s about
dignity, and if you are caring, then, for an elderly parent or relative,
my plan is to cover the cost of home care under Medicare — (applause) —
so you don’t have to worry about either spending down whatever savings
you have to qualify for Medicaid or quitting your job and cutting off a
source of income to be able to stay at home, in particular if you’re in
the sandwich generation, meaning that you are taking care of your kids
while you are taking care of a parent.   
  
It’s about dignity.  And my plan will also lower the cost of childcare. 
Again, about dignity.  (Applause.)  About dignity.  
  
My plan is to prioritize cutting taxes for small businesses.  Do we have
small-business owners here?  I love our small businesses.  (Applause.) 
You are part of the backbone of America’s economy.  And that’s the work
we will do.   
  
We will do the work of lowering health care costs, because I believe — I
believe so deeply and strongly access to health care should be a right
and not just a privilege of those who can afford it.  (Applause.)  
  
It’s about values.  It’s about values.   
  
On the other hand, Donald Trump’s answer to the financial pressures you
face are the same as they were last time: another trillion dollars in
tax cuts for billionaires and the biggest corporations, and this time,
he will pay for it with a 20 percent national sales tax on everything
that you buy that is imported — clothes, food, toys, cell phones.  A
Trump sales tax that would cost the average American family — economists
have — have measured it — more than $4,000 a year that you are not
paying you would have to pay because of that tax.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on top of that, as we have discussed, he still
wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which would throw millions of people, millions of
Americans, off of their health insurance and take us back to the time
when insurance companies could deny people with preexisting conditions. 
You remember what that was?

Well, you are correct: We are —

AUDIENCE:  Not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not going back.  We are not going back. 
(Applause.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!

  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we are not going back because, just like
Wisconsin’s state motto tells us, we will move forward.  (Applause.)  We
will move forward.  You guys know that best.  
  
So, ours — ours is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for
freedom, like the fundamental freedom of a woman to be able to make
decisions about her own body and not have her government tell her what
to do.  (Applause.)  
  
And we remember how we got here.  Donald Trump, when he was president,
hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme Court with the
intention that they would undo the protections of Roe v. Wade.  They did
as he intended, and now over 20 states have a Trump abortion ban.   
  
Imagine, in America today, one in three women lives in a state with a
Trump abortion ban, many with no exceptions even for rape and incest,
which is immoral. 

And Donald Trump is not done.  He would ban abortion nationwide — yes,
even here in Wisconsin, were that to happen — and he would restrict
access to birth control, put IVF treatments at risk, and force states —
get this — to monitor women’s pregnancies.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Just google Project 2025, which I still can’t
believe they put in writing.  (Laughter.) 

And let us agree, one does not have to abandon their faith or deeply
held beliefs to agree the government shouldn’t be telling her what to do
— (applause) — not the government.  Not the government.  Not the
government.

  
And when Congress — and when Congress, together with Tammy’s leadership,
passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom nationwide, as president
of the United States, I will proudly sign it into law.  (Applause.)  I
will proudly sign it into law.  
  
So, Wisconsin, I am asking for your vote.  (Applause.)  I am asking for
your vote.  And here is my pledge to you — here is my pledge to you. 

As president, I pledge to seek common ground and commonsense solutions
to the challenges you face.  (Applause.)

I pledge that I am not looking to score political points.  I am looking
to make progress.  (Applause.)  
  
And I pledge — I pledge to listen to those who will be impacted by the
decisions I make.  I will listen to experts.  I will listen to the
people who disagree with me.  Because, you see, unlike Donald Trump, I
don’t believe that people who disagree with me are the enemy. 
(Applause.)  He wants to put them in jail.  I’ll give them a seat at the
table.  (Applause.)  That’s what a democracy is about.  That’s what
leaders do.  (Applause.)  
  
And it is my pledge to always put country above party and self and to be
a president for all Americans — (applause) — for all Americans.  That is
my pledge to you, Wisconsin.   
  
So, let me ask — we’re four days out — who here has already voted? 
(Applause.)  Oh, wow!  (Laughs.)  Oh, my goodness.  That’s great.  Thank
you.  (Laughs.)  
  
Okay.  Well, here’s what I want to ask — I want to ask a little more of
you.  Please talk to your friends and family, neighbors, and — and share
your perspective.  Share — share why you have taken the time out of your
lives to spend this time here when there’s so many other things you
could do.  Let them know, because this moment, I think, really is our
opportunity to reconnect with people and remind them they’re not alone
and build community.  And so, please, share with them why this election
is important to you and encourage them to make their voices heard.   
  
And for anyone who’s not yet voted, no judgment — (laughter) — but
please take a moment now to just think about what your plan will be for
when and where you will vote, and please go to IWillVote.com — yes, I
have a website — (laughter) — for all the information you might need
about when and where you can go to vote and where to drop off your
absentee ballot.  (Applause.)  
  
And, Wisconsin, truly, we need everyone to vote here.  You, Wisconsin,
are going to make the difference in this election.  (Applause.)  You
will make the difference.  You will make the difference.   
  
And so, it all comes down to this.  We are here together because we love
our country.  We love our country.  And when you love something, you
fight for it.  (Applause.)  And I do believe it is one of the highest
forms of patriotism, an expression of our love of our country, to then
fight for the ideals of our country.  That’s what this is about.  And it
is fighting for the promise of America.   
  
And I’ll tell you, I have always believed in our nation’s promise,
because I have lived it.  I grew up as a child of the Civil Rights
Movement.  My parents took me to the marches when I was in a stroller,
and there were people there from every walk of life who came together to
fight for freedom and for opportunity.   
  
Growing up, I saw how hard my mother worked to raise my sister and me
and to give us the same chances that our country gave her.  And I was
blessed to have family by blood and family by love who — (applause) —
who instilled in me — you know what I’m talking about — and instilled in
me the values of community and compassion and faith.   
  
And I’ve spent my life fighting for people who have been hurt and who
have been counted out but who never stopped believing, in our country,
that anything is possible.   
  
I have lived the promise of America, and I see the promise of America in
everyone who is here, in all of us — in all of us — in all of us. 
(Applause.)  This is the promise of America.   
  
This is the promise of America: In the fathers and mothers and
grandparents who work hard every day for the future of their children;
in the women who refuse to accept a future without reproductive freedom
— (applause) — and in the men who support them — (applause); in
Republicans who have never voted for a Democrat before but are putting
the Constitution of the United States above party.  (Applause.) 
Right?   
  
The promise of America is all around us.  It is in the young leaders who
are voting for the very first time.  (Applause.)  Where are you?  Where
are you?  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Oh, I love Gen Z.  I really do. 
(Laughs.)  
  
You know what I love about this generation?  You all are rightly
impatient for change.  (Applause.)  You know?  You are determined to
live free from gun violence, to take on the climate crisis. 
(Applause.)  You guys are going to shape the world you inherit.  And for
this generation, there — none of these issues is theoretical for them. 
It’s not political for them.   
  
     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We live it!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  For you all, it is a lived experience. 
(Applause.)  It is a lived experience.  That’s right.  And I see you,
and I see your power.  And I am so proud of you when I think about the
future of our nation.  So, can we hear it for our first-time voters? 
(Applause.)  
  
Right.  Right.  Right.   
  
All right.  So, Wisconsin, four days — four days to get this thing
done.  And no one can sit on the sidelines.  Let’s spend the next four
days so that when we look back on these four days, we have no regrets
that we did everything that we could.  (Applause.)  
  
So, let’s knock on doors.  Let’s text and call voters.  Let’s reach out
to family and friends and classmates and neighbors and coworkers.  And
as we do, please, I do ask you, let us be intentional about building
community.  (Applause.)  Let us be intentional about building
coalitions.  (Applause.)  Let us remind each other and others that we
have so much more in common than what separates us.  (Applause.)   
  
Let us do that.  There is power in that.  It will strengthen our
country.  And we’ll remind folks, also: Your vote is your voice, and
your voice is your power.  It is your power.  (Applause.)  
  
And so, Wisconsin, today I ask you, are you ready to make your voices
heard?  (Applause.)  
  
Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)   
  
Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)  
  
Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)   
  
And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)   
  
And when we fight —  
  
AUDIENCE:  We win!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.   
    

God bless you.  And God bless the United States.  God bless you. 
(Applause.)  
  
                              END                 6:19 P.M. CDT
