---
date: '2024-11-03'
modified_time: 2024-11-04 16:00:18-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-03 23:59:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/03/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-a-campaign-call-with-win-with-black-women/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on a Campaign Call with Win With Black\_\
  Women"
---
 
Via Teleconference

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Can you hear me?

     MS. MOORE:  Yes, we can hear you. 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Minyon?

     MS. MOORE:  Yes, ma’am.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi — thank — (laughs).  Good evening,
everyone.  Good evening. 

Yes, I am on the tarmac.  I just landed back from East Lansing,
Michigan, in Detroit.  Yesterday, I was in five states.  Tomorrow, I’m
heading to Pennsylvania.  I’ll be in Pittsburgh.  I’ll be in Philly and
Allentown. 

And two days to go.  And I just wanted to get on the call to thank
everybody for just all the — everything: for the work; the prayers, the
prayers, the prayers; for the friendship; for the sisterhood. 

Jotaka, I thank you for all you’ve been doing to organize.  Minyon, I
just thank you for just being my sister and — and my dear, dear close
friend.

And, everyone, thank you.  Win With Black Women — this coalition has
been in my corner for the last four years and, just four months ago,
immediately jumped into action with this weekly call to be the first
group to organize tens of thousands of Black women in support of our
brand new campaign. 

And I just — I’m so thankful, because you were the catalyst.  When
others saw how the leaders on this call organize and — and empower and
mobilize, then they, too, said, “Hey, we should do it.”  And — and I
know that the leaders here, including and starting with Jotaka, helped
other groups to organize to replicate what Win With Black Women has been
doing for years now. 

And I just thank everyone.  I thank everyone for building a coalition
that has been hard at work to support our campaign — many of those
coalition members who are also on this call. 

And at the heart of our coalition-building is our core understanding
that we all have so much more in common than what separates us, that we
are all in this together, and that we can have an impact on people’s
lives, that we know it is our calling.  We are driven by our faith to
know that we must live a life of service in some way, whether it be
because we choose to be in public office or in other ways.

But it is about lifting people up and reminding them that we are a
community of people who care and have so much to be optimistic about. 

So, I thank everyone on this call for being such a part of this
people-powered movement. 

And two days away from the election, I know people on this call have
been out knocking on doors and calling folks and texting, and we have
such momentum.  I’m telling you.  I just left East Lansing, and I was up
at — at Michigan State, and these young people are just energized. 

And there were people from every generation of life, every walk of life,
coming together under one roof, around a common purpose, and that is
about dedicating ourselves to a new generation of leadership, and it’s
about the future of our country and doing it with optimism. 

So, I thank you all.  We have more work to do.  And I know everyone here
has probably voted early, but I do need your help to make sure that all
our family and friends get to the polls.  And let’s mobilize our
Facebook groups, our family group chats, and everyone we know. 

And I’ll just close by saying again: I’m so thankful and grateful to
everybody here and for this incredible sisterhood.  And we will get this
done, we will win, and it will be because we know what’s at stake, we
love our country, and we know how to fight for all that is good and
important for the future. 

 So, I thank you, everybody.  Minyon, again, thank you for the
introduction.  And, everybody, be well.  I’ll see you out there.  Thank
you.

                             END
