---
date: '2024-11-02'
modified_time: 2024-11-03 20:36:31-04:00
published_time: 2024-11-02 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/02/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-press-gaggle-milwaukee-wi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Press Gaggle | Milwaukee,\_WI"
---
 
Pfister Hotel  
Milwaukee, Wisconsin

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi.  Good morning, everyone.  
  
     Q    Good morning.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Well, it’s good to be back in Milwaukee.  We
had a wonderful evening last night.  People are enthusiastic, and the
road to the White House definitely runs through Milwaukee, and I’m
honored to have the support of people here.   
  
I’m going to continue to remind people: Go to IWillVote.com to know
where you vote and — and how you can vote, in terms of in-person and all
of those other details that are very important to exercising the power
of your vote in this very critical and important election. 

I also want to speak to the comments that have been recently made by the
speaker of the House.  It is just further evidence of everything that
I’ve actually been talking about for months now, about Trump’s intention
to implement Project 2025.  
  
We have talked repeatedly — and the American people know what’s in it. 
We’ve talked repeatedly about their intention to get rid of the
Affordable Care Act; now to get rid of the CHIPS Act.   
  
And let’s talk about manufacturing, which is a critical issue for many
of the states that will make the difference in this election.  Donald
Trump, when he was president, lost 200,000 manufacturing jobs.  We have
created over 700\[,000\] new manufacturing jobs.   
  
It is my plan and intention to continue to invest in American
manufacturing, the work being done by American workers, upholding and
lifting up good union jobs, which are good-paying jobs, and doing the
work of investing in American industries, including our industries of
the future.   
  
That is the way we are going to win the competition with China for the
21st century, and that is the kind of leadership that America deserves
in their president.   
  
     Q    Madam President, one on — Madam President —  
  
     AIDE:  Mary.  Mary.  
  
     Q    Oh, sorry.  
  
     Q    What’s your message to Milwaukee voters who are saying, you
know, Trump might be better for the economy, and we’re hearing that from
— including Black men voters who are skeptical that things are just too
expensive for them?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, let me make it very clear that
I intend to earn the vote of everyone, and I don’t take anyone’s vote
for granted, and my highest priority as president will be to bring down
the cost because, to that point, look, I know the cost of groceries is
too high still, everyone knows it.  And so, my plan includes what we’re
going to do in terms of taking on corporate price gouging and having the
first-ever national ban on corporate price gouging on groceries.   
  
My plan includes addressing the issue of affordable housing, including
for first-time homebuyers, giving them a $25,000 down payment assistance
so they can just get their foot in the door.   
  
My plan includes addressing the needs of parents — in particular, young
parents — which is why I will expand the Child Tax Credit to $6,000 for
the first year of their child’s life, which helps pay for everything
from child care to a crib and a car seat.   
  
My plan includes what we’re going to do to invest in our small
businesses, including increasing tax breaks for small businesses.   
  
And overall, my plan, which is about building an opportunity economy,
has been reviewed by leading economists in our country, from Goldman
Sachs to 32 Nobel laureates, all whom have said that my economic plan
actually will strengthen America’s economy.  They’ve reviewed Donald
Trump’s plan and have determined he will weaken America’s economy, he
will ignite inflation, and he will bring on a recession by the middle of
next year.   
  
     AIDE:  Akayla.  
  
Q    Hi, Madam Vice President.  On the comments from the speaker, he
walked back initially saying that they would repeal the CHIPS Act, but
he still wants to impose changes to the bill.  Are you concerned about
Republicans seeking any changes to the CHIPS Act?

  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, let’s be clear why he walked it back: Because
it’s not popular, and their agenda is not popular.   
  
And that’s why people are showing up by the thousands — tens of
thousands to talk about an agenda that actually is focused on lifting
them up.  That’s why I have the support of, yes, Democrats and
independents and Republicans, because they want a president of the
United States who stops playing politics with their lives.   
  
They want a president of the United States who invest in affordable
health care regardless of who they vote for.   
  
They want a president of the United States who invests in American
manufacturing and American workers.   
  
And that’s the work I will do, and that is the work I’m committed to do,
and I’m very proud to have the support of many leaders from every party
who understand that that’s the kind of leadership that we need moving
forward.

  
AIDE:  Asma.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Madam Vice President, I wanted to ask you about your
day-one agenda.  I know you said the other day — you talked about having
an executive order that would eliminate college degrees for certain
federal jobs.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
Q    Can you tell us about some other day-one priorities?  
  
 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Absolutely.  Well, it — obviously —

Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — there’s more than one.  
  
 Q    Yes.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And one of them is going to be to submit,
basically, a package of proposals that are about bringing down costs.   
  
So, for example, housing.  What we need to do in terms of creating a tax
benefit for folks who want homeownership, what we’re going to do to
create a $25,000 down payment assistance plan, what we’re going to do
for small businesses.  All of that will require a lot of work. 

And day one is also me getting on the phone with members of the
Republican Party, with leaders, with the private sector.  A lot of my
plan includes working with the private sector.   
  
My plan includes cutting through red tape on the issue of housing. 
Again, that includes working with local and state leaders to cut through
the red tape, as well as creating incentives for the private-sector
builders and developers to actually build new housing so we can increase
supply and bring down the cost.   
  
     AIDE:  Charles.  
  
     Q    Madam President, thank you —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Vice President.  
  
     Q    — for making this —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Three days.  
  
     Q    Vice President.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But I appreciate that.  
  
     Q    That will go viral, I’m sure.  
  
     Tomorrow, faith leaders in Milwaukee and across the state will be
praying about this election —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
     Q    — and encouraging people to get out and vote.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
     Q    I think, last week, I heard you say, “God’s power works
through us.”   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
     Q    What does your faith tell you about who God wants to win this
election and lead our divided country?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  My faith and my belief in God tells me that we all
must think about our lives through our ability to do good works, and
through those works, to lift people up, to help the needy, to help the
poor, to help the elderly.  And my plan for my presidency is informed
with that spirit and that approach.  And I do believe that people
understand that that really is the sign of a real leader, which is not
defining one’s strength based on who you beat down, but defining the
strength of a leader based on who you lift up.   
  
     AIDE:  Thank you.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
                               END
