---
date: '2024-11-15'
modified_time: 2024-11-15 16:10:17-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-15 16:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/15/remarks-by-president-biden-prime-minister-ishiba-shigeru-of-japan-and-president-yoon-suk-yeol-of-the-republic-of-korea-in-trilateral-meeting-lima-peru/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden, Prime Minister Ishiba Shigeru of Japan, and President\
  \ Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea in Trilateral Meeting | Lima,\_Peru"
---
 
Lima Convention Center  
Lima, Peru

2:44 P.M. PET

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister, welcome. 
It’s good to be with all of you again.  This is a great group.

Fifteen months ago, we held the first-ever leader-level summit of our
three countries at Camp David, back in the United States, and it
inaugurated a whole new era of cooperation between our — among our three
countries.  And it was part of a much larger effort these past four
years to bring together America’s Pacific allies.

And I’m proud — I’m proud of how far we’ve come since that historic
meeting, promoting development in Southeast Asia and in the Pacific
Islands, linking arms to secure the technologies of the future, and
countering North Korea’s dangerous and destabilizing cooperation with
Russia.  Whether — whatever the issue, we’re taking it on together, and
I think it’s — it makes a big difference for peace and security.

We’ve now reached a moment of significant political change, and I
congratulate the prime minister for — on his taking office.  And this is
likely to be my last trilateral meeting with this important group, but
I’m proud to have helped be one of the parts of building this — this
partnership, and I think it’s built to last.  That’s my ho- — hope and
expectation.

I truly believe cooperation of our countries will be the foundation to
peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific for many years to come if we
stay together.  And I believe that.

So, I look forward to our discussion.

And, Mr. President, I now turn it over to you.

PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  Last year, at Camp David, we agreed
to organize trilateral summit every year, and I am pleased that we are
delivering on the agreement today with President Biden and with new
Prime Minister Ishiba.

Today’s meeting demonstrates the three countries’ strong commitment to
developing our trilateral cooperation continuously.  In the midst of
complex global crises, cooperation between the ROK, the U.S., and Japan
not only coincides with the national interest of all three countries but
is also essential for peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region.

As we can see from the recent deployment of DPRK troops to Russia, the
challenging security environment within and outside the region once
again reminds us the importance of our trilateral cooperation.

Since the Camp David Leaders’ Summit last year led by President Biden,
our trilateral cooperation has become and is becoming stronger every
day.  I want to extend my gratitude for President Biden’s leadership.

We now have regular trilateral high-level consultations, including the
one between the heads of states.  And we also now have consultative
bodies in various areas in place.  We are accumulating our experiences
of a trilateral cooperation fast, which is leading to tangible results.

The trilateral cooperation now goes beyond the security as it has
developed into comprehensive and institutional cooperation that
encompasses economy; advanced technologies, such as AI and quantum
technology; as well as exchange between future generations.

The trilateral secretariat that will be launched as a result of today’s
meeting will be a strong foundation that will lead to even greater
cooperation among our three nations. 

I look forward a constructive discussion on the close coordination and
cooperation with the two leaders today.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Mr. Prime Minister.

PRIME MINISTER ISHIBA:  (As interpreted.)  It is a great pleasure for me
to be given this opportunity to participate in this meeting.  While our
countries are surrounded by an increasingly challenging security
environment, the Japan-U.S. alliance, the U.S.-ROK alliance, and our
strategic partnerships are essential in securing peace and stability of
the Indo-Pacific.

In order to effectively respond to international challenges of
intensifying complexity, our trilateral partnership has become more
important than ever.  And against such backdrop, it’s encouraging to see
our trilateral cooperation expanding in diverse areas on the global
scene since the Camp David summit last year.

And especially noteworthy is the trilateral security cooperation, which
has been elevated to new heights — as symbolized by the joint exercise,
Freedom Edge, executed most recently — founded on the trust Prime
Minister Kishida built with President Biden and President Yoon, and
capitalizing the trilateral coordinating secretariat to be announced
today. 

I look forward to furthering our partnership in response against North
Korea and in many other areas.

Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you, gentlemen. 

2:50 P.M. PET
