---
date: '2024-11-11'
modified_time: 2024-11-11 10:10:47-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-11 10:10:46-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/11/remarks-as-delivered-by-john-podesta-press-conference-at-the-29th-un-climate-change-conference-cop-29-in-baku-azerbaijan/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Delivered by John Podesta Press Conference at the 29th UN Climate\
  \ Change Conference (COP 29) in Baku,\_Azerbaijan"
---
 
Good afternoon everyone, and for those who might have wandered into the
wrong room, I’m John Podesta.

I’m going to speak for a few minutes and then I’m going to take some
questions from the press. But I want to start by recognizing our
wonderful Ambassador to Azerbaijan Mark Libby who is sitting up here in
the front row.

We have a big team. Jane Nishida is here from EPA, we have my colleagues
from SPEC. And I want to also acknowledge the hard work and the
professionalism of the Azerbaijan COP team led by Minister Babayev as
COP29 comes to order.

So, I want to address tonight a topic that is on everyone’s mind –the
U.S. election.

For those of us dedicated to climate action, last week’s outcome in the
United States is obviously bitterly disappointing, particularly because
of the unprecedented resources and ambition President Biden and Vice
President Harris brought to the climate fight.

Starting with our bold 2030 NDC to cut emissions by 50 to 52 percent
below 2005 levels.

By rejoining Paris.

By making the largest investment in climate and clean energy in history
through the Inflation Reduction Act and the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law.

The President’s commitment to quadruple international climate funds from
the United States to $11 billion per year.

It’s clear that the next Administration will try to take a U turn and
reverse much of this progress.

Of course, I am keenly aware of the disappointment that the United
States has at times caused the parties of the climate regime, who have
lived through a pattern of strong, engaged, effective U.S. leadership,
followed by sudden disengagement after a U.S. presidential election.

And I know that this disappointment is more difficult to tolerate as the
dangers we face grow ever more catastrophic.

But that is the reality. In January, we will inaugurate a President
whose relationship to climate change is captured by the words “hoax” and
“fossil fuels”.

He has vowed to dismantle our environmental safeguards— and once again
withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement.

This is what he has said, and we should believe him.

The United States is a democracy. And in a democracy, the will of the
people prevailed.

Our administration is working with the incoming Administration to ensure
a peaceful and orderly transition of power. 

But what I want to tell you today is that while the United States
federal government under Donald Trump may put climate action on the back
burner, the work to contain climate change is going to continue in the
United States with commitment and passion and belief.

As President Biden said in the Rose Garden last week, setbacks are
unavoidable, but giving up is unforgivable.

This is not the end of our fight for a cleaner, safer planet.

Facts are still facts. Science is still science.

This fight is bigger than one election, one political cycle, in one
country. This fight is bigger still.

Because we are all living through a year defined by the climate crisis,
in every country of the world.

July 22<sup>nd</sup> was the hottest day in recorded history. The
consequences of living on a rapidly warming planet are all around us—and
not just in collapsing coral reefs and melting ice sheets.

It’s had devastating impacts on people’s lives. This fall, Hurricanes
Helene and Milton slammed into the southeastern United States, killing
hundreds and cutting off power and water in communities for weeks.

The worst drought in decades in southern Africa is putting 20 million
children at risk of malnutrition and even starvation.

Wildfires and drought are ravaging the Amazon and the Pantanal,
destroying Indigenous communities and burning up an area the size of
Switzerland.

Catastrophic floods in Spain just two weeks ago poured a year’s worth of
rain in a single day.

In Asia, in September, supercharged Typhoon Yagi killed hundreds and
caused $16 billion in damages from the Philippines to Myanmar.

None of this is a hoax. It is real. It’s a matter of life and death.

Fortunately, many in our country and around the world are working to
prepare the world for this new reality and to mitigate the most
catastrophic effects of climate change.

From Day One, President Biden and Vice President Harris built a climate
team to work with partners around the world to build strong,
sustainable, equitable economies.

We sought to open up finance for developing economies to accelerate
their own clean energy transitions.

We saw a gap between clean energy supply and anticipated demand – and
sought to close it.

And our global partners know that addressing the climate crisis also
bolsters their own national security and global security… while creating
jobs… new industries… and new opportunities.

The United States has been the world’s partner in these efforts for four
years. That remains our mission.

For example, the Inflation Reduction Act is unleashing a clean energy
boom in America that’s boosting innovation and lowering costs for clean
energy technology by as much as 25%.

That helps speed deployment of clean energy not just in the U.S., but
across the globe, slashing emissions everywhere.

As a result, the Rhodium Group found that for every ton of carbon
pollution cut…reduced in America because of the IRA, it will drive
reductions of up to 2.9 tons outside the United States. 

The historic investments under President Biden and Vice President Harris
have crucially been government enabled but private-sector led.

In total, just since the President took office, companies have announced
more than $450 billion in new clean energy investments.

Here at COP29 and moving forward, the private sector must continue to
lead – to make new and bigger investments in clean energy technologies,
to continue to innovate and build a net zero economy.

And we will also continue to need subnational actors in the U.S. and
globally to lead the way.

In the wake of COP22 in Marrakesh and President Trump’s decision in 2017
to pull the United States out of the Paris Agreement, the “We Are Still
In” movement was born in the United States.

It’s now grown into the most expansive coalition ever assembled in
support of U.S. climate action, with more than 5,000 states, businesses,
local governments, tribal nations, universities, and more.

At this year’s COP, we expect to see representation from many of these
leaders, as well as several states and cities and a bipartisan group
from the U.S. Congress.

Because support for clean energy has become bipartisan in the United
States. You might not know that by reading the newspapers, but it has.

57 percent of the new clean energy jobs created since the Inflation
Reduction Act passed are located in Congressional districts represented
by Republicans.

Those jobs come from over 350 new clean energy projects totaling $286
billion in investment.

Many Republicans—especially governors—know all this activity is a good
thing for their districts, states, and for their economy.

Governor Henry McMaster of South Carolina, Governor Kevin Stitt in
Oklahoma, for example, have welcomed clean energy investments in their
states for many years.  From the EV supply chain…to the solar supply
chain.

And earlier this year, 18 House Republicans wrote a letter to Speaker
Mike Johnson urging him not to repeal the IRA’s energy tax credits.

The letter says, “a full repeal would create a worst-case scenario where
we would have spent billions of taxpayer dollars and received next to
nothing in return.”

It’s precisely because the IRA has staying power that I am confident
that the United States will continue to reduce emissions – benefitting
our own country and benefitting the world.

The economics of the clean energy transition have simply taken over.

New power generation is going to be clean.

The desire to build out next generation nuclear is still there.

Farmers and ranchers are reducing emissions and raising their incomes
through more efficient and biologic fertilizers, biodigesters, and feed
additives.

The hyperscalers are still committed to powering the future with clean
energy, including safe, reliable nuclear energy.

The auto companies are still investing in electrification and
hybridization.

All those trends are not going to be reversed.

Are we facing new headwinds? Absolutely.

But will we revert back to the energy system of the 1950s? No way.

And, we have only one administration at a time.

Until late January, President Biden and Vice President Harris will still
be in the White House.

So we are here at COP29 to continue to work together with our global
partners and other Parties.

The COP is a critical opportunity to cement our progress and keep 1.5
degrees alive…

To accelerate progress on reducing all greenhouse gases…

And, perhaps most notably, to strengthen global cooperation on
adaptation and climate finance.  We are here to work, and we are
committed to a successful outcome at COP 29. 

We can and will make real progress on the backs of our climate committed
states and cities, our innovators, our companies and our citizens,
especially young people, who understand more than most that climate
change poses an existential threat that we cannot afford to ignore.

Failure or apathy is simply not an option.

Today is a day across much of the world that we remember those who were
willing to pay the ultimate price to build a more peaceful world.  

In the United States, it’s Veterans Day. A day to honor all those who
answered our country’s highest call to service. To whom we owe not just
our eternal gratitude, but truly our freedom.

We owe it to them and all people who care about the future of our planet
to make the most of the next two weeks to make sure we have a successful
outcome.
