---
date: '2024-11-25'
modified_time: 2024-11-26 11:47:44-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-25 18:38:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/25/remarks-by-president-biden-and-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-friendsgiving-event-staten-island-ny/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Friendsgiving\
  \ Event | Staten Island,\_NY"
---
 
United States Coast Guard Sector New York  
Staten Island, New York

6:10 P.M. EST

THE FIRST LADY:  Hi.  Hello.  (Applause.)  Please.  Please.  (Laughs.)

So, thank you, Captain Andrechik.  It’s been the honor of this military
mom’s life to serve as your first lady and to meet with military
families through my Joining Fam- — Joining Forces initiative. 

You’ve trusted me with your stories and your challenges: PCSing every
few years, transferring IEPs across state lines, spouses struggling to
keep careers.  I’m proud that in Joe’s administration, we’ve made it
easier for spouses to bring their careers with them when they move, and
we’re making sure that kids with disabilities have the support they need
at their new schools.

As Coasties split their days between waves and land, you find home in
the little moments: in bear hugs and be- — big smiles on little faces,
in the people whose love warms you even on the coldest days, the bonds
built on shore and the ones forged on water.  That’s what Friendsgiving
is about: the families you create together.

And, Robert, for year- — for four years now, you and your team have been
extraordinary partners, serving this beautiful meal with love.  Joe and
I look forward to this celebration every year, and we’re so grateful for
everything you’ve done. 

And you know the best thing?  It sounds just like home.  (Laughter and
applause.) 

With all my heart, thank you for your service and your sacrifice. 

Now please welcome a Coast Guard spouse and someone who works every day
to make this community stronger, Jaime.

MS. BILLERT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)

Oh.  Well, thank you, Dr. Biden.  And thank you for helping host this
year’s Friendsgiving for our Sector New York and local unit Coast Guard
families.

THE FIRST LADY:  Thank you.

MS. BILLERT:  Good evening, everyone.  

It’s an honor and a pleasure to share this experience with you and give
thanks to the service of our members and, importantly, the service of
our families.

We all make sacrifices as Coast Guard families.  And while these
sacrifices are unique to each of us, they are all made in the best
interest of our families for a better quality of life, a better
opportunity for resources, accommodations, education, and experiences. 

To the tables tonight and Thursday who are missing someone
irreplaceable, the community around you sees your sacrifice and knows it
firsthand.  As the president and Dr. Biden have said through their
Joining Forces initiative, we may stand and wait, but we do not stand
and wait alone.

So, it is an honor to give thanks to the service of our families
tonight.

Sector New York and local unit Coast Guard families, it is my privilege
to introduce to you our president, Mr. Joe Biden.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Sector New York.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, kids can scream and cry and holler.  We’re Bidens;
we’re used to it.  (Laughter.)  Kids rule in our house.

Well, thank you all very, very much. 

You know, I was thinking — I hadn’t planned on saying this, but I was
thinking about this when I was coming up.  I was a pretty good football
player in high school in my — I was a — I had it pretty good, and I had
an opportunity to go and play in — but my quarterback, who was All-State
as well, he came along, and he ended up being a quarterback for the
Coast Guard Academy.   In 1912, but anyway.  (Laughter.)  When we — when
we graduated.  (Laughter.)  

But, you know, you’re an incredible group.  Coasties are incredible. 
I’ve had the opportunity to do the commencement speech at the Academy a
number of years, and you’re incredible.  I mea- — really mean it. 

No branch in the military is stationed in more places than all of you. 
You’re there for everything.

And, folks, you know, I know you’re hungry, so I won’t speak very long. 
I want to — but just thank you, thank you, thank you for all you do and
continue to do.

The Coast Guard motto: “Always ready.”  Over last year, those ro- —
those words took on a — a sense of truth that they hadn’t had in a long
while. 

When Iran sent weapons to the Houthis, you teamed up with the Navy, and
you intercepted them. 

When the Baltimore bridge collapsed, which is — I spent a lot of time
there — you arrived within minutes to help reopen the port in record
time.  People thought it was going to take forever and ever.  You did it
in record time.

When Hurricane Helene hit the co- — shore, you rushed to the front lines
of search and rescue missions all up and down the coast.  When Hurricane
Milton hit less than two weeks later, you stepped up again to help your
fellow Americans.

And I also want to note that every day here in New York, you keep this
port secure and the people safe, and the world knows it.  Thank you,
thank you, thank you.

And, by the way, simply put, we owe you, and we owe your families.  And
with all due respect to those of you wearing uniform, we don’t thank
your families enough.  You know, it’s — and your kids, I want to thank
them as well.  Not a joke.  I mean this from the bottom my heart.

You know — you know how exci- — people think, “God, you get to be — go
stationed around the world; isn’t that wonderful?”  And then you tell —
you have — your daughter is a junior in high school about to go to the
junior prom.  You say, “I got great news.  We’re leaving.”  (Laughter.) 
“You’re going to go to another school.”

I re- — I really mean it.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  We
underestimate the impact that they all provide for you to be able to do
your job.

And, folks, you know, I often say it: As a nation, we have only one
sacred obligation, and that’s to care for those we send into harm’s way
and care for them when they come home and make sure their families are
taken care of before and after.  I mean that sincerely.

We had a son who was military, who passed and — because of — anyway. 
He’s a major in the United States military — in — in the United States
Army.  And, you know, it’s — you can see it every day.

So, thank you, thank you, thank you.  And I promise you, every day we’ll
keep striving to live up to the obligation we have. 

And I’m anxious to — I may not eat.  I may come around to the table and
meet all your kids, because everybody knows I like kids better than
people.  (Laughter.)  Anyway.

Thank you, really, from the bottom of my heart.  And the families, thank
you, thank you, thank you.  Not a joke.  I mean it from the bottom of my
heart.  Thank you for all the sacrifices you make.

So, have a good meal.  And we got a great chef, by the way.  He’s the
best in the world.

Well, thank you.  I’ll see you again.  (Applause.)

THE FIRST LADY:  The pastor is going to —

THE PRESIDENT:  The bad news is I’m going to end up feeding you. 

Pastor.

LIEUTENANT COMMANDER ROACH:  Thank you, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  Say an extra pray for me, will you?  (Laughs.)

LIEUTENANT COMMANDER ROACH:  Yes, Mr. President.  I’ll say an extra
prayer for you.  (Laughter.) 

(The Friendsgiving dinner continues.)

(The Friendsgiving dinner concludes.)

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ve just been told I’ve been fired.  (Laughter.) 

What they do when they tell us w- — they set a time we’re going — how
long we’re going to be somewhere, and then what they do is they close
all the roads — the Secret Service does.  And if you want to lose all
support for you — the Coast Guard and no one will ever vote for me
again, I better get the hell out of here.  (Laughter.)

Well, thank you, thank you, thank you.  From the bottom of my heart,
thank you for your service.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  I really — I
really mean it.  Thank you. 

Appreciate it.  (Applause.)

7:10 P.M. EST
