---
date: '2024-11-16'
modified_time: 2024-11-16 19:23:04-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-16 19:23:03-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/16/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-xi-jinping-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china-before-bilateral-meeting-lima-peru/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Xi Jinping of the People\u2019s\
  \ Republic of China Before Bilateral Meeting | Lima,\_Peru"
---
 
Delfines Hotel & Convention Center

4:06 P.M. PET

PRESIDENT XI:  (As interpreted.)  Can you put on your earpiece?  We have
simultaneous interpreting.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’ve learned to speak Chinese.  (Laughter.)  Wish I
did.

PRESIDENT XI:  Okay, let me begin first.  It’s a great pleasure to see
you again, President Biden.  Over the past four years, China-U.S.
relations have gone through ups and downs.  But under our joint
stewardship, the two sides have also been engaged in fruitful dialogue
and cooperation, and the relationship has been kept stable on the whole.

These developments reconfirmed the experiences and lessons of the past
of 45 years of China-U.S. diplomatic ties.  When the two countries treat
each other as partner and friend, seek common ground while (inaudible)
differences, and help each other succeed, our relationship would make
considerable progress.

But if we take each other as rival or adversary, pursue vicious
competition, and seek to hurt each other, we would roil the relationship
or even set it back.

The world today is turbulent, plagued by conflicts.  Old problems are
compounded by new ones.  Humanity is faced with unprecedented
challenges.  Major country competition should not be the underlying
logic of the times.  Only solidarity and cooperation can help humanity
overcome current difficulties. 

In an age of flourishing sci-tech revolution, neither decoupling nor
supply chain disruption is a solution.  Only mutually beneficial
cooperation can lead to common development.  “Small yard, high fences”
is not what a major country should pursue.  Only openness and sharing
can improve the well-being of humanity.

As two major countries, China and the United States should bear in mind
the interests of the whole world and inject more certainty and positive
energy into the turbulent world.

It is my consistent belief that as the world’s most important bilateral
relationship, a stable China-U.S. relationship is critical not only to
the interests of the Chinese and American peoples, but also to the
future and destiny of the entire humanity. 

The two countries should bear in mind the well-being of the two peoples
and the common interests of the international community, make the wise
choice, keep exploring the right way for two major countries to get
along well with each other, and realize the long-term peaceful
coexistence of China and the United States on this planet.

The United States has recently concluded its elections.  China’s goal of
a stable, healthy, and sustainable China-U.S. relationship remains
unchanged. 

Our commitment to mutual respect, peaceful coexistence, and winning
cooperation as principles for handling China-U.S. relations remains
unchanged. 

Our position of resolutely safeguarding China’s sovereignty, security,
and development interests remains unchanged.

Our desire to carry forward the traditional friendship between the
Chinese and American peoples remains unchanged. 

China is ready to work with the new U.S. administration to maintain
communication, expand cooperation, and manage differences so as to
strive for a steady transition of the China-U.S. relationship for the
benefit of the two peoples.

I look forward to an in-depth exchange of views with you on China-U.S.
relations and on issues of mutual interest. 

Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, thank you very much, Mr. President.  It’s good
to see you and see all of you again.  You know, one year ago, we met in
the Woodside Summit in San Francisco.  And I’m very proud of the
progress we’ve both made together. 

On military communication, at multiple levels our leaders are now
regularly talking to one another on a regular basis.

On AI, we have brought together our nations’ experts together to discuss
risks and safety.

Our counternarcotics — on that issue, we resumed cooperation.  And I
want to note: In my country, Mr. President, overdose deaths are coming
down for the first time in five years.

We have a lot to discuss, but let me close with this.  Over — for over a
decade, you and I have spent many hours together, both here and in China
and in between.  And, you know, we — I think we’ve spent a long time —
(laughs) — dealing with these issues.

Let me close with this.  We — I think — and I once had to count up the
number of hours you and I spent alone together.  I remember being on the
Tibetan Plateau with you and I remember being in Beijing.  I remember —
all over the world.  And — both as my — first as vice president, then as
president.

We haven’t always agreed, but our conversations have always been candid
and always been frank.  We have never kidded one another.  We’ve been
level with one another.  And I think that’s vital. 

These conversations prevent miscalculations, and they ensure the
competition between our two countries will not veer into conflict — be
competition, not conflict.

And that’s our responsibility to our people and, as you indicated, to
the people around the world.  We are the most important alliance or most
important re- — relationship in the entire world.  And how we get along
together is going to impact the rest of the world.

And — so, you know, our two countries cannot let any of this competition
veer into conflict.  And as I said, that’s our responsibility.  And over
the last four years, I think we’ve proven it’s possible to have this
relationship.

And — but — so, Mr. President, I’m anxious to get our meeting starting
and discuss the issues we have remaining.

Thank you.

4:14 P.M. PET 
