---
date: '2024-11-01'
modified_time: 2024-11-04 16:53:32-04:00
published_time: 2024-11-01 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-west-allis-wi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | West Allis,\_WI"
---
 
Wisconsin State Fair Expo Center  
West Allis, Wisconsin

9:22 P.M. CDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Wisconsin!  (Applause.)  Let’s hear it for
Adrien — (applause) — Cardi B.  (Applause.)  
  
Oh, it’s good to be back.  Good evening.  (Applause.)  
  
Milwaukee, are we ready to do this?  (Applause.)  Are we ready to win? 
(Applause.)  Are we ready to vote?  (Applause.)  And we will win. 
(Applause.)  
  
Oh, it’s good to be back in Wisconsin and to be with so many leaders.  I
thank everyone here for taking the time out of your busy lives to be
here this evening.  I thank you.  I thank you.  I thank you.  I thank
you.  (Applause.)  
  
And can we please hear it for Tammy Baldwin?  Let’s reelect her to the
United States Senate.  (Applause.)  County Executive Crowley, Mayor
Johnson, Cardi B — let’s give it up.  (Applause.)  
  
And can we hear it again for MC Lyte, Flo Milli, GloRilla, 
Keegan-Michael Key?  (Applause.)

Oh, what a good night.   
  
All right, we got work to do in Milwaukee.  Okay.  Four days left. 
(Applause.)  Four days left in the most consequential election of our
lifetime, and we still have work to do.  (Applause.)

But here’s the thing about all of us: We like hard work. (Applause.) 
Hard work is good work.  Hard work is joyful work.  And make no mistake,
we will win.  (Applause.)  We will win.   
  
And here’s one of the reasons why: Because when you know what you stand
for, you know what to fight for.  (Applause.)  And in this election, we
have an opportunity to finally turn the page on a decade of Donald Trump
trying to keep us divided and afraid of each other.  We are done with
it.  We are exhausted with it.  We are turning the page.  (Applause.)  
  
And it’s because we know that’s what he’s about.  He is constantly about
trying to have Americans point their fingers at each other.  But that’s
not who we are.  That’s who he is.  That is not who we are. 
(Applause.)   
  
And it is time for a new generation of leadership in America. 
(Applause.)  And I am ready to offer that leadership as the next
president of the United States.  (Applause.)

  
And, Wisconsin, you know me: I’m not afraid of tough fights, obviously. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
For decades, as a prosecutor and the top law enforcement officer of the
biggest state, I won fights.  I won fights against the big banks who
were ripping off homeowners.  I won fights against for-profit colleges
that were scamming veterans and students.  I won fights against
predators who abused women and children.  I won fights against cartels
that trafficked in guns and drugs and human beings.  (Applause.)

  
And I pledge to you, if you give me the chance to fight on your behalf,
there is nothing that will stand in my way as I fight for you. 
(Applause.)  
  
And, look, we know who Donald Trump is.  This is not someone who is
thinking about how to make your life better.  This is someone who is
increasingly unstable — (applause) –obsessed with revenge.  (Applause.) 
He is consumed with grievance.  (Applause.)  And the man is out for
unchecked power.  (Applause.)  
  
And, look, in less than 90 days, it’s either going to be him or me in
the Oval Office.  (Applause.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
But let’s get the word out.  Let’s get the word out to the folks who are
not here to just have them imagine — you know, we’ve all seen the Oval
Office on TV.  Imagine, on January 20th, that day, it’s either going to
be Donald Trump, if he is elected, which he will not be —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Which he will not be.

But to help people imagine what the stakes are, it’s either going to be
him there on day one, walking into that office, stewing over his enemies
list —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — or when I am elected, walking in on your behalf,
with my to-do list.  (Applause.)  And I’m a hard worker.  (Laughs.)  
  
And at the top of my list is bringing down the cost of living for you. 
(Applause.)  That will be my focus every single day as president.  
  
I will give a middle-class tax cut to over 100 million Americans. 
(Applause.)  I will enact the first-ever federal ban on corporate price
gouging on groceries.  (Applause.)  And I will fight to make sure that
hardworking Americans can actually afford a place to live. 
(Applause.)  
  
If you are caring for an elderly parent, if you are in the sandwich
generation caring for an elderly parent and young children, I will tell
you, my plan will cover the cost of home care under Medicare. 
(Applause.)  Because I took care of — I took care of my mother when she
was sick.  And I know what you are doing, whether it be trying to cook
something that they feel like eating, whether it be trying to help them
put on a sweater, trying to find a moment where you can bring a smile to
their face or make them laugh.  That work is about dignity.  That work
is about dignity.  (Applause.)  And I’m going to make sure you have the
support and they have the support they deserve.  (Applause.)  
  
 My plan will lower the cost of childcare.  Again, it’s about dignity. 
It’s about seeing the strains and the pressures.   
  
We will cut taxes for small businesses because our small businesses are
the backbone of America’s economy.  (Applause.)  Where are our
small-business owners?  Let me see our small-business owners. 
(Applause.)  
  
And we will lower health care costs, because here’s where I come from on
that: Look, I believe access to health care should be a right and not
just a privilege of those who can afford it.  (Applause.)  Dignity —
values about the dignity of each of us and the responsibility of real
leaders to, unlike my opponent, not think that the measure of their
strength is based on who you beat down, but the true measure of strength
of a leader based on who you lift up.  (Applause.)

And then, you got Donald Trump, who —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And his answer to the financial pressures you face
is the same as it was the last time: another trillion dollars in tax
cuts for billionaires and the biggest corporations.  
  
     AUDIENE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And this time, he will pay for it with a 20 percent
national sales tax on everything you buy that is imported: clothes,
foods, toys, cell phones — a Trump sales tax that would cost the average
American family — the economists have measured it — more than 4,000 more
dollars a year.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on top of that, Donald Trump is still — still
trying and still wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which would throw millions of Americans off their
health insurance and take us back to when insurance companies could deny
people with preexisting conditions.  You remember what that was like?  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, we are —

     AUDIENCE:  Not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not going back.  We are not going back.  We’re
not going back.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back, no.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going!  We’re not going
back!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because — because, just like Wisconsin’s motto
tells us, we will move —

AUDIENCE:  Forward!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — forward.  (Applause.)  Yes, we will.  I love
Wisconsin.  (Laughs.)

And ours is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for freedom —
(applause) — like the fundamental freedom of a woman to make decisions
about her own body and not have her government telling her what to do. 
(Applause.)  
  
And we all remember how we got here.  Donald Trump hand-selected three
members of the United States Supreme Court with the intention that they
would undo the protections of Roe v. Wade.  They did as he intended, and
now, in America, one in three women lives in a state with a Trump
abortion ban.  Many —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?  Man- — and the harm we’ve seen.  Many of
those laws with no exception, even for rape or incest, which is
immoral.   
  
And he’s not done.  He would ban abortion nationwide — yes, even here in
Wisconsin.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Even here in Wisconsin, it would be impacted.  And
he would restrict access to birth control, put IVF treatments at risk,
and force — get this — and force states to monitor women’s pregnancies. 
Just —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — google Project 2025.  Just look at it. 

And everyone here, I know, understands — and let us agree, one does not
have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to simply agree the
government shouldn’t be telling her what to do.  (Applause.)  Not the
government.  Not the government.  Not the government.  Not some people
up in a state legislature, and certainly not Donald Trump. 
(Applause.)  
  
And I pledge to you, when Congress — together with Tammy’s help, when
Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom nationwide, as
president of the United States, I will proudly sign it into law. 
(Applause.)  Proudly.  
  
So, Wisconsin —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!  
  
 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We got work to do.  Thank you.  Thank you.

So, Wisconsin, I am asking for your vote.  (Applause.)  I am asking for
your vote.   
  
And here — and here is my pledge to you: As president, I pledge to seek
common ground and commonsense solutions to the challenges you face.  I
am not — (applause) — I am not looking to score political points.  I am
looking to make progress.  (Applause.)  And I pledge — and I pledge to
listen to those who will be impacted by the decisions I make.   
      
I pledge to listen to experts, to listen to people who disagree with me,
because, you see — (applause) — unlike Donald Trump, I don’t believe
that people who disagree with me are the enemy.  (Applause.)  He wants
to put them in jail.  I’ll give them a seat at the table.  (Applause.) 
That’s what real leadership is about.  That’s what strong leadership is
about.  (Applause.)   
  
And I pledge to always put country above party and self and to be a
president for all Americans.  (Applause.)  All Americans.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, that — that is my pledge to you, Wisconsin, and
now I ask you a question: Who here has already voted?  (Applause.)  Oh,
wow.  
  
Okay.  Thank you.  And now I ask you to please talk to your friends and
your family and your neighbors — (applause) — and share your perspective
on why this is — election is so important.   
  
And for you who have not voted yet, no judgment.  Let me just be clear —
(laughs) — no judgment at all.  But do get to it, if you can.  (Laughter
and applause.) 

And for those who have not yet voted, please think about, right now,
your plan for voting and think about where and when you will vote.  And
if you live here in Milwaukee, remember you can vote early now through
Sunday, November 3rd.  (Applause.)  And go to IWillVote.com for all the
information you need, including when and where you can vote and where to
drop off your absentee ballot, because we need everyone in Wisconsin to
vote.  (Applause.)  You are going to make the difference in this
election.  You will make the difference.  You will make the
difference.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Vote!  Vote!  Vote!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, listen, it all comes down to this.  We are here
together because we love our country.  We love our country. 
(Applause.)  We love our country.  And when you love something, you
fight for it.  (Applause.)  You fight for it.  And I do believe it is
one of the highest forms of patriotism, of our expression for our love
of our country, to then fight for the ideals of our country and to fight
to realize the promise of America.  (Applause.)  That’s what this is
about.   
  
And I have always believed in our nation’s promise because I’ve lived
it.  You know, I grew up a child of the Civil Rights Movement.  My
parents would take me to marches when I was in a stroller, and there
were, at those marches, we all know, people from every walk of life
coming together to fight for freedom and to fight for opportunity.   
  
You know, growing up, I saw how hard my mother worked to raise her two
daughters to have the same chances that our country gave her.  And I was
blessed to have family by blood and family by love — (applause) — right?
— who instilled in me a sense of community and compassion and faith.   
  
And I’ve spent my life fighting for people who have been hurt and
counted out but who never stopped believing, in our country, that
anything is possible.  
  
I have lived the promise of America, and today I see the promise of
America in everyone who is here — in all of you, in all of us. 
(Applause.)  We are the promise of America.  We are the promise of
America.   
  
It’s the fathers and mothers and grandparents who work hard every day
for their children’s future, in the women who refuse to accept a future
without reproductive freedom — (applause) –and the men who support
them.  (Applause.)  It’s in the Republicans who never voted for a
Democrat before but put the Constitution of the United States above
party.  (Applause.)  Right.  
  
I see the promise of America in all the young leaders that I see right
now who are voting for the very first time.  Raise your hand. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  I love Gen Z.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  I really
do.   
  
Here’s what I love about you guys.  You are rightly impatient for
change.  (Applause.)  I love that about you.  I love that about you.   
  
You are determined to live free from gun violence.  You are going to
take on the climate crisis.  You are going to shape the world you
inherit.  (Applause.)  I know that.  I know that.   
  
And here’s the thing about our young leaders: None of this is
theoretical for them.  None of this is political for them.  It’s their
lived experience.  It’s your lived experience.  And I see your power.  I
see your power, and I am so proud of you.   
  
Can we please hear it for our first-time voters?  (Applause.)  Can we
please hear it?  Yeah.  Yeah.  And those who will be first-time voters. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
You know, the future of our country is so bright; we just have to see
it.  It’s so bright.   
  
So, listen, we got four days to get this thing done.  (Applause.)  Four
days.  No one can sit on the sidelines.   
  
So, let’s spend the next four days so that when we look back on these
days, we have no regrets about what we could have done.  (Applause.) 
Let’s know we did everything we could do.   
  
So, let’s knock on doors.  Let’s text.  Let’s call.  Let’s reach out to
family and friends and classmates and neighbors and coworkers.   
  
And here’s a request that I have in that process: And while we are doing
all of that, let’s please be intentional about building community. 
(Applause.)  Let’s please be intentional about building community.   
  
You know, there’s something about these la- — this whole Trump era, and
it’s — it’s — you know, it’s — it’s been a — it’s made people feel like
they have to — it — it’s been powered by this idea that Americans should
be pointing their fingers at each other, you know, and — and to make
people feel alone and make people feel small, when we all know that we
all have so much more in common than what separates us.  (Applause.)  
  
So, let’s be intentional about building community and building
coalitions.  There is strength and power in that that will be
long-lasting.   
  
And finally, I’ll say: Just remember, and let’s remind everybody we
know, your vote is your voice, and your voice is your power. 
(Applause.)  That’s your power.   
  
 In a democracy, that is a power that is yours.  Don’t let anyone take
it from you.  Don’t let anyone take it from you.  (Applause.)  
  
 So, Wisconsin — so, Wisconsin, today, I ask you: Are you ready to make
your voices heard?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)  
  
Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)  
  
And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We win!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)

  
                              END                  9:46 P.M. CDT
