---
date: '2024-11-13'
published_time: 2024-11-13 07:43:29-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/13/remarks-as-delivered-by-senior-advisor-john-podesta-at-cop29/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Delivered by Senior Advisor John Podesta at\_COP29"
---
 
Colleagues, on behalf of President Biden: the United States is here at
COP29 to help produce successful outcomes that keep 1.5 C alive.

We face an urgent question: do we secure sustainable prosperity for our
countries, or do we condemn our most vulnerable to unimaginable climate
disasters?

2024 will be the hottest year on record.

The consequences of a rapidly warming planet are all around us: from the
hundreds of people killed by Hurricanes Helene and Milton in the United
States, to the millions of children at risk of starvation in southern
Africa from the worst drought in decades… to the torrential rain
stranded students in schools, and displaced nearly 100,000 in Colombia.

Vulnerable communities do not just need ambition – they need action.

That’s why President Biden and Vice President Harris have marshalled
unprecedented climate resources over the past four years.

Because of historic private sector investments made possible by the
Inflation Reduction Act, the United States economy will continue down
the path of decarbonization, reducing emissions for years to come.

And we are on track to meet President Biden’s ambitious international
public finance commitment of $11 billion per year by the end of 2024.

To accelerate our progress here at COP29, we need to first conclude key
negotiated outcomes.

This includes building on last year’s Global Stocktake… concluding work
on Article 6… and adopting a robust NCQG that addresses climate
insecurity while building strong, sustainable economies.

It should be multi-layered with an ambitious, realistically achievable
support layer involving new contributors… underpinned by a set of
qualitative elements that evolve the international financial
architecture, enhance access to finance for developing countries, and
improve debt sustainability.

Second, countries – particularly major economies – need to keep their
Dubai commitment and submit 2035 NDCs that are economy-wide, 1.5
aligned, and include all greenhouse gases.

Third, we encourage countries to submit the first Biennial Transparency
Reports by December 31<sup>st</sup>. The United States will meet that
commitment.

And fourth, promote the “action agenda” of key initiatives outside of
the Paris Agreement. 

Colleagues, we have a clear choice: between a safer, cleaner, fairer
future, and a dirtier, more dangerous, and more expensive one. 

We know what to do. Let’s get to work. Let’s get it done. Thank you.

\###
