---
date: '2024-11-06'
modified_time: 2024-11-12 10:07:15-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-06 23:59:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/06/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-following-the-2024-election/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Following the 2024\_Election"
---
 
Howard University  
Washington, D.C.

4:25 P.M. EST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  Good
—

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon. 
(Applause.)

Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)

Thank you all.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

So, let me say —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I love you back.  And I love you back. 
(Applause.)

So, let me say, my heart is full today.  My heart is full today — full
of gratitude for the trust you have placed in me, full of love for our
country, and full of resolve.

The outcome of this election is not what we wanted, not what we fought
for, not what we voted for, but hear me when I say — hear me when I say:
The light of America’s promise will always burn bright — (applause) — as
long as we never give up and as long as we keep fighting.  (Applause.)

To my beloved Doug and our family, I love you so very much.  (Applause.)

To President Biden and Dr. Biden, thank you for your faith and support. 
(Applause.)

To Governor Walz and the Walz family, I know your service to our nation
will continue.  (Applause.)

And to my extraordinary team; to the volunteers who gave so much of
themselves — (applause); to the poll workers and the local election
officials — (applause) — I thank you.  I thank you all.

Look, I am so proud of the race we ran and the way we ran it —
(applause) — and the way we ran it.  Over the 107 days of this campaign,
we have been intentional about building community and building
coalitions, bringing people together from every walk of life and
background, united by love of country with enthusiasm and joy in our
fight for America’s future.  (Applause.)

And we did it with the knowledge that we all have so much more in common
than what separates us.  (Applause.)

Now, I know folks are feeling and experiencing a range of emotions right
now.  I get it.  (Laughs.)  But we must accept the results of this
election. 

Earlier today, I spoke with President-elect Trump and congratulated him
on his victory. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I also told him that we will help him and his team
with their transition and that we will engage in a peaceful transfer of
power.  (Applause.)

A fundamental principle of American democracy is that when we lose an
election, we accept the results.  That principle, as much as any other,
distinguishes democracy from monarchy or tyranny, and anyone who seeks
the public trust must honor it.

At the same time, in our nation, we owe loyalty not to a president or a
party but to the Constitution of the United States — (applause) — and
loyalty to our conscience and to our God. 

My allegiance to all three is why I am here to say: While I concede this
election, I do not concede the fight that fueled this campaign —
(applause) — the fight — the fight for freedom, for opportunity, for
fairness, and the dignity of all people — a fight for the ideals at the
heart of our nation, the ideals that reflect America at our best.  That
is a fight I will never give up.  (Applause.) 

I will never give up the fight for a future where Americans can pursue
their dreams, ambitions, and aspirations, where the women of America
have the freedom to make decisions about their own body — (applause) —
and not have their government telling them what to do.

We will never give up the fight to protect our schools and our streets
from gun violence.  (Applause.)

And, America, we will never give up the fight for our democracy, for the
rule of law, for equal justice, and for the sacred idea that every one
of us, no matter who we are or where we start out, has certain
fundamental rights and freedoms that must be respected and upheld. 
(Applause.)

And we will continue to wage this fight in the voting booth, in the
courts, and in the public square.  And we will also wage it in quieter
ways: in how we live our lives, by treating one another with kindness
and respect, by looking in the face of a stranger and seeing a neighbor,
by always using our strength to lift people up, to fight for the dignity
that all people deserve. 

The fight for our freedom will take hard work.  But like I always say,
we like hard work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is good work.  Hard work can
be joyful work.  And the fight for our country is always worth it.  It
is always worth it.  (Applause.)

To the young people who are watching, it is —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  I love you back.  (Applause.)

To the young people who are watching, it is okay to feel sad and
disappointed.  But please know it’s going to be okay.  On the campaign,
I would often say, “When we fight, we win.”  But here’s the thing. 
Here’s the thing.  Sometimes the fight takes a while.  That doesn’t mean
we won’t win.  That doesn’t mean we won’t win.  (Applause.)

The important thing is don’t ever give up.  Don’t ever give up.  Don’t
ever stop trying to make the world a better place.  You have power.  You
have power.  And don’t you ever listen when anyone tells you something
is impossible because it has never been done before.  (Applause.)

You have the capacity to do extraordinary good in the world.  And so, to
everyone who is watching, do not despair.  This is not a time to throw
up our hands.  This is a time to roll up our sleeves.  (Applause.)  This
is a time to organize, to mobilize, and to stay engaged for the sake of
freedom and justice and the future that we all know we can build
together.

Look, many of you know I started out as a prosecutor.  And throughout my
career, I saw people at some of the worst times in their lives — people
who had suffered great harm and great pain and yet found within
themselves the strength and the courage and the resolve to take the
stand to take a stand, to fight for justice, to fight for themselves, to
fight for others.

So, let their courage be our inspiration.  Let their determination be
our charge. 

And I’ll close with this.  There’s an adage an historian once called a
“law of history” true of every society across the ages.  The adage is:
Only when it is dark enough can you see the stars. 

I know many people feel like we are entering a dark time, but for the
benefit of us all, I hope that is not the case.  But here’s the thing:
America, if it is, let us fill the sky with the light of a brilliant,
brilliant billion of stars — (applause) — the light — the light of
optimism, of faith, of truth and service.  (Applause.) 

H.U.  (Laughter.)

AUDIENCE:  You know!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And may that work guide us, even in the face of
setbacks, toward the extraordinary promise of the United States of
America.

I thank you all.  May God bless you.  And may God bless the United
States of America.  (Applause.)

I thank you all.  I thank you.  I thank you all.  (Applause.)

                   END                     4:37 P.M. EST
