---
date: '2024-11-03'
modified_time: 2024-11-05 11:37:24-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-03 23:59:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/03/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-east-lansing-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | East Lansing,\_MI"
---
 
Jenison Field House  
East Lansing, Michigan

6:04 P.M. EST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Michigan!  (Applause.)  Hi, everyone. 

Can we hear it for Sedrick?  (Applause.) 

All right.  We’re going to do this. 

Hello, Michigan State!  (Applause.)  It is good to be in the house of my
dear friend Magic Johnson.  Go Green!  (Applause.)

     AUDIENCE:  Go White!  (Applause.)  

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  All right.  All right.  East Lansing, are we ready
to do this?  (Applause.) 

Are we ready to vote?  (Applause.)

Are we ready to win?  (Applause.)

Oh, it’s good to be back in Michigan and to be with so many incredible
leaders.  I want to thank Lieutenant Governor Gilchrist — (applause);
Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin, and let’s send her to the United States
Senate — (applause); and Curtis Hertel, and let’s send him to the U.S.
House of Representatives.  (Applause.)

And we are joined today by leaders of the Arab American community, which
has deep and proud roots here in Michigan.  (Applause.) 

And I want to say this year has been difficult, given the scale of death
and destruction in Gaza and given the civilian casualties and
displacement in Lebanon.  It is devastating.  And as president, I will
do everything in my power to end the war in Gaza, t- — (applause) — to
bring home the hostages, end the suffering in Gaza, ensure Israel is
secure, and ensure the Palestinian people can realize their right to
dignity, freedom, security, and self-determination.  (Applause.)

And we continue to work on a diplomatic resolution across the
Israel-Lebanon border to protect civilians and provide lasting
stability.  (Applause.)  And as president, I will work tirelessly toward
a future with security and dignity for all people.  (Applause.)

So, Michigan, two days to go — (applause) — are you ready?  Are you
ready? — in one of the most consequential elections of our lifetime. 
And we have momentum.  It is on our side.  Can you feel it? 
(Applause.) 

And we have the momentum because our campaign is tapping into the
ambitions, the aspirations, and the dreams of the American people,
because we are optimistic and excited about what we can do together —
(applause) — and because we know it is time for a new generation of
leadership in America.  (Applause.)  And I am ready to offer that
leadership as the next president of the United States.  (Applause.)

Now, the race is not yet over, and we need to finish strong.  So, for
the next two days, we still have a lot of work to do.  But here’s the
thing: We like hard work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is good work. 
(Applause.)  Hard work is joyful work.  (Applause.)

And make no mistake, we will win.  (Applause.)  We will win.   
  
We will win.  We will win. 

And we will win — and w- — (laughs).

     AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we — and we will win because here’s what
everyone here knows: When you know what you stand for, you know what to
fight for.  (Applause.) 

And we have an opportunity in this election to finally turn the page on
a decade of politics driven by fear and division.  We are done with
that, and we are exhausted with it.  (Applause.)  And America is ready —
America is ready for a fresh start, ready for a new way forward, where
we see our fellow American not as an enemy but as a neighbor. 
(Applause.) 

We are ready for a president who knows that the true measure of a leader
is not based on who you beat down; it is based on who you lift up. 
(Applause.)

And, Michigan, you know me.  I am not afraid of tough fights,
evidently.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  For decades as a prosecutor and the
top law enforcement officer of the biggest state, I won fights against
the big banks that ripped off homeowners.  (Applause.)  I won fights
against for-profit colleges that scammed veterans and students.  I won
fights against creditors who abused women, children, and seniors. 
(Applause.)  I won fights — I won fights against the cartels that
trafficked in guns, drugs, and human beings.  (Applause.)

And — and it is my pledge to you, if you give me the chance to fight on
your behalf as president, there is nothing in the world that will stand
in my way.  (Applause.)  I’m here for you.

And I will get up every day to fight to make your life better, to bring
down the cost of living, to ban corporate price gouging on groceries, to
make housing and childcare more affordable.  (Applause.)

My plan will cut taxes for workers, for middle-class families, and small
businesses — (applause); lower health care costs, including the cost of
homecare for seniors — (applause) — because, by the way, I believe
health care should be a right and not just a privilege of those who can
afford it.  (Applause.)

And to those certain individuals who still want to get rid of the
Affordable Care Act —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and take us back to the days when insurance
companies could deny people with preexisting conditions, well, you all
know what we say: We are —

AUDIENCE:  Not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not going back.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  We are
not going back. 

We are not going back because ours is a fight for the future. 
(Applause.)  And it is a fight for freedom — (applause) — including the
fundamental freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own body and
not have her government tell her what to do.  (Applause.)

And when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom
nationwide — (applause) — you know where I’m going — as president of the
United States, I will proudly sign it into law.  (Applause.)

So, Michigan, I am here to ask for your vote.  I am here to ask for your
vote.  (Applause.)  And here — and here is my pledge to you.  As
president, I pledge to seek common ground and commonsense solutions to
the challenges you face. 

I am not looking to score political points.  I am looking to make
progress.  (Applause.)

And I pledge to listen to those who will be impacted by the decisions I
make.  I pledge to listen to experts.  And I pledge to listen to people
who disagree with me — (applause) — because, you see, I don’t believe
people who disagree with me are the enemy.  (Applause.)  In fact, I’ll
give them a seat at the table because that’s what strong leaders do. 
(Applause.)

And I pledge to always put country above party and self and to be a
president for all Americans — (applause) — all Americans.

So, that is my pledge to you, East Lansing.  And let me then ask: Who
here has already voted?  (Applause.)  Oh, that’s fantastic.  Thank you. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  All right.  Okay. 

Well, now — now I’ve got to ask you: Please talk to your friends and
family and neighbors — (laughter) — and share your perspective on why
this election is so important.  Share your perspective on why, with the
many, many other things you could be doing with your time right now, you
took time out of your busy lives to be here.  Let’s connect with each
other and let folks know and encourage them to make their voices heard. 

And for those of you who haven’t voted yet, no judgment — no judgment. 
(Laughter.)  But please do take a moment — (laughs) — and think about
your plan for when and where you will vote.  Election Day is on Tuesday,
November 5th.  (Applause.)

Polls are open here in Michigan from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. 
(Applause.)  And if you are not yet registered to vote, you can register
and vote at your local clerk’s office now through Election Day. 
(Applause.) 

It’s a very big deal.  It’s a very big deal.

So, go to IWillVote.com for all the information you need, including when
and where to vote and where to drop off your absentee ballot.  But we
need everyone to vote in Michigan.  You will make the difference in this
election.  (Applause.)  You will make the difference.  You will make the
difference.

So —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I love you back.  (Applause.)  I love you back.

So — so —

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  So, here’s the thing.  It all comes down to
this.  We are here together, this incredible mix of people from every
background, every stage of life, under one roof together.  And we are
here together for many reasons, including because we love our country. 
We love our country.  (Applause.)  We love our country.

And when you love something, you fight for it.  (Applause.)  You fight
for it.

And I do believe it is one of the highest forms of patriotism, the
expression of the love we have for our country, to then fight for its
ideals and to fight to realize the promise of America.  That’s what we
are about.  (Applause.)  That’s what we are about. 

And I have always believed in our nation’s promise, because I have lived
it.  So, I grew up as a child of the Civil Rights Movement.  My parents
would take me to the marches when I was in a stroller.  And there were
people there — and history has told us, there were people there from
every walk of life, coming together to fight for freedom and for
opportunity. 

You know, growing up, I saw how hard our mother worked to give her
daughters the same chances our country gave her.  And I was blessed to
have family by blood and to have family by love — (applause) — who
instilled in me — who instilled in me the values of community,
compassion, and faith. 

I have spent my life fighting for people who have been hurt and counted
out but who never stopped believing that, in our country, anything is
possible. 

I have lived the promise of America, and I will tell you, today, I see
the promise of America in everyone who is here — in all of you, in all
of us.  We are the promise of America.  (Applause.)  We are.  You are. 
We are the promise of America. 

And I see it in the fathers and the mothers and the grandparents who
work hard every day for their children’s future.  I see it in the women
who refuse to accept a future without reproductive freedom. 
(Applause.)  I see it in the men that support them.  (Applause.)  I see
it in Republicans who have never voted for a Democrat before but have
put the Constitution of the United States above party.  (Applause.) 

And I see the promise of America in all the young leaders who are here
and voting for the first time.  (Applause.)  I love Gen Z.  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.)  I do.  I do.

And here’s one of the things that I love about this generation — you,
this incredible generation.  You all — you all are rightly impatient for
change.  (Applause.)  I know that.  I know that.  I know that about
you. 

And here’s the thing, because you all have only known the climate crisis
and are leading, then, the charge to protect our planet and our future. 
You, who grew up with active shooter drills and are fighting to keep our
schools safe.  (Applause.)  You, who know — now know fewer rights than
your mothers and grandmothers, are standing up for freedom. 

None of these issues for you are theoretical.  This is not political for
you all.  This is your lived experience.  And I see you.  (Applause.) 
And I see your power.  And I am so proud of you. 

Can we hear it for our first-time voters?  (Applause.)  Right?  Yeah. 
I’m telling you, this is why I know our future is bright.  I’m just so
optimistic about it.  I’m so optimistic about it.  (Applause.)

So — all right.  All right.  Two days — we got two days to get this
done.  (Applause.)  And nobody can sit on the sidelines.  Let’s spend
the next two days so that when we look back, we have no regrets that we
did everything we could. 

So, let’s knock on doors.  Let’s text.  Let’s call the voters.  Let’s
reach out to family, friends, classmates, neighbors, coworkers. 

And as we do, I have one request on top of everything else I’ve asked of
you.  (Laughter.)  Let’s be true to what our campaign has been about
from the very start, which is to be intentional about building
community.  (Applause.)  Let’s build community while we are doing this. 
Let’s build community and be intentional about it.  Let’s be intentional
about building coalitions. 

Because we know, look, there’s been so much about this last decade that
is just — but it’s — it’s — but the thing is is that it — the tenor of
it has been to try and make people feel alone, to make people — and, you
know, when you make people feel alone, it’s a way of trying to
disempower people, to suggest to them you don’t have people, to suggest
to them you don’t have community, which is not true.

And that’s why I say, let’s be intentional about in the face of a
stranger, seeing a neighbor, and understanding that our power to lift
each other up is immense.  And let us do it with the spirit of knowing
the vast majority of us have so much more in common than what separates
us.  (Applause.)

And we are all in this together.  (Applause.)  We are all in this
together.  Because, you know, from the very start, our campaign has not
been about being against something; it is about being for something —
(applause) — a fight for a future with freedom, opportunity, and dignity
for all Americans. 

And so, in these final hours, let us remember that there is power in
knowing that we are together.  And let us remember that your vote is
your voice, and your voice is your power.  (Applause.)  And you are
powerful, and you remember that. 

So, today, Michigan, I ask you: Are you ready to make your voices
heard?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.) 

And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight —

     AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  (Applause.)

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)

                              END                    6:27 P.M. EST
