---
date: '2024-11-26'
modified_time: 2024-11-26 17:39:02-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-26 18:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/26/remarks-by-president-biden-announcing-cessation-of-hostilities-between-israel-and-hezbollah/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Announcing Cessation of Hostilities Between Israel\
  \ and\_Hezbollah"
---
 
Rose Garden

3:38 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.

Today, I have some good news to report from the Middle East.  I just
spoke with the prime minister of Israel and Lebanon, and I’m pleased to
announce that their governments have accepted the United States’
proposal to end the devastating conflict between Israel and Hezbollah. 

And I want to thank President Macron of France for his partnership in
reaching this moment. 

For nearly 14 months, a deadly conflict raged across the border that
separates Israel and Lebanon — a conflict that began the day after the
October 7th attack by Hamas on Israel.  Hours later, at 2:00 a.m. in the
morning, Hezbollah and other terrorist organizations backed by Iran
attacked Israel in support of Hamas.  

Let’s be clear: Israel did not launch this war.  The Lebanese people did
not seek that war either, nor did the United States. 

Over the past year, including in the days immediately ta- — following
October the 7th, I directed the U.S. military to flow assets and
capabilities into the region, including aircraft carriers, fighter
squadrons, and sophisticated air defense battery to defend Israel and
deter our common enemy at critical moments.  

Since the war with Hezbollah began, over 70,000 Israelis have been
forced to live in refugee — li- — live as refugees in their own country,
helplessly watching their homes, their businesses, their communities as
they were bombarded and destroyed.  And over 300,000 Lebanese people
have also been forced to live as refugees in their own country in a war
imposed on them by Hezbollah. 

All told, this has been the deadliest conflict between Israel and
Hezbollah in decades.  

How many of Hezbollah’s senior leaders are dead, including its longtime
leader Nasrallah?  And Israel has — and Israel has destroyed Hezbollah’s
terrorist infrastructure in southern Lebanon as well, including miles of
sophisticated tunnels, which were prepared for an October 7th-style
terrorist attack in northern Israel.  

But lasting security for the people of Israel and Lebanon cannot be
achieved only on the battlefield.  And that’s why I’ve directed my team
to work with the governments of Israel and Lebanon to forge a ceasefire
to bring the conflict between Israel and Hezbollah to a close.

Under the deal reached today, effective at 4:00 a.m. tomorrow local
time, the fighting across the Lebanese-Israeli border will end — will
end.  This is designed to be a permanent cessation of hostilities. 

What is left of Hezbollah and other terrorist organizations will not be
allowed — will — I emphasize — will not be allowed to threaten the
security of Israel again. 

Over the next 60 days, the Lebanese Army and the State Security Forces
will deploy and take control of their own territory once again. 
Hezbollah terrorist infrastructure in southern Lebanon will not be
allowed to be rebuilt. 

And over the next 60 days, Israel will gradually withdraw its remaining
forces and civilians — civilians on both sides will soon be able to
safely return to their communities and begin to rebuild their homes,
their schools, their farms, their businesses, and their very lives. 

We’re determined this conflict will not be just another cycle of
violence.  And so, the United States, with the full support of France
and our other allies, has pledged to work with Israel and Lebanon to
ensure that these arra- — this — this arrangement is fully implemented —
the agreement totally implemented. 

You know, there will be no U.S. troops deployed in southern Lebanon. 
This is consistent with my commitment to the American people to not put
U.S. troops in combat in this conflict. 

Instead, we, along with France and others, will provide the necessary
assistance to make sure this deal is implemented fully and
effectively.  

Let us — let me be clear: If Hezbollah or anyone else breaks the deal
and poses a direct threat to Israel, then Israel retains the right to
self-defense consistent with international law, just like any country
when facing a terrorist group pledged to that country’s destruction. 

At the same time, this deal supports Lebanon’s sovereignty.  And so, it
heralds a new start for Lebanon — a country that I’ve seen most of over
the years, a country with rich history and culture.  If fully
implemented, this deal can put Lebanon on a path toward a future that’s
worthy of its significant past.

And just as the Lebanese people deserve a future of security and
prosperity, so do the people of Gaza.  They too deserve an end to the
fighting and displacement. 

The people of Gaza have been through hell.  Their word — their world is
absolutely shattered.  Far too many civilians in Gaza have suffered far
too much.  And Hamas has refused, for months and months, to negotiate a
good-faith ceasefire and a hostage deal.  

And so, now Hamas has a choice to make.  Their only way out is to
release the hostages, including American citizens which they hold, and,
in the process, bring an end to the fighting, which would make possible
a surge of humanitarian li- — relief.  

Over the coming days, the United States will make another push with
Turkey, Egypt, Qatar, Israel, and others to achieve a ceasefire in Gaza
with the hostages released and the end to the war without Hamas in power
— that it becomes possible.  

As for the broader Middle East region, today’s announcement brings us
closer to realizing the affirmative agenda that I’ve been pushing
forward during my entire presidency: a vision for the future of the
Middle East where it’s at peace and prosperous and integrated across
borders; a future where Palestinians have a state of their own, one that
fulfills its people’s legitimate aspirations and one that cannot
threaten Israel or harbor terrorist groups with backing from Iran; a
future where Israelis and Palestinians enjoy equal measures of security,
prosperity, and — yes — dignity. 

To that end, the United States remains prepared to conclude a set of
historic deals with Saudi Arabia to include a security pact and economic
assurances together with a credible pathway for establishing a
Palestinian state and the full — the full normalization of relations
between Saudi Arabia and Israel — a desire they both have. 

I believe this agenda remains possible.  And in my remaining time in
office, I will work tirelessly to advance this vision of — for an
integrated, secure, and prosperous region, all of which — all of which
strengthens America’s national security.  

Getting all this done will require making some hard choices. 

Israel has been told on the — has been bold on the battlefield.  Iran
and its proxies have paid a very heavy price. 

Now Israel must be bold in turning tactical gains against Iran and its
proxies into a coherent strategy that secure Israel’s long-term — its
long-term safety and advances a broader peace and prosperity in the
region.  

Today’s announcement is a critical step in advancing that vision.  And
so, I applaud the courageous decision by the leaders of Lebanon and
Israel to end the violence. 

It reminds us that peace is possible.  Say that again: Peace is
possible.  As long as that is the case, I will not for a single moment
stop working to achieve it.

God bless you all.  And sorry to keep you waiting so long.  May God
protect our troops.

Thank you.

Q    Mr. President, will you get a ceasefire in Gaza before leaving
office? 

THE PRESIDENT:  You ask me how I get a ceasefire in — I think so.  I’m
hoping.  I’m praying.

Q    How is this push any different from the previous ones?

THE PRESIDENT:  If you don’t see that, you shouldn’t be reporting.  It’s
a lot different.

3:46 P.M. EST
