---
date: '2024-11-07'
modified_time: 2024-11-07 14:04:55-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-07 14:04:54-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/07/remarks-by-president-biden-in-address-to-the-nation-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Address to the\_Nation"
---
 
Rose Garden

11:24 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Good morning.  (Applause.)  Good morning, good morning. 
(Applause.) 

Thank you.  Please.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

Good to see this Cabinet and staff together here.  (Applause.)

Thank you.  (Applause.)

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  Please.  (Applause.)

Thank you, thank you, thank you.

It’s good to see you all.  Particularly good to see my granddaughter
sitting in the front row here.  Hi, Finn.  How are you, honey?

For over 200 years, America has carried on the greatest experiment in
self-government in the history of the world — and that’s not hyperbole;
that’s a fact — where the people — the people vote and choose their own
leaders and they do it peacefully and where, in a democracy, the will of
the people always prevails. 

Yesterday, I spoke with President-elect Trump to congratulate him on his
victory.  And I assured him that I would direct my entire administration
to work with his team to ensure a peaceful and orderly transition. 
That’s what the American people deserve. 

Yesterday, I also spoke with Vice President Harris.  She’s been a
partner and a public servant.  She ran an inspiring campaign, and
everyone got to see something that I learned early on to respect so
much: her character.  She has a backbone like a ramrod.  She has great
character, true character.  She gave her whole heart and effort, and she
and her entire team should be proud of the campaign they ran. 

You know, the struggle for the soul of America since our very founding
has always been an ongoing debate and still vital today.  I know, for
some people, it’s a time for victory, to state the obvious.  For others,
it’s a time of loss. 

Campaigns are contests of competing visions.  The country chooses one or
the other.  We accept the choice the country made.  I’ve said many times
you can’t love your country only when you win.  You can’t love your
neighbor only when you agree. 

Something I hope we can do no matter who you voted for is see each other
not as adversaries but as fellow Americans, bring down the temperature. 

I also hope we can lay to rest the question about the integrity of the
American electoral system.  It is honest, it is fair, and it is
transparent.  And it can be trusted, win or lose. 

I also hope we can restore the respect for all our election workers, who
busted their necks and took risks at the outset.  We should thank them —
thank them for staffing voting sites, counting the votes, protecting the
very integrity of the election.  Many of them are volunteers who do it
simply out of love for their country. 

And as they did — as they did their duty as citizens, I will do my duty
as president.  I will fulfill my oath, and I will honor the
Constitution.  On January 20th, we will have a peaceful transfer of
power here in America. 

To all our incredible staff, supporters, Cabinet members, all the people
who have been hanging out with me for the last four years — “God love
you,” as my mother would say — thank you so much. 

You put so much into the past four years.  I know it’s a difficult
time.  You’re hurting.  I hear you, and I see you.  But don’t forget —
don’t forget all that we accomplished. 

It’s been a historic presidency — not because I’m president — because
what we’ve done, what you’ve done — a presidency for all Americans. 

Much of the work we’ve done is already being felt by the American
people.  The vast majority of it will not be felt — be felt over the
next 10 years.  We have a — we have legislation we passed that’s just —
only now just really kicking in. 

We’re going to see over a trillion dollars’ worth of infrastructure work
done, changing people’s lives in rural communities and communities that
are in real difficulty, because it takes time to get it done, and so
much more that’s going to take time.  But it’s there.

The road ahead is clear, assuming we sustain it.  There’s so much — so
much we can get done and will get done based the way the legislation was
passed.  And it’s truly historic.

You know, we’re leaving behind the strongest economy in the world.  I
know people are still hurting.  But things are changing rapidly. 
Together, we’ve changed America for the better. 

Now we have 74 days to finish the term — our term.  Let’s make every day
count.  That’s the responsibility we have to the American people. 

Look, folks, you all know it in your lives: Setbacks are unavoidable,
but giving up is unforgivable.  Setbacks are unavoidable, but giving up
is unforgivable.  We all get knocked down, but the measure of our
character, as my dad would say, is how quickly we get back up. 
Remember, a defeat does not mean we are defeated.  We lost this battle.

The America of your dreams is calling for you to get back up.  That’s
the story of America for over 240 years and counting.  It’s a story for
all of us, not just some of us. 

The American experiment endures, and we’re going to be okay, but we need
to stay engaged.  We need to keep going.  And above all, we need to keep
the faith. 

I’m so proud to have worked with all of you.  I really mean it.  I
sincerely mean it. 

God bless you all.  God bless America.  And may God protect our troops. 
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.) 

Thanks.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

11:30 A.M. EST
