---
date: '2024-11-29'
modified_time: 2024-11-29 11:54:48-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-29 12:15:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/29/remarks-by-president-biden-in-press-gaggle-nantucket-ma/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Press Gaggle | Nantucket,\_MA"
---
 
11:10 A.M. EST

  
Q    Mr. President, what are you thankful for?  What are you thankful
for this year?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m thankful for — for my family.  I’m thankful for a
peaceful transition of the presidency.  And I’m thankful for the fact
that, I think, with the grace of God and the goodwill of the neighbors
and a little bit of luck, we’re going to get some more progress in the
Middle East.  And I’m really thankful for being able to get the first
piece done on Lebanon.  There’s a lot to be thankful for.  
  
I mean, look, we’re the United States of America.  I know I’ve said this
a thousand times — some of you have heard me say it more than once — but
I really believe there’s nothing beyond our capacity — nothing beyond
our capacity when we work together.  So, that’s the hope: We’re going to
be able to do that.  
  
So, that’s what I’m thankful for.

  
Q    Mr. President, have you spoken with the three formerly detained
Americans who have returned from China?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, I have.  I spoke with all three of them.  You know,
one was there only three years, but he was for a life sentence.  Other
one was there for — I think it was a total of 20-some years.  Anyway,
they’re long, long stays.  And I’m really happy they’re home.   
  
I got to talk to them all when they landed in Alaska.  They’re reu- —
reunited with their families.  And — and it’s — I was very — very happy
to be able to get it done.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) tariffs with Canada and — and Mexico that the
President-elect is talking about?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I hope he rethinks it.  I — I think it’s a
counterproductive thing to do.   
  
You know, look, one of the things you’ve heard me say before that we —
we’re — we have an unusual situation in America.  We’re surrounded by
the Pacific Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, and two allies: Mexico and
Canada.  And the last thing we need to do is begin to screw up those
relationships.  I think we’ve got them in a good place.  I think the —  
  
And, by the way, you know, the cooperation with the outgoing president —
incoming president, the illegal crossings are down considerably to what
they were back in — when he was in office.   
  
There’s a lot more to do.  But I — I just think — I hope they
reconsider.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    President-elect Trump proposed tariffs on China as well.  Are you
worried about that as well or that relationship?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I — I — we have reached a relationship where there’s a
status quo ante with regard to China.  China has — is — we’ve set up a
hotline between President Xi and myself, as well as through our military
— a direct line.   
  
The one thing I’m confident about Xi is he doesn’t want to make a
mistake.  And I mean that sincerely.  And I’m not saying that he is our
best buddy, but he — he understands what’s at stake. 

And that’s why I’ve spent so much time, as you know, getting the
situation in the South Pacific, as well as in the Indian Ocean, in the
(inaudible).  So, a combination of Japan, Australia, India.  I mean,
things are moving in the right direction, with the grace of God and the
goodwill of the neighbors.  
  
One last question.   
  
Q    Mr. President, there are many Americans who are worried about the
future this holiday season.  What is your message to them?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  My message is to just remember who we are.   
  
Look, you all have a very tough job.  And I’m not being solicitous — a
really tough job.  Think about it.  If — we — I — I remember a couple
weeks ago, the survey done: How do people feel about where they are?  It
was at 62 percent and (inaudible) percent thought they were doing pretty
well.  What do they think about the direction of the country? 
Thirty-five percent — only thirty-five percent or so thought it was
moving in the right direction.   
  
I think there’s an explanation for that.  If you think about it, what do
you — I’m — it’s not a criticism of the press — and I mean this; you
know me too well — (laughs) — is that you turn on the television and you
don’t see a lot of good news.  Even the stuff that is good news doesn’t
seem to sell very well.  And so, when you turn on the TV, everything
looks bad.  Everything looks bad.   
  
And now you have — I forget what the number is, but an exceedingly small
number of people watching mainstream television and reading the
newspapers.  I forget the number, but you know better than I would.  And
they’re way down. 

So, where — where do you get your news?  And what — and how do you know
what you’re getting is not just what you’re looking for as opposed to
what’s happening?  Not because of you.  Not — I’m not being critical of
the press.   
  
I’ve talked to too many of you privately.  You’ve been around a long
time, and you got a hell of a job.   
  
I mean, you know — anyway, I don’t think — I want to make sure this
transition goes smoothly.  I want to make sure it goes smoothly.  And
all the talk about what he’s going to do or not do, I think there may be
a little bit of internal reckoning on his — in his party, what — what he
is going to do or not do.

So, it remains to be seen.  And — and the Congress is — is so razor thin
across the board, it’s going to be a — I think it’s going to require
what usually happens in these cases: some real compromise.  But we’ll
see.  We’ll see.  
  
And on Thanksgiving, I’m hopeful.  
  
Thank you so much.  
  
11:15 A.M. EST
