---
date: '2024-11-01'
modified_time: 2024-11-01 19:33:06-04:00
published_time: 2024-11-01 19:27:45-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/01/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-national-climate-advisor-ali-zaidi-at-georgetown-law-school-on-the-biden-harris-administrations-work-to-rebuild-our-middle-class-and-accelerate-american-ma/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by National Climate Advisor Ali Zaidi at\
  \ Georgetown Law School on the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019s Work to\
  \ Rebuild our Middle Class and Accelerate American Manufacturing and\_Innovation"
---
 
I am grateful to be back at Georgetown for the conversation and the
chance to take stock of where we stand at halftime in what has been
dubbed the “decisive decade” for global climate action.

In the United States, under the leadership of President Biden and Vice
President Harris, we have doubled our pace of decarbonization, built 100
gigawatts – 25 million homes worth – of clean power, and catalyzed a
trillion dollars of private investment, creating good jobs across the
nation.

The scoreboard looks good. The fundamentals are strong. But the hard
truth remains that we have more field to gain and even less time to do
it. The good news is that we carry with us into the second half a
fundamentally rewritten climate playbook – an approach that eschews the
gloom and doom and embraces the hope and possibilities. This new
playbook is the gamechanger – and why I am confident that America will
meet the moment.

Together, we will meet this moment because, over the last four years, we
have proven climate action as the new foundry for economic opportunity
and economic growth in the United States – the figurative factory floor
where we are forging a stronger American middle class and mounting the
comeback of American manufacturing.

*Proven* because the new foundry is already delivering – rising wages,
expanding apprenticeships, over 600 new clean energy factories, and
union density at rates double the rest of the economy. All of this is
accelerating as the foundry taps into the salient, the proximate, and
the visible uplift of our communities for its fuel.

We will meet the moment because, in our new playbook, we have pulled the
upside of climate action both forward and close, even as we took on a
problem that is global in nature and decades in the making.

We have pursued climate action in a way that is co-located with economic
opportunity and coincided with pollution reduction – a geographic and
temporal alignment of benefits designed to earn the political economy to
go big, go fast, and go the distance.

Georgetown Climate Center is an apt place to reflect on this playbook
because that approach of co-locating with economic opportunity and
coinciding with pollution reduction is impossible to execute without
partnership – the kind you work to forge through your efforts here –
partnership top to bottom and shoulder to shoulder. That means federal,
state, local, and Tribal governments, public and private sector –
everybody coming together to make a difference, one neighborhood at a
time.

Today, as communities are starting to breathe easier, to turn on the
faucet with greater peace of mind, and to work jobs that not only
provide pay and benefits but also purpose and dignity, we are unlocking
that political economy boost – while those operating the brakes on
climate action have become less effective, and the politics of climate
inaction are deteriorating.

It might be an unexpected assertion, but it is true – drawn from
wellsprings of hope and opportunity, change and improved circumstances,
that I have seen as I have traveled from coast to coast, in small towns
and big cities: People want us to keep investing in climate solutions
and the clean energy economy of the future. And there is a reason.

Today, for hundreds of school districts, because of investments through
the Biden-Harris Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the iconic yellow school
bus is going green – Made in America, by union workers, and showing up
at the end of the driveway, no longer pumping diesel pollution into the
air.

Today, in communities built over the last century or two, where pipes
had been buried for a hundred years and leaking for decades, pipefitters
are not just bending metal but also the arc of methane emissions. That
same investment is reducing energy costs and safety risks – and the
receipts show the impact.

Today, on 80,000 farms and ranches across the country, a new revenue
stream is now part of the ledger as the United States leads the next
generation of agricultural practice – one that is smarter both in
withstanding the trials of climate change and in sourcing the solutions,
with farmers paid, finally, to help the land breathe in the carbon from
the sky.

Whether on wheels, under our heels, or growing from the ground on which
we stand, these climate solutions are now and here. They are delivering
the salient, the proximate, and the visible. And, in turn, they are
fueling that new foundry, forging economic opportunity and economic
growth all across America.

The success of this paradigm-shifting strategy – this new playbook –
also comes from harmonizing two sets of tools, the tools to deliver
investments and the tools to set standards, all in support of our
economic goals.  

We have seen this strategy at work: The investments from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the Inflation Reduction Act, and the CHIPS and
Science Act enhanced by a complementary architecture of federal
standards that spur demand and generate the regulatory certainty needed
to accelerate capital formation and encourage entrepreneurial
risk-taking. 

It is an important combination, and the success of our new foundry comes
from both – the catalytic public investments and tax credits and also
the standards that send a signal to the market, spurring long-term
investment and firming up that next bet on America.

Bringing the breadth of our tools and partners together helps as we
swing for the fences in every sector of the economy. Looking for wins
everywhere – power and transportation, buildings and industry, lands and
agriculture – gives us a better shot at delivering for everyone. When
executed well, the gains from all-in and
searching-for-opportunity-everywhere climate action cascade deep through
the economy.

I want to give you two examples – one more obvious and the other,
hopefully, to make you smile.

Two years ago, sparked by demand from the solar industry, a former steel
plant in Leetsdale, Pennsylvania, a relic of the World War II era,
announced it was making a comeback. Two years later, that spark has
sustained, and the plant has tripled in capacity. Hundreds of jobs in a
place where, just a few years ago, opportunity seemed forever fenced
out.

And then in Milford, Utah, there is Scotty’s Diner, which also got a
taste of that cascading economic opportunity. In a town of just 1,500,
Scotty’s got a call from a construction crew for an unusually large
order – 40 burgers and 40 fries. The owner has since doubled her staff
to keep up with the appetite from what she calls “the geothermal thing”
– a mega, two-gigawatt geothermal project now being built in her rural
community.

That one plant, by the way, permitted on our public lands, increased
total U.S. capacity for geothermal generation by 50 percent and
reimagined the frontier on a critical clean energy technology where the
U.S. can now have the edge.

These jobs – whether at the steel plant or the diner – bring so much
more with them than a paycheck. I saw that this fall when I visited a
clean energy factory with Sierra Club’s Ben Jealous. Ben pointed out
something that has stuck with me ever since. In the hallway out front,
he told me to look at the Earth Day artwork made by the kids of the
factory workers. It was what you would expect – the most colorful
expressions of wonder at nature and its beauty – and conveyed so much
more. The artwork captured how the kids saw their parents: not as
workers who walk on the ground, but as superheroes soaring to save the
planet.

It is not just about putting steel in the ground or even in the spine of
the American middle class – it is about filling our wings with a sense
of soaring and uplift.

Today, we should all feel that sense of soaring because America is back
in the business of doing big things. Too often in our discourse, we talk
as if our imaginations have shrunk, as if the Hoover Dam was the apex of
our ability to blueprint and build. But this discourse ignores the
facts.

Take a look off the coast of Virginia, where the utility company and
workers from the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, IBEW,
are building a two-gigawatt offshore wind farm. Two gigawatts – the same
size as the Hoover Dam – and yet just one of 10 similar offshore wind
projects that the Biden-Harris administration greenlit over the last
four years. Projects that are now spurring a 50-state supply chain, with
steel going into the water and clean electricity coming onto the grid.
An industry that was just in our imagination a few years ago, towering
high today and lifting up our workers and communities at the same time.

We see it shine through in solar as well.

Half the solar installed today came online during the last four years,
and, somehow, that may be the least exciting part of the story. Because
of President Biden and Vice President Harris’s leadership, a technology
that was invented in America decades ago is finally being manufactured
in America too. In fact, we have quadrupled our capacity to manufacture
solar panels in the United States since the start of this
administration, and we are set to double that capacity again in a few
years.

That is not all. Thanks to tax guidance that the Treasury Department
recently finalized – one of over 75 tax guidance projects completed
since the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act – we are now bringing
ingot and wafer manufacturing to our shores. More energy jobs, more
energy security, more opportunity and growth unleashed by our new
foundry.

By the way, this manufacturing renaissance is also a big deal for
innovation – important for America but also for the world’s ability to
race toward and reach collective climate goals.

We know this: Manufacturing is the necessary bridge between invention
and impact. No country can lead on innovation without the industrial
capacity to turn plans into products. That is why America’s
manufacturing renaissance delivers on so many bottom lines; because
American scientists and engineers can now shine a brighter light into
the future. That is good news for everybody. 

Of course, whether it is geothermal, or wind, or solar, or some other
fuel or technology altogether, the value proposition depends on a
bigger, better grid.

That is why, since the first day of this Administration, we made this a
priority. Today, the Biden-Harris administration has financially boosted
or environmentally approved over 5,000 miles of new capacity
transmission on the grid – adding roads to the electricity highway
system, something that must remain a massive national priority. We have
worked to adapt the grid to the new realities imposed by the climate
crisis. On a bipartisan basis, investment is now moving to bury lines,
harden poles, or lay redundant cabling. Senator Murkowski, a champion of
this resilience work, talks eloquently about one of these projects – a
new high voltage cable that is going to be laid between Kenai and
Anchorage. The next time the community faces the prospect of an outage,
that cable becomes a vehicle to allow neighbors to help neighbors.

In addition to the new lanes on the electricity highway system and the
physical upgrades to boost its resilience, I am excited about another
opportunity we are chasing: simply operating our existing energy highway
more creatively.

I will start with something wonky: dynamic line ratings. Our grid, as it
stands today, has a static speed limit for electricity across the
system. But that static speed limit is designed to safeguard the grid
during the worst conditions. It does not allow electricity to travel
faster during most times when conditions are good. Today, thanks to
better sensors and AI, we can set that speed limit through dynamic line
ratings. When conditions are good, we can raise the speed limit on the
grid. We can squeeze far more capacity out of our existing
infrastructure.

Another way we can get more out of the grid is by repaving the roads our
electricity travels on. Most transmission cables use the same design
that has been in place for a century: aluminum wires that transmit
electricity, wrapped in stainless steel cables for durability.

Today, newer advanced cables being made in America employ carbon fiber
and superconductors instead of steel and aluminum, making them stronger,
lighter, and capable of carrying far more power than a traditional
cable. By “reconductoring” our transmission lines, we can quadruple the
pace of power we can add to the grid.

Finally, we can use the grid in a fundamentally different fashion by
co-deploying battery storage with transmission, Storage As a
Transmission Asset. Batteries can help manage rush hour traffic on the
grid. When demand is high and you want to move a lot of electricity
through the system, you can use the electricity stored in batteries to
supplement power generation. When demand is low, you can recharge them.
Overall, batteries help optimize the utilization of the transmission
system that you have – fewer emissions, more resiliency, lower consumer
costs.

To take advantage of that opportunity, we need to make even more of
those batteries here, even more cheaply.

Batteries are another example of technology invented here that we had
lost the capacity to make. America once at the frontier of the
technology but then, for decades, ground ceded to others. Today, thanks
to our new playbook – to the investments and the standards – the United
States has become a magnet for that investment. Almost overnight, we
have gone from a laggard to a leader, the top nation destination for
private investment in this space.

We are making the batteries and – double click on them – the anodes and
the cathodes, the separators and the materials that go into them too.
Earlier this week, I was with President Cecil Roberts and the United
Mineworkers at Ruff Creek, where they are now training up workers to
make critical inputs – the active materials that go into the cathode of
a cutting-edge battery that operates without nickel and cobalt. A union
that powered America’s rise in the industrial age is back on the job,
ensuring our competitiveness in the global clean energy economy.

Investing in the capacity that these UMWA workers will now create is
essential – because mineral security is essential to climate security.
Just as the climate imperative compels us to race forward on securing
raw materials, as the U.S. is now doing in places like the Salton Sea,
we also have to sprint to stand up our capacities to refine and upgrade,
recycle and remake these raw materials, as the clean energy economy
becomes a circular economy.

Ultimately, it is not just about the grid, or the batteries, or even the
inputs. Ultimately, it is about coming together and doing the work of
uplift.

I saw it in Western Michigan, where a shuttered nuclear power plant is
coming back to serve two rural co-ops – the Hoosiers and the Wolverines
– the co-ops teaming up despite their rivaling basketball loyalties.
There, I met a union worker who thought he had retired, but was now
coming back – out of retirement like the plant, beaming with a sense of
pride, and eager to lift up the next generation of workers who will
deliver carbon-free electricity to the grid.

I felt it this summer, standing in the Oval Office as Senator Capito,
the Republican Ranking Member, and Senator Carper, the Democratic Chair
of the Environment Committee, walked into the Oval Office together and
shook the President’s hand; as Joe Biden signed into law a bipartisan
piece of legislation to advance nuclear energy, our domestic supply
chains, and America’s ability to lead on the next generation of tech.

Time and again, even when folks count us out, we show our ability to
come together and do the work of uplift. 

To ratify the first environmental treaty in decades, we came together –
the manufacturers association joining with environmental advocates to
lift up the common ground. To pass the biggest investment in
infrastructure since Eisenhower, bipartisan votes gathered to lift up
clean energy technologies and environmental remediation. And as we have
implemented this historic agenda on climate and clean energy, governors,
mayors, and leaders from all parties have come together, proving climate
action as a new foundry for economic opportunity and economic growth –
truly a project of uplift.

This morning, I was in sunny Philadelphia in a sandy lot for the last
stop of the American Climate Corps Tour. The young people there have
grown up in a world where the sky turns orange; smoke fills their lungs
from fires burning hundreds of miles away; where they get push alerts on
the phone warning of the next flood or hurricane barreling through.
These young people have all the reason to be angry or despondent. But
they have rejected that. Instead, they have answered President Biden’s
call from this past Earth Day to join the first-ever American Climate
Corps. Choosing to write a different story – one that ends not with doom
and gloom but with hope and possibilities. We have so much work to do.
But we carry with us this new playbook. We carry with us proof that
climate action can be the new foundry for economic opportunity and
economic growth in the United States. And we have the example of our
youth, who are showing us the way. We have and we must keep coming
together and doing the work of uplift. That is how we meet the moment in
this decisive decade.

\###
