---
date: '2024-11-04'
modified_time: 2024-11-05 11:28:45-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-04 23:59:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/04/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-allentown-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Allentown,\_PA"
---
 
Muhlenberg College  
Allentown, Pennsylvania

4:13 P.M. EST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hey, Allentown!  (Applause.)  Hello, Pennsylvania! 
(Applause.)  Hey, everyone.  Hi.

Can we hear it for Elizabeth?  (Applause.)  Let’s hear it for
Elizabeth.  (Applause.)  

Good afternoon.  All right, Allentown, are we ready to do this? 
(Applause.)

Are we ready to vote?  (Applause.)

Are we ready to win?  (Applause.)

All right.  Oh, it’s good to be back in Pennsylvania, and it is good to
be with so many incredible leaders.  Let me thank everyone. 

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I want to thank everyone — (applause) — I want to
thank everyone for taking the time out of your busy lives to be here
this afternoon.  We are all in this together, and I know we all here
know this.  But I thank you for all the work everyone has been doing
over these last months —

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thank you, Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and over the next 24 hours.  (Applause.)  Thank
you all.

I want to thank my dear friend Governor Shapiro for his leadership —
(applause) — his friendship, and all that he does.  Congressman —
Congresswoman Wild, let’s reelect her — (applause) — to the United
States House of Representatives.  And while we’re at it, please send Bob
Casey back to the United States Senate.  (Applause.)

Mayor Tuerk, I thank you for your friendship and your long-standing
leadership.  (Applause.)

And can we hear it for Fat Joe — (applause) — and Frankie Negrón? 
(Applause.)

So, listen, I am so thankful to everyone for being here and including
the leaders of the Puerto Rican community.  I stand — (applause) — I
stand here proud of my long-standing commitment to Puerto Rico and her
people, and I will be a president for all Americans.  (Applause.)  All
Americans.  All Americans.

So, Allentown, this is it.  Just one more day.  One more day. 
(Applause.)  One more day left in one of the most consequential
elections of our lifetime, and momentum is on our side.  (Applause.) 
Momentum is on our side.  Can you feel it?  We have momentum, right? 
(Applause.)

Because our campaign has tapped into the ambitions and the aspirations
and the dreams of the American people.  We are optimistic and excited
about what we will do together, and we here know it is time for a new
generation of leadership in America.  (Applause.)  And I am ready to
offer that leadership as the next president of the United States of
America.  (Applause.)

Now, Pennsylvania, the race is not yet over.  Okay?  We got a lot of
work to do, and we have got to finish strong. 

So, listen, we got hard work to do.  But here’s the thing: We like hard
work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is good work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is
joyful work.  (Applause.)

And make no mistake, we will win.  (Applause.)  We will win.  We will
win.  We will win.  We will win.  (Applause.)

And one of the reasons we will win is because I do believe when you know
what you stand for, you know what to fight for.  (Applause.)

And we have an opportunity, in this election, to finally turn the page
on a decade of politics that have been driven by fear and division. 
We’re done with that.  We’re done.  (Applause.)  And we’re exhausted
with it.  America is ready for a fresh start —

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  I love you, Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I love you, sweetheart.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

And America is ready for a new way forward where we see our fellow
American not as an enemy but as a neighbor.  (Applause.)  We are ready —
we are ready for a president who understands that the true measure of
the strength of a leader is not based on who you beat down; it is based
on who you lift up.  (Applause.)

And, Pennsylvania, you know me.  I am not afraid of tough fights,
evidently.  (Laughs.)  For decades as a prosecutor and the top law
enforcement officer of our biggest state, I won fights against the big
banks that ripped off homeowners.  I won fights against for-profit
colleges that scammed veterans and students.  I won fights against
predators who abused women and children and seniors and cartels that
trafficked in guns and drugs and human beings. 

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We’re not going back!  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.  And it is my pledge to you —
it is my pledge to you, if you give me a chance to fight on your behalf
as president, there is nothing in the world that will stand in my way. 
(Applause.)  Nothing in the world.

And it is my pledge to you that when I walk — with your help, it is my
pledge to you that when I walk in the White House, instead of stewing
over an enemies list, I will spend every day working on my to-do list —
(applause) — on your behalf, full of priorities that are about improving
your life, about bringing down the cost of living, about banning
corporate price gouging on groceries, about making housing and childcare
more affordable.  (Applause.)

My plan will be about cutting taxes for workers and middle-class
families and small businesses; lowering health care costs, including the
cost of home care for our seniors.  (Applause.)

Because here’s wh- — here’s where I’m coming from on this: I believe
access to health care should be a right and not just a privilege of
those who can afford it.  (Applause.)

And to those certain individuals who still want to get rid of the
Affordable Care Act —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — trying to take us back to the days when insurance
companies could deny people with preexisting conditions, well, to them,
we say: We are —

AUDIENCE:  Not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not going back.  We are not going back.  And we
are not going back —

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.  We’re not going back.

And we are not going back because ours is a fight for the future. 
(Applause.)  Ours is a fight for the future.  And it is a fight for
freedom — (applause) — like the fundamental freedom of a woman to make
decisions about her own body and not have her government tell her what
to do.  (Applause.)

And when Congress, with Bob Casey’s help, passes a bill to restore
reproductive freedom nationwide — (applause) — as president of the
United States, I will proudly sign it into law.  (Applause.)

So, Pennsylvania, I am here to ask for your vote.  I am here to ask for
your vote.  (Applause.)

And here is my pledge — and here is my pledge to you.  As president, I
pledge to seek common ground and commonsense solutions to the challenges
you face.  (Applause.)  I am not looking — I am not looking to score
political points.  I am looking to make progress.  (Applause.)

And I pledge to you —

(A protestor disruption can be heard.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s okay.

     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and it is my pledge to you to listen to those
who will be impacted by the decisions I make, to listen to experts, and
to listen to people who disagree with me because I don’t believe people
who disagree with me are the enemy.  (Applause.)

And you know what?  By the way, listen, we are fighting for a democracy
right now.  (Applause.)  And we love our democracy.  And democracy can
be a bit complicated sometimes, but that’s okay.  We are fighting for a
democracy, which is why I say that I am not going to be a leader who
thinks that people who disagree with me should be put in jail, that they
are the enemy.  (Applause.)  I’ll give them a seat at the table, because
that’s what real leaders do and that’s what strong leaders do. 
(Applause.)

And it is my pledge to you to always put country above party and self
and to be a president for all Americans.  (Applause.)

So, Allentown, that is my pledge to you. 

And so, let me ask: Who here has a plan to vote?  (Applause.) 
Fantastic.  That’s great.  That’s great.  (Laughs.)

All right.  So, poll- — polls are open here in Pennsylvania tomorrow
from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.  Let’s get the word out.  (Applause.)  Let —
let’s get —

AUDIENCE:  Vote!  Vote!  Vote!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Definitely vote.  (Laughs.)

AUDIENCE:  Vote!  Vote!  Vote!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Vote.

And let’s get the word out.  All the leaders here, help get the word out
to remind people of the hours the polls are open and to remind folks
that they can go to IWillVote.com for all the information that folks may
need in terms of when and where to vote and where to drop off their mail
ballots — right? — because that’s going to be very important. 

And to all the leaders here, I ask you to please continue to talk to
your friends and your family and your neighbors and let them know why
you decided to take time out of your busy lives to be here right now and
what is at stake in this election.  (Applause.)  Please share your
perspective on why this election is so important.  And encourage folks
to let them know their voices must be heard, because we —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  UAW is in the house!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And UAW is in the house.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.) 
And I am so proud to have your support.  Thank you.  I am so proud to
have your support.

And we need everyone in Pennsylvania to vote because you are going to
make the difference in this election.  (Applause.)  You will.

So, here’s how I think about things.  We are all here together because
we love our country.  And when you love something, you fight for it. 
(Applause.)  And I do believe it is one of the highest forms of
patriotism, of our expression of our love for our country, to then fight
for its ideals and to fight to realize the promise of America.

And, look, I have always believed in our nation’s promise because I have
lived it.  I grew up as a child of the Civil Rights Movement. 
(Applause.)  My parents would take me to marches when I was in a
stroller.  And there were people there — we’ve all read and know about
it — there were people there from all walks of life who came together in
a fight for freedom and for opportunity. 

You know, growing up, I watched my mother as she raised my sister and me
and gave us the same chances our country gave her.  I was blessed to
have family by blood and to have family by love who — (applause) — who
instilled in me the values of community and compassion and faith.  I’ve
spent my life fighting for people who have been hurt and counted out but
who never stopped believing in — that in our country, anything is
possible.  (Applause.)

I have lived the promise of America.  And today, I see the promise of
America in everyone who is here, in every one of you, in every one of
us.  We are the promise of America.  (Applause.)  We — everyone here, we
are the promise of America.  We are the promise of America. 

And I see it — I see it in the fathers and the mothers and the
grandparents who work hard every day for their children’s future.  I see
it in the women who refuse to accept a future without reproductive
freedom.  (Applause.)  I see it in the men who support them. 
(Applause.)  I see you. 

I see it in the Republicans who never voted for a Democrat before but
put the Constitution of the United States over party.  (Applause.)

And every day, I see the promise of America in all the young leaders who
are voting for the first time.  (Applause.)  I do.  I do.  I — I love
Gen Z.  (Laughs.)  Exactly.  Right?  Come on.  Exactly.  (Laughs.) 
That’s right.  I’m telling you, I love Gen Z.  And here’s one of the
reasons why.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  So, here’s one of the things about
y’all: You are rightly impatient for change.  (Applause.)  I know that. 
I know that. 

And you who have only known the climate crisis are leading the charge to
protect our planet and our future.  You who grew up with active shooter
drills are fighting to keep our schools safe.  (Applause.)  You who have
known — you who have known fewer rights than your mothers and
grandmothers are standing up for freedom. 

And for you, none of these issues is theoretical or political.  This is
your lived experience.  And I see you, and I see your power.  And we
must, must, must recognize how bright the future of our nation is
because of you.

So, can we hear it for our first-time voters, everybody?  (Applause.) 
There we go.  There we go.  There we go.  (Laughs.)  There we go.  There
we go. 

All right.  Okay.  One day left.  One day left.  And we need to finish
this strong and get this done.  So, let’s get out the vote. 
(Applause.)  Let’s reach out to all of our folks in the next 24 hours:
family and friends and classmates and neighbors and coworkers. 

And as we do, I ask: Let us please be intentional about building
community.  (Applause.)  Let us be intentional about building
coalitions.  (Applause.)  Because, you know, there has been so much
about these last few years that has been about trying to beat people
down, trying to have Americans point their fingers at each other, trying
to make people feel as though they’re alone and don’t have anybody.  So
—

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Not anymore!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not anymore, because we all know — (applause) —
we all know that our power includes, yes, this vote in this election but
building community and coalitions and reminding folks the vast majority
of us have so much more in common than what separates us.  And we are
all in this together.  (Applause.)  We are all in this together.

And from the very start of our campaign, this has not been about a fight
that is against something.  This is about a fight that is for
something.  (Applause.)  This is for something.  This is about a future
with freedom and opportunity and dignity for all Americans.

And so, in this final stretch, let us remember that we have a lot of
work to do, and there is power in our work about reminding folks of
their voice and the power of their vote.

So, remember: Your vote is your voice, and your voice is your power —
(applause) — is your power.

So, Pennsylvania, Allentown, I then ask you: Are you ready to make your
voices heard?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win. 

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)
                   END                     4:35 P.M.
