---
date: '2024-11-01'
published_time: 2024-11-01 18:56:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-press-gaggle-madison-wi-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Press Gaggle | Madison,\_WI"
---
 
Dane County Regional Airport  
Madison, Wisconsin

1:36 P.M. CDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone.  Good afternoon.  So, we are in the
closing days of this campaign, and Donald Trump and I have been
presenting our closing arguments to the American people.

As you’ve heard me say many times, my pledge to the American people is
to pursue commonsense solutions, to listen to those — even those who
disagree with me, to listen to experts, and to be a president for all
Americans.

Donald Trump’s closing argument is very different.  He pits Americans
against one another.  He spends full time having Americans point their
fingers at one another.  And he spends a considerable amount of time
plotting his revenge on his political opponents.

As of last night, just to add more, he has indicated that the person who
would be in charge of health care for the American people is be someone
who has routinely promoted junk science and crazy conspiracy theories,
who once expressed support for a national abortion ban, and who is the
exact last person in America who should be setting health care policy
for America’s families and children.

And then, even worse, he has increased his violent rhetoric — Donald
Trump has — about political opponents and, in great detail — in great
detail, suggested rifles should be “trained” on former Representative
Liz Cheney. 

This must be disqualifying.  Anyone who wants to be president of the
United States who uses that kind of violent rhetoric is clearly
disqualified and unqualified to be president.

Representative Tr- — Cheney is a true patriot who has shown
extraordinary courage in putting country above party.  Trump is
increasingly, however, someone who considers his political opponents the
enemy, is permanently out for revenge, and is increasingly unstable and
unhinged.  His enemies list has grown longer, his rhetoric has grown
more extreme, and he is even less focused than before on the needs and
the concerns and the challenges facing the American people.

 I have also thought a lot about what this means in terms of our
standing in the world.  As vice president, I have represented the United
States of America around the world, and what I know is that when we walk
in those rooms representing the United States of America, we have the
earned and self-appointed authority to then talk about the importance of
democracy, the importance of rule of law.  And as a result, people
around the world who are fighting for freedom and opportunity hold us up
as a model.

America deserves better than what Donald Trump is offering.  America
deserves a president who understands our role and responsibility to our
people and to the rest of the world to be a model. 

So, I’ll end with this.  Voters are making their decisions.  Many have
voted, but there are still those who are making a decision about who
they’ll vote for.  And what I offer is I ask folks to, among the many
issues before you, just consider who’s going to be sitting in the Oval
Office on January 20th.  Either you’re going to have Donald Trump there,
who will be stewing over his enemies list, or I will be there, working
hard on your behalf on my to-do list. 

That is the choice, among many, that is at stake in this election, and I
would be proud to earn the vote of the American people.  And I do intend
to win.

     With that, I’ll take any questions. 

     AIDE:  Aamer, AP.

Q    Thank you, Vice President.  Have you had a had a chance to talk to
Liz Cheney?  And then, secondly, are you concerned about her general
security?  And does — concerning the situation and how tense things are,
do you think that the government or the administration, in some form,
needs to provide her with security in this situation?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I’ve not talked to her since this comment was
made.  But I will tell you I know Liz Cheney well enough to know that
she is tough, she is incredibly courageous and has shown herself to be a
— a true patriot at a very difficult time in our country, where, to your
point, we see this kind of rhetoric that is violent in nature, where we
see this kind of spirit coming from Donald Trump that is so laden with
the — the desire for revenge and retribution. 

 And Liz Che- — Cheney is a tough person.  She is an incredible
American.  And I have an incredible amount of respect for her. 

     Q    Are you worried about her safety?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I think that Liz Cheney is courageous and that we
will always make sure that we are all fighting against and speaking out
against any form of political violence.

     AIDE:  Nandita, from Reuters. 

Q    Thank you.  Madam Vice President, you spoke about early voting. 
What is your assessment?  What is the data that you are seeing across
the battlegrounds?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I’m seeing the folks who are showing up at the
various places where we are inviting people to come and talk with us,
and where we are talking about the issues at stake.  And I’m seeing an
incredible amount of enthusiasm from people of every walk of life, every
generation, from our first-time voters to folks who are seniors and have
a lot at stake on issues like Social Security and Medicare. 

And what I am enjoying about this moment most is that in spite of how my
opponent spends full time trying to divide the American people, what I
am seeing is people coming together under one roof who seemingly have
nothing in common and know they have everything in common.  And I think
that is in the best interests of the strength of our nation.

Q    Are you encouraged by a lot more women showing up in Pennsylvania —
a lot of Democratic women, first-time voters?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Women, men, folks of every background are showing
up.

AIDE:  Jen Epstein.

Q    Vice President, you’ve had quite a lot of interruptions during your
speeches recently, a lot of pro-Gaza protesters.  And, you know, you
certainly have — have spoken about democracy when responding to them. 
But do you think that you need to say a little bit more about the
Mid-East conflict or about what you would do to try to satisfy them? 

And are you concerned at all about how you’ll do on — in college towns
and in Michigan, in particular, with them?  President Trump today is
going to Dearborn, is going to a Palestinian restaurant.  He’s really —
this is the second kind of Arab American restaurant he’s gone to.  He
seems to be really trying to make a play for a group that would
traditionally be pretty Democratic.  Do you think you’ve done enough to
reach these voters?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m very proud to have a significant amount
of support from the Arab American community, both because of my position
about what we need to do in Gaza and in the region to end the war and
bring the hostages home, and my commitment to a two-state solution, but
also because, within that community, there are many issues that
challenge folks and that they want to hear about, including what we’re
going to do to make housing affordable, what we’re going to do to bring
down the cost of groceries, what we’re going to do to invest in small
businesses. 

I have a plan for all of those things, and that is something that
resonates within that community and with all Americans.

Q    Just for voters who say that they’re going to protest, that they
want to show the administration that what they did, the — the policy and
support for Israel is wrong and are going to make a statement and that
they don’t care if it makes Trump the president, what would you tell
them?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, there’s a real contrast in this race when you
look at who stands for democracy and democratic principles and who does
not.  Donald Trump is talking about an enemies list.  He is talking
about using the American military to turn on American citizens.  He
talks in a way that suggests that there should be retribution and severe
consequences just because people disagree with him. 

My point is very clear.  I believe in our democracy.  Democracies are
complicated, in a wonderful way, because we like debate.  We accept and
receive differences of opinion, and we work them out. 

One of the reasons I am going to have a Republican in my Cabinet is
because I want different views.  I — I enjoy and benefit from diverse
views, from different perspectives that allow me then to make the best
decisions I can make. 

That’s a big difference between me and Donald Trump, and that’s the big
difference between someone who truly is a leader and someone who is in
it for themselves and wants unchecked power. 

     AIDE:  Thank you, Madam Vice President.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Thank you all.
                            

END                1:45 P.M.
