---
date: '2024-11-02'
modified_time: 2024-11-04 16:51:57-04:00
published_time: 2024-11-02 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/02/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-atlanta-ga-4/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Atlanta,\_GA"
---
 
Atlanta Civic Center  
Atlanta, Georgia

1:41 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Georgia!  (Applause.)  Oh, it’s good to be
back.

Can we hear for Justin?  (Applause.)

All right, Atlanta.  Are we ready to do this?  (Applause.)  Are we ready
to vote?  (Applause.)  Are we ready to win?  (Applause.) 

Oh, it’s good to be back.  It’s good to be back and to be with so many
leaders.  And I want to thank everyone here for, out of your busy lives,
taking time to be here to have this conversation.  I thank you so very
much.  (Applause.)  Everyone who is here, I thank you.

And I want to thank Senators Ossoff and Warnock.  (Applause.)  There’s
Senator Warnock. 

Representatives Williams, McBath, Johnson — (applause) — they’re all
here. 

Mayor Dickens.  (Applause.) 

Victoria Monét.  (Applause.)

Monica.  (Applause.)

Spike.  (Applause.)

And let’s give it up for Pastor Troy and 2 Chainz.  (Applause.)

All right, Georgia.  So, we have three days left — three days — in one
of the most consequential elections of our lifetime, and we still have
work to do.  We still have work to do. 

But here’s the thing.  We like hard work.  Hard work is good work.  Hard
work is joyful work.  And make no mistake, we will win.  We will win. 
(Applause.)

And we will win because when you know what you stand for, you know what
to fight for.  (Applause.)

And, Georgia, we have an opportunity in this election to finally turn
the page on a decade of Donald Trump, who spends full time trying to
keep us divided and afraid of each other.  We’re done.  We’re done with
that.  We are exhausted with that.  Enough of that.  (Applause.) 
Enough.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we’re not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we are not going back, and one of the reasons
is because we do know the contrast.  And we know who he is, but,
Atlanta, that’s not who we are.  That’s not who we are. 

And it is time for a new generation of leadership in America. 
(Applause.)  And I am ready to offer that leadership as the next
president of the United States of America.  (Applause.)

And, Georgia, you know me: I’m not afraid of tough fights, evidently. 
(Laughs.)  For decades, I was a prosecutor.  I was the top law
enforcement officer of the biggest state.  And I won fights against the
big banks who ripped off homeowners, against for-profit colleges that
scammed veterans and students, against predators who abused women and
children, against cartels that trafficked in guns and drugs and human
beings.  (Applause.)  I won those fights. 

And I pledge to you, if you give me the chance to fight on your behalf
as president, there is nothing in the world that will stand in my way. 
(Applause.)

And, look, we know who Donald Trump is.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and — because we know this is not someone who
is thinking about how to make your life better.  This is someone who is
increasingly unstable —

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — obsessed with revenge —

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — consumed with grievance —

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and the man is out for unchecked power.

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And in less than 90 days, it’s either going To be
him or me in the Oval Office.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And here’s the thing — so, help spread the word,
because part of it is to help people imagine —  you can imagine in your
mind that th- — the Oval Office, right? You can picture it.  We’ve seen
it on TV.  So, just imagine, if he is elected, on day one, Donald Trump
would walk in that Oval Office with his enemies list — stewing over an
enemy’s list. 

When I am elected, I will walk in on your behalf with my to-do list —
(applause) — my to-do list. 

And at the top of my list is bringing down the cost of living for you —
(applause) — and that will be my focus every single day as president.

I will give a middle-class tax cut to over 100 million Americans. 
(Applause.)  I will enact the first-ever federal ban on corporate price
gouging on groceries.  (Applause.)

We need a medic over here, please.  We need a medic over here.  If
everyone can just part a little bit so we can let somebody through. 
Okay? 

Okay.  All right.  See, this is what we do.  We look out for each other,
right?  (Applause.)  That’s how we roll.  That’s how we roll.  And
that’s what leadership looks like: everybody here.  (Applause.)

And among the things also on my to-do list is to fight to make sure that
hardworking Americans can actually afford a place to live.  Affordable
housing: one of the highest priorities.  (Applause.)

My priorities include knowing that if you are caring for an elderly
parent, we need to cover the cost of home care with Medicare —
(applause) — which we will do, because I’ve been there.  I took care of
my mother when she was sick.  I know what that is — what that work is. 
It is about trying to cook something someone feels like eating.  It is
about trying to help them put on their clothes.  It’s about trying to
put a smile on their face or make them laugh from time to time. 

It’s hard work, and it’s work that is about dignity.  And it is not
right that the current situation is such that you’d either have to spend
down your savings to qualify for Medicaid or quit your job to be able to
take care of a family member, especially if you are in the sandwich
generation, which means taking care of your children while you’re taking
care of your parent.  (Applause.)

A lot of what motivates me in my work is it’s about dignity — the
dignity of all people, that all people deserve that dignity to be able
to not just get by but get ahead — (applause) — which is why my plan
will also lower the cost of childcare.  (Applause.)

We will cut taxes for small businesses.  (Applause.)  Do we have any
small businesses in the house?  (Applause.)  Oh, I love our small
businesses.  You all are the backbone of America’s economy. 

We will lower health care costs, because I believe health care should be
a right and not just the privilege of those who can afford it. 
(Applause.)

On the other hand, Donald Trump’s answer to the financial pressures you
face are the same as they were the last time: another trillion dollars
in tax cuts for billionaires and the biggest corporations.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And this time, he would pay for it with a 20
percent national sales tax on everything you buy that is imported. 

And it looks like we need a medic over there.  It’s hot out here,
Atlanta. 

Let’s make sure we — again, everyone just try and part the way so
someone can come through to help. 

All right, we’re good. 

So, talking about Trump’s plan — because, you know, economists have
compared what he’s talking about to what I’m talking about, and they
have indicated my plan will strengthen America’s economy.  His will
weaken it, including the part about his “Trump sales tax” that would
cost the average American family over 4,000 more dollars a year.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on top of that, Donald Trump still is trying to
get rid of — and still wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which would throw millions of Americans off
health care and take us back to the time insurance companies could deny
people with preexisting conditions.  You remember what that was?

Well, we are not —

AUDIENCE:  Going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — going back.  We are not going back.

And we are not going back because ours is a fight for the future. 
(Applause.)  And ours is a fight for freedom — (applause) — like the
fundamental freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own body and
not have her government tell her what to do.  (Applause.)

And we remember how we got here.  When he was president, Donald Trump
hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme Court with the
intention they would undo the rights under Roe v. Wade, and they did as
he intended.  And, Atlanta, now, in America, one in three women lives in
a state with a Trump abortion ban, including Georgia and every state in
the south except Virginia —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — many with no exceptions for rape and incest,
which is immoral.

And, look, Donald Trump is not done.  He will ban abortion nationwide. 
He wants to restrict access to birth control, put IVF treatments at
risk, and force — get this — force states to monitor women’s
pregnancies. 

Just google Project 2025.  Look it up for yourself.

And let us agree, one does not have to abandon their faith or deeply
held beliefs to agree the government shouldn’t tell her what to do —
(applause) — not the government.  Not the government. 

And when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom
nationwide, as president of the United States, I will proudly sign it
into law.  (Applause.)  Proudly sign it into law.

So, Georgia, I am here to ask for your vote.  (Applause.)  I am here to
ask for your vote.  And here — and here is my pledge to you.  As
president, I pledge to seek common ground and commonsense solutions to
the challenges you face.  I am not looking to score political points.  I
am looking to make progress.  (Applause.)

I pledge to you to listen to those who will be impacted by the decisions
I make.  I pledge to you to listen to experts and to listen to people
who disagree with me, because unlike Donald Trump, I don’t believe that
people who disagree with me are the enemy.  He wants to put them in
jail.  I will give them a seat at the table.  (Applause.)  That’s what
real leaders do.  (Applause.)  That’s what strong leaders do. 
(Applause.)  

And I pledge to you to always put country above party and self, and I
pledge to you to be a president for all Americans.  (Applause.) 

So, that is my pledge to you, Atlanta.  And let me ask, anybody here
already voted?  (Applause.)  Oh, wow.  My — oh, my goodness.  Well,
thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  All right.

So — okay, but there’s more to do.  So, now, please just talk to your
friends and your neighbors and your coworkers and your classmates and
your family and share your perspective on why this election is so
important.  Let them know why you decided to take this time out of your
life, with your obligations, to be here together.  And encourage them,
please, to make their voices heard. 

And for those who haven’t voted yet, let me just be clear, no judgment. 
No judgment.  But you still have time.  (Laughs.)  So, please take a
moment to think about right now what your plan will be for when and
where you vote. 

Election Day is Tuesday, November 5th.  Polls are open here in Georgia
from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.  Remember to bring your photo ID.  Go to
IWillVote.com for all the information you need.  And, everyone, please
help me spread the word on all of that — (applause) — because we need
everyone in Georgia to vote.  You will make the difference in this
election.  (Applause.)  You will make the difference. 

So, look, it all comes down to this.  We are all here together from all
different kinds of walks of life.  We are all here together for one
reason that we share in common — one of the most important reasons.  We
are here because we love our country.  (Applause.)  We love our
country.  And we know that when you love something, you fight for it. 
(Applause.)

And I do believe it is one of the highest forms of patriotism, of our
expression of our love for our country, to fight for the ideals of our
country and to fight to realize the promise of America.  That’s what
this is about. 

And I will tell you, I have always believed in our nation’s promise,
because I have lived it.  I grew up as a child of the Civil Rights
Movement.  My parents would take me to the marches when I was in a
stroller.  And there were people there from — Atlanta knows the story. 
There were people there from all walks of life, coming together to fight
for freedom and for opportunity. 

You know, growing up, I saw how hard my mother worked to give her
daughters the same chances our country gave her.  I was blessed growing
up to have family by blood and to have family by love — (applause) — who
instilled in me the values of community, of compassion, of faith. 

I’ve spent my life fighting for people who have been hurt and counted
out but who never stop believing that in our country anything is
possible.  (Applause.)

I have lived the promise of America.  And today, I see the promise of
America in everyone who is here right now — (applause) — in all of you,
in all of us.  We are the promise of America.  (Applause.)  We are the
promise of America. 

It is in the fathers, in the mothers, in the grandparents who work hard
every day for our children’s future.  It is the women who refuse to
accept a future without reproductive freedom and the men who support
them.  (Applause.)  In Republicans who never voted for a Democrat before
but put the Constitution above party.  (Applause.)

I see the promise of America in all the young leaders who are voting for
the very first time.  (Applause.)  Raise your hand.  Where are you?  I
love Gen Z.  I love Gen Z.  (Applause.)  Oh.  Because, see, this
generation, you are rightly impatient for change.  You are rightly
impatient for change.  You are determined to live free from gun violence
and tackle the climate crisis and shape the world you inherit. 

For this generation, none of these issues we’re talking about are
theoretical or political.  It is a lived experience for you.  And I see
your power, and I am so proud of you.

And to everyone, can we hear it for our first-time voters?  (Applause.) 
That’s right.  That’s right.

So, Atlanta, we have three days to get this thing done — (applause) —
and no one can sit on the sidelines.  Let’s spend the next three days
knowing that when we look back on these three days, we will have no
regrets about what we could have done.  So, let’s knock on doors.  Let’s
text.  Let’s call voters.  Let’s reach out to family and friends and
classmates and neighbors and coworkers and your play cousins.  Let’s
reach out.  (Laughs.)

And as we do, let us please also be intentional in how we build
community.  Let us be intentional in knowing that these last years of
this Trump era, yes, they have been exhausting, but they have not been
in the best interest of the strength of our nation.  This whole idea
that we be pointing fingers at each other, the idea that we have nothing
in common when we know the vast majority of us have so much more in
common than what separates us. 

So, let’s be intentional about building community and building
coalitions.  There is power in that, and it will strengthen our
country.  (Applause.)

And let’s remind everybody that your vote is your voice, and your voice
is your power.  (Applause.)

So, Georgia, today, I ask you: Are you ready to make your voices heard? 
(Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.) 

And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight —

     AUDIENCE:  We win!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America. 
(Applause.)                                END                2:02 P.M.
EDT
