---
date: '2024-11-12'
published_time: 2024-11-12 18:07:52-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/12/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-reception-celebrating-culinary-arts-in-diplomacy/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Reception\
  \ Celebrating Culinary Arts in\_Diplomacy"
---
 
The East Room

Thank you, Clare. You and everyone at the Foundation are continuing
James Beard’s legacy—bringing incredible food to more people and
celebrating the chefs who make it. 

Ethan—you’ve been an incredible leader, not just in these last few years
at the State Department, but over your three decades of service. As
anyone who’s met you knows—and as we all just saw—you light up every
room you walk into and you bring us joy. Joe and I are so grateful for
your friendship.

And I know we have so many other friends here—people like Robert Irvine
who has brought comfort to so many military families. 

Welcome to the White House!

Food is love.

It’s my sisters and me bursting into our grandmom’s house in South
Jersey every Sunday as pots of sauce simmered on her stove. It’s my
mother always putting fresh flowers on the table, even if we were just
eating frozen fish sticks. It’s my Italian American family teaching me
to never waste an opportunity to invite more people to the table.

When we share a meal—that love fills the air around us and opens our
hearts to friendships old and new. That’s true in the United States—and
it’s true around the world. It’s the gift chefs, like the ones here
today, give us.

Just a few weeks ago, I saw that gift unfold while working with José
Andrés, Katie Button, and other chefs in Asheville, North Carolina. They
cooked for thousands trying to rebuild after the hurricane that swept
through their community. We stirred giant pots and handed out meals, and
I watched as the food gave people hope.

Even amid devastation, they had a reason to feel a little less alone, to
know their community was there for them—because they had a meal—made
with love.

That connection is what diplomacy is about as well. It’s not only
government-to-government relationships. It’s people to people. Heart to
heart. 

I’ve seen that these last four years at the White House. With every
State Dinner, with every reception, with the James Beard curated chefs
who helped us bring first spouses together during the UN General
Assembly. In those moments, food helps us tell the stories of our
countries—in all their flavors and notes.

I’m so happy to welcome back our incredible former White House Executive
Chef, Cris Comerford. You have helped so many first families weave
together diplomacy and food. Joe and I are so grateful that we got to be
a part of your time here.

Cris once said about cooking, “In America, we play Jazz.”

That’s what our American Culinary Corps does in their kitchens. You show
the world who we are as Americans, in all our precious differences and
infinite similarities. You innovate and improvise. You discover new
rhythms and perfect your own special techniques, bringing together the
cultures and communities that make this country great.

In some ways, that’s what the Diplomatic Corps does too. You bring to
our shores pieces of your homes—your favorite traditions, the history
and hope of your nations – and, of course, the foods that hold the
memories of generations past.

As you work across borders and oceans, those pieces join to make
something new—something that can only happen when we understand each
other, opening up the possibilities of the world. And in those moments
of wonder, we find the common ground on which our future can be built.

It’s been the honor of my lifetime to serve as First Lady and do that
work alongside you.

As Joe and I begin our final months here, I know we will see so many of
you again as we continue to build our tomorrows together.  

With all of my heart, and on behalf of my husband, thank you for helping
us reach toward the safe and peaceful world we all dream of. And let us
keep coming together, side by side at our shared table, with
understanding and open hearts, savoring every moment and all the love
they hold.

Thank you.

\###
