---
date: '2024-11-01'
modified_time: 2024-11-04 12:25:41-04:00
published_time: 2024-11-01 17:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/01/remarks-by-president-biden-on-his-administrations-historic-support-for-unions-philadelphia-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on his Administration\u2019s Historic Support\
  \ for Unions | Philadelphia,\_PA"
---
 
Sprinkler Fitters Local 692 Hall  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

4:37 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Hello, Philly!  (Applause.)  Thank you. 
Thank you, thank you, truly.

We owe — not o- — not only do we owe you the pension that was owed to
you, but we owe you a lot more than that.  You know, the reason this
country is working is because the middle class is growing.  The middle
class built this country, and unions built the middle class. 
(Applause.) 

Look, it’s always great to be working with men and women of the m- —
great union movement.  You know, Wayne Miller of the Sprinkler Fitters
Local 692, who tha- — thanks for hosting us today.  (Applause.)  Wayne,
my staff said you even fed them.  I don’t know — I’m going to
(inaudible).  (Laughter.)

And Wendell Young, UFCW 1776 — (applause); and Bill Hamilton, president
of Pennsylvania Conference of Teamsters.  (Applause.)  I also want to
thank the great champions of working people here.  Brendan Boyle is a
hell of a guy, man.  (Applause.)  He stuck with me — no. 

And Mary Gay Scanlon — (applause) — who I tell you, I think I hurt her
reputation, because you know what?  I found out — you know, once you
become elected president — I’m only the second Catholic ever elected. 
When I headed to Ireland, they did all this background stuff on me where
I’m from.  Well, it turns out — I showed her today; I got in writing —
we’re related.  (Laughter and applause.)  I tell you what and —

And Madeleine Dean — where are you, Madeleine?  (Applause.)  She’s back
there.   And Donald Norcross — and Donald — (applause).   And our acting
secretary of Labor, Julie Su, is doing an incredible job.  (Applause.)  

And the guy — if you’re in trouble; you’re in a foxhole, man, you want
him with you — that guy right there.  What’s his name?  (Laughter.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Bobby!

THE PRESIDENT:  Bobby, good to see you, Bo- — you’re great. 
(Applause.)  I — I’m serious.  He’s always, always there.

Look, we know this simple truth, as I said: Wall Street and the —
please, if you have seats, take them.  (Laughter.) 

Look, I’m not joking around when I say that, you know, we talk — I come
from Delaware.  I represented Delaware for 36 years in the United States
Senate.  And, by the way, for 36 years — each year, they list the
poorest man in Congress.  (The president raises his hand.)  (Laughter.) 
Oh, I’m not joking.  Thirty-six years, I was listed — House and Senate —
the poorest man in Congress. 

Never felt myself poor, but I guess came from a typical middle-class
family.  You’re breaking your neck — my dad used to have an expression. 
He’d say, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck.  A job is
about your dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about being treated with
respect.  It’s about being able to look people in the eye.  It’s being
able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be
okay,’ and know it’s real.”  That’s what this is all about, man.

I’m so sick and tired — sick and tired of the corporate notion of that
it all — if corporations do well, we all do well.  I want corporations
to do well as long as their employees do well.  But, man, the way it’s
working now and the way it’s been working has not been working so well. 

Look, and I — so, I mean what I say.  Wall Street did not build this
country.  They’re not bad guys.  They’re just a little greedy sometimes,
but they’re not bad guys.  But Ame- — the middle class built the
country.  And it’s not a joke.  You guys built the middle class, for
real.  (Applause.)   There would be no middle cl- — not a —

Look, just since I’ve been elected — and I’m proud to be listed as the
pr- — most pro-union president in American history — the middle class
has grown.  (Applause.)  The middle class is growing.  We have the best
economy in the world right now because of you.  (Applause.)

Thank you, John Dean and John Pishko — John — both Johns, for the
introduction.  And most of all, thanks for sharing your stories.  Look,
think about what they just described.  You all understand it well, but
the folks who may be listening don’t u- — quite understand it as much. 
It’s a story of — so many union workers could tell about working for
decades to raise a family, working for decades just —

I remember my dad lost a pension.  We lived in a three-bedroom house,
split-level home, and — down in Wilmington, Delaware, when they’re — in
a suburban area of Wilmington, when they were building, like,
(inaudible) homes — the same kind of homes.  They were a decent home,
but we had four kids living there and a grandpop.  And I remember how
restless my dad was one night because my wall — my bedroom was up
against his, when my — me and my thr- — two brothers were in that room. 
And I asked mom the next morning.  I said, “What’s the matter?”  And she
said, “Well, Dad, they just — he just lost his pension.  He just lost
his pension.”

But, look, putting money away from paycheck to paycheck for a dignified
retirement, knowing that when the time comes, that pension you’ve earned
will be there is critical, just for peace of mind.  It has phenomenal
impacts on how marriages work and how families hold together when you
have that knowledge, because there’s so much pressure.

But then you retire and find out all those years of work and sacrifice
were slashed through no fault of your own — none.  Imagine what that
does financially, emotionally, and to your dignity.  It’s wrong.  It’s
just s- — it’s just simply wrong.  It should have never happened —
never.

But then think about what it means to be made whole again, to have your
lives, your pension restored, not only h- — don’t have to worry about it
but about what you’re going to be able to do.  It matters.  It matters.

Four years ago, Kamala and I inherited a pandemic that was raging and
the economy that was reeling.  So, we went to work right away.  We
enacted the American Rescue Plan that did a lot more than just
pensions.  It’s one of the most significant economic relief packages in
the history of America.  Delivered immediate relief to folks that need
it most. 

But not a single — this is what’s changed.  I was in the Senate a long —
I know I only look like I’m 40, but I’m a little older.  (Laughter.) 
But all kidding aside, we used to have real differences in the — in — in
the — in the Senate.  But at least when the critical things we’d have —
we’d end up getting together.  But not anymore.  This is — this is a
different — this is a different deal we’re working with.

Not a single, solitary Republican in the House or the Senate — not one —
voted to help with the pensions.  Not one single one.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  I — it’s not so much about — it’s the w- — way
things have gotten.  You know, it’s like you either vote the right way
of one guy wants it or you’re in trouble.  It’s wrong.  It’s not who the
hell we are.  I believe a lot of those Republicans who voted no thought
it was wrong, but they’re afraid to vote the right way.

As part of the American Rescue Plan, Kamala and I worked like hell to
include the Butch Lewis Act to protect the pension of millions of union
workers and retirees from Pennsylvania and throughout Ohio, Michigan,
Wisconsin — all across America. 

Simply put, the Butch Lewis Act is the most significant investment in
pension security for union workers and retirees in over 50 years. 
(Applause.)  And I might add, it’s not enough.  We got to do a hell of a
lot more, but I’ll get to that in a moment.  (Laughter.)

And, again, e- — every — every guy on the other team voted against it —
every single one.  Think about that. 

Before the Butch Lewis Act became the law of the land, union workers and
retirees faced cuts of up to 70 percent or more of the retirement
benefits through no fault of their own — none.  But now, because of what
Kamala and I did in Congress and folks like Brendan Boyle and others —
because of the labor leaders that are here, because of many of you — the
pensions of millions of union workers and retirees are protected.

Food warehouse workers, truck drivers, scores of others don’t worry
anymore about their benefits being cut, because now they know, because
of what we’ve done, they’ll receive the full amount of their pensions
they’ve worked hard for, and they’ll receive it for decades to come.

Folks, look, for all those retirees whose benefits are already cut, as
you heard today — and many of you hopefully ben- — benefited as well,
they’ll be made whole again — all the — all the — all you lost will be
made up.  And those with benefits restored — and restored
retroactively.  But, folks, that’s what I call a pretty big deal.  Folks
— (applause). 

So, I came to North Philly today to announce major progress we made in
implementing the Butch Lewis Act.  But this morning, the U.S. Department
of Labor released a report which shows that since we passed the law in
March of 2021, we’ve already protected the pensions of over 1.2 million
— 1.2 million workers and retirees.  (Applause.)  And that includes over
65,000 workers and retirees across Pennsylvania alone.  (Applause.)

For retirees whose benefits were cut or at risk of being cut, we’ve paid
them back more than $1.6 billion so far.  (Applause.)  That’s about
$13,600 already paid back in the pockets of each retiree, and some are
even more.  It’s a game changer.

Today, I’m also announcing $684 million from the Butch Lewis Act to
restore pensions for an additional 29,000 members of the United Food and
Commercial Workers Union.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  You earned it.  Don’t —

AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe! 

THE PRESIDENT:  Don’t thank me.  Thank you.  You shouldn’t have to thank
anybody.  You shouldn’t have to thank anybody. 

Look, there are nearly 11,000 workers and retirees living right here in
Pennsylvania. 

For years and years, union workers have been driving trucks from
factories to stores, bagging your groceries, constructing your
buildings, your bridges, your roads.  We need to do so much more for
ironworkers, bricklayers, carpenters, laborers, plumbers, truck drivers,
food workers, and more.  These workers are working hard today, and they
deserve a secure retirement they’ve earned for the rest of their lives.

Folks, look, we’re just getting started.  By the way, that little — that
little, big bill we passed for, you know, dealing with infrastructure? 
A trillion three hundred billion dollars, that’s what that bill is
worth.  (Applause.) 

Remember the last guy, when he was president, he said we’re going to
have — we have re- — retired — we have infr- — anyway, he had — every
week, we’re going to have “Infrastructure Week.”

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Joe got it done!

THE PRESIDENT:  Never fin- — he didn’t do a damn thing.  (Applause.) 

But, you know, too many of them face painful cuts to the benefits
they’ve worked so hard and counted on — some of you losing 40, 50, 70
percent of your pensions through your — no fault of your own.  That’s
why the Butch Act — Lewis Act was so important to pass in the first
place. 

And when it comes to office — wh- — when we came to the — when I came
into office, I was determined to restore and guarantee pensions that
were earned and paid into.  I was also determined to fundamentally
transform the way the economy works for everyone. 

You know, I’ve got so sick and tired of the eco- — trickle-down
economics.  Remember, that’s how it worked?  The rich, if they do well,
they’ll pay their taxes, and it’ll trickle down, and we’ll all benefit. 
Well, not a hel- — hell of a lot dr- — trickled down to my father’s
kitchen table.  (Applause.)  No, I’m not jo- — this is — I’m dead — I’m
dead earnest here.

To grow the economy, when we just sought out to change the way we did it
— and if you no- — there’s no reason why you would notice, but all the
international economic publications are talking about it now.  I decided
we’re going to grow the economy from the middle out and the bottom up. 

When the middle class does well, everybody does well.  (Applause.)  The
wealthy do well.  Put workers first.  Support unions.  Invest in all of
America, in all Americans.  When we do these things, we do well. 

That’s what we’re seeing.  Sixteen million new jobs created just so far
— (applause) — the greatest job-creation record of any single
presidential term in American history.  (Applause.)  1.6 million
manufacturing and construction jobs. 

And where is it written that America can’t lead the world in
manufacturing?  I got so <s>tick and sired</s> \[sick and tired\] of
hearing that we can’t — come on, man.  (Laughter.)  No, I’m serious. 
Think about it.

We have the best workers in the world.  That’s not hyperbole.  That’s a
fact.

When I decided to bring back the chips bi- — industry back — we invented
that little chip that goes in all those computers.  We invented it.  We
used to have 40 percent of the market.  We got down to 4 percent of the
market.

Well, guess what?  I told my staff — and even they thought I was crazy. 
I said, “I’m going to South Korea.  I’m going to sit down with them and
make sure that they start — we start making this stuff home.”  I sat
with Samsung.  They invested $15 billion coming back to the United
States to build those chips here and build those factories here. 
(Applause.)

But over $60 billion more is being inter- — is being made here, and
they’re just getting started.  We’re just getting started.

These “fabs,” they call them, they’re as big as football fields.  These
fabs, you know what the average salary is?  One hundred and ten thousand
dollars a year, and you don’t need a college degree.  (Applause.)  And
we’re just getting started. 

This past week, we did- — get very encouraging news about the economy. 
Inflation continues to drop.  Remember they said, “Biden is going to get
elected, there’s going to be a recession”?  Give me a freaking break. 
(Laughter and applause.) 

We got it back down from close to 9 percent down to nearly 2 percent,
which means people have more money in their pockets now than they did
before the pandemic, and we’re continuing to see economic growth. 

Today, union workers are modernizing American infrastructure — roads,
bridges, airports, ports, clean water, affordable high-speed Internet —
for every Pennsylvanian — not some, every.  And thanks to the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, Pennsylvania has received $18 billion so far for
2,000 projects — (applause) — so far.  And that includes a billion
dollars for the city of Philadelphia in the few months since Mayor
Parker has been in office.  They already got a billion dollars to her. 
(Applause.) 

Look, folks, I signed an executive order to make sure large federal
construction projects use project labor agreements that are negot- —
(applause) — not a joke — negotiated between union and companies before
the construction began, because your con- — we make sure construction is
top notch, on time, and on budget.  (Applause.)

And, by the way — by the way, employers are starting to figure it out. 
Not a joke.  I told you about Samsung.  When the guy said, “Why are you
coming to — back to the U- — why are you coming to United States,” he
said, “Two reasons: One, you have the best workers in the world.” 
(Applause.)  I — no- — not a joke — “the most qualified workers in the”
—

People think — I wish union would start talking about what it takes to
get — to become whatever you decide to be, whether anything from
electrician to whatever.  You have to do somewhere between four and five
years of apprenticeship.  It’s like going back to school, man — like
going to college.  But people don’t know it.  People don’t know it. 

We got to talk more about it so people who aren’t in unions understand
just how damn qualified you are and how hard you worked to get to where
you are. 

You know, “Buy American” used to be the law of the land.  By the — by
that, is i- — look, the way it works — supposed to work, back in the
‘30s, when they were trying to bust unions or prevent them from co- —
coming into being in the first place, what they — passed a law under
Roosevelt, which said that if you’re going to have — you’re going to try
— if you’re going to fo- — form a union, you can’t do the following
things to try to break the union. 

But there was a provision in there and that no — that nobody paid
attention to.  It said, “And when the president spends money given to
him by the Congress to do something for the country, he has to use
American products, and he has to buy — use American workers.”  Nobody
did it.  (Applause.)  No, not a joke. 

Well, every damn penny I’ve been sent by the m- — United States Congress
has been gone to use American product and American workers — every one. 
(Applause.)  Not a joke.  It’s why we’re growing so well.  Federal
projects helping build American roads, bridges, highways are now being
made with American products, built by American workers, creating
good-paying American jobs.

In fact, we’re requiring those kinds of projects to pay Davis-Bacon
wages av- — for every single family out there. 

Look, folks — (applause) — many of those jobs don’t require a college
degree, but they — look, in fact, we — we extended the registered
apprenticeship program.  Remember when the corporations said, “Don’t
worry, we’ll take care of training them.  We- — we’ll take care of
apprenticeships”?  Give me a break.  (Laughter.)

So, what’d we do?  We decided we were going to make sure they were
available.  The result being over a million apprentices since we’ve come
into office — a million new apprentices have come (inaudible). 
(Applause.) 

And like I said, a lot of folks don’t realize an apprenticeship is like
earning a college degree.  In an apprenticeship, you train for four or
five years.  They’re some of the best workers in the world. 

Kamala and I have already believe- — always believed that National Labor
Relations Board should be pro-labor.  (Applause.)  But those of you
involved in leading unions, you know what it’s been under the last guy:
anti-labor people put on the — on the Labor Relations Board.  Not
anymore, not anymore.  (Applause.) 

That’s why we have — one of the most significant things we’ve done is
appoint Na- — National Labor Relations Board members who actually
believe in unions and believe in your right to organize.  (Applause.) 

As I said, I’m honored to be considered the most pro-union president in
American history, and I’m proud to be the first president to walk a
picket line.  (Applause.)  And Kamala is proud to have walked a picket
line as well.  The other guy looks to — for picket lines to cross, but
we’ve always had your back.  (Laughter.)  We’ve always had your back.

Look, let me — I don’t want to get going here.  (Laughter and
applause.) 

We owe you so much.  I really mean it.  The country owes you so much.

Let me close with this.  When I was being raised in Scranton, where my
dad taught me something that always stuck with me — and I mentioned to
you before — that a job is a lot — about a lot more than a paycheck, and
it really is.  Think about it.  Think about what it is.  It’s about your
dignity.  It’s about how you treat it.  It’s about how people look at
you — look up to you, not down at you.  It’s about your place in the
community.  It’s about being able, as I said, to look your kid in the
eye and say, “Honey, it’s going to be okay,” and mean it — mean it.

That’s the value set I learned here in Pennsylvania, the value set
that’s at the core of the labor — at the core of the American labor
market — union market — a movement made up of extraordinary people like
you.  And I’m not just trying to be nice, man.  I’m not running again. 
(Laughter.)  You’re stuck with me.  And the one thing I don’t think
anybody can argue is I never haven’t done what I’ve said I’m going to
do.  (Applause.) 

So — and like someone we honor today, Butch Lewis, joining us today is
his wife, Rita.  Rita, where are you?  (Applause.)  Come on up here. 
Come on up here. 

Rita and Butch are childhood sweethearts.  Butch played baseball —
drafted by the Pirates, by the way, out of high school. 

Come over here for a minute.  We’ll walk over there in a minute.

And he enlisted in the Army instead — Special Forces Army Ranger, served
in Vietnam, earned a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart.  Came back home to
Rita, settled in Cincinnati, and became a Teamsters trucker and then
president of his Local.  Known as an honorable, honest, decent, labor
leader — that’s who he was.

Butch faced severe cuts in pensions and became a fierce advocate of
protecting those pensions for fellow workers.  He died almost nine years
ago.  And, Rita, you’ve carried on his legacy ever since then.  This is
a woman who didn’t stop.  (Applause.)

Together with Democrats in the Congress, the Butch Lewis Act I signed
into law now protects pensions for millions of American workers, and it
matters.

Rita, can you please join me over here? 

Can you all hear me from here? 

AUDIENCE:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)

AIDE:  The Citizens Medal is given to citizens of the United States of
America who have performed exemplary deeds of service for their country
or their fellow citizens. 

A fierce labor leader, Butch Lewis helped to protect hard-earned
pensions of millions of Americans.  He passed up a shot at professional
baseball, instead serving our nation as a decorated Army Ranger in
Vietnam.  He spent 40 years as a trucker, Teamster, and union leader,
fighting for the dignity of work and solidarity of workers across Ohio
and the country.  A man of humility and warmth, he inspired everyone
around him, embodying the simple truth that the middle class built
America and unions built the middle class. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Now — (applause) — this is on the verge of being
inappropriate.  (Laughter.)  But I’m going to pin this on you.

MRS. LEWIS:  Thank you so much.  I’m so grateful.  My husband would be
so happy.

THE PRESIDENT:  He’s looking.

MRS. LEWIS:  (Inaudible) never give up on us.

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.) 

(The president drops the backing piece of the medal.)

MRS. LEWIS:  Oops!

THE PRESIDENT:  What am I doing here?  Hang on. 

MRS. LEWIS:  I don’t know.  (Laughter.)

MRS. LEWIS:  Do you want me to help you?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, I want — see if you can put it on. 

MRS. LEWIS:  (Laughs.)  Okay.  I can’t see through these tears.  I don’t
know if I can. 

THE PRESIDENT:  I tell you what, I’m not getting fresh.  (Laughter.) 

MRS. LEWIS:  Oh, I know you’re not.  You never would. 

But I’ve never had a president get fresh with me before.  That would be
a first.  (Laughter.)

(The president pins the Citizens Medal.)

THE PRESIDENT:  There you go.  (Applause.)

MRS. LEWIS:  Thank you so much.  Thank you, everyone.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Folks, my dad had another expression.  He used to say,
for real, “Remember, Joey: Family is the beginning, the middle, and the
end.”

Thank you all for being loyal to one another, not forgetting where you
come from, and sticking with those you need to help. 

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

5:02 P.M. EDT
