---
date: '2024-11-15'
published_time: 2024-11-15 15:49:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/15/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-dedication-ceremony-at-delaware-technical-community-college/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Dedication\
  \ Ceremony at Delaware Technical Community\_College"
---
 
Newark, Delaware

Tashauna, it’s so clear that you have a spark for learning and a love
for the Delaware Tech community. You prove what I’ve always said, nurses
are always my best students! Thank you for sharing your story with us
today.

To Dan Ehmann, Dr. Mark Brainard, and the Board of Trustees, thank you
all for being champions of Del Tech, and for this incredible honor.

I tell my students that you never know where life will take you. Today
is my own reminder of that.

Even though Joe and I have been to many dedication ceremonies, I never
imagined that anything would be named after me.

And on such a special day for me, I’m grateful to be surrounded by so
many good friends.

Like Mary Doody, my Delaware Tech partner and a true friend for
life—thank you for enriching me, encouraging me, and for working to
drive this day forward. You made every day coming to work fun.

Senator Coons—Chris—you and Annie have been exceptional friends to Joe
and me. And as our soon-to-be Senior Senator—we are all grateful for
your service.

Governor, and now Mayor-elect, Carney and First Spouse Quillen
Carney—John and Tracey: thank you for your years of leadership and your
friendship.

I’m also grateful to all of the other elected officials here with us
today. 

To my Del Tech colleagues and so many friends, thank you for honoring me
today.

Delaware has loved our family throughout our lives and we love you back.
Delaware is family.

A little more than 30 years ago, I was teaching over at Brandywine High
School when I heard from my friend Sally Farmer, who had just left the
high school and began working here. She said, “Jill, you’ve got to come
by Delaware Tech. You would love it.”

Then another Brandywine High School teacher, Ron Klopfer, called and
encouraged me to consider Del Tech.

So, one day I came for a visit.  All at once I felt a sense of
purpose—right away, it was home. I knew I wanted to teach here. Ron and
Sally kept an eye out for an opening, and eventually, I accepted a job
here.

And I remember thinking: no more cafeteria duty!

There’s a saying that “Education is not the filling of a pail, but the
lighting of a fire.” I became a teacher to help light those fires in my
students, and watch them grow bigger and brighter over time.

My Del Tech students came from all walks of life: recent high school
graduates, immigrants, veterans, and mothers coming back to school,
looking to start new chapters as nurses and engineers and teachers.

But no matter their background, one thing they all shared is how much
they wanted to be here.

I saw it in the student who brought her daughter to class, because her
child care plans had fallen through. The student who showed up five
minutes late to 8 AM English Comp, because he had to race from the night
shift at his second job.

They pushed through every obstacle, and kept their fire for learning
burning bright.

And the thing I love about community colleges is that they’re flexible.
They meet students right where they are, and help them get where they
want to go.

That’s driven, in part, by devoted professors, like those here at Del
Tech. When my colleagues and I stay late to give feedback or rework
lesson plans, it’s for the sole reason that we care about every student
who walks through our door.

It’s also driven by support services that are woven into every part of a
student’s journey, like the ones found at this Student Success Center.
This is a central place where you can meet a mentor, sit down with an
advisor to map out a graduation timeline, and find the scholarships that
can help pay for your next steps.

Community colleges offer a clear, affordable path to jobs that pay well,
no matter a student’s background. And while there are many ways to find
solid footing in the middle class, a lot of them run through community
colleges.

That’s why they have been so important to Joe and me. Just this week, we
hosted a White House Summit with community college leaders like Dr.
Brainard. Because we want more students across the country to have the
kinds of opportunities that Del Tech provides.

As all of you know, throughout my time in the White House, I’ve
continued to teach at a community college. There was no precedent for
this. No First Lady had ever maintained an independent career outside of
the White House.

But I couldn’t give it up. I am first, foremost, and forever a
teacher—and community colleges will always have my heart.

In so many ways, that started here. So I am honored to remain a part of
this community through the Student Success Center.

At the end of the day, what inspires me most is my students. And it is
my hope that the center bearing my name can inspire them—making them
feel welcomed, embraced, and hopeful for their future, wherever it may
lead.

Thank you.

\###
