---
date: '2024-11-11'
modified_time: 2024-11-12 12:18:07-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-11 11:14:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/11/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-national-veterans-day-observance-at-the-memorial-amphitheater-arlington-va/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the National Veterans Day Observance at the\
  \ Memorial Amphitheater | Arlington,\_VA"
---
 
Arlington National Cemetery

11:52 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you, thank
you.  It’s a great honor to be standing here again.

Over 160 years ago, during what would become his final days in office,
President Abraham Lincoln addressed this nation, and he said, “Let us
strive on to finish the work we are in to bind up the nation’s wounds,
to care for him who shall have borne the battle.”

My fellow Americans, the first lady, Vice President Harris, and the
second gentleman; Secretary Blinken, Austin, McDonough, Mayorkas;
Chairman Brown; and, most importantly, our veterans, service members,
and their families, I’ve said many times before — I got in trouble for
saying it when I was a young senator — I said we have many obligations,
but only one truly sacred obligation — sacred: to prepare those we send
into harm’s way and to care for them and their families when they return
home and when they don’t.  It’s an obligation not based on party or
politics but on a promise that unites us all. 

Today, as we strive on to finish the work of our moment to bind the
nation’s wounds once again, we commit and recommit to this sacred vow.

This is the last time I will stand here at Arlington as
commander-in-chief.  It’s been the greatest honor of my life to lead
you, to serve you, to care for you, to defend you just as you have
defended us generation after generation after generation.  You are the
greatest fighting force — and this is not hyperbole — the finest
fighting force in the history of the world. 

I will never forget standing at Valley Forge, where our nation’s first
soldiers laid down their lives to deliver a nation where everyone is
entitled to inalienable rights: life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness.

And I’ll never forget walking the hills of Gettysburg, where thousands
more shed their blood to make those words real.

I’ll never forget at Belleau Woods– visiting there to pay tribute to the
heroes who stepped on that beach or standing on the cliffs of Normandy
80 years after D-Day to honor the service members and veterans who
literally saved the world with absolute heroism.  Just standing there,
you wonder how in God’s name did they have the courage to do what they
did. 

I’ll never forget visiting bases in Korea where America’s sons and
daughters answers a call to defend a people they had never met or paying
my respects in Hanoi where so many of our troops defended democracy,
including my friend — and once worked for me — John — the senator John
McCain. 

I’ll never forget my trips to Afghanistan and Iraq, where tour after
tour young men and women served and sacrificed to keep our nation safe.

Four presidents faced a decision after we’d gotten bin Laden whether to
end our longest war in history in Afghanistan.  I was determined not to
leave it to the fifth. 

Every day, I still carry a card with me — my schedule — every single day
for the last 10 years.  On the back of my schedule, it says, “U.S. daily
troops in Afghanistan — U.S. troops died in Afghanistan as of today:
2,465.  Troops wounded in Afghanistan: 20,769.  U.S. troops, Iraq — died
in Iraq: 4,620.  Wounded in Iraq: 32,766.” 

Ladies and gentlemen, this is my duty as president but also as a
parent.  Like many of you, our son, Beau Biden, deployed to Iraq for a
year with the Delaware National Guard.

I still remember the day he asked me to pin his bars on him — he stood
ramrod straight — and how proud Jill and I and our entire family felt.

But like so many of you, we also remember how hard it was when he was
deployed: empty seats at the dinner table, missed holidays and
birthdays, prayers of hope and worry repeated every morning and every
night.

Just as we ask everything of our veterans, we ask everything of their
families.

The English poet John Milton wrote, and I quote, “They also serve who
only stand and wait,” as so many of you have. 

So, for all the military families, to all those with a loved one still
missing or unaccounted for, to all Americans grieving the loss of a
loved one who wore the uniform, Jill and I want you to know we see you,
we thank you, and we will never stop working to meet our sacred
obligation to you and your families.

Jill and I, Doug and Kamala, our entire administration are proud of our
work over the past four years.

Together, we’ve passed more than 30 bipartisan laws to support our
veterans and their families, caregivers, and survivors. 

We’ve brought veteran homelessness down to a record low. 

We’ve delivered more benefits to more veterans than any — ever before in
VA history.

We’ve invested re- — record resources to reduce the scourge of veteran
vi- — su- — suicide. 

And we took action to protect veterans from scams, because no veteran
should be defrauded by those defended — they defended.

All these actions are vital, but I am particularly proud of finally
passing the PACT Act.  (Applause.)  This is the most significant law in
our history — our nation’s history to help millions of veterans who were
exposed to toxins like Agent Orange and burn pits during their military
service.  Pits the size of football fields that incinerated the wastes
of war: tires, chemicals, batteries, jet fuel, and so much more.  Pits
that left too many veterans with headaches, numbness, dizziness, as- —
asthma, and cancer.

The PACT Act has already helped over 1 million veterans and their
families get the benefits they deserve.  They deserve those benefits. 
(Applause.)

Today, I’m proud to announce that the VA will expand the number of
cancers covered under the PACT Act and to all the veterans — (applause)
— who served at K-2 Air Base in Ur- — Uzbekistan constantly surrounded
by toxins.

We want to honor you.  We want to have your back just like we did in
Agent Orange, just like we’re working on a rule to make sure you don’t
have to prove your illness as a consequence of your service, which is
often too hard to do.  (Applause.)

God willing, we will make sure that any rare condition you’ve developed
is covered.  And we’re committed to getting this rule in place by the
end of my term.

Folks, this matters.  Too many of our nation’s veterans have served only
to return home to suffer from permanent effects of poisonous chemicals. 
Too many have died.

Like our son, Beau, and Ser- — like Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson
for whom the PACT Act was named.

A couple years ago, after I signed the PACT Act, I handed the pen to his
daughter <s>Brailey</s> \[Brielle\]. 

She and her mom are with us today.  I don’t know where you are, but God
love you.  There they are.  Stand up, ladies.  (Applause.) 

I give you my word I mean this: I’ll never forget, after I handed the
signing pen — that beautiful young lady who had lost her whole world —
she held the pen in her hand and she looks at me and she said, “Thank
you.  Thank you for my daddy.”

God love you, honey.  (Applause.)  God love you. 

But I don’t think she was just thanking me.  She was thanking all of you
here, all of us, everyone who fought hard and came together to keep our
promise to our veterans to keep the faith.

My fellow Americans, we stand here today.  We think about all that our
veterans have given to our nation, serving and sacrificing in uniform
just as they serve and sacrifice here at home as educators,
firefighters, law enforcement officers, construction workers,
entrepreneurs, business leaders, doctors, nurses, elected leaders, and
so much more.

And just as routinely — they routinely put aside differences to work
together, this is the moment — this is the moment to come together as a
nation to keep faith in each other.

The world is depending on each of you and all of us — all of you to keep
honoring the women and the men and the families who have borne the
battle, to keep protecting everything they’ve fought for, to keep
striving to heal our nation’s wounds, to keep perfecting our union. 

We’re the only nation in the world built on an idea.  Every other nation
is based on things like geography, ethnicity, religion.  But we’re the
only nation — the only in the world — built on an idea, and that idea is
we are all created equal and deserve to — created equal throughout
lives.  We haven’t lived up to it every time, but we’ve never walked
away from it even when it’s hard — especially when it’s hard.

And today standing together to honor those Americans who have dared all,
risked all, and given all to our nation, we must say clearly: We never
will give up. 

God bless our veterans and their families.  And may God protect our
troops today and always.  

God love you.  Thank you so much.  (Applause.)

12:04 P.M. EST
