---
date: '2024-11-25'
published_time: 2024-11-25 12:57:13-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/25/remarks-by-president-biden-at-pardoning-of-the-national-turkey-3/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Pardoning of the National\_Turkey"
---
 
South Lawn

11:07 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, good morning.

AUDIENCE:  Good morning!

THE PRESIDENT:  They tell me there’s 2,500 people here today —
(applause) — looking for a pardon.  (Laughter.)

Well, good morning and welcome to a wonderful White House tradition. 
We’ve got a lot of folks joining us today.  Members of my cabinet,
members of the White House staff and their families.  We’ve got students
from 4-H programs and Future Farmers of America.  Where are you? 
(Applause.)

And, of course, a special thanks to everyone at the National Turkey
Federation.  Leslee Oden, president of the Federation.  Leslee, where
are you?  There you are.  (Applause.)  And John Zimmerman, chairman of
the Federation, and his family from Northfield, Minnesota.  John. 
(Applause.)

I was in Northfield last year with our — last year with my secretary of
Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, and our great friend, the Minnesota governor,
Tim Walz — (applause) — talking about our historic investment in
transforming rural America. 

Back in Minnesota, John has been a turkey grower for 35 years.  He’s
raised over 4 million turkeys.  (Applause.)  Whoa.  And with the help of
his nine-year-old son, Grant, they’ve raised two special guests we’re
honoring today: Peach and Blossom.  (Applause.)  Let’s bring Peach up to
join us. 

They tell me Peach weighs about 42 pounds. 

What do you say, Peach?   
  
Peach is making a last-minute plea here.  (Laughter.)

The two turkeys are named after Delaware state flower, the peach
blossom.  And by the way, Delaware has a long history of growing
peaches.  In fact, the peach pie in our state is one of my favorite. 
It’s a state dessert.  And peach blossom flower is — also symbolizes the
resilience, which is, quite frankly, fitting for today.  (Laughter.) 

This White House tradition began when turkey was presented to President
Truman.  And that president — then President George H.W. Bush began
pardoning turkeys. 

In the last four years, I’ve had the honor to continue that tradition by
pardoning Peanut Butter and Jelly, Chocolate and Chip, Liberty and
Bell.  And today, Peach and Blossom — (applause) — will join the free
birds of the United States of America.  (Applause.) 

Born this past July at the Zimmerman family farm, raised by the —

(Peach gobbles.)

Yeah, I hear you.  (Laughter.)  Peach wants to speak a little bit here. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Raised by the family with the help of neighboring chil- — neighborhood
children, who helped the turkeys get ready for this very moment.  
  
According the experts, Peach weighs 41 pounds and loves to eat hotdish
and teter to- — tator tots, and cross-country skis.  (Laughter.)  You
know, dreams to see — but his — the real dream he has is to see the
Northern Lights, I’m told.  He lives by the mo- — the motto, “Keep calm
and gobble on.”  (Laughter.)

Meanwhile, Blossom weighs 40 pounds, loves to eat cheese curds and watch
boxing — (laughter); dreams of visit — to visit each one of Minnesota’s
10,000 lakes — (applause); lives by the motto, “No fowl play, just
Minnesota nice.”  (Laughter.)

They just finished a two-day road trip from Minnesota to Washington,
D.C. 

By the way, do you have chairs?  Sit down.  (Laughter.)  I forgot you
had chairs.  (Applause.)  I’m sorry.  (Laughter.)  Started thinking
about the arduous trip they made, and you guys are still standing. 
(Laughter.)

Well, that trip is 1,100 miles.  (A turkey gobbles.)  It takes 16.5
hours.  Through it all, they stayed calm, and they gobbled on and are
still gobbling.  They were s- — (a turkey gobbles) — they — (laughter) —
they were — stayed nice, listening to their favorite music, which
apparently includes the song “Living on a Prayer.”  (Laughter.)

Well, fellas, your prayer is going to be answered today. 

Based on your temperament and commitment to being productive members of
society, I hereby pardon Peach and Blossom.  (Applause.)

They will now head back to Farmamerica, Minnesota’s center for
agricultural int- — interpretation, to serve as educational ambassadors
of America’s top turkey growing state and inspire the next generation of
agricultural students. 

Congratulations. 

Let me close on a more serious note.  This event marks the official
start of the holiday season here in Washington.  It’s also my last time
to speak here as your president during this season and give thanks and
gratitude. 

So, let me say to you: It’s been the honor of my life.  I’m forever
grateful. 

Later today, my wife, Jill, and I will travel to Staten Island, New
York, for a Friendsgiving with members of the Coast Guard and their
families to demonstrate our gratitude for their service and sacrifice,
like my son.  (Applause.) 

We also keep in our hearts those who have lost so much, who will have an
empty seat at the di- — at the Thanksgiving dinner table tonight — or,
excuse me, Thursday night. 

May we use this moment to take time from our busy lives and focus on
what matters most: our families — my dad used to have an expression;
he’d say, “Family is the beginning, the middle, and the end” — our
friends and our neighbors, and the fact that we blessed these — to live
in America, the greatest country on Earth.  And that’s not hyperbole. 
We are.

No matter what, in America, we never give up.  We keep going.  We keep
the faith. 

We just have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States of
America.  There is nothing, nothing, nothing beyond our capacity when we
do it together. 

So, happy Thanksgiving, America.  God bless you all.  And may God
protect our troops.

Thank you.  (Applause.) 

11:12 A.M. EST
