---
date: '2024-11-12'
modified_time: 2024-11-12 13:18:42-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-12 13:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/12/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-isaac-herzog-of-the-state-of-israel-before-a-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Isaac Herzog of the State of Israel\
  \ Before a\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

11:55 A.M. EST

Q    President Biden, do you think we can get a hostage deal by the end
of your term?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Do you think you can keep from getting hit in the head
by a — a camera behind you? 

All right.  Well, thank you all. 

Well, Mr. President, welcome back to the Oval Office and the White
House.  You’ve been a friend for a long time, a personal friend.  And
you know my commitment to Israel is ironclad and we share a deep
friendship. 

I want to thank you again for being here, and the floor is yours. 

PRESIDENT HERZOG:  Thank you, Mr. President.  It’s always a great honor
to be here in the Oval Office and be — to be with a friend such as you,
Mr. President. 

I will start, of course, with the sad news of the day.  In the last two
hours, two Israelis were mor- — murdered by rocket attacks from Lebanon
in the t- — northern town of Nahariya, a beautiful seashore town in the
northern part of Israel.  Early in the day, a kindergarten teacher of a
kindergarten of special needs — childrens with special needs — rescued,
bravely and wisely, the toddlers in the kindergarten from a drone
attack.  A drone exploded in the kindergarten.

This is what we’re going through from Lebanon, Mr. President, and you
know it all too well.  We are fighting hard.  We’re defending our
people, our brave soldiers and pilots.  And I know that you’re working
very hard to make sure that this war will end and that will — there will
be, first and foremost, security for the people of Israel as well as for
the people of Lebanon.

And in Gaza, we have 101 hostages.  Over 400 days, I know, Mr.
President, that you know you — you are day-in, day-out, actively seeking
their surf- — safe return home as they are going through hell in the
dungeons of Gaza.

Clearly, you’re thinking and working about the day after as well, which
perhaps should be a trajectory of hope to the people of the region and
the ability to have our neighbors, as well as us, live in security and
peace.

But first and foremost, we have to get the hostages back home. 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I agree.

PRESIDENT HERZOG:  And it all starts in Tehran.  It all starts in the
empire of evil, where in Tehran, with its proxies, they are doing
whatever they can to re- — derail stability and security and peace,
calling for the annihilation of the State of Israel and seeking nuclear
weapons. 

And, Mr. President, this has to be a major objective all throughout your
term and the next term of the next president because we have to make
sure that they cannot fulfill their evil intentions.

They’re also a major engine of antisemitism, Mr. President.  And I know
how much you put a focus on fighting and combating anti- — antisemitism.

But most importantly, I’m here on behalf of the people of Israel and the
nation of Israel and the State of Israel to say to you, Mr. President,
thank you very much.  As we say in Hebrew, *toda raba*. 

You have been an incredible friend of Israel and the Jewish people for
decades, and we will never forget, ever in history, how you stood up
with us in our darkest hour, which became our finest hour — how you came
to Israel a few days after the barbaric attack of October 7th, how you
helped us and supported us with words and deeds.

And I want to express my — our heartfelt thanks to you, Mr. President,
which is a great legacy that you stood up with the Jewish people and the
State of Israel, as al- — you always did.

So, I brought you a little gift —

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  It’s a magnificent gift.

PRESIDENT HERZOG:  — which is an archeological artifact from the foot of
the Temple Mount in Jerusalem, which has the word “Joseph” — *Yosef*. 
And as you know, in the Bible, it is — says that Joseph will strengthen
Israel.  And clearly, Mr. President, you’ve done it.

Thank you very much.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, I hope my father heard that.  He’d be — my
father was what we call a righteous Christian.  He couldn’t understand
why we didn’t move more rapidly back in World War II (inaudible).  Any
rate.  I —

PRESIDENT HERZOG:  I think that was a great legacy with — of your
father.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, it was.  And I remember how I got in trouble —
we were friends even back then — when I said — years ago, as a senator,
I said, “You don’t have to be a Jew to be a Zionist.”  I’m a Zionist.

PRESIDENT HERZOG:  And I know you are. 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  And it’s really — 

PRESIDENT HERZOG:  You’re clearly a Zionist, Mr. President.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, God love you. 

PRESIDENT HERZOG:  Thank you very much.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thanks for being here, pal.  
  
12:00 P.M. EST
