---
date: '2024-11-04'
published_time: 2024-11-04 16:03:57-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/11/04/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-scranton-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Scranton,\_PA"
---
 
Montage Mountain Resort  
Scranton, Pennsylvania

1:52 P.M. EST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Scranton!  (Applause.)  Hey, everybody! 

Can we hear it for Glen?  (Applause.)  Let’s hear it for Glen.

Hi, Scranton.  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.  It is so good
to be with everyone.  (Applause.)  Thank you. 

Are we ready to do this? 

     AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT: We- — we’re ready to get out the vote? 

     AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re ready to win?

     AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Okay.  So, first, let me thank Glen.  I
was — I was telling him when we were just hanging out backstage, so when
I — my first office that I ran for was district attorney, and the
Carpenters were the first union to endorse me.  (Applause.)  And — and I
— and I’ve always — I mean, even before, but always — I will always and
always have stood with labor. 

And so, I’m very proud to stand with you, Glen, with your members, with
all the members of labor, as we do this together.  (Applause.) 

And as he pointed out, there’s a huge difference between me and the
other guy, which everybody here knows, which is why you are here to help
us get out the vote.  (Applause.) 

But I thought I would share with you — so, I was — when I was coming in,
someone reminded me of — of a story I’ve shared, which is when I first
ran for office as DA.  So, I — I started out at six points in the polls,
right?  So, you kn- — for anyone who knows, that’s 6 out of 100. 
(Laughter.)  No one thought we could win.  And I used to campaign with
my ironing board.  (Laughter.)  Okay.  You are wondering, “Now, what is
she talking about?”  (Laughter.)

So, I would grab my ironing board, a roll of duct tape, my pois- — my
posters and my flyers, and I’d put them all in my car, and I’d drive to
the local grocery stores.  And I’d pull out my ironing board and my duct
tape and my posters and my flyers, and I’d walk to the front of the
grocery store outside, and I’d stand up my ironing board, because, you
see, an ironing board makes a really great standing desk.  (Laughter.)

And I’d use the duct tape to tape my posters on the outside of the
thing, and I’d put my flyers on top of the ironing board.  And I would
require people to talk to me as they walked in and out of the grocery
store.  (Laughter.)

And I will tell you, that is how I love to campaign.  I don’t do it as
much anymore, obviously.  But what you all are signing up to do today
and what you’ve been doing, like, let’s enjoy it.  You know, and I know
you do.  I can feel the mood in here.  Because it’s the best of who we
are as a democracy. 

And I think we’ve kind of — (applause) — right?

And that’s what our campaign has been about.  We are a people-driven
campaign, and we love the people.  And we see, in the face of a
stranger, a neighbor — right? — and that’s the spirit of what we are
doing. 

And over these last — you know, this whole era of this other guy, you
know, it —  but it — what it’s done with all that talk that’s been about
trying to have us point fingers at each other and divide each other, it
makes people feel alone.  It makes them feel like there’s nobody
standing with them. 

And so, the way I have always been thinking about our campaign and these
next 24 hours is as we are getting out the vote, as we are canvassing,
let’s be intentional about building community — about building
community, about building coalitions, about reminding people we all have
so much more in common than what separates us.  There is power in that. 
There is power in that.  (Applause.)  And there’s lasting power in that,
right?

It’s about the win, and it is about more.  It is about more.  It is
about just strengthening our country and reminding each other we are all
in this together.  We rise and fall together.  And that is the strength
of who we are and everyone here. 

That’s the strength of Bob Casey.  We’ve got to get him back in the
United States Senate.  (Applause.) 

That’s the strength of Mayor Cognetti and all that she has been doing. 
Right?  (Applause.)

It’s about leadership that is the kind of leadership that we want. 
Right?  They are leaders, we are leaders who understand that the measure
of our strength is not based on who we beat down.  It’s based on who we
lift up.  Right?  (Applause.)  And so, that’s what we’re going to do.  

And so, over these next 24 hours, I know everyone is here, including our
youngest leaders — I see you over there.  I know you’re not ready to
vote because you look like you’re about eight, but — (laughs) — but you
tell the adults in your life why it’s important they vote.  Okay? 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)

But over these next 24 hours, let’s — let’s enjoy this moment to knock
on a neighbor’s door and in their face, even if we’ve not met them, know
that we have a lot that we care about in common and that we are
optimistic about the future of our country, that we love our country,
and that that’s what this fight is about, and about the promise of
America — and the promise of America being represented by everybody who
is here.  

So, I thank you all for the time that you have taken out of your busy
lives.  There are a number of things that each one of you could be doing
right now and — but you’re here, and we’re all here together, under this
one roof, as a community of people who care and who are dedicated to the
hard work that it requires.  

You know, I — I like to say that you — you know, when you love
something, you fight for it.  (Applause.)  And that’s what we’re doing. 
And that’s what we’re doing.  We love our country, and we are fighting
for the best of who we are.  And —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I love you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  I love
you.

So —

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Let’s vote.  Let’s get out the vote.  Let’s get out
the vote.  Let’s get out the vote. 

AUDIENCE:  Let’s get out the vote!  Let’s get out the vote!  Let’s get
out the vote!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Let’s get out the vote.  Let’s get out the vote. 
Let’s get out the vote.   Let’s win. (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

All right, let’s get to work.  Twenty-four hours to go.  And I — I so —
I — I’m so grateful for everyone here.  I — I just — I’ll end with this
point.  You know, I have the — I have the privilege, I have the blessing
of being able to travel around our country.  And I’m telling you guys,
we’re good.  We’re good.  We’re good.  (Applause.)  We really are.  

I mean, every — I s- — I go into rooms with people who s- — again,
seemingly have nothing in common and have everything in common — rooms
of people of all kinds of different backgrounds, of ages coming together
in this sense of just the — the collective.  We’re good.

And so, we’re going to keep doing this work with the optimism that it
requires to be strong.  Everyone here knows, in the context of your
family, in your life, when you believe something is possible, you put in
the hard work, and you know it’s good work — hard work is good work,
it’s joyful work — and we get the job done.  

Let’s get this done.  Thank you all.  (Applause.)

END                 2:00 P.M. EDT
