---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-04-01'
modified_time: 2022-04-01 19:02:36-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/01/statement-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-diplomacy-in-the-middle-east-region/
published_time: 2022-04-01 19:02:35-04:00
title: "Statement by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on Diplomacy in the Middle\
  \ East\_Region"
---
 
As we approach the Holy Month of Ramadan this weekend, we welcome the
proactive diplomacy underway with our friends and partners across the
Middle East region.  These efforts are central to President Biden’s
agenda of forging a more secure and integrated Middle East region
through a combination of deterrence against adversaries and diplomacy
wherever possible to reduce tensions and de-escalate ongoing conflicts.
  

This approach was manifest this week.  

On Monday, Secretary of State Blinken attended a historic meeting in
Israel together with the Foreign Ministers of Bahrain, Egypt, Israel,
Morocco, and UAE.  This group of countries agreed to form permanent
working groups with an aim to improve security and livelihoods across
the region.  We now aim to further expand this circle of like-minded
states.  Today’s conclusion of a Free Trade Agreement between the UAE
and Israel exemplifies the new opportunities that are emerging in the
region and upon which our administration is working to facilitate and
strengthen.  

Secretary Blinken also visited Ramallah, where he reaffirmed President
Biden’s commitment to doing all that we can to ensure Israelis and
Palestinians share equal measures of freedom, dignity, security and
prosperity.  Later in the week, King Abdullah II hosted the first-ever
visit by an Israeli head of state, President Isaac Herzog, to Jordan.
 We are grateful for the visionary role of these leaders and for the
important role that King Abdullah II plays as custodian over the Holy
Sites in Jerusalem, particularly over the upcoming Holy Days.

We also stand by our friends who face threats from terrorists, as seen
over the past week in Israel.  President Biden spoke with Prime Minister
Bennett on Wednesday and offered all appropriate assistance in the wake
of these barbarous attacks against innocent civilian.  Our entire
administration stand behind our Israeli allies as they work to confront
threats to their citizens.  

Ending the war in Yemen has been a consistent focus of our
administration over the past year.  Today, after months of relentless
UN-led diplomacy backed by the United States and our partners, the UN’s
Special Envoy to Yemen  announced a 60-day truce under which military
operations will cease and restrictions on the flow of goods and people
into and out of Yemen will ease.  President Biden welcomed this
initiative and commended the leadership of Saudi Arabia and Oman in
helping to finalize it.  We are hopeful that this initiative will
establish a new foundation for political talks and a lasting settlement
to end the suffering of the Yemeni people once and for all. 

Even as we work to end the war in Yemen, there can be no doubt about
President Biden’s commitment to supporting the defense of our partners,
including the UAE and Saudi Arabia.  Earlier this week, the Treasury
Department announced significant new sanction designations against
Iran’s missile procurement network pursuant to Executive Order 13382,
which targets weapons of mass destruction proliferators and their
supporters.  We will continue to use all appropriate authorities to hold
Iran and its proxy groups accountable for threats against our friends
and partners.   

As this past week has shown, diplomacy is forging opportunities to
secure a more peaceful and prosperous region even as we work to deter
and counter threats against our partners and interests.  The United
Stands will stand with its friends – and we are hopeful that this
upcoming Holy Month of Ramadan will bring comfort and peace to peoples
across the Middle East region.

\###
