---
date: '2022-04-01'
modified_time: 2022-03-31 22:34:36-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-01 08:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/01/letter-from-the-president-on-the-implementation-of-the-global-fragility-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Letter from the President on the Implementation of the Global Fragility\_\
  Act"
---
 
The world stands today at the dawn of a decisive decade — a moment of
consequence and peril, of profound pain and extraordinary possibility. 
Perhaps now more than ever, we have seen how the most urgent challenges
of our time do not confine themselves within national borders.  A global
pandemic that has claimed more than six million lives.  A climate crisis
that threatens the future of every continent.  An emboldening of
autocrats who believe that democracy and multilateralism cannot deliver
in the 21st century.  These tests, and more, are among the sternest that
the world has ever faced.

It is against this backdrop — at this inflection point in history — that
America must lead.  We know all too well that today’s most pressing
challenges — their root causes as well as their impacts — are global in
nature.  We know that America’s security and success hinge in no small
measure on the peace and stability of the world beyond our borders.  We
know that beneath the global crises we face lie breathtaking
opportunities for our Nation and the world — if we can summon the will
to seize them.

This document — a prologue to the U.S. Strategy to Prevent Conflict and
Promote Stability — represents an assertion of American leadership to
take on the defining global challenges of our time.  Driven in large
part by the tireless commitment of humanitarian advocates and civil
society organizations working on the front lines of conflict, this
Strategy is the product of a bipartisan vision, manifested by the
passage of the Global Fragility Act in December 2019 with overwhelming
bipartisan majorities.  It provides a roadmap:  a 10-year effort to
strengthen the security and prosperity of people everywhere by helping
to fortify the footing of parts of the world that continue to grapple
with challenges that can lead to destabilizing conflict and violence. 
It is, in short, an investment in global peace and security — one which
will deliver critical returns not only in the nations with whom we’ll be
working, but, most of all, here in the United States.

The heartbreaking images we are seeing in Ukraine — the result of a
vicious and unprovoked attack by Vladimir Putin — are only the latest
reminder of the tragic consequences of global conflict and the need to
avert violence before it erupts.  We know that working broadly,
strategically, and cooperatively to prevent conflict and instability is
the greatest investment we can make in America’s future, and in the
future of the entire world.  In Ukraine, as in Ethiopia, Syria, Yemen,
and elsewhere around the world, the incalculable toll of lives lost,
families separated, economies destroyed, and social fabrics torn
threatens to spiral whole regions into cycles of violence and loss that
can linger for generations.  Doing all that we can to assist communities
around the world in their conflict prevention efforts is more than just
the right thing to do.  It saves lives, safeguards Americans’ own
security and prosperity, and establishes the United States as a trusted
partner — a force for peace and stability in the world, and a nation
that can be counted on to work and learn productively alongside the
nations of every region to tackle common challenges and strengthen our
shared future.

This Strategy lays out a whole-of-government approach to advancing
America’s national interests on the world stage.  This means tapping
into the expansive expertise and resources that reside across our
Government, sharpening and updating those tools where needed, humbly
applying the costly and painful lessons from the past, and transforming
the way we work with each other.  Our diplomats, officers, and experts
in the State Department, the United States Agency for International
Development, the Department of Defense, the Department of the Treasury,
and others across Government, as well as members of the Foreign Service
and Armed Forces, will work in close cooperation with multilateral
organizations and a wide variety of local partners in each nation where
these efforts will be pursued — including civil society organizations,
community leaders, businesses, and government officials.  Those who are
closest and most vulnerable to these challenges know best where the
opportunities for peace and stability lie — they represent the strongest
source of promise and immunity from destabilizing forces, and we must
support their strength and resilience.  From strengthening social
institutions and state-society relations, to mitigating the spread of
extremist ideologies, to confronting the corrosive impact of gender
inequality, to cultivating greater trust between security forces and
citizens, to guarding against the destabilizing threat of climate change
— we will help foster locally led, locally owned solutions grounded in
mutual trust and long-term accountability.

Prevention is hard work — measured not in days and weeks, but in years
and generations.  Its successes are never as evident as its failures,
and it requires us to remain focused on lasting peace and stability over
the allure of easier, more temporary gains that may not strengthen our
position in the long term.  But, with this Strategy, we are committing
ourselves to the effort.  As we implement this Strategy, my
Administration looks forward to working closely with the Congress on a
bipartisan basis, and in close consultation with civil society
institutions and stakeholders on every level.  United in our vision,
America can and must lead this essential new effort to interrupt
potential pathways to conflict, alleviate threats before they escalate
and arrive on our shores, and help safeguard the economy, health, and
security of our Nation for generations to come.

Joseph R. Biden, Jr.
