---
date: '2022-04-15'
modified_time: 2022-04-15 13:50:54-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-15 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/15/statement-from-president-biden-on-his-intent-to-nominate-michael-barr-to-serve-as-vice-chair-for-supervision-of-the-federal-reserve/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President\_Biden on His Intent to Nominate Michael Barr to\
  \ Serve as Vice Chair for Supervision of the Federal\_Reserve"
---
 
Today, I am announcing my intent to nominate Michael Barr as the next
Vice Chair for Supervision of the Federal Reserve. Michael brings the
expertise and experience necessary for this important position at a
critical time for our economy and families across the country. 

Since I took office, the economy has created nearly 8 million jobs, and
millions of families have the dignity a paycheck can provide and a
little bit more breathing room. I know that rising prices and inflation
are straining families’ budgets. While I’m doing everything in my power
to lower prices for families, the Federal Reserve plays a critical role
in fighting inflation and Barr will make a strong Vice Chair for
Supervision, joining my other nominees for the Federal Reserve that the
Senate is considering.

Barr has spent his career protecting consumers, and during his time at
Treasury, played a critical role in creating both the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and the position for which I am nominating him. He was
instrumental in the passage of Dodd-Frank, to ensure a future financial
crisis would not create devastating economic hardship for working
families. Barr has strong support from across the political spectrum—and
has been confirmed by the Senate on a bipartisan basis. And, he
understands that this job is not a partisan one, but one that plays a
critical role in regulating our nation’s financial institutions to
ensure Americans are treated fairly and to protect the stability of our
economy.

I will work with Senate Banking Committee Chair Sherrod Brown to move
Barr’s nomination forward quickly, and urge the Senate to swiftly
confirm the four eminently qualified nominees for the Board of
Governors—Jerome Powell, Lael Brainard, Philip Jefferson, and Lisa
Cook—currently awaiting a vote.

**Michael Barr  
**Michael S. Barr is currently the Joan and Sanford Weill Dean of the
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, the Frank Murphy Collegiate
Professor of Public Policy, the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt
Professor of Law at the University of Michigan Law School, and the
founder and faculty director of the University of Michigan’s Center on
Finance, Law & Policy. At the Law School, Barr taught Financial
Regulation and International Finance, and co-founded the International
Transactions Clinic and the Detroit Neighborhood Entrepreneurs Project.

Barr served in the Obama Administration as the U.S. Department of the
Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial institutions, and was a key
architect of the Dodd-Frank Act. He also served the National Economic
Council in the White House. In the Clinton Administration, Barr served
as Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin’s special assistant, as deputy
assistant secretary of the Treasury, as special adviser to President
Clinton, and as a special adviser and counselor on the policy planning
staff at the U.S. Department of State.

Barr served as a law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice David H. Souter
during October Term 1993, and previously to the Hon. Pierre N. Leval,
then of the Southern District of New York. He received his JD from Yale
Law School, his MPhil in international relations as a Rhodes Scholar
from Magdalen College, Oxford University, and his BA, summa cum laude,
with honors in history, from Yale University.

\###
