---
date: '2022-04-29'
published_time: 2022-04-29 20:49:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/29/readout-of-president-bidens-call-with-president-andres-manuel-lopez-obrador-of-mexico/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s call with President Andr\xE9s Manuel L\xF3\
  pez Obrador of\_Mexico"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. spoke today with President Andrés Manuel
López Obrador to reaffirm the vision they laid out in the November 2021
North American Leaders’ Summit of a North America that remains the most
competitive and dynamic region in the world.

At a time of immense global challenges, from Russia’s further invasion
of Ukraine to economic volatility, the Leaders pledged to work together
across the breadth and depth of the relationship between our nations. 
President Biden and President López Obrador discussed how our countries
can continue to advance our shared economic, climate, energy, and
migration management goals in line with the [High-Level Economic
Dialogue](https://trade.gov/HLED), with a special focus on shoring up
North American supply chains. 

They discussed their visions for the Summit of the Americas and
emphasized ongoing cooperation on [development in Central
America](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/19/fact-sheet-update-on-the-u-s-strategy-for-addressing-the-root-causes-of-migration-in-central-america/)
and southern Mexico, strengthening North American supply chains, and
modernizing our shared border to further strengthen our agricultural and
commercial trade.  They also recognized the importance of joint efforts
underway to fast-track the development and implementation of key
infrastructure projects on both sides of the 2,000 mile U.S.-Mexico
border.

In view of the unprecedented flows of migrants from throughout the
hemisphere to our two countries, the Presidents reiterated the need to
build stronger tools for managing regional migration surges.  To that
end, they agreed to enhance our collaboration to support just, humane
and effective efforts to reduce irregular migration and to advance our
shared goal that countries throughout the region improve their ability
to manage their borders in furtherance of humanitarian and security
objectives.  They discussed the importance of working together with
countries throughout the hemisphere to ensure safe and sustainable
livelihoods for their respective citizens and migrant populations, to
advance our partnership to create jobs in Central America, and support
efforts to expand legal pathways for migrants and refugees.

As President Biden and President López Obrador celebrate that December
12, 2022 marks the 200<sup>th</sup> anniversary of official U.S.-Mexico
diplomatic relations, they both recognized that our shared history and
shared communities create the strong foundation for friendship and
cooperation into the future.  They looked forward to meeting again at
the June Summit of the Americas.

\###
