---
date: '2022-04-11'
published_time: 2022-04-11 15:06:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/11/statement-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-on-president-bidens-selection-of-special-advisors-for-the-summit-of-the-americas/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki on President\_Biden\u2019s Selection\
  \ of Special Advisors for the Summit of the\_Americas"
---
 
Today, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. announced that former U.S. Senator
Christopher Dodd of Connecticut and former U.S. Representative Debbie
Mucarsel-Powell of Florida will serve as special advisors for the Ninth
Summit of the Americas that will take place from June 6 through June 10
in Los Angeles, California.

Senator Dodd served as a member and Chair of the Senate Foreign
Relations Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere for over three decades.
Senator Dodd and President Biden worked closely together on the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee for over 28 years. Senator Dodd’s interest
in Latin America began years before his election to the U.S. Congress.
In the 1960s, Dodd joined President John Kennedy’s Peace Corps, serving
for two years as a volunteer in the Dominican Republic. During his
service in the Peace Corps and in the Senate, he traveled extensively
and on numerous occasions throughout the hemisphere.

As the first and only Latina Democrat to ever represent a Congressional
district in Florida, and the first-ever Member of Congress born in
Ecuador, Congresswoman Mucarsel-Powell was a leading voice in the charge
to support Venezuelans fleeing their country through securing Temporary
Protected Status in the United States and providing humanitarian and
other aid to the Venezuelan people and neighboring countries. She served
as chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Women’s Task Force and
also sponsored environmental and public health legislation.

Senator Dodd and Congresswoman Mucarsel-Powell are confident that
President Biden will renew and strengthen the collaboration and respect
essential for a bright future for the Americas at the upcoming Summit in
Los Angeles this June.

The Summit of the Americas, the only meeting that brings together the
leaders of North, South, and Central America and the Caribbean, will
play a central role in shaping the future of the Americas at a critical
time in our history.  The region’s governments, civil society, and
private sector will work to develop a shared vision built around the
theme for this year’s meeting, “Building a Sustainable, Resilient, and
Equitable Future.”

The United States looks forward to welcoming the hemisphere to Los
Angeles to work together on strengthening our democracies, building more
prosperous and inclusive economies, and better protecting the human
rights, health, dignity, and security of our people.  The United States
previously hosted the inaugural Summit of the Americas in Miami,
Florida, in 1994.

\###
