---
date: '2022-04-28'
modified_time: 2022-04-29 15:57:41-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-28 07:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/28/fact-sheet-united-states-and-60-global-partners-launch-declaration-for-the-future-of-the-internet/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: United\_States and 60 Global Partners Launch Declaration for the\
  \ Future of the\_Internet"
---
 
The Internet has been revolutionary. It provides unprecedented
opportunities for people around the world to connect and to express
themselves, and continues to transform the global
economy, enabling economic opportunities for billions of people. Yet it
has also created serious policy challenges. Globally, we are witnessing
a trend of rising digital authoritarianism where some states act to
repress freedom of expression, censor independent news sites, interfere
with elections, promote disinformation, and deny their citizens other
human rights. At the same time, millions of people still face barriers
to access and cybersecurity risks and threats undermine the trust and
reliability of networks. 

Democratic governments and other partners are rising to the
challenge. Today, the United States with 60 partners from around the
globe launched the [Declaration for the Future of the
Internet](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/Declaration-for-the-Future-for-the-Internet_Launch-Event-Signing-Version_FINAL.pdf).
Those endorsing the Declaration include Albania, Andorra, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cabo Verde, Canada, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican
Republic, Estonia, the European Commission, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Kenya, Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Micronesia, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Niger, North Macedonia, Palau, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania,
Senegal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, Trinidad and
Tobago, the United Kingdom, Ukraine, and Uruguay.

This Declaration represents a political commitment among Declaration
partners to advance apositive vision for the Internet and digital
technologies. It reclaims the promise of the Internet in the face of the
global opportunities and challenges presented by the
21<sup>st</sup> century. It also reaffirms and recommits its partners to
a single global Internet – one that is truly open and fosters
competition, privacy, and respect for human rights. The Declaration’s
principles includecommitments to: 

• Protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of all people; 

• Promote a global Internet that advances the free flow of information; 

• Advance inclusive and affordable connectivity so that all people can
benefit from the digital economy; 

• Promote trust in the global digital ecosystem, including through
protection of privacy; and 

• Protect and strengthen the multistakeholder approach to governance
that keeps the Internet running for the benefit of all.

In signing this Declaration, the United States and partners will work
together to promote this vision and its principles globally, while
respecting each other’s regulatory autonomy within our own jurisdictions
and in accordance with our respective domestic laws and international
legal obligations.

Over the last year, the United States has worked with partners from all
over the world – including civil society, industry, academia, and other
stakeholders to reaffirm the vision of an open, free, global,
interoperable, reliable, and secure Internet and reverse negative trends
in this regard. Under this vision, people everywhere will benefit from
an Internet that is unified unfragmented; facilitates global
communications and commerce; and supports freedom,
innovation, education and trust.  

\###
