---
date: '2022-04-18'
modified_time: 2022-04-18 09:25:54-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-18 09:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/18/fact-sheet-this-tax-day-the-president-is-fighting-to-reward-work-not-wealth-while-republicans-want-to-increase-taxes-on-the-middle-class/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: This Tax Day, the President Is Fighting to Reward Work, Not Wealth,\
  \ While Republicans Want to Increase Taxes on the Middle\_Class"
---
 
This Tax Day, the difference in approach between the President and
Congressional Republicans couldn’t be clearer.  The President is
fighting for tax cuts for the middle class and to ensure that the super
wealthy and large corporations pay their fair share, while Congressional
Republicans, led by Senator Scott, are proposing big tax increases on
middle-class families.

President Biden’s plan would give tax relief to tens of millions of
families—continuing the tax relief families are seeing this Tax Day—and
he’d apply new minimum taxes on billionaires and large corporations to
make sure they’re paying their fair share.  He wouldn’t raise taxes by a
penny on anyone making less than $400,000.

In contrast, Congressional Republicans would continue the big handouts
they’ve given to the richest Americans and largest corporations and
implement a Middle-Class Tax Increase. Congressional Republicans’ plan
will increase middle-class families’ taxes an average of nearly
[$1,500](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/minimum-federal-individual-income-tax-february-2022/t22-0002-enact-minimum-federal)
this year alone and take $100 billion out of the hands of middle-class
families each year. 

Not only that – but the Republican plan would eliminate Social Security
and Medicare. The President believes we have a sacred commitment to our
nation’s seniors, while the Republican plan puts that at risk.

**The President’s Tax Plan Ensures That Corporations and Billionaires
Pay Their Fair Share and Delivers Tax Relief to Middle-Class Families**

In recent years, both billionaires and the largest corporations have
paid an average tax rate of just 8 percent.  That’s less than what a
teacher and firefighter can pay.  The President’s plan would fix that,
and give middle-class families the tax relief they deserve.

President Biden is calling on Congress to pass legislation requiring the
wealthiest American households to pay a minimum of 20 percent on all of
their income, including unrealized investment income that currently is
untaxed.  The richest Americans could no longer do what they can now—and
often pay no tax whatsoever or very little tax on their income and too
often escape paying income tax forever. The tax will apply only to the
top one-one hundredth of one percent (0.01%) of American households —
those worth over $100 million, and over half of hundreds of billions
raised would come from households worth more than $1 billion.

The President has also proposed repealing the 2017 Republican tax
giveaways for the wealthiest Americans by restoring the top income tax
rate for those making more than $400,000.

The President believes that profitable corporations shouldn’t pay a
lower tax bill than a middle-class family, and shouldn’t be able to
avoid taxes by shipping jobs and profits overseas. The President is
championing a 15 percent corporate minimum tax here and around the world
to ensure that no large profitable corporation gets away with paying $0
in taxes and reversing the massive 2017 Republican tax cuts, by
increasing the corporate tax rate to 28 percent.  

And, the President is fighting for continued middle-class tax relief,
especially as the middle class and working people deal with global
inflation.  Because of the American Rescue Plan, millions of
middle-class families are receiving well deserved tax cuts through the
Child Tax Credit, the Earned Income Tax Credit, Affordable Care Act
Premium Tax Credits, and the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit. 
Families are benefitting from these tax cuts right now as they file
their taxes on this Tax Day.  The President is proposing extending that
tax relief because he believes that middle-class families already pay
enough in taxes. 

**Republican Middle-Class Tax Increase and Threat to Social Security and
Medicare**

After delivering almost $2 trillion in tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans and largest corporations with their 2017 tax law,
Congressional Republicans, led by Senator Rick Scott, are following up
by proposing $100 billion per year in tax *increases* on middle-class
families.  According to independent analysis, around 75 million American
families—96 percent of them making less than $100,000—would pay an
average of [$1,480 more in taxes each
year](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/minimum-federal-individual-income-tax-february-2022/t22-0002-enact-minimum-federal). 
The Republican plan doesn’t raise a single penny in taxes from the
wealthiest Americans or profitable corporations.

These tax increases would mean:

-   24 million families of seniors making less than $100,000 per year
    would face tax increases. 

<!-- -->

-   Another 24 million families with kids making less than $100,000 per
    year would face tax increases.

In 2017 the Republicans delivered an average tax cut of over
[$250,000](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/new-tax-law-is-fundamentally-flawed-and-will-require-basic-restructuring?msclkid=fa754cd4bb3a11ec90b7bafcd074bdb7)
a year to families in the top .1%; now they want working families to pay
$100 billion *more* in taxes each year.  Republicans complain that
middle-class Americans don’t have “skin in the game” and don’t pay
enough in taxes.  But the truth is that middle-class Americans are the
back bone of our economy, pay plenty in federal, state, and local taxes,
and in many cases pay a higher rate than the super-wealthy.  

It’s not just that – the Republican plan calls for expiring all laws,
including Social Security and Medicare, after 5 years.  That means
Social Security and Medicare would be eliminated, unless Congress could
enact them again.  That’s wrong.  The President believes these programs
are sacred commitments.  They should be strengthened – not threatened.

**The Choice Is Clear** This Tax Day, it’s a clear choice.  And the
President is going to continue fighting for middle-class tax relief and
to make sure the richest Americans and largest corporations don’t pay a
lower rate than middle-class families.  And he will fight against the
Republican plan to raise taxes on middle-class families and to threaten
the future of Social Security and Medicare, while continuing giant hand
outs to very top and the largest corporations.

\###
