---
date: '2022-04-26'
modified_time: 2022-04-25 22:18:54-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-26 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/26/fact-sheet-biden-administration-increases-access-to-covid-19-treatments-and-boosts-patient-and-provider-awareness/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Increases Access to COVID-\u206019 Treatments\
  \ and Boosts Patient and Provider\_Awareness"
---
 
Driven by President Biden’s comprehensive COVID-19 response, there are
now more tools than ever before to protect people from the virus,
including highly-effective treatments. Over the past 15 months, the
Administration has pulled levers across the federal government and
deployed resources Congress provided to expedite the development,
production, and procurement of COVID-19 treatments. As a result, the
U.S. now has several treatments available that can help keep people out
of the hospital and save lives.  
  
One of the most effective available treatments is Pfizer’s oral
antiviral pill, Paxlovid, which has been shown to reduce the risk of
hospitalization or death by about 90 percent. The U.S. has committed to
purchase 20 million treatment courses—more than any other country in the
world. Although Paxlovid was initially in short supply after Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) authorization, the Administration has worked
with Pfizer to accelerate the delivery of these pills, and they are now
in ample supply. The President’s [National COVID-19 Preparedness
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/covidplan/) lays out a roadmap for
ensuring that these pills, along with other treatments, are available
for any American who needs one.  
  
Since December 2021, the Administration has distributed COVID-19 oral
antivirals directly to states, Tribes, territories, and community health
centers for free. States and territories play an important role in
distributing these treatments to health care providers, pharmacies, and
other locations, and any doctor can prescribe treatments. In March, as
supply began to ramp up, the President announced the Test-to-Treat
initiative to help make it easier for people at high risk of severe
disease to quickly access oral antiviral treatments. The Test-to-Treat
initiative creates additional locations where people can get a COVID-19
test, a visit with a medical provider, and, if needed, free oral
antiviral pills—all in one visit.  
  
To date, the Administration has worked with pharmacies, long-term care
facilities, community health centers, and other health care settings to
establish more than 2,200 Test-to-Treat sites around the country,
including sites specifically for military families and veterans. As a
result, usage of oral antivirals has more than doubled over the last
several weeks.  
  
Today, the Administration is announcing new actions to make these
treatments even easier to access and to make sure health care providers
and patients know about their safety, efficacy, and availability. These
actions will help strengthen and further build the infrastructure to
ensure that lifesaving treatments for COVID-19 are quickly distributed
around the country, widely available, and easy to access. At the same
time, ensuring that this remains the case—and securing more and even
better treatments—will require additional funding from Congress.  
  
Today’s actions include:  
  
**Nearly doubling the number of places oral antivirals are available in
the coming weeks.** Right now, oral antivirals are available in about
20,000 locations across the country—including pharmacies, community
health centers, hospitals, urgent care centers, and Veterans Affairs
clinics, and Department of Defense Medical Treatment Facilities. Now
that the United States has ample supply of these treatments, the
Administration is making it easier for pharmacies to order antivirals
from the federal government. Starting this week, the Administration will
allow all pharmacy partners in the federal antiviral pharmacy
program—tens of thousands of pharmacy locations nationwide—to order free
oral antiviral treatments directly from the federal government.
Pharmacies will also continue to be able to receive treatments from
state and territorial health departments and through the Test-to-Treat
initiative. For many Americans, pharmacies are the most common and
convenient place to pick up their prescriptions and receive other forms
of health care. Opening ordering to all of these pharmacies will
dramatically expand the number of local pharmacies with oral antivirals
in stock for patients in their community. The Administration expects
that oral antivirals will soon be available in more than 30,000
locations. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will work
with pharmacy partners to increase availability even further to up to
40,000 sites over the coming weeks—bringing these treatments closer to
more Americans.  
  
**Launching a new effort to stand up federally-supported Test-to-Treat
sites.** Building on the current 2,200 Test-to-Treat sites in pharmacies
and other clinical settings, the federal government will work with
states and jurisdictions to establish additional Test-to-Treat locations
with federal support. These sites will co-locate testing, an assessment
from a medical provider, and oral antiviral treatments in one convenient
stop—launching in partnership with state, Tribal, and territorial
governments, and with support and coordination from HHS and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. These sites will launch in select
communities in the coming weeks and, as more data comes in, the
Administration will determine how federally-supported sites can best be
expanded and scaled if needed during any potential future surge in
cases. These sites will be targeted to meet demand and increase
equitable access to lifesaving COVID-19 treatments and will function in
direct collaboration with state and local health agencies. The
Administration will also continue working with existing Test-to-Treat
pharmacy partners to improve the patient experience, including through
telehealth options.  
  
**Supporting medical providers with more guidance and tools to
understand and prescribe treatments.** It is critical that health care
providers stay informed about the latest information on effective
COVID-19 treatments—including their benefits, contraindications,
drug-to-drug interactions, and other side effects—so that they are in a
position to quickly prescribe one of these treatments where appropriate.
The Administration has been working for months with health care
providers around the country to inform them about new treatments, with
weekly webinars with state and territorial health officials, health care
and medical organizations, as well as biweekly clinical webinars with
health care providers, including those who specialize in treating
high-risk patients. The Administration will continue to engage the
clinical community to broaden awareness and understanding of these
treatments and to make sure that health care providers are counseling
their patients about these effective treatments, prescribing them when
appropriate, and helping patients identify where their prescription can
be filled. This includes providing toolkits and resources to help
doctors assess whether treatments are appropriate for their patients and
additional guidance and outreach to every state, pharmacy chain, and
major medical association to increase awareness around eligibility,
accessibility, contraindications and prescribing considerations for
COVID-19 treatments. To that end, just yesterday, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a [Health Alert Network
health advisory](https://emergency.cdc.gov/han/2022/pdf/CDC_HAN_463.pdf)
to its extensive network of public health officials to provide
additional information about the efficacy and availability of these
treatments. Building on its ongoing work with electronic health record
companies to develop and disseminate information about COVID-19
treatments to providers, the Administration is also calling on these
companies to incorporate information about oral antivirals directly into
their health records interface. This would make it easier to prompt
doctors with information about treatments and locations when interacting
with a patient—helping to better integrate the prescription of oral
antivirals to patients that need them into doctors’ everyday practice.  
  
**Communicating to the American people that safe, effective treatments
are widely available.** Now that the Administration has made treatments
widely available and there are tens of thousands of sites around the
country where they can be dispensed, the Administration will ramp up its
public awareness and education efforts on COVID-19 treatments. The
Administration’s efforts will focus on making sure that people know that
COVID-19 oral antiviral treatments must be taken within the first five
days of symptom onset and understand their role in reducing the risk of
severe disease and death from COVID-19. These efforts build on steps
that the Administration has taken in recent weeks to help people access
treatments, including the launch of COVID.gov, creating shareable
infographics with clear test-and-treat messages, promoting
test-and-treat messages on social media, launching the [Test-to-Treat
locator](https://covid-19-test-to-treat-locator-dhhs.hub.arcgis.com/),
and standing up a call center (800-232-0233) to provide help in English,
Spanish, and more than 150 other languages.

\###
