---
date: '2022-04-21'
published_time: 2022-04-21 15:34:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/21/fact-sheet-biden-administration-responds-to-putins-price-hike-by-awarding-first-barrels-from-historic-strategic-petroleum-reserve-release-deploying-affordable-clean-energy/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Responds to Putin\u2019s Price Hike by Awarding\
  \ First Barrels from Historic Strategic Petroleum Reserve Release & Deploying Affordable\
  \ Clean\_Energy"
---
 
Today, the U.S. Department of Energy announced that it has awarded
contracts for *all* of the initial 30 million barrels it put up for sale
as part of President Biden’s historic Strategic Petroleum Reserve
Release. These barrels will be delivered in May and June, and are the
first U.S. sale in the largest release from reserves from both the
United States and the rest of the world in history. Together, these
releases will put more than one million barrels per day on the market
over the next six months, and will help address supply disruptions
caused by Putin’s further invasion of Ukraine and the Price Hike that
Americans are facing at the pump.

The initial sale of barrels from the release garnered strong interest
and was substantially oversubscribed: DOE received bids for a total of
76 million barrels, or more than doublethe number of barrels put up for
sale.

The Biden Administration also announced this week a set of [new actions
and
programs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-creates-cost-saving-clean-energy-opportunities-to-combat-climate-crisis/)
this week that support the President’s mission to accelerate America’s
move towards true energy independence and lowering costs for Americans
with a clean energy economy.

With these announcement, President Biden is demonstrating both his
unwavering commitment to doing everything in his power to ease the pain
American families are facing today at the pump as a result of Putin’s
Price Hike, while continuing to take strong action – right now and
without delay – to achieve lasting American energy independence.

**<u>Actions to Immediately Increase Supply and Lower Prices at the
Pump</u>**

**Largest-Ever Release of Oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.**
President Biden announced the largest-ever release of oil from the
Strategic Petroleum Reserves, which will put one million additional
barrels on the market per day on average—every day—for the next six
months. The release will provide a record amount of supply to the market
until the end of the year, when domestic production is expected to
increase by 1 million barrels per day. DOE will use the revenue from the
release to restock the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in future years. This
will provide a signal of future demand and help encourage domestic
production today, and will ensure the continued readiness of the Reserve
to respond to future emergencies.

**Historic Collective Release of Oil from the International Energy
Agency**. After around the clock diplomacy by the President and allies
and partners, the International Energy Agency announced an unprecedented
collective release with member countries outside the United States
releasing an additional 60 million barrels. Together with the United
States’ commitment, this will add a combined global amount of 240
million barrels to the market. It is the largest release from other IEA
countries in history, and will support American consumers and the global
economy.

**Expanding Americans’ Access to Affordable Fuel Options This Summer.**
President Biden announced that the EPA Administrator is planning to
issue an emergency waiver allowing E15 gasoline—gasoline that uses a 15
percent ethanol blend—to be sold this summer. An emergency waiver can
help increase fuel supplies, give consumers more choice to get lower
prices, and provide savings to many families. At current prices, E15 can
save a family 10 cents per gallon of gas on average, and many stores
sell E15 at an even greater discount – adding up to real savings for
working families. Allowing higher levels of blending will also reduce
our dependency on foreign fuels as we rely more heavily on home-grown
biofuels.

**Increasing Domestic Production Through a “Use it or Lose it” Policy.**
The United States is already approaching record levels of oil and
natural gas production, with domestic production expected to increase by
1 million barrels per day this year and over 500,000 barrels per day
next year. But too many companies aren’t doing their part and are
choosing to make extraordinary profits and without investing to help
with supply. Right now, the oil and gas industry is sitting on more than
12 million acres of non-producing Federal land with 9,000 unused but
approved permits for drilling. President Biden called on Congress to
make companies pay fees on idled wells and non-producing acres on
Federal lands – so that companies that continue to sit on excess
capacity will have to choose whether to start producing or pay a fee.

**<u>Achieving Real Energy Independence and Lowering Costs for
Families</u>**

The President knows the true path to energy security runs through clean
energy. This week, the Biden Administration announced [new actions and
programs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-creates-cost-saving-clean-energy-opportunities-to-combat-climate-crisis/)
that accelerate and strengthen America’s move towards a clean energy
economy and lower costs for consumers, furthering the path towards true
U.S. energy independence. These actions build on the steps President
Biden has taken this year to reduce energy costs for families: expanding
clean energy, making clean energy more affordable and accessible, and
increasing energy efficiency.

**Expanding Clean Energy**

-   The Department of the Interior outlined a
    [roadmap](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-outlines-roadmap-continued-renewable-energy-progress-public-lands)
    this week to reach the President’s target to double clean energy
    permits on public lands, reaching 25 gigawatts of renewable power by
    2025.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Energy established a new [rebate
    program](https://www.energy.gov/articles/president-biden-department-energy-establish-bipartisan-infrastructure-laws-20-million)
    this week through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to provide
    utilities with the resources to upgrade critical equipment that
    supports a cleaner and more efficient power grid.

<!-- -->

-   President Biden launched the American offshore wind industry through
    the Department of the Interior, approving the first large-scale
    projects, identifying new wind energy areas in the Atlantic and the
    Pacific, and holding a record-breaking $4.3 billion lease sale,
    putting us on track to meet his target of 30 gigawatts of offshore
    wind by 2030.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Energy fast-tracked clean energy projects by
    approving record levels of solar and other renewables on public
    lands and helping local governments advance community solar
    projects.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Energy advanced power grid upgrades to increase
    reliability, lower costs, and unlock more clean energy through the
    [Building a Better Grid
    Initiative](https://www.energy.gov/oe/articles/building-better-grid-initiative).

**Making Clean Energy More Affordable and Accessible**

-   The Department of Energy deployed a software tool – SolarAPP+ – to
    cut permitting times for residential solar to less than one day,
    helping to fast-track families’ access to cheaper, cleaner, and more
    secure energy.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Agriculture a new pilot program to help people in
    underserved rural communities cut energy costs via renewable energy,
    building on more than $450 million in investments in renewable
    energy fur rural communities last year.

**Increase Energy Efficiency**

-   The Biden Administration is advancing a series of [100
    actions](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-releases-energy-saving-rules-federal-buildings-and-proposes-new-standards-consumer)
    to be completed this year, which together will save families $100
    every year with more efficient home appliances and equipment.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Energy [opened
    applications](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-administration-announces-investments-make-homes-more-energy-efficient-and-lower)
    for more than $3 billion in new Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    funding—ten times the historical funding levels—for the
    Weatherization Assistance Program, providing energy efficiency and
    electrification upgrades in homes and saving families on their
    utility bills.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety
    Administration finalized
    [standards](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/usdot-announces-new-vehicle-fuel-economy-standards-model-year-2024-2026)
    for cars and trucks that will allow drivers to travel further on
    every gallon of fuel and save money at the pump.

<!-- -->

-   Vice President Harris announced the [Biden-Harris Action Plan to
    Build Better School
    Infrastructure](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/04/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-building-better-school-infrastructure/),
    including a $500 million grant program at the Department of Energy
    to save schools money by tackling energy costs—the second-largest
    expense after teacher salaries.

<!-- -->

-   The White House joined leaders from state and city governments,
    labor, and industry to launch the [Building Performance Standards
    Coalition](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-coalition-of-states-and-local-governments-to-strengthen-building-performance-standards/),
    a first-of-its-kind partnership between more than 30 state and local
    governments covering nearly 20% of the nation’s building footprint,
    dedicated to deliver cleaner, healthier buildings with lower energy
    bills.

\###
