---
date: '2022-04-22'
modified_time: 2022-04-22 11:48:20-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-22 11:44:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/22/readout-of-senior-administration-travel-to-hawaii-fiji-papua-new-guinea-and-solomon-islands/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Senior Administration Travel to Hawaii, Fiji, Papua New Guinea,\
  \ and Solomon\_Islands"
---
 
On April 22, a high-level U.S. delegation – led by National Security
Council Indo-Pacific Coordinator Kurt Campbell, Assistant Secretary of
State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Daniel Kritenbrink, Deputy
Commander INDOPACOM Lieutenant General Stephen Sklenka , and USAID
Acting Senior Deputy Assistant Administrator for Asia Craig Hart –
visited Honiara, Solomon Islands. The delegation met for ninety minutes
with Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare, along with two dozen members of
his cabinet and senior staff. While there, the delegation also met with
prominent religious leaders on the island and with key members of the
political opposition.

This visit to Solomon Islands was the final leg of the delegation’s trip
across the Pacific. It followed stops in Hawaii, where the delegation
met with senior officials from Australia, Japan, and New Zealand; Fiji,
where they met with Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama, as well
as leadership of the Pacific Island Forum, and held the U.S.-Fiji
Strategic Dialogue; and Papua New Guinea, where they met with Prime
Minister James Marape and senior defense officials to discuss ways to
enhance security ties. Across these engagements, the United States
reiterated that it will seek to further deepen our enduring ties
with the Pacific Islands and take tangible steps to advance a free,
open, and resilient Indo-Pacific. The United States will do so by
fulfilling and strengthening its commitments in the region, working to
advance regional unity, coordinating with allies and partners on meeting
twenty-first century challenges, and protecting the sovereignty of
Pacific Island states.

In the meeting with Solomon Islands’ Prime Minister Sogavare, the
delegation reiterated the key priorities animating the trip and also
outlined specific steps the United States would take to advance the
welfare of the people of Solomon Islands. The United States will
expedite the opening of an embassy in Solomon Islands; advance
cooperation on unexploded ordinance; launch a program on maritime domain
awareness; dispatch the Mercy hospital ship to address public health;
advance a dialogue on the return of the Peace Corps; deliver additional
vaccines; and advance initiatives on climate, health, and
people-to-people ties. 

The United States respects the right of nations to make sovereign
decisions in the best interests of their people. The two sides engaged
in substantial discussion around the recently signed security agreement
between Solomon Islands and the People’s Republic of China (PRC).
Solomon Islands representatives indicated that the agreement had solely
domestic applications, but the U.S. delegation noted there are potential
regional security implications of the accord, including for the United
States and its allies and partners. The U.S. delegation outlined clear
areas of concern with respect to the purpose, scope, and transparency of
the agreement.

If steps are taken to establish a de facto permanent military presence,
power-projection capabilities, or a military installation, the
delegation noted that the United States would then have significant
concerns and respond accordingly. In response to these enumerated
concerns, Prime Minister Sogavare reiterated his specific assurances
that there would be no military base, no long-term presence, and no
power projection capability, as he has said publicly. The United States
emphasized that it will follow developments closely in consultation with
regional partners.

At this critical juncture, the United States and Solomon Islands agreed
to launch a high-level strategic dialogue, co-chaired on the U.S. side
by the White House and the Department of State. Its purpose will be to
enhance communication, address mutual concerns, and drive practical
progress. In particular, both sides agreed to discuss in greater detail
security issues of mutual concern, economic and social development,
public health, and finance and debt. Each side committed to take the
necessary steps in the intervening period to prepare for a successful
engagement.

\###
