---
date: '2022-04-06'
modified_time: 2022-04-06 10:14:23-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-06 10:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/06/fact-sheet-united-states-g7-and-eu-impose-severe-and-immediate-costs-on-russia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: United\_States, G7 and EU Impose Severe and Immediate Costs on\_\
  Russia"
---
 
Today, the United States, with the G7 and the European Union, will
continue to impose severe and immediate economic costs on the Putin
regime for its atrocities in Ukraine, including in Bucha. We will
document and share information on these atrocities and use all
appropriate mechanisms to hold accountable those responsible. As one
part of this effort, the United States is announcing devastating
economic measures to ban new investment in Russia, and impose the most
severe financial sanctions on Russia’s largest bank and several of its
most critical state-owned enterprises and on Russian government
officials and their family members. These sweeping financial sanctions
follow our action earlier this week to cut off Russia’s frozen funds in
the United States to make debt payments. Importantly, these measures are
designed to reinforce each other to generate intensifying impact over
time.

The United States and more than 30 allies and partners across the world
have levied the most impactful, coordinated, and wide-ranging economic
restrictions in history. Experts predict Russia’s GDP will contract up
to 15 percent this year, wiping out the last fifteen years of economic
gains. Inflation is already spiking above 15 percent and forecast to
accelerate higher. More than 600 private sector companies have already
left the Russian market. Supply chains in Russia have been severely
disrupted. Russia will very likely lose its status as a major economy,
and it will continue a long descent into economic, financial, and
technological isolation. Compared to last year, U.S. exports to Russia
of items subject to our new export controls have decreased 99 percent by
value – and the power of these restrictions will compound over time as
Russia draws down any remaining stockpiles of spare parts for certain
planes, tanks, and other resources needed for Putin’s war machine.

As long as Russia continues its brutal assault on Ukraine, we will stand
unified with our allies and partners in imposing additional costs on
Russia for its actions. Today, the United States is announcing the
following actions:

**Full blocking sanctions on Russia’s largest financial institution,
Sberbank, and Russia’s largest private bank, Alfa Bank.** This action
will freeze any of Sberbank’s and Alfa Bank’s assets touching the U.S
financial system and prohibit U.S. persons from doing business with
them. Sberbank holds nearly one-third of the overall Russian banking
sector’s assets and is systemically critical to the Russian economy.
Alfa Bank is Russia’s largest privately-owned financial institution and
Russia’s fourth largest financial institution overall.

**Prohibiting new investment in the Russian Federation.** President
Biden will sign a new Executive Order (E.O.) that includes a prohibition
on new investment in Russia by U.S. persons wherever located, which will
further isolate Russia from the global economy. This action builds on
the decision made by more than 600 multinational businesses to exit from
Russia. The exodus of the private sector includes manufacturers, energy
companies, large retailers, financial institutions, as well as other
service providers such as law and consulting firms. Today’s E.O. will
ensure the enduring weakening of the Russian Federation’s global
competitiveness.

**Full blocking sanctions on critical major Russian state-owned
enterprises.** This will prohibit any U.S. person from transacting with
these entities and freeze any of their assets subject to U.S.
jurisdiction, thereby damaging the Kremlin’s ability to use these
entities it depends on to enable and fund its war in Ukraine. The
Department of Treasury will announce these entities tomorrow.

**Full blocking sanctions on Russian elites and their family members,
including sanctions on: President Putin’s adult children, Foreign
Minister Lavrov’s wife and daughter, and members of Russia’s Security
Council including former President and Prime Minister of Russia Dmitry
Medvedev and Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin.** These individuals have
enriched themselves at the expense of the Russian people.  Some of them
are responsible for providing the support necessary to underpin Putin’s
war on Ukraine. This action cuts them off from the U.S. financial system
and freezes any assets they hold in the United States.

**The U.S. Treasury prohibited Russia from making debt payments with
funds subject to U.S. jurisdiction.** Sanctions do not preclude payments
on Russian sovereign debt at this time, provided Russia uses funds
outside of U.S. jurisdiction. However, Russia is a global financial
pariah — and it will now need to choose between draining its available
funds to make debt payments or default. 

**Commitment to supporting sectors essential to humanitarian
activities.** As we continue escalating our sanctions and other economic
measures against Russia for its brutal war against Ukraine, we reiterate
our commitment to exempting essential humanitarian and related
activities that benefit the Russian people and people around the world:
ensuring the availability of basic foodstuffs and agricultural
commodities, safeguarding access to medicine and medical devices, and
enabling telecommunications services to support the flow of information
and access to the internet which provides outside perspectives to the
Russian people. These activities are not the target of our efforts, and
U.S. and Western companies can continue to operate in these sectors in
Russia. When necessary, relevant departments and agencies will issue
appropriate exemptions and carveouts to ensure such activity is not
disrupted.

\*\*\*
