---
date: '2022-04-22'
modified_time: 2022-04-22 10:30:40-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-22 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/22/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-strengthen-americas-forests-boost-wildfire-resilience-and-combat-global-deforestation/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Signs Executive Order to Strengthen America\u2019\
  s Forests, Boost Wildfire Resilience, and Combat Global\_Deforestation"
---
 
*New actions will protect against wildfire threats, support local
economies, and reduce climate pollution*

Today, on Earth Day, President Biden will sign an Executive Order to
expand his Administration’s historic and bold efforts to tackle the
climate crisis, make our nation more resilient to extreme weather, and
strengthen local economies. The President will sign the Executive Order
in Seattle, Washington—rounding out a trip across the West focused on
lowering costs for families and protecting communities from intensifying
climate impacts. Wildfires and extreme weather events are growing in
frequency and ferocity, engulfing communities in the West and across the
country and costing lives, homes, and money. Because President Biden
knows the cost of inaction is too great, he is taking bold executive
action and reaffirming his calls on Congress to address the climate
crisis.  

America’s forests are a key climate solution, absorbing carbon dioxide
equivalent to more than 10% of U.S. annual greenhouse gas emissions.
Federal lands are home to many of the nation’s mature and old-growth
forests, which serve as critical carbon sinks, cherished landscapes, and
unique habitats. However, these magnificent ecosystems are threatened by
the climate impacts that are already here, with intensifying wildfires
demanding urgent action to protect our forests and the economies that
depend on them. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides historic
wildfire resilience funding and calls for prioritizing the restoration
of old-growth forests.

Building on this directive and the Administration’s commitment to
climate-smart forest stewardship, today’s Executive Order will:

-   **Safeguard mature and old-growth forests on federal lands**, as
    part of a science-based approach to reduce wildfire risk.
-   **Strengthen reforestation partnerships across the country** to
    support local economies and ensure we retain forest ecosystems and
    sustainable supplies of forest products for years to come.
-   **Combat global deforestation** to deliver on key COP26 commitments.
-   **Enlist nature to address the climate crisis** with comprehensive
    efforts to deploy nature-based solutions that reduce emissions and
    build resilience.

Across these efforts, the Administration will leverage historic
investments from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the FY 2022
budget, and work in partnership with states, Tribal Nations,
communities, industry, NGOs, labor, scientists, and private landowners,
to strengthen our forests while creating good-paying jobs.

Today’s Executive Order will advance the Biden-Harris Administration’s
climate goals and economic agenda by:

**<u>Reducing Wildfire Risk</u>**

Under President Biden’s leadership, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
(USDA) Forest Service has developed a [10-year
strategy](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2022/01/18/secretary-vilsack-announces-new-10-year-strategy-confront-wildfire)
to reduce wildfire risk through science-based fuels and forest health
treatments, with a goal of treating an additional 50 million acres
across federal and non-federal lands. The Department of the Interior
(DOI) has also developed a [5-year
plan](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-releases-five-year-monitoring-maintenance-and-treatment-plan)
for monitoring, maintenance, and treatment efforts focused on fire-prone
Interior and Tribal lands.

As a critical down payment, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides
$8 billion to fund forest and land management activities, and the FY
2022 Omnibus provides $5.7 billion for wildland fire management and
related risk mitigation and research. USDA and DOI are mobilizing $5
billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for hazardous fuels
reduction and other mitigation programs, such as a $1 billion Community
Wildfire Defense Grant program and $600 million for firefighter
pay—providing about 1,500 additional firefighters and supporting the
President’s commitment that no federal firefighter will make less than
$15 an hour. Already, USDA has
[announced](https://www.fs.usda.gov/news/releases/biden-administration-announces-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-wildfire-mitigation)
$131 million this year for wildfire risk reduction treatments in
high-risk landscapes in Washington, Oregon, California, Idaho, Montana,
Colorado, New Mexico, and Arizona.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law directs DOI and USDA to specifically
prioritize the restoration of old-growth forests, taking into
consideration their contributions to landscape fire adaptation. However,
there is currently no inventory that identifies the location and
condition of mature and old-growth stands.

***To strengthen America’s forests and advance a holistic, science-based
approach to wildfire resilience and forest restoration, this Executive
Order advances action on:  ***

-   **Data Collection and Analysis:** DOI and USDA will conduct the
    first-ever inventory of mature and old-growth forests on federal
    lands. This will be completed and made publicly available in a year
    and will establish consistent definitions, accounting for regional
    and ecological variation. The agencies will then analyze threats
    facing these forests, including from wildfires and other climate
    impacts.
-   **Climate-Smart Stewardship:** After completing the inventory, DOI
    and USDA will develop new policies, with robust opportunity for
    public comment, to institutionalize climate-smart management and
    conservation strategies that address the threats facing mature and
    old-growth forests on federal lands.
-   **Enhanced Coordination:** DOI and USDA will partner with other
    federal agencies, states, Tribal Nations, and any interested private
    landowners to better coordinate conservation and wildfire risk
    reduction efforts—leveraging investments from the Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law and other sources.

Going forward, the Administration will work with Congress to secure
additional resources, by requesting $6.1 billion for wildfire risk
reduction in the President’s FY 2023 Budget and continuing to pursue
historic climate resilience investments in additional legislation.

**<u>Strengthening Forests for Thriving Local Economies</u>**

America’s forests provide millions of jobs and underpin local economies,
particularly in rural communities. The Biden-Harris Administration is
mobilizing historic resources to help these forests and communities
thrive. For example, the Administration’s Building a Better America
Rural Infrastructure Tour is
[highlighting](https://www.usda.gov/sites/default/files/documents/usda-rural-fact-sheet.pdf)
wide-ranging support for healthy forest economies, including: planning
assistance to boost outdoor recreation economies; support for Tribes,
local governments, and conservation non-profits to establish community
forests that create jobs; and grants to expand markets for innovative
wood products and wood energy that support sustainable forest
management.

Through the FY 2022 Omnibus, the Administration is also investing $162
million in cooperative forestry programs across State, municipal, and
privately-owned forest landscapes. Additionally, the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law significantly expands reforestation projects on
National Forest land—enough to plant an estimated 1.2 billion trees and
sequester 75 million metric tons of carbon, all while supporting
thousands of jobs.

***The Executive Order will build on these efforts by advancing:***

-   **Economic Opportunities in Outdoor Recreation and Sustainable
    Forest Products:** The Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, and the
    Interior will work with state, local, Tribal, and territorial
    governments, as well as the private sector, nonprofit organizations,
    labor unions, and the scientific community, to advance
    forest-related economic opportunities at the local and regional
    levels. These community-led opportunities will create and sustain
    jobs in outdoor recreation and in sustainable wood, paper, and other
    forest products, while supporting healthy, sustainably managed
    forests in timber communities.  
      
-   **Reforestation Partnerships:** The Administration will develop
    agency-specific 2030 targets for reforestation, including the use of
    partnerships to advance these goals beyond federal lands to enable
    our future forests to be more resilient to climate change and
    wildfire, while also supporting healthy forest economies for years
    to come.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Seed and Nursery Capacity:** USDA and DOI will address a
    longstanding seed shortfall by developing a plan, in partnership
    with states, Tribes, and the private sector, to boost federal cone
    and seed collection and seedling nursery capacity. These actions
    will support tree-planting efforts by a range of public and private
    partners. Expanding seed and nursery capacity is especially
    important for timberlands in the West that have been devastated by
    wildfire and need to be re-planted.

**<u>Combatting Global Deforestation</u>**

President Biden has committed to help deliver on global goals to end
natural forest loss by 2030, while restoring at least an additional 200
million hectares of forests and other ecosystems. At the COP26
international climate conference, President Biden announced the “[Plan
to Conserve Global Forests: Critical Carbon
Sinks](https://www.state.gov/plan-to-conserve-global-forests-critical-carbon-sinks/)”—harnessing
U.S. diplomatic, policy, and financing tools, in partnership with other
countries, Indigenous and local forest communities, the private sector,
and civil society, and with a focus on three critical areas of global
importance: the Amazon, Congo, and Southeast Asian forests. 

***To further advance these efforts and achieve the President’s
international commitments, this Executive Order directs the Department
of State, in coordination with other agencies, to prepare reports to the
President on whole-of-government approaches to stopping global
deforestation and restoring lands, including:***

-   **Combat Commodity-Driven Deforestation:** A major driver of global
    deforestation is forest clearing to produce agricultural commodities
    like beef, soy, and palm oil. To combat those practices, the
    Department of State will lead development of a report on
    whole-of-government approaches to reduce or eliminate U.S. purchases
    of agricultural commodities grown on illegally or recently
    deforested lands, including through public-private partnerships to
    incentivize sustainable sourcing. These efforts will not only
    protect forests and human rights abroad, but also provide a level
    playing field for responsible agricultural producers at home.
-   **Support Sustainable Forest Management Around the World:** The
    Department of State will coordinate with other agencies to assess
    the broader use of foreign assistance, trade tools, finance, and
    international partnerships to combat deforestation and support
    sustainable forest management around the world, with special
    attention to the critical role played by Indigenous peoples and
    local communities and landholders in conserving and restoring
    forests.

**<u>Enlisting Nature in the Fight Against Climate Change</u>**

The Biden-Harris Administration has led the way on enhancing nature’s
ability to support the health, wellbeing, and economic security of all
Americans. President Biden launched the [America the Beautiful
initiative](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-celebrates-expansion-of-locally-led-conservation-efforts-in-first-year-of-america-the-beautiful-initiative/)
to support his goal of conserving at least 30 percent of U.S. lands and
waters by 2030. Interagency Working Groups reporting to the [National
Climate Task Force](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/climate/) are exploring
nature-based solutions to address extreme heat, drought, wildfire,
flood, and coastal threats. The Administration is also recognizing the
value of and elevating [Indigenous Traditional Ecological
Knowledge](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ostp/news-updates/2021/11/15/white-house-commits-to-elevating-indigenous-knowledge-in-federal-policy-decisions/)
across federal scientific and policy processes. The President’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides—as part of over $50 billion in
historic resilience investments—funding for nature-based solutions,
including $2.3 billion for the Forest Service and Interior to advance
ecosystem restoration and resilience.

To facilitate use of these and other resources, today the National
Climate Task Force’s [Coastal Resilience Interagency Working
Group](https://www.noaa.gov/coastal-resilience-interagency-working-group),
co-led by the White House Council on Environmental Quality and the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, is releasing a
**[Compendium of Federal Nature-Based Solutions for Coastal Communities,
States, Tribes, and
Territories](https://www.noaa.gov/sites/default/files/2022-04/Nature-based-Solutions-Compendium.pdf)**—streamlining
access to more than 100 information resources and 48 federal programs
that can support nature-based solutions in coastal areas.  

***To further amplify the power of nature, including its ability to
absorb climate pollution and increase resilience in all communities,
today’s Executive Order calls for the following:  
***

-   **Report on Nature-Based Solutions:** As reaffirmed this year by the
    [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
    Change](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/02/28/statements-from-the-white-house-office-on-science-and-technology-policy-ostp-on-the-intergovernmental-panel-on-climate-changes-working-group-ii-report/),
    nature-based solutions will play a key role in achieving net-zero
    emissions and building resilience to climate impacts. Building on
    ongoing efforts, the White House Council on Environmental Quality,
    Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), and Office of
    Domestic Climate Policy will work with agencies to develop a report
    to the National Climate Task Force on key opportunities for greater
    deployment of nature-based solutions—everything from restoring
    marshes, to planting shade trees, to promoting drought-resistant
    crops.
-   **Guidance on Valuing Nature:** The Office of Management and Budget
    will issue valuation guidance to help agencies better account for
    services provided by ecosystems and the environment (such as
    pollinators supporting our crops, or forests cleaning our air and
    water). In support, OSTP and the Department of Commerce will
    continue leading an interagency initiative to improve and update
    baseline information on the economic value of our existing natural
    assets and new nature-based solutions. 
-   **First U.S. National Nature Assessment:** The United States lacks
    comprehensive knowledge of the state of our nation’s lands, waters,
    and wildlife and the specific benefits that they provide. To create
    this comprehensive picture, the 13-agency U.S. Global Change
    Research Program will develop the first-ever assessment of the
    condition of nature within the United States. The assessment will
    also allow us to look ahead at how nature might change in the future
    and identify opportunities for investments in nature to help achieve
    our climate, health, environmental justice, and economic goals.
