---
date: '2022-04-04'
modified_time: 2022-04-04 12:05:13-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-04 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/04/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-building-better-school-infrastructure/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden-\u2060Harris Action Plan for Building Better School\_\
  Infrastructure"
---
 
*Vice President Harris to Outline Actions for Bolstering Clean School
Infrastructure and Transportation to Support Student Learning and
Health*  
   
*Administration Launches $500 million Grant Program from Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law Program to Save Schools Money with Energy Upgrades*

Today, Vice President Kamala Harris is announcing the **Biden-Harris
Action Plan for Building Better School Infrastructure** to upgrade our
public schools with modern, clean, energy efficient facilities and
transportation—delivering health and learning benefits to children and
school communities, saving school districts money, and creating good
union jobs. The action plan activates the entire federal government in
leveraging investments from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and
American Rescue Plan to advance solutions including energy efficiency
retrofits, electric school buses, and resilient design.  
  
The [science of learning and
development](https://k12.designprinciples.org/) has shown that students
need school environments filled with safety, belonging, and health to
learn and thrive. Yet many schools rely on outdated heating,
ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems that make classrooms
less comfortable and may pose health risks to students and teachers
exposed to contaminants or particles in the air that can trigger
allergies or asthma attacks and potentially spread infectious diseases –
including COVID-19. Dirty diesel buses pose additional health risks for
students on board and the neighborhoods they travel through — and
exhaust from idling buses can pollute the air around schools. [Studies
show](https://www.epa.gov/iaq-schools/reference-guide-indoor-air-quality-schools) that
poor air quality inside classrooms takes a toll on student concentration
and performance, and diesel exhaust exposure is linked to increased
school absences. Reducing this pollution will provide better health and
educational outcomes — particularly in low-income communities and
communities of color that have long faced underinvestment and the burden
of high pollution.  
  
The action plan will save schools and taxpayers money. Public K-12
districts spend roughly $8 billion a year on energy bills — the second
largest expense after teacher salaries. Energy efficiency improvements
to HVAC systems, lighting, insulation, and other energy upgrades can not
only protect the health of our children, but also unlock significant
savings to go toward students and learning. Off-the-shelf improvements
can provide energy savings of 10 to 30 percent and broader upgrades can
unlock even more savings for years to come – all while creating
opportunities for good paying union jobs for electricians, carpenters,
painters, sheet metal workers, plumbers and pipefitters, and more.  
  
The Administration is seizing the opportunity to align classrooms with
the science of learning and development to improve educational equity
and environmental justice. The new actions build on President Biden
signing the American Rescue Plan into law one year ago, which helped
reopen more than 99% of schools with resources to put in place critical
health and safety measures like ventilation improvements to make
in-person learning safe and accessible for students and educators.  
  
The Biden-Harris Action Plan for Building Better School Infrastructure
will:

-   **Invest in More Efficient, Energy-Saving School Buildings: **The
    Department of Energy (DOE) is launching a $500 million grant program
    through President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to make
    public schools more energy efficient. This new program will lower
    energy costs, improve air quality, and prioritize schools most in
    need, enabling schools to focus more resources on student
    learning.  
     
-   **Improve Classroom Air Quality through the American Rescue
    Plan: **The Administration is supporting states, school districts,
    and local communities in leveraging American Rescue Plan Elementary
    and Secondary School Emergency Relief resources to address school
    infrastructure needs—like repairing, upgrading, or replacing of
    ventilation systems; purchasing air filters and portable air
    cleaning devices; and fixing doors and windows so that schools can
    stay open for in-person learning. Additionally, the Department of
    Treasury will soon release additional information to help school
    districts understand how they can use State and Local Fiscal
    Recovery Funds for a range of air quality and other school facility
    improvements, including energy efficiency.  
     
-   **Help Schools Access Resources and Best Practices: **The White
    House is releasing
    a [toolkit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/White-House-School-Infrastructure-Toolkit-04.04.22.pdf) to
    help schools and school districts access available funding, as well
    as technical assistance opportunities and planning tools to help
    schools improve air quality, energy efficiency, and more. This
    new [toolkit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/White-House-School-Infrastructure-Toolkit-04.04.22.pdf) will
    further support school participation in the [Clean Air in Buildings
    Challenge](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/17/fact-sheet-biden-administration-launches-effort-to-improve-ventilation-and-reduce-the-spread-of-covid-19-in-buildings/),
    which the Administration recently launched to reduce the spread of
    COVID-19 and improve indoor air quality in buildings of all kinds,
    including schools. The Department of Energy is also announcing the
    inaugural honorees of the Efficient and Healthy Schools Campaign,
    which provides technical assistance to school districts seeking to
    implement high-impact indoor air quality and efficiency improvements
    that will reduce energy bills and improve student and teacher
    health.    
     
-   **Expand Clean and Safe School Transportation: **The Environmental
    Protection Agency (EPA), with support from the Department of Energy
    (DOE), is releasing [new online
    resources](https://www.epa.gov/cleanschoolbus/prepare-clean-school-bus-funding) to
    help school districts and other eligible recipients prepare for the
    $5 billion Clean School Bus Program created by the Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law—with the first opportunity to fund clean and
    electric buses opening later this spring. The DOE is working closely
    with the EPA to develop targeted technical assistance programs that
    assist school districts in implementing clean and electric buses
    effectively into their fleets–starting with a technical assistance
    video series on electric buses. To support projects that help
    students safely walk and bike to school, the Department of
    Transportation (DOT) has provided state and local governments
    with [new
    guidance](https://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/hsip/legislation_guidance/) to
    access $90 billion in available federal funding, including
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law programs.    
     
-   **Support for Rural, Tribal, and Puerto Rican Schools: **The U.S.
    Department of Agriculture (USDA) is announcing its full commitment
    to use its array of rural development loan and grant programs to
    support electric school bus acquisition, charging station
    infrastructure, energy efficiency investments at schools, and
    broadband and distance learning in rural school districts – to
    accelerate the shift from dirty fuel sources toward school
    facilities and vehicles powered by clean electricity. DOE is
    partnering with the Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Indian
    Education (BIE) to improve the state of our federally-operated
    schools. And the Administration’s [Working Group on Puerto
    Rico](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/20/readout-of-the-first-meeting-of-the-white-house-working-group-on-puerto-rico/) has
    prioritized supporting school reconstruction.

Today’s announcements build on ongoing efforts to support students,
including the [Biden-Harris Lead Pipe and Paint Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/16/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-lead-pipe-and-paint-action-plan/) to
reduce lead exposure in 400,000 schools and child care facilities and
the [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2021/12/02/delivering-on-justice40/),
which agencies are implementing to deliver 40 percent of the benefits of
federal climate and clean energy investments to disadvantaged
communities.

**Investments to Improve School Energy Efficiency and Indoor Air
Quality**

The Administration is advancing a suite of investments to upgrade our
K-12 public school facilities, many of which face maintenance backlogs
and are long overdue for new equipment. While teachers and education
leaders have long raised concerns about the level of comfort and air
quality in our classrooms, the pandemic has laid bare disparities in
access to healthy facilities, including modern, efficient, and clean
HVAC systems. Outdated, inefficient buildings also saddle underserved
school districts with higher energy bills and generate significant
greenhouse gas emissions, keeping them in a cycle of underfunding
operations and overpaying maintenance costs. This Action Plan will help
schools make facility improvements that simultaneously deliver health
protections, savings, and climate benefits.  
  
Today, the Department of Energy (DOE) released a **Request for
Information to launch its new $500 million grant program for energy
improvements at public school facilities, **funded by President Biden’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. The projects funded by these grants will
improve the quality of the air our students and educators breathe while
reducing energy costs and freeing up local funds to invest more in
education. These grants can support comprehensive energy efficiency
audits and building retrofits, HVAC and lighting upgrades, clean energy
installation, and more—along with training to help staff maintain these
improvements over the long-term. DOE will prioritize projects in rural
and high-poverty schools, and support leveraging of additional private,
philanthropic, and public funding to maximize the benefits of these
grants. In step with the Administration’s priority to create good union
jobs accessible to all workers, the DOE will work to promote high
quality labor and equity standards into school improvement grants. The
RFI solicits input from schools and other stakeholders on important
design considerations to ensure the grant program achieves the greatest
reach and impact.  
  
The Administration is also leveraging the American Rescue Plan, which
President Biden signed into law one year ago, to address a range of
health and safety issues in schools. The **American Rescue Plan’s
Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief program has provided
$122 billion** to states and districts to help schools stay open and
address the significant academic and mental health needs of students
resulting from the pandemic. Additionally, the **American Rescue Plan
also includes** **$350 billion in State and Local Fiscal Recovery
Funds** to support a wide range of pandemic response and recovery
efforts, including school improvements to ventilation and building
energy systems that reduce energy costs and support healthy
environments. And, according to [independent
analysis](https://www.future-ed.org/financial-trends-in-local-schools-covid-aid-spending/),
school districts are already planning to spend $15 billion of these
funds to address facilities issues impacting student and staff health
and safety, such as improving indoor air quality. **The Department of
Treasury will soon provide additional clarity** to help recipients of
State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds understand how they can partner
with local education agencies to use more of these funds for building
upgrades and construction, including pre-project development costs, such
as building assessments, energy audits, and feasibility studies. The
Department of Education continues to outline how states and districts
can use its funds for repairs and renovations, including improving
indoor air quality through HVAC upgrades and door and window
replacement, and ensuring clean drinking water in schools.

**New Resources and Recognition to Support Schools**  
To help schools access funding sources and technical assistance
opportunities, **the White House is releasing a **[**toolkit mapping out
available resources across the federal government for school
infrastructure
upgrades**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/White-House-School-Infrastructure-Toolkit-04.04.22.pdf).
By compiling resources and programs from across the federal government,
this toolkit will help state and local officials find the support they
need for building assessments, air quality improvements, energy
efficiency upgrades, lead removal, resilience planning, and more. It
builds on the Administration’s priority on improving indoor air quality
through the [Clean Air in Buildings
Challenge](https://www.epa.gov/indoor-air-quality-iaq/clean-air-buildings-challenge),
to help reduce the spread of COVID-19 in buildings and to deliver better
health outcomes and protection for all building occupants.  
  
To support and uplift schools and districts undertaking this critical
work, **the Administration is announcing the first round of honorees as
part of the **[**Efficient and Healthy Schools
Campaign**](https://www.energy.gov/eere/buildings/efficient-and-healthy-schools)**,** which
provides technical assistance to school districts seeking to implement
high-impact indoor air quality and efficiency improvements that will
reduce energy bills and improve student and teacher health. This
innovative campaign has a goal of reaching 5,000 schools by the end of
2022. To date, 26 school districts across 16 states have joined or are
prepared to join the campaign—representing over 1,500,000 students in
2,600 individual schools—more than half way toward the campaign’s
goal.  
  
Today, the Campaign announced its first round of awards to eight school
districts for their best-in-class efforts across four categories:
Efficient HVAC Technologies, Inspection & maintenance, Ongoing
Monitoring & Analytics, and Team Approach to Support Strategic
Investments. The inaugural honorees include:

-   Adams 12 Five Star Schools, CO 
-   Boulder Valley School District, CO
-   Charleston County School District, SC
-   Columbia Public Schools, MO
-   Davis School District, UT
-   Greenville County Schools, SC
-   Mariposa County Unified School District, CA
-   Newark Board of Education, NJ

DOE is also accelerating a range of grants, technical assistance, and
lending to support schools along each step of the school improvement
process. These efforts include the [Better Buildings Challenge and its
K-12
Sector](https://betterbuildingssolutioncenter.energy.gov/challenge/sector/k-12-school-districts) partnerships;
DOE’s new tool—[eProject
eXpress](https://eprojectbuilder.lbl.gov/about)—that can support state
and local governments and K-12 schools in project management for energy
saving performance contracts, and help leverage financing to maximize
impact; and DOE’s Loan Programs Office [Renewable Energy and Efficient
Energy
Solicitation](https://www.energy.gov/lpo/renewable-energy-efficient-energy-projects-loan-guarantees) that
can be accessed by schools to provide up to $3 billion in loan
guarantees for retrofit projects.  
  
And to ensure that schools are supported in creating healthy, safe,
sustainable, 21<sup>st</sup> century learning environments,** the
Department of Education is proposing a new Office of Infrastructure and
Sustainability**, as part of the President’s FY2023 Budget. This office
would oversee a proposed National Clearinghouse on School Infrastructure
and Sustainability and administer the ongoing U.S. Department of
Education [Green Ribbon Schools recognition
award](https://www2.ed.gov/programs/green-ribbon-schools/index.html).
The proposed National Clearinghouse on School Infrastructure and
Sustainability would provide technical assistance and training to state
and local education agencies on issues related to educational facility
planning, design, financing, construction, improvement, operation, and
maintenance, including green building design and operation practices
consistent with the Administration’s commitment to tackling the climate
crisis. The Clearinghouse would also develop resources and assemble best
practices on issues related to ensuring equitable access to healthy,
educationally adequate and environmentally and fiscally sustainable
public-school facilities and grounds. To set the stage for this new
office, the Department of Education recently named a Special Advisor for
Infrastructure and Sustainability to spearhead agency-wide consideration
of how existing programs might support school sustainability and
infrastructure.  
  
These actions build on the Biden-Harris Administration’s **Clean Air in
Buildings Challenge**, which calls on all building owners and operators,
schools, colleges and universities, and organizations of all kinds to
adopt key strategies to improve indoor air quality in their buildings
and reduce the spread of COVID-19. It serves as a call to action to
assess indoor air quality and make ventilation and air filtration
improvements to help keep occupants safe. The Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) published a best
practices [guide](https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documents/2022-03/508-cleanairbuildings_factsheet_v5_508.pdf) for
improving indoor air quality and reducing the risk of spreading
dangerous airborne particles.  
  
**Clean and Safe School Transportation**  
School buses safely transport more than 25 million children every day
across America. However, diesel exhaust from buses produces particulate
matter and other pollutants that can cause lung damage and aggravate
asthma and other health problems in children. Through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the Environmental Protection Agency and the
Department of Transportation, with support and technical assistance from
the Department of Energy, are making historic investments in cleaner
school buses and safer school transportation routes.

Today, the Environmental Protection Agency is building public awareness
for the new $5 billion [Clean School Bus
Program](https://www.epa.gov/cleanschoolbus/) created by President
Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. Throughout the next month, **EPA
will **[**regularly post new online resources and
webinars**](https://www.epa.gov/cleanschoolbus/prepare-clean-school-bus-funding)** for
the Clean School Bus Program to help school districts **and other
eligible recipients prepare for the first round of applications. These
resources build upon EPA’s public education and outreach effort, to
gather ideas and increase awareness within communities and school
districts, particularly for lower-resourced schools—in support of the
President’s Justice40 commitment.

**The Department of Transportation is helping communities take advantage
of funding to support safer routes to schools made available by the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law**. [The Safe Routes to
School](https://www.transportation.gov/mission/health/Safe-Routes-to-School-Programs) (SRTS)
program at DOT helps communities plan, design, and construct
infrastructure projects that increase healthy transportation choices and
substantially improve the ability of students to walk and bicycle safely
to school—particularly in communities underserved by safe transportation
options. Since 2015, the SRTS program has supported over $1 billion in
safe school route projects benefiting nearly 7 million students across
more than 17,000 schools—a third of which were in disadvantaged
communities and Title I schools.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law expanded the eligibility of the SRTS
program to schools through 12<sup>th</sup> grade and added eligibility
for safe school route projects through the nearly $17 billion-per-year
Highway Safety Improvement Program—including for use in training and
education.

**Support for Rural, Tribal, and Puerto Rican Schools**  
The U.S. Department of Agriculture announced today a new commitment to
support school facility and vehicle electrification, including school
buses. In support of this commitment, [USDA released a new
guidance](https://go.usa.gov/xzzhy) that informs how Rural Development
programs can support rural electric cooperatives to advance
electrification projects for schools and other public facilities and
vehicles.

These funding and assistance programs can support rural utilities like
those in [a newly formed Electric Cooperative School Bus
Initiative ](https://be-league.org/buses), a collaboration of more than
350 local distribution cooperatives across 32 states, providing
educational and administrative support to help rural communities access
funding for electric school buses and school bus infrastructure.

Additionally, DOE is partnering with the Department of the Interior’s
Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) to improve the state of our
federally-operated schools. Aligning with the President’s Justice 40
Initiative, the DOE Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP) is
assisting BIE to initiate a set of pilot assessments in Tribal schools
for energy efficiency and indoor air quality projects.

The Administration’s [Working Group on Puerto
Rico](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/20/readout-of-the-first-meeting-of-the-white-house-working-group-on-puerto-rico/) has
prioritized supporting school reconstruction efforts on the island.
Agencies collaborated [on a
toolkit](https://www.dhs.gov/news/2022/01/21/us-departments-homeland-security-and-education-release-toolkit-federal-resources.) in
both English and Spanish outlining federal resources available to help
Puerto Rico recover and rebuild safe, healthy and modernized school
facilities. Agencies have also provided technical assistance to Puerto
Rican officials on how they can leverage multiple funding streams to
rebuild, repair, and modernize their schools.  
  
**Support for Training and Workforce Development**  
School improvements provide critical training opportunities for building
an effective workforce. Large school projects often last multiple years
and draw upon a large mix of trades. This continuity of training and
employment makes them ideal opportunities for pre-apprenticeship and
apprenticeship programs that lead directly to good-paying careers. And
when done alongside the President’s Justice40 Initiative, these
investments will prioritize under-resourced schools while also investing
in communities that can benefit from long-term training and employment.

**The Department of Labor’s Good Jobs Initiative is supporting federal
agency partners as they embed job quality and equity policies into their
infrastructure investments.**  The Good Jobs Initiative is supporting
federal agency partners as they work to leverage their infrastructure
investments to provide meaningful opportunities for all communities to
enter good paying union careers. 

The wide array of federal offerings can support initiatives such as
the [Carbon Free and Healthy Schools
campaign](https://www.cjnrc.org/carbon-free-and-healthy-schools/)–which
is led by labor unions in collaboration with students, parents, and
climate advocates across the country–to create safe, healthy, and
cost-effective school environments through building retrofits and
solarization, while supporting strong labor standards and robust worker
training opportunities. The campaign is currently working with school
districts representing more than five million students across Texas,
California, [Illinois](https://www.oneillinois.com/stories/2020/12/22/iea-joins-climate-jobs-illinois), [New
York](https://www.carbonfreehealthyschoolsnyc.org/), [Connecticut](https://ctclimateandjobs.org/carbon-free-healthy-schools/), [Rhode
Island](https://climatejobsri.org/green-and-healthy-schools/), Michigan,
Maine, and Wisconsin, with more state campaigns in formation.

\###
