---
date: '2022-04-18'
published_time: 2022-04-18 20:23:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/18/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-advances-national-security-norms-in-space/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Harris Advances National Security Norms in\_Space"
---
 
*New U.S. Commitment on Destructive Direct-Ascent Anti-Satellite Missile
Testing*

Today at Vandenberg Space Force Base in California, Vice President
Kamala Harris announced that the United States commits not to
conduct destructive, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT) missile
testing, and that the United States seeks to establish this as a new
international norm for responsible behavior in space. The Vice President
also called on other nations to make similar commitments and to work
together in establishing this as a norm, making the case that such
efforts benefit all nations. 

At the Biden-Harris Administration’s first National Space
Council [meeting](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/12/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-the-administrations-inaugural-national-space-council-meeting/) in
December, Vice President Harris tasked the National Security
Council staff to work with the Department of Defense, the Department of
State, and other national security agencies to develop proposals for
national security space normsthat advance U.S. interests and preserve
the security and sustainability of space. The commitment announced today
is the first initiative under this effort. The United States is the
first nation to make such a declaration. 

This commitment addresses one of the most pressing threats to the
security and sustainability of space, as demonstrated by
Russia’s [November
2021](https://www.state.gov/russia-conducts-destructive-anti-satellite-missile-test/) destructive direct
­ascent ASAT missile test. The People’s Republic of China conducted a
similar test in 2007. The destruction of space objects through
direct-ascent ASAT missile testing is reckless and irresponsible. The
long-lived debris created by these tests now threaten satellites and
other space objects that are vital to all nations’ security, economic,
and scientific interests, and increases risk to astronauts in space.
Overall, these tests jeopardize the long-term sustainability of outer
space and imperil the exploration and use of space by all nations.

Developing a shared understanding of what constitutes safe and
responsible space activities contributes to a more stable space
environment by reducing the risk of miscommunication and
miscalculation. This is especially important as there is an
ever-increasing number of states and non-governmental entities that rely
on space services and space assets which are vulnerable to debris.

This new commitment also protects U.S. interests in space. Meaningfully
reducing ASAT testing and debris generation advances U.S. national
security interests and protects long-term U.S. interests in space
exploration, space science, and space-enabled economic development. 

Conflict or confrontation in outer space is not inevitable, and the
United States seeks to ensure outer space remains free from conflict.
 The Biden-Harris Administration had made clear that the United States
will engage the international community to uphold and strengthen a
rules-based international order for space. The United States, working
with commercial industry, allies, and partners, will lead in the
development of new measures that contribute to the safety, stability,
security, and long-term sustainability of space activities.
 Overall, through this new commitment and other actions, the United
States will demonstrate how space activities can be conducted in a
responsible, peaceful, and sustainable manner.

\###
