---
date: '2022-04-28'
modified_time: 2022-04-28 07:40:00-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-28 08:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/28/fact-sheet-u-s-agencies-are-advancing-the-human-rights-of-lgbtqi-persons-around-the-world/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: U.S. Agencies Are Advancing the Human Rights of LGBTQI+ Persons\
  \ Around the\_World"
---
 
*We’re… making equality the centerpiece of our diplomacy around the
world.  We believe LGBTQ+ rights are human rights.  In February, I
signed a presidential memorandum establishing that it’s the policy of
the United States to pursue an end to violence and discrimination on the
basis of sexual orientation or gender identity.*

– President Joe Biden

Today, the U.S. Government released a first of its kind progress
[report](https://www.state.gov/lgbtqi-human-rights/) on implementation
of President Biden’s [Memorandum on Advancing the Human Rights of
LGBTQI+ Persons Around the
World](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/04/memorandum-advancing-the-human-rights-of-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-queer-and-intersex-persons-around-the-world/).
 The progress demonstrates the U.S. commitment to promoting and
protecting the human rights of LGBTQI+ people around the world through
our diplomacy and foreign assistance. 

Federal agencies are:     
  
**Combating Criminalization of LGBTQI+ Status or Conduct Abroad**:  The
Department of State and the U.S. Agency for International Development
(USAID), together with U.S. embassies and USAID missions, are taking
innovative and bold steps to leverage diplomatic engagement and foreign
assistance to promote the human rights of LGBTQI+ people, including
through elevating concerns about criminalization of LGBTQI+ status or
conduct with local officials, in collaboration with like-minded
partners.  U.S. embassies and USAID missions also continue to welcome
decisions of governments that decriminalize LGBTQI+ status or conduct. 
As documented in the report, the scope and breadth of U.S.  engagement
in this critical area continues to increase and strengthen.       
  
**Protecting Vulnerable LGBTQI+ Refugees and Asylum Seekers:**  In
December 2021, the Department of State announced a package of new
pledges to support LGBTQI+ refugees, including enhanced training for the
staff of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.  The
Department of State is also working to increase resettlement for LGBTQI+
persons and members of other vulnerable groups through new and expanded
referral programs with NGOs and other organizations to the U.S. Refugee
Admissions Program.  U.S. embassies also continue to support LGBTQI+
refugee needs through highlighting gaps in services and supporting civil
society partners.  In February, the Department of Homeland Security
issued revised guidance to recognize informal same-sex marriages for the
purposes of obtaining refugee or asylee status, even if they are not
officially recognized by officials in countries of origin.  The
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is providing resources for
LGBTQI+ refugees and their allies, including intensive case management
for refugees who are vulnerable to discrimination.  
  
**Ensuring Foreign Assistance Protects Human Rights and Advances
Non-discrimination: ** In FY2021, the Department of State increased its
support to the Global Equality Fund to $10 million annually.  The Fund
now supports programs in over 100 countries in all global regions.  The
Department of Health and Human (HHS) Services also supported new
initiatives to increase access to health services for LGBTQI+ persons,
including a new health and resource center for transgender persons in
India.  USAID released new guidance outlining how to integrate the needs
of LGBTQI+ persons into [food
security](https://www.usaid.gov/sites/default/files/documents/External_Draft_-_Integrating_LGBTQI_Considerations_into_RFSs_Programming_Sectors-508.pdf)
and
[education](https://www.usaid.gov/sites/default/files/documents/_External_Draft_Integrating_LGBTQI_Considerations_In_Education_Programming_210601-508.pdf)-related
development programming.  To advance non-discrimination in foreign
assistance, the Department of Labor added new terms, definitions, and
requirements related to advancing LGBTQI+ human rights in its guidance
for its overseas grant solicitations and contracts, and HHS developed a
similar equity appendix for the annual update to the Notice of Funding
Award Guidance.  The Department of State’s U.S. Fulbright Student and
Teacher Programs also updated its applications to include non-binary
gender options for the first time.  And the Peace Corps undertook steps
to recruit more diverse applicants, including by holding a panel on
“Translating Transgender Identity Abroad” to specifically recruit
transgender applicants.  To coordinate these efforts and facilitate
resource and experience sharing, USAID convenes a thirteen-agency
working group to discuss policy, programming, and inclusive data
priorities.  
  
**Taking Swift and Meaningful Responses to Human Rights Abuses of
LGBTQI+ Persons Abroad:**  The Department of State’s Global Equality
Fund provides emergency funding to LGBTQI+ activists through the Dignity
for All program to respond to active human rights violations and crises
globally.  USAID programs build in flexibility and support for rapid
response programming in the countries where they operate.  And across
the globe, U.S. diplomats and U.S. development professionals are at the
forefront of highlighting LGBTQI+ human rights attacks and abuses.  For
example, in Poland, U.S. Embassy Warsaw supported “Words Matter,” a
[video](https://pl.usembassy.gov/wordsmatter_eng/) featuring members of
the Polish LGBTQI+ community reading and reacting to homophobic comments
posted in response to the Embassy’s social media campaign for Pride
Month.  The “Words Matter” video reached over 12 million Poles and was
widely covered by both Polish and international media.  In Guatemala,
following murders of Guatemalan leaders in the transgender community in
June 2021, U.S. Embassy Guatemala City issued a
[statement](https://twitter.com/usembassyguate/status/1403573244112867331?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1403573244112867331%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.washingtonblade.com%2F2021%2F06%2F17%2Fus-condemns-murder-of-prominent-transgender-activist-in-guatemala%2F)
condemning the murders and urging full investigations.   
  
**Building International Coalitions:**  At the UN General Assembly’s
Third Committee in November, the U.S.-led resolution on democracy and
elections included for the first time a call for states to eliminate
discrimination in the right to participate in public affairs based on
“sexual orientation and gender identity.”  The U.S. Mission to the
United Nations led the lobbying campaign to include this important new
language.  The U.S. also advanced LGBTQI+ human rights together with
like-minded partners in the Organizing for Security and Cooperation in
Europe and the Organization of American States, and in the Equal Rights
Coalition, which recently released statements with U.S. support focused
on [protection of LGBTQI+ persons in
Ukraine](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/aggression-against-ukraine-and-the-protection-of-lgbti-persons-and-refugees-equal-rights-coalition-statement),
and on [democracy and LGBTQI+ human
rights](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/nexus-between-democracy-and-the-human-rights-of-lgbti-people-equal-rights-coalition-statement-december-2021).   
  
**Rescinding Inconsistent Polices:**  This Administration continues to
update polices that are inconsistent with the President’s Memorandum on
Advancing the Human Rights of LGBTQI+ Persons Around the World.  USAID,
for example, reinstated a reporting mechanism to track overall foreign
assistance which advances LGBTQI+ human rights and inclusive
development.  In collaboration with HHS, the Department of State
withdrew from the “Geneva Consensus Declaration,” and requested its
removal from the UN document system in February 2021.  The Geneva
Consensus Declaration opposes abortion and related reproductive health
and rights and is widely viewed as undermining LGBTQI+ human rights.   
  
**Advancing Inclusive Democracy**:  During the Summit for Democracy, the
U.S.  supported a
[statement](https://equalrightscoalition.org/publications/erc-statement-on-the-nexus-between-democracy-and-the-human-rights-of-lgbti-persons/)
from the Equal Rights Coalition on Democracy and LGBTQI+ rights which
affirms that promoting and protecting the human rights of LGBTQI+
persons is essential for democratic renewal.  As part of the
Presidential Initiative for Democratic Renewal, the State Department
also committed up to $5 million to launch the [Global LGBTQI+ Inclusive
Democracy and Empowerment (GLIDE)
Fund](https://www.state.gov/statements-of-interest-requests-for-proposals-and-notices-of-funding-opportunity/drl-fy2021-global-lgbtqi-inclusive-democracy-and-empowerment-glide-fund/),
a new program under the Global Equality Fund that will facilitate the
participation and leadership of LGBTQI+ community members in democratic
institutions.  Also, during the Summit for Democracy, USAID committed to
launch a new Global Development Alliance to support LGBTQI-led civil
society organizations to respond to the COVID-19 crisis, engage in
democratic processes, and build networks of allies.  USAID intends to
commit $5M USD over five-years to this program involving substantial
capacity building opportunities and direct grantmaking to LGBTQI+ and
transgender-led organizations around the world.  
  
**Reducing Bias-Motivated Violence:  **Agencies continue to take steps
to reduce bias motivated violence and hate crime targeting LGBTQI+
persons.  For example, the Department of Justice, in coordination with
the Department of State, has Resident Legal Advisor (RLA) programs in
Albania, Croatia, Kosovo, and North Macedonia which advance LGBTQI+
human rights and assist foreign counterparts with managing cases,
including of including LGBTQI+ individuals.  Additionally, the RLA
program in the Baltics assists investigators, prosecutors, and judges
with investigating, prosecuting, and adjudicating hate crimes, including
crimes motivated by a victim’s gender identity or sexual orientation.
 To strengthen knowledge on patterns of violence, discrimination, and
appropriate responses, in September 2021, the Department of State
launched a new partnership with the Library of Congress to evaluate
existing academic research for linkages between bias, discrimination,
and violence, including against LGBTQI+ persons.  The goal is to better
understand which criminal justice interventions can prevent escalations
in violence.  An inter-agency review committee will review the research
findings and provide recommendations for future actions.

\###
