---
date: '2022-04-01'
modified_time: 2022-04-01 14:43:45-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-01 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/01/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-9/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Robert Godec, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Thailand
-   Vinay Singh, Nominee for Chief Financial Officer, Department of
    Housing and Urban Development
-   Kalpana Kotagal, Nominee for Commissioner on the Equal Employment
    Opportunity Commission

**<u>Robert Godec, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Thailand</u>**

Robert F. Godec, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Career Minister, currently serves as Senior Coordinator for
Afghanistan in the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration at the
U.S. Department of State. Prior to that, he was Acting Assistant
Secretary of State for the Bureau of African Affairs. He previously
served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary and as Deputy Assistant
Secretary in the Bureau of African Affairs. Earlier, Godec was Deputy
Commandant and International Affairs Advisor at the National War
College. He was U.S. Ambassador to Kenya from 2013 to 2019. Godec was
also Chargé d’Affaires a.i. at U.S. Embassy Nairobi, Kenya in 2012.
Before his assignment in Nairobi, Godec was the Principal Deputy
Coordinator for Counterterrorism in the Bureau of Counterterrorism in
the Department of State. Previously, he served as U.S. Ambassador to
Tunisia. Godec has also served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in
the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs and was Deputy Coordinator for the
Transition in Iraq. He served as Acting Deputy Chief of Mission and
Minister Counselor for Economic Affairs at U.S. Embassy Pretoria, South
Africa. His other positions include Economic Counselor at U.S. Embassy
Nairobi, Kenya; Assistant Office Director for Thailand and Burma in the
Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs; and Director for Southeast
Asian Affairs at the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative.

A member of the Foreign Service since 1985, Godec has a Master’s degree
from Yale University, as well as a Bachelor’s degree from the University
of Virginia. He is the recipient of two Presidential Meritorious Service
Awards, numerous Senior Performance Awards, and a Distinguished Honor
Award. He speaks French and German.

**<u>Vinay Singh, Nominee for Chief Financial Officer, Department of
Housing and Urban Development</u>**

Vinay Singh, a Certified Public Accountant, is currently a Senior
Advisor to the Administrator at the U.S. Small Business Administration
(SBA), assisting agency teams to deliver organizational efficiencies to
better serve our communities’ small businesses. Singh has 25 years of
private sector leadership experience with a deep understanding of
finance, analytics, and strategy.

Prior to his role at SBA, Singh was a Partner and Chief Operating
Officer for the Infrastructure practice at KPMG in India. As a senior
member of the executive team, he led several organizational
transformation projects, leveraging technology to improve profitability
and decision-making. As Lead Partner for the World Bank Group account,
he supported global sustainability projects focused on solving urban and
rural challenges in housing, water, energy, and economic development.
Previously, Singh served in the Obama-Biden Administration as a Deputy
Assistant Secretary (U.S. Field). He played a key role in leading trade
and investment policy and promotion efforts to better market conditions
for U.S. companies. In his early years as a Certified Information
Systems Auditor (CISA) and Project Management Professional (PMP), Singh
helped several companies improve operational and financial performance.
He holds an MBA from Widener University.

**<u>Kalpana Kotagal, Nominee for Commissioner on the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission</u>**

Kalpana Kotagal is a Partner at Cohen Milstein, a member of the firm’s
Civil Rights & Employment practice group, and Co-Chair of the firm’s
Hiring and Diversity Committee. She is co-author of the seminal legal
template the “Inclusion Rider.” Kotagal is a diversity, equity, and
inclusion expert, and represents disenfranchised people in employment
and civil rights litigation involving issues related to Title VII, the
Equal Pay Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family and
Medical Leave Act, and the Fair Labor Standards Act.

Kotagal was a Harvard Law School Wasserstein Public Interest Fellow and
was named an “Employment Law MVP” by *Law360* in 2018, recognizing the
top five most influential employment lawyers in the United States.
Kotagal sits on the Boards of Directors of A Better Balance and Public
Justice Foundation. She is co-chair of the Alumni Advisory Board on
Equity & Inclusion at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, a
member of the American Constitution Society Task Force on \#MeToo in the
Legal Profession, and serves on the Advisory Board of the People’s
Parity Project. The daughter of immigrants from India, Kotagal earned
her B.S. and an A.B., with honors, from Stanford University and her
J.D., *cum laude*, from the University of Pennsylvania Law School. Prior
to joining Cohen Milstein, Kotagal served as a law clerk to the
Honorable Betty Binns Fletcher of the United States Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit. She resides in Cincinnati, Ohio with her husband and
two sons.

\###
