---
date: '2022-04-07'
modified_time: 2022-04-07 13:32:04-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-07 13:32:03-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/07/statement-from-president-joe-biden-for-world-health-day-2022/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden for World Health Day\_2022"
---
 
For too many families, in too many places, worrying about health
problems and access to health care is a daily reality.  So today, on
World Health Day, let us reaffirm our commitment to building a future
that is safer, more equitable, and healthier, for families here and
abroad.

Since day one of my Administration, we have renewed U.S. leadership in
global health, starting here at home. As we vaccinated 255 million
Americans and fought COVID-19, we also lowered health care costs and
enrolled a record breaking 14.5 million people; expanded postpartum
coverage in several states; released a new Overdose Prevention Strategy;
and launched a national strategy to treat mental health and physical
health concerns equally. 

On the global stage, we have led an ambitious campaign with our allies
and partners to fight COVID-19, strengthen global health systems, and
finance future pandemic preparedness. We have already shipped more than
516 million COVID-19 vaccines to countries around the world, with no
strings attached, and we have pledged another 700 million by the end of
this year. But we have to keep up the fight. More work lies ahead, and
Congress must continue funding our fight against COVID-19, at
home *and* abroad.  

While we focus on COVID-19, we have also reinvigorated our efforts and
our investments to address core global health challenges. We’re doubling
down on our commitment to meet our 2030 goals to end the AIDS epidemic.
We’re boosting efforts to fight tuberculosis and malaria, including
through our $2 billion commitment to the Global Fund and by rallying
contributions from around the world. We’re working to reverse the
alarming downward trend in global life expectancy and the impacts of the
climate crisis by making foundational investments in childhood
vaccinations, maternal and reproductive health, and basic nutrition. And
it’s why the United States joined the Universal Health Coverage Group of
Friends – a coalition of countries dedicated to strengthening health
systems and expanding access to health coverage around the world.  

This pandemic has spotlighted the critical role and bravery of health
and care workers. That’s why I’ve asked my Administration to develop a
global health workforce plan, to accelerate our contributions to the
Sustainable Development Agenda and investments in health and care
workers.

Our health and security at home are irrevocably connected to the health
and security of people everywhere. On this World Health Day, let us
recommit to making sure that all people can access the health care they
need. 
