---
date: '2022-04-11'
modified_time: 2022-04-10 21:48:34-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-11 06:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/11/fact-sheet-the-biden-administration-announces-new-actions-to-lessen-the-burden-of-medical-debt-and-increase-consumer-protection/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden Administration Announces New Actions to Lessen the Burden\
  \ of Medical Debt and Increase Consumer\_Protection"
---
 
*Vice President Kamala Harris to announce reforms across four areas to
ease the burden of medical debt,* *giving more American families the
opportunity to thrive*

Today, as part of the fight to help Americans deal with high costs, the
Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new actions to protect
consumers and lessen the burden of medical debt on American families.
Together, these actions will help:

-   Hold medical providers and debt collectors accountable for harmful
    practices;
-   Reduce the role that medical debt plays in determining whether
    Americans can access credit – which will open up new opportunities
    for people with medical debt to buy a home or get a small business
    loan;
-   Help over half a million of low-income American veterans get their
    medical debt forgiven; and,
-   Inform consumers of their rights.

One-in-three adults in the United States have medical debt. It is now
the largest source of debt in collections—more than credit cards,
utilities, and auto loans combined. [Black and Hispanic
households](https://www.census.gov/library/stories/2021/04/who-had-medical-debt-in-united-states.html) are
more likely to hold medical debt than white households.

Medical debt is not just a financial issue—it can have negative health
effects too.
One [study](https://nmahoney.people.stanford.edu/sites/g/files/sbiybj23976/files/media/file/kaiser_20210831.pdf) found
that almost half of individuals with medical debt intentionally avoided
seeking care. 

Getting sick or taking care of loved ones should not mean financial
hardship for American families. That is why the Administration is taking
new action to ease the burden of medical debt and protect consumers from
predatory collection policies. These actions build upon the President’s
April 5<sup>th</sup> [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/05/executive-order-on-continuing-to-strengthen-americans-access-to-affordable-quality-health-coverage/?msclkid=887ba3d9b67111ec81e80c7ddd11167b) on
strengthening access to affordable, quality health care coverage, which
directed federal agencies to take action to reduce the burden of medical
debt. 

Today, Vice President Harris is announcing reforms in four areas that
will lessen the burden of medical debt, protect consumers, and open up
new opportunities for Americans looking to buy a home or start a small
business. 

**Holding Providers and Collectors Accountable **

When families cannot afford to pay the cost of care—often because they
are uninsured or underinsured—[providers have a
responsibility](https://finhealthnetwork.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/Medical-Debt-and-Financial-Health-Executive-Summary.pdf) to
offer non-predatory payment plans or financial assistance to all
eligible patients. While many do, far too many eligible patients report
not receiving help. Worse, lawsuits against patients over medical
bills [are on the
rise](https://news.yale.edu/2021/12/06/study-finds-spike-hospitals-suing-patients-over-unpaid-medical-bills?msclkid=a446f5ebb6cc11ecbc00812a3db42912).
And when hospitals sell outstanding bills to third party debt
collectors, patients can be subjected to persistent and aggressive
collections practices. 

The federal government pays roughly $1.5 trillion a year into the health
care system to provide patients with quality care and services.
Providers receiving that funding should make it easy for eligible
patients to receive the financial assistance they are entitled to, and
should not directly or indirectly subject patients to illegal and
harassing debt collection practices. 

Today, Secretary Becerra is directing the Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS) to evaluate how providers’ billing practices impact
access and affordability of care and the accrual of medical debt. HHS
will request data from more than 2,000 providers on medical bill
collection practices, lawsuits against patients, financial assistance,
financial product offerings, and 3<sup>rd</sup> party contracting or
debt buying practices. The Department will, for the first time, weigh
this information in their grantmaking decisions, publish topline data
and policy recommendations for the public, and share potential
violations with the relevant enforcement agencies of jurisdiction.

Separately, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) will
investigate credit reporting companies and debt collectors that violate
patients’ and families’ rights, and hold violators accountable. The CFPB
has already issued
a [bulletin](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.consumerfinance.gov%2Fabout-us%2Fnewsroom%2Fcfpb-issues-bulletin-to-prevent-unlawful-medical-debt-collection-and-credit-reporting%2F&data=04%7C01%7CDiane.Thompson%40cfpb.gov%7C1fafc34fb3d945dfc6ef08da17e3e25d%7Cc817bf69ef414ed6ac5f1f44da3798c0%7C0%7C0%7C637848564786280189%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=piCtFykML5hUkeNWUupGnfZeQ9utyxObMhdlYbdiVDo%3D&reserved=0) to
prevent unlawful medical debt collection and reporting. The CFPB will
target coercive credit reporting and determine whether unpaid medical
billing data should ever be included in credit reports. 

**Improve Government Underwriting Practices**

The [latest
research](https://www.aei.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/Batty-Gibbs-Ippolito-health-insurance-medical-debt-financial-well-being-WP.pdf?x91208) finds
that owing medical debt is not a reliable predictor of overall financial
health.
An [analysis](https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201405_cfpb_report_data-point_medical-debt-credit-scores.pdf) of
5 million anonymized credit records found that consumers who owed
medical debt paid their bills at the same rate as those who did not. In
fact, including paid-off medical debt causes credit scores
to [underestimate](https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201405_cfpb_report_data-point_medical-debt-credit-scores.pdf) creditworthiness
by as much as 22 points. As a result, the inclusion of medical debt on
credit reports and in credit scores and loan underwriting can hold
American’s back from financial opportunities while failing to improve
the accuracy and predictiveness of lending programs.

The private sector has taken important steps to address this problem.
Last month, the three largest credit reporting agencies—Equifax,
Experian, and Transunion—announced that they will no longer include
certain forms of medical debt on credit reports, removing billions of
dollars in debt from consumer reports. This change covers borrowers with
already paid debts, unpaid debts less than a year old, and debts paid or
unpaid under $500.

However, this change leaves out a third of Americans with medical debt
over $500. For example, 11 million Americans have medical debt above
$2000 and 3 million Americans have debt over $10,000. Further action is
needed to help families struggling with medical debt. 

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to leading the way. The
federal government is one of the largest actors in consumer credit
markets, directly providing tens of billions of loans annually to
millions of Americans, and guaranteeing or holding up to 70% of all
mortgages. Government action matters. Americans with medical debt can
apply for an FHA-backed mortgage without fear that medical debt will
keep them from being able to buy a home. FHA – which [backs over 12 % of
new home
purchases](https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/Housing/images/FHASFMarketShare2021Q4.pdf) in
America — has eliminated medical debt from consideration when evaluating
a borrower’s creditworthiness.  

That is why, today, the Administration is announcing actions that go
beyond recent private sector announcements.

*<u>The Biden-Harris Administration is providing guidance to all
agencies to eliminate medical debt as a factor for underwriting in
credit programs</u>*, whenever possible and consistent with law. Medical
debt is not a reliable indicator of credit quality, and its impact
should be reduced or eliminated to give more American families the
opportunity to thrive:  

-   Americans with medical debt can apply for USDA rural housing service
    loans without fear that their medical debt could keep them from
    getting a mortgage. Today, USDA is announcing that it will
    discontinue the inclusion of any recurring medical debts into
    borrower repayment calculations, which measure a borrower’s ability
    to repay for its homeownership programs—[over $20
    billion](https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R47044) in
    lending activity.   
     
-   The Department of Veteran Affairs has taken multiple steps to ensure
    credit reporting and underwriting regarding medical debt, including
    finalizing a rule to virtually cease reporting of medical debt for
    veterans with bills from VA Care. VA will also review its
    underwriting guidelines to ensure we minimize or eliminate medical
    debt reporting as a proxy for creditworthiness, wherever possible.

<!-- -->

-   The Small Business Administration has a demonstrated commitment to
    ensuring credit access and a vested interest in accurate credit
    reporting and underwriting.  To further this commitment, SBA will
    work with its colleagues and partners to lessen the financial burden
    of medical debt for families and to review SBA lending programs to
    identify ways to reduce the negative impact of medical debt on small
    business access to capital.

<!-- -->

-   FHFA is reviewing the credit models that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
    use and looking at ways to ensure that measures of creditworthiness
    are accurate, reliable, and predictive.

To reinforce these measures, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
will be issuing new guidance to agencies to, whenever possible and
consistent with law, eliminate medical debt as a factor for underwriting
in credit programs, or reduce its impact. 

**Support Veterans in Financial Hardship**

Since the start of the pandemic, VA has **cancelled or refunded
approximately $1 billion in copayments to over 1.5 million
veterans.** The American Rescue Plan (ARP) eliminated all out-of-pocket
medical cost for veterans enrolled in VA health care and provided much
needed financial relief to veterans experiencing economic hardship
during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Veterans Affairs (VA) will now make it easier and faster for
lower-income veterans to get their VA medical debt forgiven. Currently,
veterans in financial hardship who need medical debt relief from VA must
fill out a complex, paper form with complicated eligibility
requirements. The application process is confusing, time-consuming, and
as a result, veterans may be deterred from applying for much-needed
relief. To address these problems and ensure that veterans get the
relief they deserve, VA will streamline the request process, including
offering an online option to apply, and set a simple income threshold to
qualify for relief.

[VA has also published a final
rule](https://www.va.gov/opa/pressrel/pressrelease.cfm?id=5758) under
which it will virtually cease reporting unfavorable debt, including
medical debt, to consumer reporting agencies. The new rule ensures that
debt reported better reflects creditworthiness, while saving veterans
from further financial struggles simply because they had to take on
medical debt. 

**Help Consumers Know Their Rights**

The CFPB will ramp-up its consumer education tools aimed at helping
American families navigate the complex and often confusing medical
billing landscape, including more materials specifically designed to
help patients access the financial assistance they are entitled to. 

The CFPB has a wide range of tools available to help patients and their
families confronting medical billing and collections, particularly
problems relating to debt collection and credit reporting,
at [consumerfinance.gov](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/).
People experiencing aggressive debt collection, coercive credit
reporting, or other problems with a consumer financial product or
service related to medical billing and collections can submit a
complaint to the CFPB
at [consumerfinance.gov/complaint.](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/complaint/)

\###
