---
date: '2022-04-06'
modified_time: 2022-04-06 18:13:09-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-06 18:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/06/readout-of-congressional-briefing-on-national-security-impact-of-semiconductor-supply-chain-and-importance-of-passing-bipartisan-innovation-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Congressional Briefing on National Security Impact of Semiconductor\
  \ Supply Chain and Importance of Passing Bipartisan Innovation\_Act"
---
 
This afternoon, senior Administration officials including Commerce
Secretary Raimondo, Deputy Defense Secretary Hicks, National Security
Advisor Sullivan, and National Science Foundation Director Panchanathan
held a briefing with a bipartisan and bicameral group of Members of
Congress to discuss the urgent need to invest in made-in-America
semiconductors as well as research and development that will protect our
economic and national security.

During the briefing, the Administration officials underscored how
decades of disinvestment in domestic semiconductor manufacturing
capacity have left America producing only 12% of global semiconductor
output and vulnerable to the sort of supply chain disruptions we’ve seen
in recent years, like the pandemic and Russia’s war of aggression
against Ukraine. A significant interruption to our supply of
semiconductors could cause historic damage to the U.S. economy – damage
far greater than the impact of chips shortages on the American auto
industry right now – and would undercut our technological
competitiveness and military advantages over adversaries globally.

The House and Senate have each passed bills to make historic investments
in research, domestic manufacturing and America’s capacity to make
semiconductors – including with $52 billion in new funding authorized in
the CHIPS Act. This support would help spur further private sector
investments in America’s semiconductor industry after nearly $80 billion
in new investments in President Biden’s first year in office, including
Intel’s $20 billion fabrication facility in Ohio. 

These investments in semiconductors are crucial and must be complemented
by investment in other advanced technologies as well, including the
research and development leading to the next generation of these
technologies, and related workforce development. These investments are
critical to making our economy stronger and more resilient, and to
protect our national security. That’s why the Administration officials
urged Congress to move quickly to get legislation to the President’s
desk for his signature, including through action to formally go to
conference and name conferees this week.

\###
