---
date: '2022-04-22'
modified_time: 2022-04-22 11:48:47-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-22 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/22/president-biden-announces-appointments-to-air-force-and-military-academy-boards/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Appointments to Air Force and Military Academy\_\
  Boards"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announces his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Jenna Ben-Yehuda, Member, Board of Visitors to the U.S. Air Force
    Academy
-   Secretary Eric Kenneth Fanning, Member, Board of Visitors to the
    U.S. Air Force Academy
-   Major General James C. Johnson, USAF (Ret.), Member, Board of
    Visitors to the U.S. Air Force Academy
-   Dr. Laura Junor-Pulzone, Member, Board of Visitors to the U.S. Air
    Force Academy
-   Dr. Hila Levy, Member, Board of Visitors to the U.S. Air Force
    Academy
-   Lieutenant Colonel Wesley Spurlock, USAF, Member, Board of Visitors
    to the U.S. Air Force Academy
-   Lieutenant Colonel Roderick “Rico” Alvendia, USA (Ret.), Member,
    Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy
-   Susan Christine Irons, Member, Board of Visitors to the U.S.
    Military Academy
-   Dr. Leslie T. Fenwick, Member, Board of Visitors to the U.S.
    Military Academy
-   Secretary Charles Timothy Hagel, Member, Board of Visitors to the
    U.S. Military Academy
-   Juan A. Sabater, Member, Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military
    Academy
-   Lieutenant General Nadja Yudith West, USA (Ret.), Member, Board of
    Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy

**<u>The Board of Visitors to the U.S. Air Force Academy</u>**

The Board of Visitors to the U.S. Air Force Academy advises the
Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Defense, through the
Secretary of the Air Force, and to the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of
Representatives independent advice and recommendations on the morale,
discipline, and social climate, the curriculum, instruction, physical
equipment, fiscal affairs, academic methods, and other matters relating
to the Academy that the Board decides to consider. The Board consists of
six members appointed by the President for terms of 3 years.

**Jenna Hoffman Ben-Yehuda as Member**

Jenna Hoffman Ben-Yehuda is the President and CEO of the Truman Center
for National Policy and Truman National Security Project. A longtime
advocate for gender equity in national security, she is the founder of
the Women’s Foreign Policy Network, a global community of women in
foreign affairs in over 100 countries. She earned multiple Superior and
Meritorious Honor Awards during her twelve years at the US Department of
State where she served in a range of intelligence and policy roles in
the Western Hemisphere, including serving as Senior Military Advisor to
US Northern Command, US Southern Command, and US Special Operations
Command. A life member of the Council on Foreign Relations and member of
the World Economic Forum’s Global Future’s Council on US National
Security, she holds graduate degrees from the National Intelligence
University, and National Defense University and undergraduate degrees
from The George Washington University, where she later taught security
studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs. She serves on
the advisory boards of the Leadership Council for Women in National
Security, the Partnership for Public Service, and GLOBSEC.

**Secretary Eric Kenneth Fanning as Member**

Eric Fanning is President and Chief Executive Officer of the Aerospace
Industries Association (AIA), the leading advocacy organization for the
aerospace and defense industry with nearly 350 companies in its
membership. Fanning joined AIA after serving as the 22nd Secretary of
the Army where he provided leadership and oversight of our nation’s
largest military service. He previously served as Chief of Staff to the
Secretary of Defense, Acting Secretary of the Air Force and Under
Secretary of the Air Force, and Deputy Under Secretary of the
Navy/Deputy Chief Management Officer. He is the only person to have held
senior appointments in all three military departments and the Office of
the Secretary of Defense. During his more than 25 years of distinguished
government service, Fanning worked on the staff of the House Armed
Services Committee, was Senior Vice President of Strategic Development
for Business Executives for National Security, was Deputy Director of
the Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction
Proliferation and Terrorism, and was associate director of political
affairs at the White House. He holds a bachelor’s degree in history from
Dartmouth College.

**Major General James C. Johnson as Member**

James C. Johnson is a senior executive with extensive leadership
experience across operations, logistics, talent management, and human
resilience. Following 30 years in the United States Air Force, James
joined several nonprofit organizations, including Mission Readiness, the
U.S. Global Leadership Coalition and he’s on the Board of Directors for
The Flag and General Officer Network. Most recently, he served in the
Department of Defense as a Highly Qualified Expert on the Independent
Review Commission on Sexual Assault in the Military. As the Chief
Executive Officer for Operation Gratitude, James leads a team of
professionals and grass-roots volunteers and supporters, with the
mission to honor the service of our military and first responders. James
holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science from the University
of Puget Sound, a Master of Business Administration degree from Saint
Martin’s College, a Master of Arts degree in National Security and
Strategic Studies from the U.S. Naval War College, and a Master of
Science degree in National Resource Strategy from the Industrial College
of the Armed Forces.

**Dr. Laura Junor Pulzone as Member**

Laura Junor Pulzone currently serves as the Director of the Institute
for National Strategic Studies, Research at the National Defense
University. As Director of INSS, she oversees three research centers and
a publishing unit that provide direct analytic support to the Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
Prior to her arrival at NDU, Dr. Pulzone was confirmed as the Deputy
Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. As the Deputy,
her responsibilities included all military and civilian personnel
policies, the military healthcare system including TRICARE, family
support services, the Defense Commissary Agency, the Department of
Defense Education Activity, and department policy relating to suicide
prevention and sexual assault. Dr. Pulzone previously served as the
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness, the Chief of Staff
for Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, and as a deputy team leader
for readiness at the Center for Naval Analyses (CNA).

**Dr. Hila Levy as Member**

Hila Levy is a White House Fellow in the Office of Science and
Technology Policy, and in parallel military and civilian careers, has
worked in national security, international relations, science, and
environmental management on every continent.  As a Major serving in the
US Air Force Reserve, Levy is an intelligence and foreign area officer,
and has led teams at tactical, operational, and joint headquarters-level
assignments in the Republic of Korea, Japan, the United Kingdom, Air
Force Special Operations Command, and most recently, on the Joint Staff.
She is a published scientific researcher, undergraduate educator,
translator in six languages, and STEM advocate. In 2020, she advised the
federal COVID-19 Joint Acquisition Task Force on viral diagnostics
procurement to safeguard public health. Levy received a B.S. as the top
graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy and holds an M.Phil. from the
School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, M.S. from Johns Hopkins
University, and M.St., M.Sc. with Distinction, and D.Phil. from the
University of Oxford, where she was the first Rhodes Scholar from Puerto
Rico.

**Lieutenant Colonel** **Wesley Spurlock as Member**

Wesley Spurlock is an active duty Lieutenant Colonel in the United
States Air Force currently assigned to the Department of the Air Force’s
innovation arm, AFWERX, in Washington, DC. Prior to his current role,
Wes served as a White House Fellow at the International Development
Finance Corporation and the Domestic Policy Council. From 2015-2017, he
served as the Military Aide to the President of the United States &
responsible for the Presidential Emergency Satchel (football). Wes also
served as the first commander for the KC-46 Pegasus, and was charged
with operationalizing the Air Force’s newest aircraft. He has more than
3,000 flying hours in various Air Force Aircraft and has served multiple
overseas deployments, in support of Operations Enduring Freedom, Iraqi
Freedom & Unified Protector. Wes received a BS in Civil Engineering from
the US Air Force Academy, an MBA from Mississippi State University and a
MPA from Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. He lives in Northern
Virginia with his wife Jessica and their daughters Madison & Quinn.

**<u>The Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy</u>**

The Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy provides independent
advice and recommendations to the President of the United States on
matters related to morale, discipline, curriculum, instruction, physical
equipment, fiscal affairs, academic methods, and any other matters
relating to the Academy that the Board decides to consider. The Board
consists of six members appointed by the President for terms of 3 years.

**Lieutenant Colonel Roderick Alvendia as Member**

Roderick “Rico” Alvendia was born and raised in New Orleans, but he
attended Jesuit High School in the Philippines when his Father served as
a diplomat. He is a 1994 honor graduate of Loyola University in
Political Science and a 1998 graduate of Loyola Law School in New
Orleans, where in 2008 he was named the Moot Court Distinguished Alumni
of the Year. He is the founding partner of the Alvendia, Kelly &
Demarest Law Firm in New Orleans. Lieutenant Colonel Alvendia served
honorably for 25 years as an Officer in the U.S. Army JAG Corps and
deployed to Baghdad, Iraq in 2004 with the 256th Infantry Brigade. In
Baghdad, he led a team of international lawyers who successfully
prosecuted enemy combatants who conducted fatal attacks on U.S. soldiers
and civilians. Alvendia was awarded the Bronze Star Medal for his
service during Combat Operations. Ten years ago, Lieutenant Colonel
Alvendia co-founded the Legion of Mars, a Non-profit Veterans
Organization, which has assisted thousands of deployed military members
and their families throughout Louisiana. He is the proud Father of Noah
Alvendia, who is attending the Isidore Newman School in New Orleans.

**Secretary Charles Timothy Hagel as Member**

Charles “Chuck” Hagel served as the 24th Secretary of Defense from 2013
to 2015. He is the only Vietnam Army veteran and enlisted combat veteran
to serve as Secretary of Defense.  He represented the state of Nebraska
in the U.S. Senate for two terms from 1997 to 2009. Previously,
Secretary Hagel was Co-Chairman of the President’s Intelligence Advisory
Board, Deputy Administrator of the Veterans Administration, a
Distinguished Professor at Georgetown University, Chairman of the
Atlantic Council, Chairman of the United States of America Vietnam War
Commemoration Advisory Committee, Co-Chairman of the Vietnam Veterans
Memorial Fund Corporate Council, President and CEO of the USO, The
Private Sector Council, and co-founder of Vanguard Cellular Systems,
Inc.  He is a graduate of the University of Nebraska at Omaha.

**Susan Irons as Member**

Susan Irons graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1989
and was commissioned in the Army as a Signal Corps officer. Shortly
after commissioning, she deployed to Saudi Arabia and Iraq in support of
Desert Shield/Desert Storm. Susan has continued her service to others
and works as a County Veterans Service Officer in South Dakota and as a
board member on the South Dakota Board of Military Affairs.
Additionally, she has served as an advisor for the West Point
Association of Graduates Advisory Council for four years. Three of
Susan’s five children are carrying on the Army tradition with a daughter
graduating from West Point in 2020 and two that are also currently
serving on active duty as enlisted soldiers.

**Dr. Leslie T. Fenwick as Member**

Leslie T. Fenwick, PhD, is noted for her expertise in leadership and
ethics; public policy; and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) in the
workforce. She is Dean Emerita of the Howard University School of
Education and a tenured professor of leadership studies and education
policy. A nationally-recognized scholar, Dr. Fenwick is a former Harvard
University Visiting Fellow and Visiting Scholar, and Salzburg Global
Fellow. Since 2017, Dr. Fenwick has been engaged at the U.S. Military
Academy at West Point as a McDonald Conference for Leaders of Character
Senior Fellow, the 2019 Corbin Distinguished Lecturer, and the 2017
Black History Month Lecturer. She has delivered hundreds of national and
international invited and distinguished lectures on equity, leadership,
and ethics to convenings for college/university leaders, elected
officials and government agencies, and corporate CEOs and senior
leaders. Author of the best-selling book, *Jim Crow’s Pink Slip*
(Harvard Education Press, 2022), Dr. Fenwick earned her PhD at The Ohio
State University and her bachelor’s degree at the University of
Virginia.

**Juan A. Sabater as Member**

Juan A. Sabater is Co-President and Partner of Valor Equity Partners, a
growth focused private equity firm headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. 
Juan also is Co-Chairman of the Board of Augeo Affinity Marketing, which
he has helped to build with his business partner. In addition to his
Valor and Augeo responsibilities, Juan serves on the Board of Directors
of several charitable organizations in New York City, Puerto Rico and
nationally. He is the Co-President of the Board of The Hewitt School and
sits on the Advisory Boards of Columbia University’s School of
International and Public Affairs and the Princeton University Arts
Museum.  He also served as Co-Chair of the University of Chicago Parent
and Family Program.  Juan holds an A.B. in History from Princeton
University. He studied history at the University of Oxford, Mansfield
College and holds a J.D. from Stanford Law School. He is formerly an
officer in the United States Army Reserve.

**Lieutenant General Nadja Yudith West as Member**

Nadja West (USMA ’82) is the 44th Army Surgeon General and the former
Commanding General of U.S. Army Medical Command.  A graduate of The
George Washington School of Medicine, West completed residencies in
Family Medicine and Dermatology and held various clinical, operational
and leadership positions throughout her over 30-year career as a
soldier. West serves on several non-profit, public and private boards.
She is also a trustee of Mount St. Mary’s University.

\###
