---
date: '2022-04-29'
published_time: 2022-04-29 13:19:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/29/statement-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-on-epa-issuing-emergency-fuel-waiver-for-e15/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki on EPA Issuing Emergency Fuel Waiver\
  \ for\_E15"
---
 
The President is committed to doing everything he can to address the
pain Americans are feeling at the pump as a result of Putin’s Price Hike
and his unjustified war’s impact on global fuel supply. Today, the
Environmental Protection Agency announced that it is issuing an
emergency fuel waiver to allow E15 sales during the summer driving
season.

The waiver is a critical step to address the fuel supply crisis and
follows President Biden’s announcement earlier this month laying out
actions to increase use of biofuels in order to reduce our reliance on
fossil fuels, accelerate the clean energy transition, build real U.S.
energy independence, support American agriculture and manufacturing, and
save Americans money at the pump.  At current prices, E15 can save a
family 10 cents per gallon of gas on average and many stores sell E15 at
an even greater discount and today’s waiver will allow families to pay
that lower price for months to come.  

This is just one step the President is taking to address the fuel supply
and give Americans relief from the Putin Price Hike. The President
authorized the release of one million barrels per day from the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve for the next six months in the largest release in
history as a war-time bridge, worked around-the-clock to build a
coalition around the world to release an additional 60 million barrels,
and is calling on Congress to make oil companies pay fees on wells from
their leases that they haven’t used in years to encourage more domestic
production right now. In addition, our Administration has finalized the
strongest-ever fuel economy standards for vehicles, reducing the amount
of fuel families need to purchase over time and making vehicles go
farther on every gallon.

\###
