---
date: '2022-04-26'
modified_time: 2022-04-25 14:55:50-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-26 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/26/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-hhs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for\_HHS"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the Department
of Health and Human Services (HHS):

-   Ala Stanford, HHS Regional Director, Region 3
-   Antrell Tyson, HHS Regional Director, Region 4
-   Janine Boyd, HHS Regional Director, Region 5

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of America and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)</u>**  
Regional Directors lead HHS’s 10 Regional Offices that directly serve
state and local organizations. Regional Directors ensure the Department
maintains close contact with state, local, and tribal partners and
addresses the needs of communities and individuals served through HHS
programs and policies.

**<u>Ala Stanford, HHS Regional Director, Region 3</u>**

Dr. Ala Stanford, a practicing physician for over 20 years, is board
certified by the American Board of Surgery in both pediatric and adult
general surgery and a health care advocate. She is the Founder of The
Black Doctors COVID19 Consortium (BDCC). The consortium was formed in
response to the disproportionate number of African Americans being
diagnosed and dying from coronavirus in Philadelphia, PA and the lack of
swift intervention to mitigate disease spread. The mission of the
consortium is to educate, provide advocacy and barrier free coronavirus
testing and coronavirus vaccination in an effort to decrease the
morbidity and mortality associated with the disease. Her research in
basic science, clinical research, and public health have been published
in peer reviewed medical journals. Stanford also serves as a medical
correspondent for local and national news outlets. She is the former
director of the Center for Minority Health and Health Disparities of
Temple University School of Medicine, and serves on the CDC Philadelphia
Department of Public Health COVID19 Vaccine Advisory Committee. Stanford
has received many accolades, notably being named a 2021 Top 10 CNN Hero
and 2021 George H.W. Bush Points of Light Award recipient.

Region 3 serves Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia.

**<u>Antrell Tyson, HHS Regional Director, Region 4</u>**

Antrell Tyson previously served as the Director of Business Services and
Policy for the city of Atlanta’s Workforce Development Agency. In this
role, Tyson re-established the city’s federally-funded work-based
training programs to help buld a highly skilled and responsive
workforce. Additionally, Tyson served as the agency’s top legal advisor
to ensure the agency’s compliance with local, state, and federal laws
and regulations. Tyson previously served as the District Director for
Representative Lucy McBath (D-GA-06). As the Congresswoman’s top
District advisor, Tyson oversaw the daily operations of the district
office. Tyson also helped to advance many of the Congresswoman’s policy
priorities, including expanding access to affordable healthcare,
lowering prescription drug costs, and decreasing maternal mortality
rates.

Tyson laid a strong foundation as a public policy professional while
working on and off Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. He has served as
Counsel for a Member of Congress and a U.S. Senate committee, as well as
Assistant General Counsel for the National Association of Broadcasters.
Tyson holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from Colgate
University, and a Juris Doctor from the T.C. Williams School of Law at
the University of Richmond. He is a native of Decatur, Georgia, and
resides in Atlanta with his wife Laurie and their son Dorian.

Region 4 serves Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North
Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee.

**<u>Janine Boyd, HHS Regional Director, Region 5</u>**

Janine R. Boyd is a pediatric speech and language pathologist turned
advocate and state legislator. With almost two decades of experience in
health and human services advocacy and policy as a government affairs
professional, Boyd has been actively involved in Ohio’s state budget
process and identifying federal opportunities on behalf of programs that
serve the most vulnerable citizens. Through her experience with
the state legislative process, Boyd has been an advocate for change in
Columbus and has developed strong working relationships with agency
directors, statewide elected officials, and lawmakers from all
backgrounds and political parties. As a former Cleveland Heights council
member, Boyd worked to establish a mentoring and juvenile diversion
program and catalyzed the expansion of human rights laws to increase
protections for members of the LGBT+ community.

In Ohio’s Legislature, Boyd served as Ranking Minority Member on the
House Health Committee, as well as the Committee on Community and Family
Advancement, among other committees. Boyd co-founded the first statewide
Black Maternal Health Caucus and sits on the board of the Ohio
Children’s Trust Fund. Boyd has also been a servant leader in her
community, as a trustee on the board for the Heights Emergency Food
Center and for Beaumont Catholic High School, her alma mater. She
follows the longtime public service example set by her mother, Barbara
Boyd.

Region 5 serves Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and
Wisconsin.

\###
