---
date: '2022-04-14'
modified_time: 2022-04-14 10:34:45-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-14 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/14/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-and-sba-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for USDA and\_SBA"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Small Business
Administration (SBA):

-   Emily Cole, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Connecticut
-   John Patterson, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Ohio
-   Gail Greenman, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Oregon
-   Eric Scherer, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Rhode Island
-   Kelly Adkins, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Texas
-   Jill Floyd, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Arkansas
-   Thomas Carew, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Kentucky
-   Michele Weaver, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Utah
-   Aikta Marcoulier, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 8

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of America and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**

The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.

USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.

**<u>Emily Cole, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Connecticut</u>**

Dr. Emily Cole previously served as the New England Regional Deputy
Director for American Farmland Trust (AFT), a non-profit organization
dedicated to protecting farmland, promoting sound farming practices, and
keeping farmers on the land. As Deputy Director, she developed AFT’s New
England regional Climate and Agriculture program focused on supporting
farmers across New England in their efforts to adopt climate smart
agriculture through innovative technical and financial assistance, which
includes the largest soil health project in New England history.

Cole is passionate about improving all Connecticut farmers’ access to
financial and technical assistance to support farm viability and the
vitality of Connecticut agriculture. Cole has 18 years of experience as
an educator in the field and in the classroom. She earned her Ph.D. in
Plant and Soil Sciences from the Stockbridge School of Agriculture at
the University of Massachusetts Amherst, and her research focused on
improving soil health and carbon sequestration on farmland in the
Connecticut River Valley. While at UMass, she was a part of the Crops,
Dairy, Livestock, and Equine Extension Team. Cole also holds a Master’s
degree in Science Education from Boston University and a Bachelor’s
degree in Chemistry from Kenyon College. Cole lives in Simsbury, CT with
her husband Ray, a professor at Southern Connecticut State University,
and their daughter. She enjoys reading, gardening, and spending time
outside with her family and their husky Sasha.

**<u>John Patterson, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Ohio</u>**

John Patterson is a former state legislator and retired classroom
teacher whose work experience spans over 40 years. He recently completed
eight years in the Ohio House until term limits prohibited his continued
service. During his time in the House, Patterson served on the
Agricultural and Natural Resources Committee, including two terms as
ranking member. Patterson was a co-author of HB 7, which provides
funding for the H2Ohio initiative begun by Governor DeWine. He was also
an original co-author of the Young Farmers Tax Credit bill. A
Co-Chairman of the Finance Subcommittee on Primary/Secondary Education
in his last term, Patterson co-authored the Cupp-Patterson Fair School
Funding Plan which was incorporated into the state budget in 2021.

Prior to his time in the House, Patterson taught U.S. History at his
alma mater, Jefferson Area High School in a small, rural district in
northeast Ohio. He taught Advanced Placement, Honors, and General U.S.
History, retiring in 2012. In addition to his teaching duties, Patterson
served as the Model United Nations advisor for nearly three decades.
Patterson was also the chief negotiator for his union for over twenty
years—a position from which he learned much about compromise and the
pursuit of mutually beneficial goals. He also coached basketball,
baseball, golf, and cross-country. Patterson earned his Ph.D. in
Education at Kent State University in 1996. He has been married to his
wife Nancy for 38 years and has two sons, Joshua and Jeremiah.

**<u>Gail Greenman, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Oregon</u>**

Most recently, Gail Greenman served as the Executive Director of the
Westside Economic Alliance (WEA), where she oversaw daily operations of
the organization and brought together businesses and elected officials
to further the advancement of transportation, workforce development,
affordable housing, and other infrastructure issues critical to the
Portland metropolitan region. Prior to her time at WEA, Greenman served
as the lead federal public affairs professional at the Oregon Farm
Bureau, where she cultivated relationships with Oregon’s congressional
delegation. She also worked in the federal education policy arena,
serving as the director of Government Affairs for the National
Association of Federally Impacted Schools.

**<u>Eric Scherer, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Rhode Island</u>**

J. Eric Scherer is currently atechnical consultant to the public and
private sector on natural resource issues, including land use and
environmental impact. As a certified USDA Technical Service Provider and
USDA Certified Conservation Planner, he also assisted agricultural
producers on comprehensive nutrient management plans and grazing
management plan for USDA program participation and the Rhode Island
Farm, Forest and Open Space program, developing Conservation Farm Plans
for individuals.

Scherer served as the Executive Director of the Southern Rhode Island
Conservation District, where he provided program leadership for the
Conservation District programs that assisted private landowners,
municipalities and state government, conservation partners, and others
with an interest in conserving and protecting natural resources. Scherer
serves as an advisor to the Rhode Island State Conservation Committee
and is currently working on the first statewide operational guide for
the Committee and conservation districts. Scherer’s past work experience
includes 37 years of federal service that began with a tour of duty with
the Peace Corps in Belize, and has included working for the USDA Natural
Resources Conservation Service in six states in various positions.
Scherer enjoys living in the beautiful state of Rhode Island with his
wife, Linda, of 38 years, sharing time with his three children and four
grandchildren, and is still “learning” the game of golf.

**<u>Kelly Adkins, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Texas</u>**

A native of Haskell, Texas, Kelly Adkins was raised on small family farm
in Haskell County where he attended Haskell High School and later Texas
Tech University. While a student at Texas Tech, Adkins was employed by
Texas A&M Agricultural Research and Experiment Station where he gained a
further knowledge of agriculture. Upon graduation from college with a
Bachelor of Business Degree and a minor in Agriculture, Adkins became
employed by the Farm Service Agency of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.

Adkins enjoyed a career serving the farmers and ranchers of Texas and
the Farm Service Agency in many capacities. Those positions included
serving as County Executive Director in Grimes and Randall County in
Texas, District Director for the agency, TASCOE Director, Mediation
Coordinator, and as a County Office Trainee Program Trainer and
Instructor. He is currently a resident of Canyon, Texas and is involved
in a small farming/cattle operation in Randall County. Adkins has been
involved in community activities and several state agricultural
commodity associations.

**<u>Jill Floyd, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Arkansas</u>**

A native Arkansan, Jill Floyd is the Director of Community and Client
Engagement with Little Rock-based CDI Contractors, a commercial general
contractor and construction management firm, where she is responsible
for developing relationships with potential clients and increasing spend
with MWBE Construction Subcontractors. She also leads the company’s K-12
STEM initiative to encourage girls to consider careers in science,
technology, engineering, math, and construction. Prior to her current
role, she was a Project Manager responsible for delivering a variety of
construction projects across central Arkansas.

Floyd began her career in manufacturing as a Project Manager with
Cummins Engine, after which she joined Ford Motor Company as a Quality
Engineer focused on improving processes and part quality at Supplier
plants, and subsequently moving into procurement where she managed a
global portfolio of purchased parts. Floyd holds several board and
commission appointments, including on the Bill and Hillary Clinton
National Airport Commission, and the Boards of Arkansas Capital
Corporation (a CDFI) and the Women’s Foundation of Arkansas. She also
serves on the Arkansas Governor’s Commission on the Status of Women. She
previously served on the Mayor’s Opportunity Zone Task Force and Housing
and Mobility Transition Team Task Force. Floyd received a Bachelor of
Science degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Oklahoma
and MBA/MS Engineering in Quality and Manufacturing Management from Penn
State University.

**<u>Thomas Carew, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Kentucky</u>**

Prior to joining USDA as Kentucky State Director for Rural Development,
Dr. Thomas Carew worked in Central Appalachia with Fahe from 2008-2017
as Executive Vice President of Membership and Advocacy. While at Fahe,
Carew was the Principal Author of the 502 Direct Packaging Demonstration
with USDA. Through his leadership, Fahe’s membership grew from 44 to
over 55 affordable housing nonprofits, and he led Fahe’s membership
expansion into two new states, Alabama and Maryland.

Carew has deep roots in Appalachia, dedicating his 35-year career to the
provision of affordable housing in the region. He served as the Director
of the Appalachian Housing Program and the Design and Construction
Department for the Commonwealth of Kentucky’s housing finance agency,
Kentucky Housing Corporation (KHC), from 2000-2005. While at KHC, Carew
oversaw the development of the Appalachian Housing Summit, an annual
event for the Central Appalachian Housing Finance Agencies and the
non-profit builders and developers working in these four states. Carew
also created and implemented a Universal Design and Minimum Design
Standard for KHC. Kentucky Housing was the first State Housing Finance
Agency in the nation to develop these design standards. Prior to his
work with KHC, Carew was the founding Executive Director of Frontier
Housing, a non-profit affordable housing developer based in Morehead,
Kentucky. He is the recipient of the Dorothy Williams Lifetime
Achievement Award from Kentucky Housing Corporation, the highest award
given in the Commonwealth for non-profit housing producers. In 1992,
Carew received an Honorary Doctor of Law Degree from Fairfield
University; and in 2010, Carew received the Cochran Collings award from
the Housing Assistance Council for service to Rural America.

**<u>Michele Weaver, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Utah</u>**

Michele Weaver has brought a wealth of resources to housing and economic
development efforts in rural Utah and across the western region. Her
broad background includes small business owner, banking, and non-profit
work. In 2018, she was appointed to the Utah Commission for Housing
Affordability by Governor Herbert where she effectively highlighted
challenges in rural communities and led efforts to increase funding and
positively impact statewide policy. As a member of various boards and
councils, she’s an instrumental advocate for rural Utah issues and its
residents.

With more than 25 years of experience in affordable housing development,
Weaver has been providing economic development technical assistance and
training, assisting nonprofit organizations, tribal housing development,
and administering small business lending programs. Her most recent work
includes technical and management assistance and capacity building
through Rural Development funding. A finance graduate from the
University of Utah, Weaver can be found outdoors enjoying the unique
variety of geography that Utah has to offer.

**<u>SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (SBA)</u>**

The 10 SBA Regional Offices, led by Regional Administrators, oversee the
SBA’s 68 district offices and ensure the goals and objectives of the
Agency are met by each district office and field operations staff. The
district offices are the point of delivery for most SBA programs and
services, providing quality service to the local small business
community. They work with SBA resource partners and intermediaries to
accomplish the SBA mission of assisting America’s small businesses.

**<u>Aikta Marcoulier, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 8</u>**

Aikta Marcoulier joined the Small Business Development Center (SBDC)
team as the director of the Pikes Peak Center in May 2012. Prior to the
SBDC, she was the Director of Partnership Marketing with the
Professional Bull Riders. Marcoulier is also the program creator and
manager of the Colorado SBDC’s Cyber: Cover Your Assets program
providing education, training, and one-on-one consulting to small
businesses throughout Colorado. She also serves as a regional
coordinator for the NorthStar CMM program.  
  
Marcoulier is involved in the El Pomar Emerging Leaders Program and is
an active board member of the Pikes Peak Workforce Development Board and
vice-chair of the Better Business Bureau of Southern Colorado. She is on
the Pikes Peak Community College Business Advisory Board and is
president of the Colorado Business Development Foundation. She serves on
numerous committees for the Colorado Springs Business Journal and is on
the technology and capacity committees for the Colorado SBDC Network.
Additionally, she is a member of ROAR (Relationships, Opportunities,
Acumen, and Readiness Committee) for the UCCS College of Business.
Marcoulier received her MBA in global management from the University of
Phoenix and undergraduate degrees in both economics and psychology from
the University of Iowa. She has received several awards, including the
University of Iowa Leadership Award in 2011, and was named one of the
Colorado Springs Business Journal’s Rising Stars for 2013 and Women of
Influence and is the 2021 Leadership Pike Peak Modeling the Way Award
winner.

Region 8 serves Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and
Wyoming.

\###
