---
date: '2022-04-22'
modified_time: 2022-04-22 11:36:10-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-22 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/22/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-12/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Cindy Dyer, Nominee for Director of the Office to Monitor and Combat
    Trafficking, with rank of Ambassador at Large
-   Michael Gonzales, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Zambia
-   Michael Ratney, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
-   Geoffrey Pyatt, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of State for Energy
    Resources

**<u>Cindy Dyer, Nominee for Director of the Office to Monitor and
Combat Trafficking, with rank of Ambassador at Large</u>**

Cindy Dyer is a human rights expert and lawyer with over 25 years of
experience working at the local, national, and international levels to
address human rights abuses with a focus on human trafficking,
gender-based violence (GBV), and harmful practices. She recently served
on the Independent Review Commission on Sexual Assault in the Military,
and is currently a Senior Advisor and Highly Qualified Expert (HQE) at
the U.S. Department of Defense. For 12 years, she was the Vice President
for Human Rights at Vital Voices Global Partnership, an international
NGO advancing women’s leadership. Prior to joining Vital Voices, she
served in a presidential appointment as the Director of the Office on
Violence Against Women within the U.S. Department of Justice. She began
her career at the local level, serving as a specialized domestic and
sexual violence prosecutor in Dallas, Texas for more than 13 years.

Dyer is the recipient of the Equal Justice Award from Legal Services of
North Texas and the Prosecutor of the Year Award from the Greater Dallas
Crime Commission. Dyer earned her Bachelor’s degree from Texas A&M and
her J.D. from Baylor Law School. 

**<u>Michael Gonzales, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Zambia</u>**

Michael C. Gonzales is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service,
class of Minister-Counselor. He currently serves as a Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State in the Bureau of African Affairs in the U.S.
Department of State. Prior to this assignment, Gonzales was the Director
of Analysis of Africa in the State Department’s Bureau of Intelligence
and Research. Overseas, he held leadership positions as the Deputy Chief
of Mission of the U.S. Embassy in Kathmandu, Nepal and of the U.S.
Embassy in Lilongwe, Malawi; and as the Political and Economic Counselor
of the U.S. Embassies in Harare, Zimbabwe and Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
Among other assignments, Gonzales served as Spokesperson and Information
Officer at the U.S Embassy in Addis Ababa; Ethiopia Desk Officer in the
State Department; and Deputy Public Affairs Officer of the U.S. Embassy
in Kampala, Uganda.

Gonzales earned a B.A. Degree from Occidental College in Los Angeles,
California and an M.A. Degree from American University’s School of
International Service in Washington, D.C. He speaks Spanish and French.

**<u>Michael Ratney, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia</u>**

Michael Alan Ratney, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Minister-Counselor, is the Acting Deputy Director of the
U.S. Department of State’s Foreign Service Institute. He recently served
as Chargé d’Affaires a.i. at the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem. Previously,
Ratney was the Dean of the School of Language Studies at the Foreign
Service Institute. Prior to that, he was on the faculty of the National
Defense University. He served as the State Department’s Acting Deputy
Assistant Secretary for the Levant and Israel and Palestinian Affairs,
and was the U.S. Special Envoy for Syria. Earlier, Ratney was the U.S.
Consul General in Jerusalem. He was Deputy Assistant Secretary for
International Media in the State Department’s Bureau of Public Affairs.
Prior to that, he served as Spokesman for the State Department’s Bureau
of Near Eastern Affairs. Other assignments include serving as Deputy
Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Doha, Qatar, as well as tours in
Mexico City, Baghdad, Beirut, Casablanca, Bridgetown, and Washington,
D.C.

Ratney earned a B.S. from Boston University and an M.A. from the George
Washington University. He is the recipient of multiple State Department
performance awards, including a Presidential Meritorious Service award.
He speaks Arabic and French. 

**<u>Geoffrey Pyatt, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of State for Energy
Resources</u>**

Geoffrey R. Pyatt, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class
of Career Minister, currently serves as U.S. Ambassador to Greece, a
position he has held since 2016. Before that, Pyatt was U.S. Ambassador
to Ukraine, and he was Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in
the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs. Previously, he served as
Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Mission to the International Atomic
Energy Agency and International Organizations in Vienna, Austria. He
also served at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, India as Deputy Chief of
Mission and as Political Counselor. Pyatt served as Economic Officer at
the U.S. Consulate General in Hong Kong and as Principal Officer at the
U.S. Consulate General in Lahore, Pakistan. Since joining the Foreign
Service in 1989, Pyatt has also served as Director for Latin America at
the National Security Council, as Special Assistant in the Office of the
Deputy Secretary of State, in the Bureau of Inter-American Affairs, and
at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, India and U.S. Embassy in Tegucigalpa,
Honduras.

Pyatt is the recipient of numerous performance awards, including a
Presidential Distinguished Honor Award. He earned a B.A. from the
University of California at Irvine and an M.A. from Yale University. A
native of California, he speaks Spanish. 

\###
