---
date: '2022-04-11'
modified_time: 2022-04-11 09:59:38-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-11 11:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/11/biden-administration-releases-rural-playbook-launches-building-a-better-america-rural-infrastructure-tour-to-highlight-impact-of-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-on-rural-america/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden Administration Releases Rural Playbook, Launches Building A Better America\
  \ Rural Infrastructure Tour to Highlight Impact of Bipartisan Infrastructure Law\
  \ on Rural\_America"
---
 
Today, the White House released a Bipartisan Infrastructure Law [Rural
Playbook](https://build.gov/rural) to help state, local, Tribal and
territorial governments in rural areas unlock the benefits from the
historic investments in our nation’s infrastructure and launched a rural
infrastructure tour led by the President and other senior administration
officials to engage rural communities across the country.

The Rural Playbook, found at build.gov/rural, builds on the release of
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Guidebook and provides rural
communities with information on the “what, when, where, and how to
apply” for funding under the law – so no community needs to hire a
lobbyist to access their government. The Playbook also identifies over
100 programs funded under the law with federal cost share flexibilities
and matching requirement waivers.

During the month of April, Biden Administration officials will travel to
dozens of rural communities as part of a Building A Better America rural
infrastructure tour to talk about the impact of Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law investments, as well as the President’s broader
commitment to ensure federal resources reach all communities in rural
America. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, Commerce Secretary Gina
Raimondo, Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm, EPA Administrator Michael
Regan, Interior Secretary Deb Haaland, Transportation Secretary Pete
Buttigieg and Infrastructure Coordinator Mitch Landrieu will take part
in events, along with other senior administration officials.

President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will send billions of
dollars to rural communities across the country. Supporting Americans
living in rural areas remains a top priority for the Biden
Administration, and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law delivers on the
President’s promises to provide high speed internet, safe roads and
bridges, modern wastewater systems, clean drinking water, reliable and
affordable electricity, and good paying jobs in every rural community.
As part of this effort, the Biden Administration is also committed to
working with communities to help them access federal resources and
improving transparency.

“This Rural Playbook and our rural infrastructure tour are a critical
part of our extensive outreach to state, local, tribal and territorial
governments to ensure the people of America can benefit from this
once-in-a-generation investment,” said **Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor
& Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator.** “Building a better
America requires these funds to reach rural communities that have been
left behind for far too long.  We see you, and major investments are on
the way. With these investments in infrastructure in rural communities,
President Biden is delivering for rural America.”

Across the month of April, the Biden-Harris administration will announce
billions for rural areas including rural water projects, flood
mitigation, transportation, healthcare, and tribal community grants,
along with new technical assistance programs for rural and tribal
communities.  Earlier this month, the Department of the Interior
[announced $420 million for rural water
systems](https://doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-announces-420-million-rural-water-funding-president-bidens)
across six states: Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, New Mexico, North Dakota
and South Dakota. Today, the President is also announcing a $1 billion
America the Beautiful Challenge that will leverage Federal conservation
and restoration investments with private and philanthropic contributions
to accelerate land, water, and wildlife conservation efforts across the
country. The America the Beautiful Challenge is anchored by an initial
commitment of $440 million of Federal resources over the next five years
to a new public-private grant program, administered by the National Fish
and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF), that will support locally led ecosystem
restoration projects that invest in watershed restoration, resilience,
equitable access, workforce development, corridors and connectivity, and
collaborative conservation, consistent with the America the Beautiful
Initiative. The America the Beautiful Challenge will offer states,
Tribes, territories, local groups, non-governmental organizations, and
others the opportunity to apply for multiple grant programs through a
single application that is managed by NFWF.

Since President Biden signed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law nearly
five months ago, the Biden-Harris Administration has hit the ground
running to deliver results. The Administration has made key progress
towards implementing the largest long-term investment in America’s
infrastructure and competitiveness in nearly a century. More than $100
billion has been announced and allocated to states from formula and
competitive programs for roads and highways, bridges, ports, airports,
electric vehicle charging stations, water systems, high speed internet,
weatherization and clean energy.

\###
