---
date: '2022-04-06'
modified_time: 2022-04-06 10:20:24-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-06 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/06/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-10/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Carol Spahn, Nominee for Director of the Peace Corps
-   Robin Hutcheson, Nominee for Federal Motor Carrier Safety
    Administrator, Department of Transportation
-   Jaime Lizárraga, Nominee for Commissioner of the Securities and
    Exchange Commission
-   Mark Uyeda, Nominee for Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange
    Commission
-   Vincent Logan, Nominee for Member of the Farm Credit Administration

**<u>Carol Spahn, Nominee for Director of the Peace Corps</u>**

Carol Spahn is serving as Chief Executive Officer of the Peace Corps,
and was officially Acting Director from January 20, 2021 until November
16, 2021. Under her leadership, the agency is returning Volunteers to
overseas service after being evacuated for two years due to the COVID-19
pandemic. Additionally, the agency created a domestic service initiative
for only the second time in Peace Corps’ history, working with the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to support vaccination
campaigns across the United States, and launched a new strategic plan
which focuses on re-imagining service, advancing equity, and delivering
quality. Prior to serving as Acting Director, Spahn served as Chief of
Operations in the Africa Region covering Eastern and Southern Africa,
and before that, served a five-year term as Country Director of Peace
Corps Malawi. Her Peace Corps roots extend back to her service, with her
husband, as a Volunteer from 1994 to 1996 in Romania where she served as
a Small Business Advisor shortly after the fall of communism.

Before returning to the Peace Corps as Country Director, Spahn was
Senior Vice President of Operations at Women for Women International.
Prior to that, she served as Executive Director of Accordia Global
Health Foundation. She also served as Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer, and Treasurer of Small Enterprise Assistance Funds. Spahn has
held positions at leading private sector institutions, including GE
Capital and KPMG Peat Marwick. She holds a bachelor’s degree from the
Catholic University of America and a master’s degree in international
development from the George Washington University Elliott School of
International Affairs.

**<u>Robin Hutcheson, Nominee for Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administrator, Department of Transportation</u>**

Robin Hutcheson currently serves in the Biden-Harris Administration as
the Deputy Administrator and Acting Administrator of the Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA). She was previously appointed as
the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Safety Policy for the U.S. Department
of Transportation where she led the development of the National Roadway
Safety Strategy and was instrumental in the development of the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, especially the new Safe Streets and Roads
for All program.

Prior to being appointed to the Biden-Harris Administration, Hutcheson
was the Director of Public Works for the City of Minneapolis, overseeing
a team of 1,100 people across nine divisions including drinking water,
surface waters and sewers, solid waste and recycling, fleet management,
and all transportation functions. Prior to her appointment in
Minneapolis, she served as the Transportation Director for Salt Lake
City, UT, working to improve all modes of transportation. Hutcheson also
has served as a transportation consultant, and has worked throughout the
western United States, and in Europe. Hutcheson served for seven years
on the Board of Directors for the National Association of City
Transportation Officials (NACTO), most recently serving as its
President. She received a bachelor’s degree from the University of
Colorado Boulder and a master’s degree from the University of Utah.

**<u>Jaime Lizárraga, Nominee for Commissioner of the Securities and
Exchange Commission</u>**

Jaime Lizárraga currently serves as Senior Advisor to Speaker of the
House Nancy Pelosi. In this role, he oversees issues relating to
financial markets, housing, international financial institutions,
immigration, and small business policy. He also serves as the Speaker’s
liaison to the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Throughout his 31-year
public service career, Lizárraga has advised Congressional leaders and
heads of executive agencies on policy and legislative strategy. He
previously served on the Democratic staff of the House Financial
Services Committee, and as a presidential appointee at the U.S.
Department of the Treasury and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.

Lizárraga has played key roles in numerous successful legislative
initiatives, including the Build Back Better Act, the American Rescue
Plan, COVID relief legislation, omnibus appropriations bills, the Dream
and Promise Act, the PROMESA Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act, the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, the
Economic Emergency and Stabilization Act of 2008, and many others.
Lizárraga graduated from the University of California, San Diego with
high honors, and earned a master’s degree from the Lyndon B. Johnson
School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas. The son of
immigrant farm workers, Lizárraga was raised in San Diego. He lives in
Virginia with his wife and five children.

**<u>Mark T. Uyeda, Nominee for Commissioner of the Securities and
Exchange Commission</u>**

Mark T. Uyeda is a career attorney with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). He is currently on detail from the SEC to the U.S.
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, where he serves
as Securities Counsel on the Committee’s Minority Staff. He has over 25
years of experience in corporate and securities law, including 18 years
of public service working in federal and state government. Uyeda joined
the SEC in 2006 and has worked in various capacities, including as
Senior Advisor to Chairman Jay Clayton and Acting Chairman Michael S.
Piwowar, and as Counsel to Commissioner Paul S. Atkins. He has also
served as Assistant Director and Senior Special Counsel in the SEC’s
Division of Investment Management. Uyeda has been recognized with
multiple SEC awards, including the SEC Chairman’s Award for Excellence
and the SEC Capital Markets Award. He is a past Chair of the SEC Asian
Pacific American Employees Committee.

From 2004 to 2006, Uyeda served as Chief Advisor to the California
Corporations Commissioner, the state’s securities regulator. Before
entering public service, Uyeda was an attorney in private practice with
O’Melveny & Myers LLP in Los Angeles, and Kirkpatrick & Lockhart LLP in
Washington, D.C. He is a past President of the Asian Pacific American
Bar Association of the Greater Washington, D.C. Area. Uyeda received his
law degree with honors from Duke University and his undergraduate degree
in business administration from Georgetown University.

**<u>Vincent Logan, Nominee for Member of the Farm Credit
Administration</u>**

Vincent Logan, a member of the Osage Nation, currently serves as the
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Investment Officer for the Native
American Agriculture Fund (NAAF). NAAF is the largest U.S. philanthropic
organization focused exclusively on the needs of Native American farmers
and ranchers. Nominated by President Obama and confirmed by the U.S.
Senate in 2014, Logan served as the Special Trustee for American Indians
at the U.S. Department of the Interior. During his tenure, he was
appointed to the Department of the Treasury’s Financial Literacy
Education Commission.

Logan has worked in New York in both asset-based financing as a lawyer
and in asset management as an investment advisor. As a lawyer, he
practiced in aircraft, shipping, and equipment finance. As an investment
advisor, he worked with institutional clients in developing investment
policies, diversification strategies, and sovereign wealth funds. He is
an Oklahoma State University Foundation Governor, Director for The
Christensen Fund, and serves on the Board of Directors for the Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis, Little Rock Branch. He has mentored numerous
professionals, guiding them through careers in law and the securities
industry. Logan was educated at Oklahoma State University, the
University of Oklahoma College of Law, and the School of International
and Public Affairs at Columbia University. His partner is Dr. Steven
Lieberman of New Jersey.

\###
