---
date: '2022-04-22'
modified_time: 2022-04-22 21:57:11-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-22 13:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/22/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-recommendations-for-advancing-use-of-equitable-data/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases Recommendations for\
  \ Advancing Use of Equitable\_Data"
---
 
The [Executive Order on Advancing Racial Equity and Support for
Underserved Communities Through the federal
government](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/) (“Equity
EO”) launched a whole-of-government effort to incorporate the principle
of equity throughout the federal government. Recognizing that the
ability to conduct equity assessments—i.e., to understand the impact of
federal policies on equity outcomes—and identify and remove barriers to
equitable access to government programs is contingent on gathering the
necessary data, President Biden ordered the formation of the Equitable
Data Working Group (“Working Group”). The President directed the Working
Group to study existing federal data collection policies, programs, and
infrastructure to identify inadequacies and provide recommendations that
lay out a strategy for increasing data available for measuring equity
and representing the diversity of the American people. 

The Working Group, chaired by Dr. Alondra Nelson (Office of Science and
Technology Policy) and Dr. Margo Schwab (Office of Management and
Budget), consulted with a range of advocates and experts from civil
society, including academic researchers and community leaders who
leverage federal data,  federal department and agency leads for data,
statistics, privacy, and program evaluations, and our colleagues leading
related equity efforts (e.g., the [White House Gender Policy
Council](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/08/executive-order-on-establishment-of-the-white-house-gender-policy-council/),[ Justice40](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-executive-actions-to-tackle-the-climate-crisis-at-home-and-abroad-create-jobs-and-restore-scientific-integrity-across-federal-government/), and
the [White House Initiative on Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and
Pacific
Islanders](https://www.hhs.gov/about/whiaanhpi/index.html) (WHIAANHPI)).
The Working Group was also informed by agency efforts to implement the
President’s policies on [scientific integrity and evidence-based
policymaking](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/27/memorandum-on-restoring-trust-in-government-through-scientific-integrity-and-evidence-based-policymaking/),
and
related [OSTP](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ostp/nstc/scientific-integrity-task-force/) and [OMB](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/M-21-27.pdf) guidance. 

These stakeholders and officials identified three priority uses for
equitable data: **generating disaggregated** **statistical estimates to
characterize experiences** of historically underserved groups using
survey data; **increasing non-federal research and community access to
disaggregated data** for the evidence-building that supports equity
efforts; and **conducting robust equity assessments of federal
programs **to identify areas for improvement. The Working Group also
pursued a series of case studies to identify what progress could be made
using existing program data to answer equity-centered questions in areas
such as economic recovery and pandemic or environmental disaster
response.

**A Vision for Equitable Data**

Equitable data are those that allow for rigorous assessment of the
extent to which government programs and policies yield consistently
fair, just, and impartial treatment of all individuals. Equitable
data illuminate opportunities for targeted actions that will result in
demonstrably improved outcomes for underserved communities. The
following practices will allow us to **achieve our equitable data
vision:**

***Make Disaggregated Data the Norm While Protecting Privacy  ***

To ensure that historically underserved populations are empowered by and
benefit from federal data, surveys, and equity assessments, the federal
data system should support disaggregation, directly or through
statistical estimates. However, as the federal government expands its
use of disaggregated demographic data, it must be intentional about when
data are collected and shared, as well as how data are protected so as
not to exacerbate the vulnerability of members of underserved
communities, many of whom face the heightened risk of harm if their
privacy is not protected.

***Catalyze Existing Federal Infrastructure to Leverage Underused
Data***

Although many federal programs do not report disaggregated data, they
may partner with the thirteen [federal statistical
agencies](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/information-regulatory-affairs/statistical-programs-standards/) (agencies
whose principal mission is to produce official federal statistics) that
have the experience, and many of the tools necessary, to allow
departments and agencies to generate disaggregated estimates of program
participation in ways that protect against inadvertent disclosure of
identifiable information. Policy support for generating the legal and
logistical agreements necessary for productive interagency data-sharing
partnerships will help to avoid historical roadblocks and address
underutilization of existing federal data by facilitating quick and safe
access to disaggregated data for equity assessment. Data sharing must be
done in a manner that explicitly addresses the tension between the
public’s trust in data confidentiality and increasing data access for
equity efforts. 

***Build Capacity for Robust Equity Assessment for Policymaking and
Program Implementation ***

Equitable policymaking and program implementation require an approach to
evaluation and data analysis that allows for robust assessment of
compounded experiences and overlapping identities. Such analysis is
critical because it recognizes how the interconnectedness of identities
and experiences (e.g., as a Black woman, or as a transgender immigrant)
shape the need for particular federal programs and services and the
barriers that may prevent access. Agencies and program offices will need
to invest in the statistical, evaluation, and data science expertise
necessary to design and conduct robust equity assessments using their
administrative data, consistent with the [Foundations for Evidence-Based
Policymaking Act of 2018 (“Evidence
Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/4174/text)”) and
the Equity EO. 

***Galvanize Diverse Partnerships Across Levels of Government and the
Research Community****  *

Durable equitable data infrastructure requires fostering collaborations
across all levels of government, as well as with a diverse community of
external organizations in order to address specific challenges of mutual
priority and interest. It will be necessary to create incentives and
pathways for increased representation among research community
participants interested in generating equitable data and to engage
representatives of the communities that access and participate in
federal programs in the design of research collaborations about those
programs. Agencies must also look for opportunities to create mutually
beneficial uses of the data that they request from grantees, in order to
encourage providing good quality data.

***Be Accountable to the American Public ***

Providing tools that allow civil society organizations and communities
to use and visualize federal data and chart government’s progress toward
equitable outcomes is crucial for strengthening accountability and
credibility with the American public. Such tools encourage community
participation in government equity efforts, but must meet individuals
where they are in terms of data analysis capacity and resources. The
government should support platforms and partnerships that enable the
public to easily find meaningful data about the well-being of their
communities and the services provided to them.

Read the full report
[here](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/eo13985-vision-for-equitable-data.pdf).

\###
