---
date: '2022-04-11'
modified_time: 2022-04-10 22:07:40-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-11 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/11/fact-sheet-the-biden-administration-cracks-down-on-ghost-guns-ensures-that-atf-has-the-leadership-it-needs-to-enforce-our-gun-laws/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden Administration Cracks Down on Ghost Guns, Ensures That\
  \ ATF Has the Leadership it Needs to Enforce Our Gun\_Laws"
---
 
Today, President Biden and Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco will
deliver remarks in the Rose Garden to announce additional steps the
Administration is taking to combat gun crime.

**Ensuring that ATF has the leadership it needs to enforce our
commonsense gun laws and fight gun crime.**

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) is our top
federal law enforcement agency responsible for enforcing our commonsense
gun laws. Today, the President is nominating Steve Dettelbach to serve
as Director of ATF. 

Dettelbach is a highly respected former U.S. Attorney and career
prosecutor who spent over two decades as a prosecutor at the U.S.
Department of Justice. He has received bipartisan praise and support
from law enforcement for his work. In 2009, he was unanimously confirmed
for his position as U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio. He
has a proven track record of working with federal, state, and local law
enforcement to fight violent crime and combat domestic violent extremism
and religious violence – including through partnerships with the ATF to
prosecute complex cases and take down violent criminal gangs. Dettelbach
also worked closely with local law enforcement and community leaders to
develop and implement data-driven and neighborhood-based efforts to
prevent and fight violent crime. His leadership and his record of
innovation in fighting crime and violence make him ready from day one to
aggressively and creatively address these pressing issues at the
Director of ATF.

**Cracking down on ghost guns – the weapon of choice for many violent
criminals**

Today, the President and Deputy Attorney General will also announce that
the U.S. Department of Justice has issued a final rule to rein in the
proliferation of “ghost guns” – unserialized, privately-made firearms
that law enforcement are increasingly recovering at crime scenes in
cities across the country. Last year alone, there were approximately
20,000 suspected ghost guns reported to ATF as having been recovered by
law enforcement in criminal investigations – a ten-fold increase from
2016.[<sup>\[1\]</sup>](//990DAAC7-E8DC-47C2-AECE-F4A3C5AC88E6#_ftn1) Because
ghost guns lack the serial numbers marked on other firearms, law
enforcement has an exceedingly difficult time tracing a ghost gun found
at a crime scene back to an individual purchaser.

This final rule bans the business of manufacturing the most accessible
ghost guns, such as unserialized “buy build shoot” kits that individuals
can buy online or at a store without a background check and can readily
assemble into a working firearm in as little as 30 minutes with
equipment they have at home. This rule clarifies that these kits qualify
as “firearms” under the Gun Control Act, and that commercial
manufacturers of such kits must therefore become licensed and include
serial numbers on the kits’ frame or receiver, and commercial sellers of
these kits must become federally licensed and run background checks
prior to a sale – just like they have to do with other commercially-made
firearms.

The final rule will also help turn some ghost guns already in
circulation into serialized firearms. Through this rule, the Justice
Department is requiring federally licensed dealers and gunsmiths taking
any unserialized firearm into inventory to serialize that weapon. For
example, if an individual builds a firearm at home and then sells it to
a pawn broker or another federally licensed dealer, that dealer must put
a serial number on the weapon before selling it to a customer. This
requirement will apply regardless of how the firearm was made, meaning
it includes ghost guns made from individual parts, kits, or by
3D-printers. 

This rule builds on the Biden Administration’s prior executive action to
rein in the proliferation of ghost guns. In February 2022, the U.S.
Department of Justice launched a National Ghost Gun Enforcement
Initiative, which is training a national cadre of prosecutors and
disseminating investigation and prosecution tool to help bring cases
against those who use ghost guns to commit crimes. As President
Biden [said](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/03/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-gun-violence-prevention-task-force-meeting/) during
an event at the New York Police Department headquarters, if you use a
ghost gun to commit a crime “not only are state and local prosecutors
going to come after you, but expect federal charges and federal
prosecution as well.” 

**Additional executive action to reduce gun violence**

Today’s final rule includes two additional actions to make our
communities safer.

First, the final rule ensures that firearms with split receivers are
subject to regulations requiring serial numbers and background checks
when purchased from a licensed dealer, manufacturer or importer. Decades
ago, ATF issued a regulation defining the “frame or receiver” of a
firearm as the part that is regulated by the Gun Control Act – meaning
that is the part that triggers federal serialization, background check,
and other requirements. At that time, many firearms in the United States
were single-framed firearms, like revolvers, that house key components
in a single structure. However, we have seen the increasing popularity
of firearms using split or multi-part receivers that house key
components in multiple structures. Some courts have recently interpreted
decades-old regulatory text in a way that, if broadly applied, could
mean that as many as 90 percent of firearms in the United States today
would not have a frame or receiver subject to federal regulation. The
final rule updates the regulatory definitions of “frame” and “receiver”
to ensure that firearms using split or multi-part receivers continue to
be covered by our common-sense gun laws.

Second, the final rule requires federally licensed firearms dealers to
retain key records until they shut down their business or licensed
activity. At that time, these dealers must transfer the records to ATF,
just as they are currently required to do at the end of licensed
activity. Previously, these dealers were permitted to destroy most
records after 20 years, making it harder for law enforcement to trace
firearms found at crime scenes. According to ATF’s National Tracing
Center, on average more than 1,300 firearms a year are untraceable
because the federally licensed firearms dealer destroyed the relevant
records that were more than 20 years old.

**Implementing the President’s comprehensive gun crime reduction
strategy**

This final rule is part of the President’s comprehensive gun crime
reduction strategy. President Biden made more progress on executive
actions to reduce gun violence than any other President during their
first year in office. You can read more about the Administration’s
whole-of-government approach to reduce gun
crime [here](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/01/fact-sheet-president-bidens-historic-actions-to-make-our-communities-safer-by-reducing-gun-crime/).

President Biden’s fiscal year 2023 budget calls on Congress to deliver
the funding needed to implement the President’s comprehensive strategy
to reduce gun crime and make our communities safer. These additional
resources will fund accountable policing, including by putting more
police officers on the beat, and making essential investments in crime
prevention and community violence intervention.

Congress needs to do its job by passing this budget and other essential
legislation to reduce gun crime, including legislation to require
background checks for all gun sales, ensure that no terrorist can buy a
weapon in the United States, ban the sale and possession of unserialized
firearms — ghost guns, ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines,
and repeal gun manufacturers’ protection from liability.

\###

------------------------------------------------------------------------
