---
date: '2022-12-09'
modified_time: 2022-12-09 15:50:49-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-09 16:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/09/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-14/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced the appointment of the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Dr. Kathryn Ann Moler, Co-Chair, National Quantum Initiative
    Advisory Committee
-   Dr. Charles G. Tahan, Co-Chair, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
    Committee
-   Dr. Jamil Abo-Shaeer, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
    Committee
-   Dr. Fred Chong, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
    Committee
-   Dr. James S. Clarke, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
    Committee
-   Dr. Deborah Ann Frincke, Member, National Quantum Initiative
    Advisory Committee
-   Gilbert V. Herrera, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
    Committee
-   Dr. Nadya Mason, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
    Committee
-   Dr. William D. Oliver, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
    Committee
-   Dr. John Preskill, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
    Committee
-   Dr. Mark B. Ritter, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
    Committee
-   Dr. Robert J. Schoelkopf, Member, National Quantum Initiative
    Advisory Committee
-   Dr. Krysta M. Svore, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
    Committee
-   Dr. Jun Ye, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory Committee
-   Dr. Jinliu Wang, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
    Committee
-   Dr. Nathan Siu, Member and Designated Chair, Nuclear Waste Technical
    Review Board
-   Dr. Ronald G. Ballinger, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review
    Board
-   Dr. David. E. Daniel, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
-   Dr. Teresa Fryberger, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
-   Dr. Scott W. Tyler, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
-   Dr. Brian Woods, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board

**<u>National Quantum Initiative Advisory Committee</u>**

The National Quantum Initiative Advisory Committee (NQIAC) is the
Federal Advisory Committee called for in the National Quantum Initiative
(NQI) Act. The NQIAC is tasked with providing an independent assessment
of the NQI Program and to make recommendations for the President,
Congress, the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC)
Subcommittee on Quantum Information Science, and the NSTC Subcommittee
on Economic and Security Implications of Quantum Science to consider
when reviewing and revising the NQI Program. The NQIAC consists of
leaders in the field from industry, academia, and the federal
laboratories. The NQIAC was first established by Executive Order 13885
on August 30, 2019 and subsequently enhanced by Executive Order 14073 on
May 4, 2022, which elevated the committee to a Presidential Advisory
Committee.

**<u>Dr. Kathryn Ann Moler, Co-Chair, National Quantum Initiative
Advisory Committee</u>**

Dr. Kathryn Ann Moler conducts research in magnetic imaging and develops
tools that measure nanoscale magnetic fields to study quantum materials
and devices. She is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the
NanoFront Scientific Advisory Board, the Physics Frontier Center—Joint
Quantum Institute Advisory Board, the Moore Foundation Scientific
Advisory Board, and the National Academies Roundtable on Science,
Technology, and Security. Dr. Moler graduated from Stanford with a B.S.
and Ph.D. in Physics.

**<u>Dr. Charles G. Tahan, Co-Chair, National Quantum Initiative
Advisory Committee</u>**

Dr. Charles G. Tahan is the Assistant Director for Quantum Information
Science (QIS) and the Director of the National Quantum Coordination
Office within the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
He is on detail from the Laboratory for Physical Sciences, where he
served as Technical Director and continues to serve as Chief Scientist
and Chief of the QIS research office. Additionally, he is a Fellow of
the American Physical Society and an Office of the Director of National
Intelligence Science and Technology Fellow. Previously, he served as the
Chief Technical Consultant for quantum information science and
technology programs in the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency’s
Microsystems Technology Office while at Booz Allen Hamilton. Dr. Tahan
earned a Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and a
B.Sc. in Physics and Computer Science from the College of William &
Mary.

**<u>Dr. Jamil Abo-Shaeer, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
Committee</u>**

Dr. Jamil Abo-Shaeer is the CEO of Vector Atomic. He has over 20 years
of quantum technology experience across fields of industry, government,
and academia. His expertise includes business start-up, technology
transition, original scientific research, and the development and
management of research programs. In 2018, Dr. Abo-Shaeer co-founded
Vector Atomic to build quantum-based clocks and inertial sensors for
navigation, telecommunications, climate science, agriculture, and
geophysical exploration. Dr. Abo-Shaeer is a former program manager at
the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency where he initiated and
managed over 10 quantum technology programs focused on position,
navigation, and timing, material simulation, and biomedical imaging. Dr.
Abo-Shaeer received his Ph.D. in Physics from Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, where he studied the properties of ultracold atomic gases.
Dr. Abo-Shaeer received his B.A. in Physics from the University of
California, Berkeley.

**<u>Dr. Fred Chong, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
Committee</u>**

Dr. Fred Chong is the Seymour Goodman Professor in the Department of
Computer Science at the University of Chicago and the Chief Scientist
for Quantum Software at ColdQuanta. He is also the lead Principal
Investigator for the Enabling Practical-scale Quantum Computing Project,
a National Science Foundation Expedition in Computing program. In 2020,
he co-founded Super.tech, a quantum software company, which was acquired
by ColdQuanta in 2022. Dr. Chong received his Ph.D. from Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in 1996 and was a faculty member and
Chancellor’s fellow at University of California Davis from 1997 to 2005.
He was also a Professor of Computer Science, Director of Computer
Engineering, and Director of the Greenscale Center for Energy-Efficient
Computing at the University of California Santa Barbara from 2005 to
2015.

**<u>Dr. James S. Clarke, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
Committee</u>**

Dr. James S. Clarke is the Director of the Quantum Hardware research
group within Intel’s Components Research Organization. Dr. Clarke
launched Intel’s Quantum Computing effort in 2015. His group’s primary
focus is to use Intel’s process expertise to develop scalable qubit
arrays on 300 mm wafers. Prior to his current role, Dr. Clarke managed a
group focused on interconnect research at advanced technology nodes as
well as evaluating new materials and paradigms for interconnect
performance. He has also co-authored more than 100 papers and has over
50 patents. Prior to joining Intel in 2001, Dr. Clarke completed a B.S.
in Chemistry at Indiana University, a Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry at
Harvard University, and a post-doctoral fellowship in physical organic
chemistry at ETH, Zürich.

**<u>Dr. Deborah Ann Frincke, Member, National Quantum Initiative
Advisory Committee</u>**

Dr. Deborah Ann Frincke is the Associate Laboratories Director of
National Security Programs at Sandia National Laboratories, a
federally-funded research and development center focused on resolving
national security issues. Dr. Frincke leads staff and provides oversight
for projects supporting the U.S. Department of Defense, Intelligence
Community, and Department of Energy in areas including hyper-sonics,
advanced radar, microelectronics, cybersecurity, threat intelligence
assessments, artificial intelligence, and quantum. Previously, Dr.
Frincke served as Associate Laboratories Director for National Security
Sciences at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. There, she guided the
research and development of science-based solutions to complex threats
that put public safety, national defense, energy infrastructure, and the
economy at risk. She also served at the National Security Agency (NSA)
from 2011 to 2020, in capacities including being the Director of
Research, a NSA Science Advisor, and a NSA senior leadership team
member. Dr. Frincke is an Association for Computing Machinery Fellow and
holds a Ph.D. in Computer Science and Security from the University of
California, Davis.

**<u>Gilbert V. Herrera, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
Committee</u>**

Gilbert V. Herrera serves as the Director of Research at the National
Security Agency (NSA). The Research Directorate conducts research to
develop new and innovative techniques and technologies to enable the
Signals Intelligence and Cybersecurity missions of the NSA, as well as
joint-authority missions of the Intelligence Community and Department of
Defense. Herrera joined NSA in 2021 after nearly a 40-year career at
Sandia National Laboratories. Herrera also served as the Director of the
Laboratory for Physical Sciences and the Director of Microsystems
Science and Technology. Herrera was elected as a Fellow of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science in 2014 and is a senior
member of the Institute of Electrical Electronics and Engineers. He has
served on multiple academic, industrial, and government advisory boards
throughout his career.

**<u>Dr. Nadya Mason, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
Committee</u>**

Dr. Nadya Mason is the Rosalyn S. Yalow Professor of Physics at the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Her research focuses on the
electronic properties of small-scale materials, relevant to applications
involving nano-scale and quantum computing elements. She is the founding
Director of the Illinois Materials Research Science and Engineering
Center and was recently named Director of the Illinois Beckman Institute
for Advanced Science and Technology. Dr. Mason is currently Chair of the
American Physical Society (APS) Committee on Scientific Meetings, serves
on the APS Physics Policy Committee, and was in the 2018-2019 class of
the Defense Sciences Study Group. Dr. Mason is a member of the National
Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts.

**<u>Dr. William D. Oliver, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
Committee</u>**

Dr. William D. Oliver is the appointed Henry Ellis Warren Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Professor of Physics, and
Lincoln Laboratory Fellow at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
(MIT). He serves as the inaugural Director of the MIT Center for Quantum
Engineering and as Associate Director of the MIT Research Laboratory of
Electronics. Dr. Oliver’s research interests include the materials,
fabrication, design, and implementation of superconducting qubit
processors, as well as the development of cryogenic packaging and
control electronics for extensible quantum computing applications. Dr.
Oliver is a coauthor of more than 100 peer-reviewed manuscripts on
quantum science and technology, with contributions to the 2019 National
Academies consensus study report, “Quantum Computing: Progress and
Prospects.” He received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from
Stanford University and is a Fellow of the American Physical Society.

**<u>Dr. John Preskill, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
Committee</u>**

Dr. John Preskill is the Richard P. Feynman Professor of Theoretical
Physics and Director of the Institute for Quantum Information and Matter
at the California Institute of Technology (Caltech). He began his career
in particle physics and cosmology, but since the mid-1990s his main
research area has been quantum information science. Dr. Preskill’s
research contributions include proving security of quantum protocols,
proposing and analyzing methods for reliable storage and processing of
quantum information, identifying universal properties of quantum
entanglement in quantum many-body systems, and applying quantum
information theory to quantum gravity and black holes. In 2000, he
founded Caltech’s Institute for Quantum Information, which has grown to
currently be known as the Institute for Quantum Information and Matter.
Dr. Preskill is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and a
Fellow of the American Physical Society.

**<u>Dr. Mark B. Ritter, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
Committee</u>**

Dr. Mark B. Ritter is a Distinguished Research Scientist and Chair of
the Physical Sciences Council at International Business Machines (IBM)
where he oversees physics research in the global labs. Dr. Ritter led
the team which developed the IBM Quantum Experience, which is a quantum
computer with free access through the IBM cloud. Dr. Ritter is on the
Steering Committee of the Co-design Center for Quantum Advantage at
Brookhaven Lab and co-leads a quantum system co-design research thread
in that center. He was a member of the first governing board of the
Quantum Economic Development Consortium (QED-C) and has supported
quantum education, including Historically Black Colleges and
Universities and Minority Serving Institutions in the QED-C and in his
role at IBM and with the Co-Design Center for Quantum Advantage.

**<u>Dr. Robert J. Schoelkopf, Member, National Quantum Initiative
Advisory Committee</u>**

Dr. Robert J. Schoelkopf is the Sterling Professor of Applied Physics
and Physics at Yale University, and the Founding Director of the Yale
Quantum Institute. His research focuses on the development of
superconducting devices for quantum information processing. Dr.
Schoelkopf began his tenure at Yale as a postdoctoral researcher in 1995
and became a faculty member in 1998, becoming a full professor in 2003.
In 2015, he and his colleagues founded Quantum Circuits, Inc., a
venture-backed startup in New Haven working to build the world’s first
useful quantum computers. In 2015, Dr. Schoelkopf was elected to the
National Academy of Science.

**<u>Dr. Krysta M. Svore, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
Committee</u>**

Dr. Krysta M. Svore is a Distinguished Engineer and Vice President of
Quantum Software at Microsoft. Dr. Svore is a fellow of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science and the Washington State
Academy of Sciences. A Kavli Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences,
she has previously served as an advisor to the Information Sciences and
Technology Committee of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency,
and currently serves on the Advanced Scientific Computing Advisory
Committee at the Department of Energy, in addition to advising numerous
quantum centers and initiatives globally.

**<u>Dr. Jun Ye, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
Committee</u>**

Dr. Jun Ye is a Fellow of JILA and a Fellow of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology. He is a member of the National Academy of
Sciences, a Fellow of American Physical Society, and a Fellow of
Advancing Optics and Photonics Worldwide. His research focuses on
light-matter interactions and how that impacts quantum science,
ultracold quantum gases, precision measurement, and atomic clocks. Dr.
Ye has been a Vannevar Bush Fellow, a Foreign Member of the Chinese
Academy of Sciences, and a Frew Fellow of the Australian Academy of
Science.

**<u>Dr. Jinliu Wang, Member, National Quantum Initiative Advisory
Committee</u>**

Dr. Jinliu Wang currently serves as the Executive Vice President for
Research, Innovation and Knowledge, and as a professor in the Department
of Materials Science and Engineering at The Ohio State University. Dr.
Wang plays a lead role in expanding the University’s research, creative
expression and scholarship, accelerating technology commercialization,
stimulating entrepreneurship, and building strategic partnerships. Prior
to Ohio State, Dr. Wang held dual roles as Senior Vice Chancellor for
Research and Economic Development at the State University of New York
(SUNY) System and as Interim President of SUNY Polytechnic Institute.
She was also previously a professor in the Department of Materials
Design and Innovation at University at Buffalo. Prior to SUNY, Dr. Wang
served as Deputy Assistant Director for Engineering and acting Assistant
Director for Engineering at the National Science Foundation. Dr. Wang
received her Ph.D. in Materials Science and Engineering from
Northwestern University.

**<u>Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board</u>**

The U.S. Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (NWTRB) is an independent
federal agency in the executive branch of the U.S. Federal Government.
NWTRB’s purpose is to perform independent technical and scientific peer
review of the U.S. Department of Energy’s activities related to managing
and disposing of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel.
NWTRB reports its findings and recommendations to Congress and the
Secretary of Energy.

**<u>Dr. Nathan Siu, Member and Designated Chair, Nuclear Waste
Technical Review Board</u>**

Dr. Nathan Siu was a Senior Technical Adviser for Probabilistic Risk
Assessment at the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). Previously,
Dr. Siu was the chair of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development Nuclear Energy Agency Working Group on Risk Assessment,
where he served as a consultant on an International Atomic Energy Agency
project on advanced Probabilistic Risk Assessment methods. Prior to
joining NRC in 1997, Dr. Siu was an Engineering Fellow at the Idaho
National Engineering Laboratory, an Associate Professor of Nuclear
Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and an
Associate Consultant at Pickard, Lowe, and Garrick, Inc. He is a Fellow
of the American Nuclear Society and has authored more than 180 technical
papers and reports on risk assessment methods and applications, risk
metrics, risk communication, enterprise risk management, and
risk-related knowledge engineering.

**<u>Dr. Ronald G. Ballinger, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review
Board</u>**

Dr. Ronald G. Ballinger is a Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Science and
Engineering and Materials Science and Engineering at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (MIT). He was also head of the H.H. Uhlig
Corrosion Laboratory in the Department of Materials Science and
Engineering at MIT. After serving eight years in the nuclear Navy, Dr.
Ballinger received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Worcester
Polytechnic Institute in 1975; and earned his S.M. in Nuclear
Engineering in 1977, his S.M. in Materials Science and Engineering in
1978, and his Sc.D. in Nuclear Materials Engineering in 1982 from MIT.
His areas of research include environmental effects on material behavior
and component life, stress corrosion cracking and hydrogen embrittlement
in Light Water Reactor systems, environmental degradation of nuclear
waste canisters, and the effect of radiation on aqueous chemistry.
Professor Ballinger was appointed to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards in 2013 and was reappointed to
his third four-year term in 2021.

**<u>Dr. David. E. Daniel, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review
Board</u>**

Dr. David E. Daniel is President Emeritus of the University of Texas at
Dallas and a consulting engineer in Dallas, Texas. He earned his B.S.,
M.S., and Ph.D. in civil engineering from the University of Texas at
Austin. Dr. Daniel spent over three decades as an engineering professor
and researcher at UT Austin, the University of Illinois, and UT Dallas,
where his research focused on developing improved technologies for safe
containment of radioactive, chemical, and other types of buried waste.
He currently serves as President of the Texas Academy of Medicine,
Engineering, Science, and Technology, and as the Chairman of the
National Academy of Sciences’ Gulf Research Program Advisory Committee.

**<u>Dr. Teresa Fryberger, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review
Board</u>**

Dr. Teresa Fryberger currently consults for the American Chemical
Society, where she has played a lead role in the development of the
Society’s Campaign for a Sustainable Future. Throughout her career, Dr.
Fryberger has contributed to scientific research programs and policy in
the chemical and environmental sciences, including nuclear waste
management research and policy. Previously, Dr. Fryberger served as a
Senior Board Director at the National Academies of Sciences,
Engineering, and Medicine. Prior to that, she held executive positions
at the Department of Energy and two national laboratories, leading
research and development programs to address defense nuclear waste
management and working around the globe on nuclear waste management
research and technology. Dr. Fryberger earned her B.S. in Chemistry from
the University of Oklahoma in 1979, her Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry from
Northwestern University in 1986, and her postdoctoral training at the
National Institute of Standards and Technology.

**<u>Dr. Scott W. Tyler, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review
Board</u>**

Dr. Scott W. Tyler is a Foundation Professor in the Department of
Geological Sciences and Engineering at the University of Nevada, Reno.
Additionally, he is the co-director of the National Science Foundation
supported Centers for Transformative Environmental Monitoring Programs
(CTEMPs) Community User Facility, a facility focusing on the development
of innovative environmental sensing systems. With training in mechanical
engineering and hydrogeology, he has extensive experience on the fate
and transport of high-level and low-level commercial and defense-related
radioactive waste in the subsurface. He is a Fellow of the American
Geophysical Union, the Geological Society of America, and the Soil
Science Society of America. Dr. Tyler received a B.S.E. from the
University of Connecticut, a M.S. from the New Mexico Institute of
Mining and Technology, and a Ph.D. from University of Nevada, Reno.

**<u>Dr. Brian Woods, Member, Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board</u>**

Dr. Brian Woods is the school head and a professor in the School of
Nuclear Science and Engineering at Oregon State University (OSU).
Additionally, Dr. Woods holds the Henry W. and Janice J. Schuette Chair
in Nuclear Engineering and Radiation Health Physics. He began his tenure
at OSU in 2003, where he taught undergraduate and graduate courses on
applied thermal hydraulics, nuclear reactor safety, fluid dynamics,
nuclear rules and regulations, and the societal aspects of nuclear
technology. Dr. Woods served four years in the U.S. Navy as a diver and
later at the U.S. Department of Energy as an engineer within the Office
of Environmental Restoration. Prior to his tenure at OSU, he worked as a
Nuclear Safety Analyst for Dominion Energy. Dr. Woods received a B.S. in
Mechanical Engineering from the University of Virginia in 1988, and an
M.S. in 1991 and a Ph.D. in 2001 in Nuclear Engineering from the
University of Maryland.

\###
