---
date: '2022-12-14'
modified_time: 2022-12-16 18:18:43-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-14 12:03:11-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/14/fact-sheet-u-s-africa-partnerships-in-gender-equality-and-womens-empowerment/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Fact Sheet: U.S.-Africa Partnerships in Gender Equality and Women\u2019s\_\
  Empowerment"
---
 
Promoting gender equity and equality is a cornerstone of U.S. foreign
policy in Africa and around the world. Advancing the status of women and
girls is not only a matter of human rights, justice, and fairness—it is
also a strategic imperative that reduces poverty and promotes
sustainable economic growth, increases access to education, improves
health outcomes, advances political stability, and fosters democracy.  
  
At the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, Vice President Kamala Harris
announced new commitments to advance women’s economic participation in
Africa, including the African Women’s Trade and Investment Project and
the revitalization of the African Women’s Entrepreneurship Program. 
These programs build upon a range of Administration initiatives to
foster women’s economic, political, and social inclusion on the
continent—many which advance the Administration’s priority to drive
gender equality and equity investments and gender-aligned infrastructure
development through the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment.  
  
**<u>Women’s Economic Participation</u>**  
  
**Advancing Women’s Entrepreneurship and Equality:** The U.S.
International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) announced [$358
million of new
investments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/14/fact-sheet-u-s-africa-partnership-in-promoting-two-way-trade-and-investment-in-africa/),
including projects under DFC’s 2X Women’s Initiative, which has
catalyzed billions of dollars of projects owned by women, led by women,
or empowering women.  Investments include support for innovative
entrepreneurship approaches, including an equity investment up to $15
million equity in the Norrsken22 Africa Fund, a women-led fund investing
in high-impact technology companies across Africa, which will support
entrepreneurship and technological advancements in finance, medicine,
and education; a $20 million loan to One Acre Fund, which will provide
financing for agricultural inputs, aiming to increase farm yields in
Sub-Saharan Africa, with a strong focus on female farmers; and a $25
million investment in the Uhuru Growth Fund I-A, which will provide
needed growth capital to small- and medium-sized enterprises in West
Africa, including women-led businesses.  
  
At the U.S.-Africa Business Forum, Millennium Challenge Corporation
(MCC) announced a [Regional Transport
Compact](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/14/fact-sheet-u-s-africa-partnership-in-promoting-two-way-trade-and-investment-in-africa/)
with the governments of Niger and Benin that includes $7.5 million for
entrepreneurship and training programs for women and youth, to mitigate
HIV/AIDS, gender-based violence, trafficking in persons risks, and road
enhancements to support poor and vulnerable women who sell their goods
along the transport corridors. Earlier this year, MCC also signed a new
Health and Horticulture Compact with the government of Lesotho that
provides an estimated $21 million to advance women’s entrepreneurship,
including pursuing reforms such as land rights for women, inheritance
rights for daughters, stronger labor rights for agricultural workers,
and protections against domestic violence.     
  
**African Women’s Entrepreneurship Program (AWEP):** The Vice President
announced plans to provide $1 million for AWEP, which will provide small
grants to train women entrepreneurs and support women-owned businesses
in sub-Saharan Africa.  
  
**Accelerating Women’s Participation in Green Jobs:** The Department of
State will launch the Accelerating Women’s Empowerment in Energy (AWEE)
project with an initial investment of $1 million to help secure women’s
economic future through green jobs, with a focus on Kenya and South
Africa.  The program will provide grants to local organizations to
address barriers to women’s entry, promotion, and retention in the
workforce.  USAID Power Africa is launching a new activity to support
women’s participation in the energy sector in Nigeria through training
and capacity building, policies that promote gender equity in the
workforce; and job placement.  
  
**Mobilizing Networks for Dignified Work:** The Department of State will
launch the Middle East and North Africa Employers for Gender Equitable
and Inclusive Workplace Policies initiative with an investment of $3.5
million to help create employer policies and practices that are
gender-equitable, inclusive, improve the security of employed women,
including advocating for national legislation in Algeria, Morocco, and
Tunisia. The project engages with local and multinational companies,
governments, and civil society organizations representing women
workers.  
  
**Economic Security for Survivors of Trafficking:** The Department of
State will launch the Fostering Economic Security Through Enhanced
Reintegration Support for Victims of Trafficking program with an initial
investment of $1 million. This project will enhance and extend
reintegration options for trafficking survivors who choose to pursue
entrepreneurship by developing tools and capacity building, increasing
and extending support, and enhancing monitoring. Countries that may
benefit from global programming are Ghana and Nigeria.  
  
**<u>Technology and Innovation  
</u>**  
[**Initiative on Digital Transformation with
Africa**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/14/fact-sheet-new-initiative-on-digital-transformation-with-africa-dta/)
**(DTA)**: Working with Congress, this signature initiative of the
Biden-Harris Administration intends to invest over $350 million and
facilitate over $450 million in financing for Africa to foster the
growth of a healthy, inclusive, and resilient digital ecosystem in
Africa. DTA will prioritize addressing gender and other social digital
divides and accelerating women’s empowerment through and within the
digital ecosystem.  
  
**<u>Gender-Based Violence and Human Rights</u>**  
  
**Addressing Gender-Based Online Harassment and Abuse:** At the
U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, the United States announced Kenya’s
membership as one of the newest partner governments in the Global
Partnership for Action on Gender-Based Online Harassment and Abuse. 
First launched at the Summit for Democracy, the Global Partnership
brings together countries, international organizations, civil society,
and the private sector to address the growing scourge of
technology-facilitated gender-based violence, including developing and
advancing shared principles; increasing targeted programming and
resources; and improving data collection on this scourge.  Furthermore,
USAID Administrator Power announced at the Civil Society Forum the
launch of the Transform Digital Spaces program. Working with Congress,
the program plans to invest $1.3 million to pilot practical activities
in Africa to prevent, respond to, and mitigate the risk of technology
facilitated gender-based violence, [including perpetrated against women
in politics and public
life](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/15/fact-sheet-u-s-africa-partnership-in-promoting-peace-security-and-democratic-governance/).  
  
**Combating Gender-Based Violence in the Workplace: ** Earlier this
year, MCC signed a new Compact with Malawi, which includes a $4 million
Market Regulation for Inclusive Growth program to support stronger and
more effective regulation of gender-based violence in markets and
associated transport services.  This includes pervasive price
discrimination, sexual harassment, and targeted theft that affects women
traders.  This program will work with market committees, NGOs, and
various public sector stakeholders to identify effective regulatory
mechanisms across the 5-year Compact period.  
  
**Strengthening Respect for Human Rights of Women:** Working with
Congress, the State Department will launch the Holding Rights, Leading
for Rights initiative with a $1 million investment to increase the
resources and technical capacity of women with disabilities in West
Africa to seek equal treatment under the law, effectively demand their
rights, and reduce stigma and harmful practices.    
  
**<u>Health</u>**  
  
**[Advancing Equity in the Global Health
Workforce](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/13/fact-sheet-u-s-africa-partnership-in-health-cooperation/):**
Around the world 70% of health workers are women, but many are unpaid
for their critical contributions to health and the economy. Last May,
the White House launched the [Global Health Worker
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/11/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-global-health-worker-initiative/)
(GHWI), recognizing that a comprehensive, trained, protected,
well-equipped, and supported health workforce is foundational to
expanding equitable access to public health services. One pillar of the
GHWI is focused on expanding equity and inclusion. As part of the GHWI,
the Administration plans to work with Congress to invest $1.33 billion
annually from 2022 to 2024 in the health workforce in the Africa region,
for a total of at least $4 billion by Fiscal Year 2025.  
  
**Improving Health System Resilience by Investing in Women-Led Funds:** 
DFC and USAID will partner with the Transform Health Fund, a majority
women-led fund that brings together government, donor, and commercial
investments under the leadership of AfricInvest and the Health Finance
Coalition to finance enterprises that improve health system resilience
and pandemic preparedness across the continent. DFC and USAID will
finalize $10 million in equity financing and $1 million in catalytic
grant funding respectively. The Fund will also promote women in
leadership positions across its pipeline and target female consumers
while ensuring that at least 30% of its portfolio is aligned with 2X
criteria, DFCs flagship program to support women’s economic empowerment
in emerging markets.  
  
**<u>Women, Peace, and Security</u>**  
  
**Fostering Women’s Inclusion in Peace and Security Processes:** The
Department of State, though the Support Her Empowerment – Women’s
Inclusion in New Security (SHE WINS) initiative announced at the Summit
for Democracy, will invest $1.5 million in a new project to strengthen
the leadership of local women and women-led civil society organizations
to address peace and security challenges in their communities.  This
program will support women’s participation in local peace building and
security processes through targeted initiatives, including in Cameroon
and the Democratic Republic of Congo.

\###
