---
date: '2022-12-19'
modified_time: 2022-12-19 08:45:08-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-19 09:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-plan-to-prevent-and-end-homelessness/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Plan to Prevent and\
  \ End\_Homelessness"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration released [*All In: The Federal
Strategic Plan to Prevent and End
Homelessness*](https://www.usich.gov/news/after-halting-rapid-rise-in-homelessness-biden-harris-administration-announces-plan-to-reduce-homelessness-25-by-2025)*,* which
sets a bold but achievable goal to reduce homelessness 25 percent by
2025. The plan is the most ambitious effort by any administration to
prevent people from becoming homeless, address inequities that
disproportionately impact underserved communities, including people of
color and other marginalized groups, and help cities and states reduce
unsheltered homelessness. To reach that goal, *All In* outlines new
strategies to prevent homelessness and increase the supply of housing
with supportive services. These strategies build on the proven “Housing
First” model— an approach where housing is the first step to a better,
safer, and healthier life and serves as a platform for providing
services so that people can stay housed. ***All In *also sets the
foundation for new initiatives, including one to reduce unsheltered
homelessness in a cohort of geographically diverse communities that is
being announced today.**

 In the plan, President Biden calls on state and local governments to
set their own goals for 2025 and to use *All In* as a blueprint for
addressing homelessness in their communities. “My plan offers a roadmap
for not only getting people into housing but also ensuring that they
have access to the support, services, and income that allow them to
thrive,” said President Biden. “It is a plan that is grounded in the
best evidence and aims to improve equity and strengthen collaboration at
all levels.”

*All In *builds on the Obama-Biden Administration efforts to prevent and
reduce homelessness, including the use of proven strategies that led to
a significant drop in homelessness between 2010 and 2016. Unfortunately,
between 2016 and the beginning of the pandemic, some of those gains were
reversed due to a lack of focus on evidence-based strategies and the
number of people experiencing homelessness increased 6%.  [New data
released
today](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_22_253)
by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)\[PECE1\]  shows
that further increases in homelessness were largely avoided despite the
economic crisis created by the COVID*–*19 pandemic –in large part
because of the Biden administration’s robust response, including
critical assistance in the American Rescue Plan and a historic economic
recovery. According to HUD data, 582,462 people were experiencing
homelessness on a single night in January 2022 – a slight .3% increase
since 2020.

Because the Administration kept the national eviction moratorium in
place until August 2021 and support from the American Rescue Plan,
evictions were prevented and many vulnerable families were able to stay
in their homes. The Emergency Rental Assistance program from the
American Rescue Plan delivered over 8 million payments to provide rental
or utility assistance to individuals at risk for eviction or housing
instability. And, the expanded Child Tax Credit helped drive child
poverty to record lows in 2021. As a result, eviction filings remained
more than 20 percent below historic averages in the 12 months following
the expiration of the national eviction moratorium.

In addition, the *House America* initiative, which leverages federal
support for state and local governments provided through the American
Rescue Plan, is on track to find permanent housing for more than 100,000
people experiencing homelessness and add more than 20,000 units of
affordable housing into the pipeline by the end of December. The
Department of Veterans Affairs also recently announced that it will
likely exceed its goal of providing 38,000 permanent housing placements
to homeless veterans by the end of 2022. President Biden’s [*Housing
Supply Action
Plan*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/) announced
federal actions designed to create more affordable rental housing that
will help close the housing supply gap, which is driving up costs and
making it more challenging for Americans to find housing. 

Despite overall homelessness remaining relatively flat, the number of
people experiencing unsheltered homelessness—including people living in
cars and tents—rose by 3%. This recent rise in unsheltered homelessness
stems from a number of factors, including: decades of growing income
inequality; rising rents and limited housing supply; the pandemic’s
impact on shelters and other services; criminalization of homelessness
that makes it harder for people to find housing and jobs due to arrest
and conviction records; and inadequate access to health care (including
mental health and substance use treatment) and job training.  
  
Ending unsheltered homelessness will require a coordinated effort to
promote healthy and safe communities where all can live in dignity.
Effective practices, such as using an emergency management approach to
resolve encampments by rapidly moving people into housing with services
and supports, are starting to emerge as national models.  Although each
community is different, and there is no one-size-fits-all solution,
these practices could be successfully replicated in communities facing
the growing challenge of unsheltered homelessness.  
  
The White House and the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH)
are announcing a new initiative dedicated to partnering with state and
local governments to improve and accelerate their efforts to get people
off the streets and into homes. Nineteen federal agencies commit to
accelerate implementation of effective state and local strategies that
target unsheltered homelessness.   
  
**Early next year, the White House and the U.S. Interagency Council on
Homelessness will begin working with a cohort of cities and states that
will receive:**

-   **Full-time federal assistance:** A community response team will
    develop and execute a new local strategy over two years to reduce
    unsheltered homelessness. The team will be made up of a full-time
    lead and part-time federal program experts, including a USICH senior
    regional advisor, who will work in partnership with elected and
    local leaders, homeless service providers, and people who have prior
    or current experience of homelessness.
-   **Maximum flexibility and regulatory relief: **The community
    response teams will identify problems and USICH will lead a task
    force to identify solutions and minimize red tape and bureaucratic
    processes.
-   **Technical support and additional capacity: **The federal
    government will help participating communities utilize and analyze
    all available data.
-   **Volunteer support:** Agencies will provide volunteers for outreach
    to people experiencing homelessness and access to peer-to-peer
    networks to exchange best practices and approaches.

USICH will lead implementation of the overall initiative and will
establish a Federal Response Leadership Team to coordinate the overall
response, develop tools and guidance, track progress and report to its
Council leadership, and elevate issues that cannot be resolved.

\###
