---
date: '2022-12-05'
modified_time: 2022-12-06 10:53:27-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-05 16:25:21-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/05/u-s-eu-joint-statement-of-the-trade-and-technology-council/
tags: statements-releases
title: "U.S.-EU Joint Statement of the Trade and Technology\_Council"
---
 
**I. Introduction**

The U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council (TTC) met outside Washington,
D.C., on December 5, 2022.  The meeting was co-chaired by U.S. Secretary
of State Antony Blinken, U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo, U.S.
Trade Representative Katherine Tai, European Commission Executive Vice
President Margrethe Vestager, and European Commission Executive Vice
President Valdis Dombrovskis, joined by U.S. Deputy Under Secretary of
Labor Thea Lee, Jamaica Minister for Information Communication
Technology Floyd Green, and Kenya Cabinet Secretary for Information,
Communication and the Digital Economy Eliud Owalo.    
   
The TTC is a key mechanism to support stronger transatlantic relations
and to deliver concrete outcomes.  We reaffirm that international
rules-based approaches to trade, technology, and innovation that are
founded on solid democratic principles and values can improve the lives
of our citizens and generate greater prosperity for people around the
world.  Through the TTC’s ten working groups, we are supporting
sustainable, inclusive economic growth and development, promoting a
human-centric approach to the digital transformation, and ensuring that
international norms and the international trade rulebook are respected
and reflect our shared values. We will continue to work together to
modernize and reform the World Trade Organization (WTO) as set out in
the WTO MC12 Outcome Document.  
  
Geostrategic challenges, including Russia’s full-scale invasion of
Ukraine and increased assertiveness of autocratic regimes, have
reinforced the importance of our shared democratic values, commitment to
universal human rights, and leadership role in upholding an
international rules-based order.  The United States and the European
Union reiterate our strong condemnation of Russia’s illegal and
unjustifiable war of aggression against Ukraine and reaffirm our
unwavering commitment to stand firmly with Ukraine for as long as it
takes to ensure Ukraine’s sovereignty, independence, and territorial
integrity.  We condemn attacks by Russia on Ukraine’s infrastructure and
will continue supporting Ukraine in securing, maintaining, and
rebuilding this infrastructure, including its telecommunications and
internet infrastructure. We resolve to continue to impose severe and
immediate costs on Russia and hold it accountable for its brutal war
against Ukraine, including through unprecedented cooperation on
sanctions-related export restrictions, and countering Russian
disinformation.  We will also hold Belarus to account for its complicity
in Russia’s war. The TTC Working Groups on Export Controls and on Misuse
of Technology have made critical contributions to this successful and
ongoing collaboration. The TTC Working Groups on Data Governance and
Technology Platforms and on Misuse of Technology Threatening Security
and Human Rights are coordinating to understand and address the spread
of Russian information manipulation and interference, particularly in
the context of Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, and its impact on
third countries, notably in Africa and Latin-America.  
   
The impact on our supply chains of Russia’s full-scale invasion of
Ukraine has further underscored that we share an urgent need to identify
and address supply chain vulnerabilities. The United States and the
European Union recognize that the concentration of resources in key
supply chains can expose our economies to challenging disruptions.  We
plan to explore coordinated actions to foster diversification and make
key supply chains more resilient.  
   
To support our shared desire of tackling climate change, the United
States and the European Union intend to launch a new Transatlantic
Initiative for Sustainable Trade to advance our shared objective of
achieving a green and sustainable future. We also took stock of the work
of the dedicated U.S.-EU Task Force on the Inflation Reduction Act and
noted the preliminary progress made. We acknowledge the EU’s concerns
and underline our commitment to address them constructively. We
underline the TTC’s role in achieving this and in supporting a
successful and mutually supportive green transition with strong, secure,
and diverse supply chains that benefit businesses, workers, and
consumers on both sides of the Atlantic.  
   
The United States and the European Union are establishing a Talent for
Growth Task Force that will pursue our collective objective to recognize
and develop the talent of our working-age populations.  
    
**II. Key Outcomes of the Third TTC Ministerial**

**A. Digital Infrastructure and Connectivity**

**Joint Initiatives with Jamaica** **and Kenya  
**  
The United States and the European Union are supporting secure and
resilient digital connectivity and information and communication
technology and services (ICTS) supply chains in third countries,
provided by trusted suppliers.  As a first step, we intend to support
inclusive ICTS projects in Jamaica and Kenya based on our common
overarching principles.  This work reflects our commitments under our
Global Gateway and Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment
initiatives.

-   **Cooperation on connectivity with Jamaica: ** In cooperation with
    the government of Jamaica and other Jamaican stakeholders, we will
    connect over 1,000 public schools and children’s homes around
    Jamaica to robust, inclusive, and secure internet service,
    strengthen the digital competencies of teachers, and support the use
    of digital technologies by micro-, small-, and medium-sized
    enterprises.  Our efforts will also assist Jamaica’s electric
    utility, Jamaica Public Service, to expand reliable and trustworthy
    public Wi-Fi infrastructure in the New Kingston neighborhood of
    Jamaica’s capital, with the potential to expand the service across
    the country.  We also intend to support secure and resilient rural
    broadband connectivity provided by trusted suppliers in the
    country.   
-   **Cooperation on connectivity with Kenya: ** In cooperation with the
    government of Kenya, we will support the implementation of Kenya’s
    2022-2032 National Digital Masterplan by expanding school
    connectivity in Kenya and bridging gaps in last-mile connectivity. 
    First efforts will include a study on scalable solutions to expand
    school connectivity in Kenya, building fiber optic connections to
    schools in remote areas, a policy roadmap for affordable, secure,
    trustworthy and meaningful connectivity, and training options to
    develop the next generation of digital professionals.  We also will
    provide technical assistance to help Kenya update its Information
    and Communications Act and 5G Strategy in line with the principles
    set for high-quality global infrastructure projects at the TTC
    meeting in Paris-Saclay, France on May 16, 2022.

The United States and the European Union intend to expand our
coordination on financing digital infrastructure projects in third
countries, including through a Memorandum of Understanding between the
U.S. Development Finance Corporation (DFC) and the European Investment
Bank (EIB), which aims to enable increased collaboration on financing
for secure connectivity in third countries.  
  
**Future Secure Connectivity Projects  
**  
The United States and the European Union recognize the importance of
cooperating on trust and security in the ICT ecosystem.  We welcome
projects that strengthen the resilience of that ecosystem, including
subsea cables. The TTC Working Group on ICTS security and
competitiveness intends to discuss transatlantic subsea cables’
connectivity and security, including alternative routes, such as the
transatlantic route to connect Europe, North America and Asia. We also
welcome supplier diversification efforts in ICTS supply chains and
continue to discuss market trends towards open, interoperable
approaches, alongside trusted, established architectures, in a
technology neutral way.   
  
**B. Cooperation on New and Emerging Technologies**  
  
**Artificial Intelligence (AI) Roadmap and Pilot Project on
Privacy-Enhancing Technologies and Collaboration on AI and Computing
Research for the Public Good**  
  
To fulfill our commitment on developing and implementing trustworthy AI,
the United States and the European Union have issued a first [Joint
Roadmap on Evaluation and Measurement
Tools](https://www.nist.gov/artificial-intelligence/ai-policy-contributions)
for Trustworthy AI and Risk Management (AI Roadmap) and collected
perspectives from relevant stakeholders.  This roadmap will inform our
approaches to AI risk management and trustworthy AI on both sides of the
Atlantic, and advance collaborative approaches in international
standards bodies related to AI.  In conjunction with this effort, we aim
to build a shared repository of metrics for measuring AI trustworthiness
and risk management methods, which would support ongoing work in other
settings such as the OECD and GPAI.  Our cooperation will enable
trustworthy AI systems that enhance innovation, lower barriers to trade,
bolster market competition, operationalize common values, and protect
the universal human rights and dignity of our citizens.  
  
Recognizing the importance of privacy in advancing responsible AI
development, the United States and the European Union will work on a
pilot project to assess the use of privacy enhancing technologies and
synthetic data in health and medicine, in line with applicable data
protection rules.  
  
A [joint
study](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2022/12/05/the-impact-of-artificial-intelligence-on-the-future-of-workforces-in-the-european-union-and-the-united-states-of-america/)
on the impact of AI on the workforce was finalized, with U.S. and EU
case studies on hiring and logistics.  
  
The United States and European Commission intend to bring together
experts to explore collaboration on research projects in artificial
intelligence and computing, that can benefit other partner countries and
the global scientific community. This cooperation will aim at jointly
addressing challenges in key focus areas such as extreme weather and
climate forecasting; health and medicine; electric grid optimization;
agriculture optimization; and emergency response management.  
  
**Collaboration on Quantum**  
  
The United States and the European Union plan to establish an expert
task force to reduce barriers to research and development collaboration
on quantum information science and technology, develop common frameworks
for assessing technology readiness, discuss intellectual property, and
export control-related issues as appropriate, and work together to
advance international standards. This approach could serve as a basis
for more enhanced cooperation in other emerging technology areas.

**Electric Vehicle Charging**  
  
On May 16, 2022, at the TTC meeting in Paris-Saclay, the United States
and the European Union decided to cooperate on **Megawatt Charging
Systems (MCS) standard for heavy-duty vehicles.  **We welcome the
progress on the physical prototype developed by industry.  We intend to
continue working towards a common international standard to be adopted
by 2024 at the latest to provide the highest level of interoperability,
safety and security.  
  
In parallel, we intend to develop in 2023 joint recommendations for
government-funded implementation of **electro-mobility charging
infrastructure** that aims to advance electric vehicle adoption in the
United States and the European Union, as well as recommendations for
future public demonstrations of **Vehicle to Grid Integration pilots**.
 As intermediate steps, the United States and the European Union
organized a stakeholder conference, are publishing the results of the
ongoing research work, and have prepared [public
information](https://www.energy.gov/ia/articles/us-eu-trade-and-technology-council-work-electro-mobility-and-interoperability-smart)
on vehicle-to-grid integration and smart charging interoperability.  
  
**Other Standards and Research Cooperation**  
  
We have launched workstreams to increase standards cooperation on
**Additive Manufacturing, Recycling of Plastics, and Digital Identity**,
with plans to launch new workstreams on **Post-Quantum Encryption** and
**Internet of Things (IoT)**, with an initial focus on technical and
performance standards for cybersecurity to be discussed in the U.S.-EU
Cyber Dialogue.  
  
Following the signing of the Administrative Arrangement in May 2022, we
rolled out the **Strategic Standards Information (SSI)** mechanism,
which will enable the United States and European Union to voluntarily
share information about international standardization activities and
promptly react to common strategic issues.  This mechanism will enable
deepened cooperation to help shape global standards at international
institutions such as the International Telecommunication Union (ITU),
where we look forward to working with all ITU members and its new
leadership.  
Looking to the next TTC ministerial, and in coordination with key
stakeholders, the United States and the EU intend to develop a common
vision on research and development beyond 5G and 6G.

**C. Building Resilient Semiconductor Supply Chains**

Since the TTC ministerial meeting in Paris-Saclay, the United States
passed the CHIPS and Science Act into law, and the European Chips Act
has made steady progress in the co-legislative process.  The United
States and the European Union recognize the importance of cooperating on
promoting resilient supply chains.

To achieve this, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European
Commission are entering into an administrative arrangement to implement
an early warning mechanism to address and mitigate semiconductor supply
chain disruptions in a cooperative way.  The mechanism draws on the
results of last summer’s pilot in which the United States and the
European Union explored and tested approaches to the exchange of
information and cooperation in case of disruptive events.  
  
Transparency is a key tool to avoid concerns over public support
programs.  Today, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European
Commission are entering into an administrative arrangement memorializing
a common mechanism for reciprocal sharing of information about public
support provided to the semiconductor sector to support transparency.
 We intend to work with other likeminded countries to make similar
commitments to transparency.   
  
For our respective public support programs, we will also seek to
exchange information and methodologies, share best practices, and
develop a common understanding of market dynamics.  This includes:

1.  Working with industry to promote initiatives aimed at advancing the
    transparency of demand for semiconductors;  
2.  Improving our understanding of forecasted global semiconductor
    demand to inform our common policy objective of avoiding over
    capacity and bottlenecks.  For this purpose, we expect to meet
    regularly and share information on demand forecast methodologies;  
3.  Exchanging information and best practices regarding investment
    approaches and terms and conditions for public support;  
4.  Exchanging areas of interest and exploring cooperative initiatives
    in research in semiconductors.

Building on this baseline of transparency, cooperation on potential
disruptions, and a common understanding of global demand, we will work
to avoid subsidy races and market distortions, and ensure a more
resilient, sustainable and innovative semiconductors value chain.     
  
**D. Promoting Our Values Online**  
  
**Declaration for the Future of the Internet**  
  
The principles of the Declaration for the Future of the Internet (DFI) –
protection of universal human rights and fundamental freedoms, a global
internet, and inclusive and affordable access to the Internet– are
global in scope and enjoy support from the United States and the
European Union.    The United States and the European Union again
demonstrated their commitment to these principles on November 2, 2022,
in Prague, where they engaged with the multi-stakeholder community,
welcomed new countries that endorsed the Declaration, and reaffirmed
their commitment to its vision and principles.   
  
**Protecting Human Rights Defenders Online**  
  
The United States and the European Union are deepening cooperation and
mutual learning between U.S.- and EU-funded emergency mechanisms, in
order to expand resources in support of human rights defenders
worldwide.  We promote an open, free, global, interoperable, reliable,
and secure Internet, in line with universal human rights, and seek to
eliminate the use of arbitrary and unlawful surveillance to target human
rights defenders. To underline our shared commitments, the European
Union and the United States have [released a joint
statement](https://www.state.gov/joint-statement-on-protecting-human-rights-defenders-online/)
on protecting human rights defenders online.  
  
**Addressing Internet Shutdowns**  
  
The United States and the European Union reiterate our alarm at the
increasingly entrenched practice of government-imposed Internet
shutdowns.  To address this issue, we have facilitated the creation of a
multi-stakeholder group of technical experts who will document Internet
shutdowns and their effects on society as rapidly and comprehensively as
possible.  The group released its [first
report](https://ooni.org/post/2022-iran-technical-multistakeholder-report/)
on recent Internet shutdowns.  We look forward to drawing on the
findings of this report and future ones in our diplomatic work.

**E. Enhancing Transatlantic Trade**

**Increasing the Use of Digital Tools**  
  
Digital technology can make it easier for companies, particularly small-
and medium-sized enterprises, to engage in trade.  Prior to the next TTC
co-chairs meeting, the United States and the European Union therefore
plan to compile and exchange information on respective initiatives to
use digital technology to simplify or reduce the cost of commercial
actors’ interactions with our governments in relation to trade-related
policy, legal requirements, or regulatory requirements.  The United
States and the European Union intend to then build on this information
exchange to develop joint best practices for the use of digital tools
and to discuss how best to promote compatibility of such digital
tools.  
  
**Mutual Recognition Agreements and Conformity Assessment-Related
Initiatives**  
  
The United States and the European Union recognize the importance of
mutual recognition agreements and conformity assessment-related
initiatives for U.S. and EU stakeholders engaged in transatlantic trade
in a range of sectors.  Before the next TTC co-chairs meeting, the
United States and the European Union plan to explore ways in which the
increased use of digital technology, where permissible, may help U.S.
and EU stakeholders better utilize existing mutual recognition
agreements to facilitate increased transatlantic trade.  
  
The United States and the European Union will also explore the
feasibility of extending the scope of the existing U.S.-EU Marine
Equipment Mutual Recognition Agreement to include certain radio
equipment.   
  
The United States and the European Union also support regulators’ work
on considering the necessary steps to extend the scope of the EU-U.S.
Mutual Recognition Agreement annex for Pharmaceutical Good Manufacturing
Practices to include vaccines and plasma-derived pharmaceuticals for
human use, as discussed by the Joint Sectoral Committee.  
  
With a view to providing mutual benefits and enhancing transatlantic
trade, the United States and the European Union will continue exploring
opportunities to improve cooperation in conformity assessment, including
in machinery and other sectors.  This work will include exploring
opportunities to improve cooperation on horizontal approaches to
conformity assessment.  

**F. Trade, Security and Economic Prosperity**

**Cooperation on Export Controls and Sanction-Related Export
Restrictions**  
  
Regarding cooperation on export control, we are looking at how to
simplify transatlantic trade with regard to exports and re-exports of
dual-use items and technologies while ensuring appropriate protection
against misuse through pilot exchange of information on the disposition
of U.S. exports to Europe and vice versa. We are facilitating trade
between the United States and the European Union by more coordinated
adoption and publication of multilateral control list revisions. We
continue to consult on new regulatory actions. We are also planning to
conduct coordinated export control outreach with partners. We are taking
additional steps to enhance enforcement collaboration between the United
States and the European Union, including through the exchange of best
practices as appropriate and with a view to promoting the consistent
application of sanction-related export restrictions targeting Russia and
Belarus through regular information exchange, including regarding
authorization and denial decisions.  Lastly, the United States and the
European Union will cooperate on the export controls of sensitive and
emerging technologies, while ensuring appropriate protection against
misuse with a view to facilitate legitimate transatlantic trade and
research interests.  
  
**Investment Screening**  
  
We have deepened our cooperation on investment screening through
technical exchanges, including an in-person tabletop exercise in
Brussels. We also continue to discuss security risks related to specific
sensitive technologies, including those related to critical
infrastructure, and to holistically assess the policy tools available to
address these risks. The United States and the European Union underscore
the importance of comprehensive, robust foreign investment screening
mechanisms on both sides of the Atlantic in order to address risks to
national security and, within the European Union, for public order,
while remaining open for investment.  The United States and the European
Union will continue to support the development and implementation of
these mechanisms. The working group will be hosting a public stakeholder
outreach event on the work of the Investment Screening Working Group in
mid-December.  
  
**Addressing Non-Market Economic Policies and Practices**  
  
The United States and the European Union have shared concerns about the
threat posed by a range of non-market policies and practices, such as
those used in the medical devices sector and those involving
government-owned or government-controlled investment funds. Following
input received from stakeholders, the United States and the European
Union have started exchanging information on the market situation of
U.S. and EU medical devices companies in China, in order to better
understand the impact of non-market policies and practices on U.S. and
EU companies. The United States and the European Union are also
deepening their exchanges to identify shared concerns relating to
increasing use of the aforementioned investment funds. The two sides
plan to work together on exploring which policy tools could address
non-market policies and practices, including those affecting our medical
devices companies. To that end, we will continue building a shared
understanding of China’s economic and industrial directives and other
non-market policies and practices, and develop coordinated action to
foster supply chain diversification, build resilience to economic
coercion, and reduce dependencies.  
  
**Addressing Economic Coercion**  
  
The United States and the European Union are increasingly concerned with
the use of economic coercion that that seeks to undermine our legitimate
choices and those of our partners at all levels of development, as well
as global security and stability. We resolve to identify and address
economic coercion and explore potential coordinated or joint efforts,
bilaterally and with other likeminded partners, to improve our
assessment, preparedness, resilience, deterrence, and responses to
economic coercion.     
**  
G. Trade-Related Environment, Labor, and Health Initiatives**

**Transatlantic Initiative on Sustainable Trade**  
   
The United States and the European Union have already taken, and will
continue to take, important policy steps to reduce carbon emissions and
promote the accelerated deployment and uptake of environmental
technologies.  Today we launch a transatlantic initiative on sustainable
trade.    
This initiative will enhance work across the TTC that strives to support
the transition to low-carbon economies by identifying actions in key
areas of trade and environmental sustainability that support our shared
twin goals of a green and sustainable future and to increase
transatlantic trade and investment. We intend to explore areas of
cooperation to support these twin goals, including where there is
opportunity to measurably decarbonize our energy intensive industries,
and facilitate the deployment of goods and services essential to the
transition to more circular, and net-zero, economies.  
**  
Trade and** **Labor** **Dialogue**  
   
The first principal-level session of Trade and Labor Dialogue (TALD)
offered an opportunity to exchange views with senior representatives
from labor, business, and government on both sides of the Atlantic.
 During today’s meeting, we built on the technical meeting of September
20, 2022 and discussed the critical importance of eradicating forced
labor in global trade and supply chains.  We explored how we can
translate shared transatlantic values concerning combatting forced labor
into concrete actions that promote internationally recognized labor
rights, and promote resilient and sustainable trade and supply chains.
   
   
**Health Information for Research  
**  
The United States and the European Union intend to work together
intensively in the appropriate fora to facilitate the exchange of health
information to support research, innovation, and advancements in public
health in compliance with applicable legal requirements governing the
protection of data, including the protection of health data.  
   
**H. Developing Talent for the Digital Transition and Economic
Growth**  
   
The United States and the European Union are launching a Talent for
Growth Task Force that will bring together government and private sector
leaders from business, labor, and organizations that provide training,
building on existing initiatives on both sides of the Atlantic.  The
goal of the task force is to exchange best practices, and to serve as a
catalyst for innovative skills policies.  
   
We have a collective objective to develop systems of training for our
working-age populations and means of recognizing the talent of all our
people. The Talent for Growth Task Force will advise the TTC on the
actions needed to achieve this. It will work with and encourage our
respective communities to learn from each other, promote common
taxonomies and tools, and inspire innovation on training programs;
engage the public on the rewarding careers in technology sectors,
including a focus on underrepresented communities; exchange on training
programs that meet the changing demands of the market; build a skilled
workforce that fosters growth and uninterrupted supply chains;
facilitate small- and medium-sized businesses access to relevant skilled
professionals  to foster competition; and help generate middle-income
jobs to create a more resilient and equitable middle class.  
   
**III. Conclusion**  
   
These outcomes represent tangible progress across all workstreams
established under the TTC.  We are committed to advancing these projects
and developing new ones as we deepen and grow the transatlantic economic
relationship, based on our shared values and principles.  The co-chairs
intend to meet again in mid-2023 in Europe to review our joint work and
discuss new ways to expand our partnership.  
 

\###
