---
date: '2022-12-22'
modified_time: 2022-12-22 15:14:49-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-22 15:14:48-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/22/what-they-are-saying-president-biden-delivers-electric-mail-trucks-clean-air-and-lower-costs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING:  President\_Biden Delivers Electric Mail Trucks, Clean\
  \ Air, and Lower\_Costs"
---
 
This week, President Biden delivered four major wins to advance our
nation’s climate, environmental justice, and conservation goals while
lowering energy costs for Americans.

Using funding from the Inflation Reduction Act, the U.S. Postal Service
[announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/20/biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-announces-historic-investment-to-electrify-u-s-postal-service-fleet/)
an historic $9.6 billion investment to put 66,000 electric delivery
trucks on the roads over the next five years and acquire only electric
Next Generation Delivery Vehicles starting in 2026. 

In another win for clean air, the Environmental Protection Agency
[finalized](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/final-epa-standards-heavy-duty-vehicles-slash-dangerous-pollution-and-take-key-step)
the strongest-ever standards to cut smog- and soot-forming emissions
from heavy-duty trucks. EPA estimates that the new standards will result
in 18,000 fewer cases of childhood asthma and 1.1 fewer lost school days
by 2045. 

The Department of Energy also
[proposed](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-more-than-100-actions-in-2022-to-strengthen-energy-efficiency-standards-and-save-families-money/)
stronger efficiency standards for light bulbs to conserve energy and cut
energy bills. With this announcement, the Administration has now taken
more than 110 actions this year to strengthen energy efficiency
standards and save the average family at least $100 annually.

The Administration also secured a [major international
win](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2022/12/19/countries-follow-u-s-lead-and-set-global-goal-to-protect-at-least-30-of-lands-and-waters-by-2030/)
for conservation and biodiversity, with countries across the globe
reaching a historic agreement to collectively commit to conserving at
least 30 percent of lands and waters by 2030, a goal that President
Biden committed the U.S. to during his first days in office.

*Leaders from across the country praised the announcements. Here’s what
they’re saying:*

**Delaware Senator Tom Carper, Chairman, U.S. Senate Committee on
Environment and Public Works:** “Nearly two years ago, USPS announced
that just 10 percent of their new delivery fleet would be electric
vehicles. In the time since that announcement, I have repeatedly called
for the Postal Service to do more with the opportunity in front of them.
By transitioning our aging fleet to electrified vehicles, we can reduce
harmful greenhouse gas emissions and save taxpayer dollars in the long
run. There is a clear reason why so many private competitors are
electrifying their fleets—it is good for business and is the smart
choice for the future.”
\[[Statement](https://www.carper.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/carper-statement-on-usps-announcement-to-invest-billions-to-electrify-vehicle-fleet/),
12/20/22\]

**Massachusetts Senator Ed Markey:** “If we want to spark a clean energy
revolution across America, we have to start by swapping out the spark
plugs in our federal fleets. Today’s announcement from USPS is a victory
for all of us who have driven the effort to supercharge the
electrification of our mail delivery vehicles so that we can save money
and save the planet. Electrification of the Postal Service kicks our
progress toward meeting our climate goals into high gear—reducing
greenhouse gas emissions, keeping our communities healthy, and investing
in American clean energy manufacturing.”
\[[Statement](https://www.markey.senate.gov/news/press-releases/senator-markey-celebrates-postal-servicesdramatic-transition-toelectrifiedmail-delivery-fleet-purchases-by-2026),
12/20/22\]

**New Mexico Senator Martin Heinrich:** “I’m pleased that the U.S.
Postal Service has listened to our calls to substantially increase their
efforts to electrify the next generation of mail delivery vehicles. With
funding that Democrats delivered in the historic Inflation Reduction Act
and a commitment from the Biden administration, the next generation of
mail delivery vehicles in America will now be 75% battery electric
vehicles, and 100% electric starting in 2026. Electrifying the
transportation sector is among our greatest opportunities to tackle the
climate crisis, clean up the air in our neighborhoods, provide a
responsible return on taxpayer dollars, and send a powerful signal that
the United States is leading in the transition toward a clean,
efficient, and electric future.”
\[[Statement](https://www.heinrich.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/heinrich-applauds-us-postal-service-dramatically-increasing-the-electrification-of-mail-delivery-fleet),
12/20/22\]

**New York Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, Chairwoman, U.S. House
Committee on Oversight and Reform:** “As Chair of the Oversight
Committee, electrifying the Postal Service fleet has been one of my top
priorities.  I am proud that the Postal Service made this important
decision after my many discussions with the Postmaster General about the
importance of adopting an all-electric fleet.  This is a win for the
Postal Service, the climate, and the American people. This acquisition
is also a testament to President Biden’s efforts to combat climate
change and create a world in which future generations can thrive in.  I
applaud the Postal Service for this decision, and I look forward to the
steps Congress and the Administration will continue to take to protect
our planet.”
\[[Statement](https://oversight.house.gov/news/press-releases/chairwoman-maloney-applauds-the-postal-service-s-acquisition-of-a-75-electric),
12/20/22\]

**Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren: “**Mail trucks will soon help
combat climate change across America! Electrifying the @USPS fleet will
replace old trucks and reduce emissions. And it’s funded by my plan to
make billionaire corporations pay a minimum 15% of their profits in
taxes. A win-win.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenWarren/status/1605301475147911172),
12/20/22\]

**Rhode Island Senator Sheldon Whitehouse: “**Great to see @EPA take
action to reduce air pollution from trucks, vans, and other heavy-duty
vehicles!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenWhitehouse/status/1605618003931848704?s=20&t=pC8XIxxScHiUswvCsmJUiw),
12/21/22\]

**Brian Renfroe, President, National Association of Letter Carriers:**
“NALC is pleased that the Postal Service is leading the way in
electrifying the federal vehicle fleet. With these delivery vehicles,
letter carriers will deliver in much-needed safer and more reliable
vehicles, while the Postal Service lowers its carbon
footprint.”\[[Statement](https://www.nalc.org/news/nalc-updates/postal-service-to-purchase-66000-electric-delivery-vehicles-by-2028),
12/20/22\]

**Sara Chieffo, Vice President of Government Affairs, League of
Conservation Voters:** “Thanks to the hard work of the Biden-Harris
administration and funding from the historic Inflation Reduction Act,
we’re thrilled that the U.S. Postal Service is finally delivering clean
energy, just in time for the holidays. With more electric mail trucks on
the streets and charging stations at post offices across the country,
this investment will mean cleaner air for our children and families,
major progress toward our climate goals, and a clear example of clean
energy benefits for the nation and the world. We’re encouraged by this
quick and effective use of Inflation Reduction Act funds and look
forward to continued work with the Biden-Harris administration to ensure
the landmark climate law is implemented boldly, swiftly, and equitably.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/article/lcv-statement-on-usps-electrification-announcement/),
12/20/22\]

**Adrian Martinez, Senior Attorney, Right to Zero Campaign,
Earthjustice: **“Every neighborhood, every household in America deserves
to have electric USPS trucks delivering clean air with their mail, and
today’s announcement takes us almost all the way there. The Postal
Service’s shift to only purchasing electric mail trucks within five
years is the marker of a sea change in the federal fleet as the country
looks to an electric future. We’re grateful to the Biden Administration
for stepping in to put us on course for an electric
future.” \[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/news/press/2022/message-delivered-usps-charts-a-course-for-an-electric-mail-truck-fleet?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_term=feed&ms=twitter),
12/20/22\]

**Beto Martinez, CleanAirNow:** “We’re pleased the Postal Service has
listened to community and environmental justice organizations clamoring
for zero emission mail trucks. We look forward to working with USPS to
ensure communities hardest hit by pollution get these trucks on their
streets first.” \[Statement, 12/20/22\]

**Fred Krupp, President, Environmental Defense Fund:** “Clean post
office delivery trucks are coming soon, thanks to the Inflation
Reduction Act. The immediate purchase order for 60,000 electric vehicles
will save money for the Postal Service while reducing deadly diesel
pollution in our neighborhoods. The fact that 100% of new delivery
trucks will be electric vehicles starting in 2026 shows we can clean up
unhealthy air pollution and save money on fuel. This decision is in
keeping with the Biden administration’s whole-of-government approach to
cutting climate pollution. It uses the purchasing power of the American
People to spur innovation, create jobs, and save consumers money.
Private sector companies, including Amazon and Pepsi, have already
announced moves to zero emissions electric vehicles because they know it
is the best choice for their business. EDF has strongly advocated for
increased clean vehicles adoption by the Postal Service to kick that
transition into high gear. This announcement comes just hours after EPA
announced its Clean Trucks Plan, which includes a commitment to issue
proposed standards in March of next year that will help accelerate
zero-emission truck deployment relying on game changing investments in
the new climate law. Once again, President Biden’s leadership is showing
real results for the American people and our climate.”
\[[Statement](https://www.edf.org/media/us-postal-service-makes-right-choice-americas-future-clean-vehicles),
12/20/22\]

**Mark Dimondstein, President, American Postal Workers Union:** “The
APWU welcomes this excellent news. It is good for the environment, good
for future postal revenues, good for postal workers and it is a huge
step forward from the original management plans for an only 10% EV
fleet. This is progress, for the people, the planet and the Postal
Service.”
\[[Statement](https://www.apwu.org/news/statement-apwu-president-mark-dimondstein-usps-electric-vehicle-fleet),
12/20/22\]

**Joe Britton, Executive Director, Zero Emission Transportation
Association**: “This is an extraordinary step by USPS and the Biden
Administration to advance the electrification of the federal fleet. USPS
has the largest fleet in the federal government and reaches across our
nation with some of the most recognizable vehicles on the road. Postal
routes are predictable and include ample charging time to meet the
fleet’s power needs. Transitioning these older, inefficient vehicles to
EVs will not only serve as a visual reminder of their value and
reliability but will also provide public health, environmental, and
economic benefits to our communities.” \[Statement, 12/20/22\]

**Ben Prochazka, Executive Director, Electrification Coalition:** “The
Biden-Harris administration has taken historic steps to transportation
electrification, including passing the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law in
2021 and the Inflation Reduction Act earlier this year. This move
further signals that electricity will power not only the next generation
of passenger vehicles but also medium- and heavy-duty vehicles.
Americans can look forward to receiving their daily mail from cleaner,
quieter, and more efficient vehicles.” \[Statement, 12/20/22\]

**Harold Wimmer, National President and CEO, American Lung
Association:** “EPA’s new final rule to limit truck pollution is an
important step to clean up emissions, especially for Americans who live
near a highway, truck stop, port or distribution center. This new rule
will significantly reduce nitrogen oxide emissions for new heavy-duty
vehicles and prevent up to 2,900 premature deaths a year. The Lung
Association and the health community have long called for EPA to
finalize strong standards to reduce nitrogen oxides from heavy-duty
vehicles, and then to write future rules to drive a nationwide
transition to zero-emission trucks, buses and other heavy-duty vehicles.
Today’s final rule is a step forward to curb dangerous pollution.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lung.org/media/press-releases/epa-trucks-emissions-final-rule-statement),
12/20/22\]

**Vickie Patton, General Counsel, Environmental Defense Fund:** “EPA’s
Clean Trucks Plan helps give America’s children the gift of cleaner air
and healthier lives. EPA’s Clean Trucks Plan includes a series of
vitally important steps to help ensure cleaner air and a safer climate
for millions of people, save truckers and fleets money, and create more
American jobs. The plan announced today includes long-awaited final
emissions standards for nitrogen oxides pollution that will
significantly reduce this deadly pollutant and ultimately save thousands
of lives and prevent numerous serious illnesses every year.”
\[[Statement](https://www.edf.org/media/edf-welcomes-epas-important-clean-trucks-plan-and-urges-swift-action#:~:text=(Washington%2C%20D.C.%20%E2%80%93%20December%2020,cleaner%20air%20and%20healthier%20lives.),
12/20/22\]

**Rachel Patterson, Policy Lead, Evergreen Action:** “EPA’s announcement
today is crucial to protecting Americans’ public health—especially
low-income and Black and Brown communities that are suffering first-hand
from the toxic impacts of air pollution from trucks. The updates to
EPA’s heavy-duty truck rule, aimed at reducing nitrogen oxides, and
other soot- and smog-forming pollution is integral in the fight to
protect both people and the planet.”
\[[Statement](https://www.evergreenaction.com/press/epa-trucks-rule-is-an-important-start-on-curbing-toxic-air-pollution-but-theres-more-to-do),
12/20/22\]

**João Faria, President, Eaton’s Vehicle Group:** “We applaud the EPA’s
work in establishing new standards for harmful truck emissions. The
final rule announced today provides the regulatory certainty needed to
deploy the next generation of fuel-efficient and emission-reduction
technologies.”
\[[Statement](https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221220005556/en/Eaton-supports-Environmental-Protection-Agency-efforts-to-reduce-commercial-vehicle-emissions),
12/20/22\]

**Environmental Defense Fund:** “EPA announced stronger standards to
reduce air pollution from heavy-duty vehicles and help ensure a safer
climate for millions. The new Clean Trucks Plan will cut NOx, a deadly
pollutant, from freight trucks and buses by almost 50% by 2045.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/EnvDefenseFund/status/1605286684278628352?s=20&t=pC8XIxxScHiUswvCsmJUiw),
12/20/22\]

**Defend Our Future: “**Today, we joined @CleanAirMoms as @EPA finalized
important federal protections against nitrogen oxide (NOx) from trucks &
buses. This is a big win for public health! Thank you @EPAMichaelRegan
and @SenatorCarper for all your hard work.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DefendOurFuture/status/1605375024273186816?s=20&t=UB-rWa14g34JGHV4pY58OQ),
12/20/22\]

**Moms Clean Air Force: “**Thank you @EPAMichaelRegan and @SenatorCarper
for today’s event!Today, @EPA released its final \#CleanerTRucks rule.
The rule will cut harmful pollution from heavy-duty vehicles like
diesel-powered trucks & buses and is an important step in cleaning up
the air our kids breathe.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CleanAirMoms/status/1605275563178053669?s=20&t=kHqoo86ekte74JviOfluUQ),
12/20/22\]

**American Thoracic:** **“**Thank you @EPA for taking action to reduce
dangerous nitrogen oxide \#emissions from trucks. Continued aggressive
action is needed to secure a future of pollution-free air.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/atscommunity/status/1605579314598141952?s=20&t=ev_GRJQvYhZnej4U7QjzaQ),
12/20/22\]

**Andrew deLaski, Executive Director, Appliance Standards Awareness
Project:** “The LEDs on today’s store shelves are a great product, but
it turns out the best technology can make the bulbs even more efficient.
We use so many light bulbs that this improvement would meaningfully
reduce energy costs for households and businesses while cutting climate
pollution from power plants. This plan would also mark the end of an era
for compact fluorescent bulbs, which are still sold in some stores today
but are inferior to LEDs.”
\[[Statement](https://appliance-standards.org/document/does-new-light-bulb-standard-would-minimize-lighting-costs-2),
12/19/22\]

**Brian O’Donnell, Director of the Campaign for Nature:** “This is a
huge moment for nature. This is a scale of conservation that we haven’t
seen ever attempted before.”
\[[Statement](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/19/climate/biodiversity-cop15-montreal-30x30.html),
12/19/22\]

**Carter Roberts, President and CEO of World Wildlife Foundation-U.S.**:
“The last two weeks in Montreal placed nature at the forefront of global
policy discussions. The agreement struck today among the participating
196 countries could mark a turning point in mending our broken
relationship with nature. It includes a new funding mechanism for
helping the developing world reach its goals, and it also commits
parties to delivering against the 30 by 30 vision that puts Indigenous
peoples and local communities at the center of that work. Now the hard
work begins. Ultimately this agreement will be judged on the strength of
its implementation. It’s up to governments, businesses, and other actors
to turn its goals into concrete outcomes, and to build on their ambition
where needed. In the US, we take heart that – though our country is not
a party to the underlying convention – the Biden Administration has
already embraced many of the principles of the agreement. We at WWF-US
look forward to working with the US government, companies, and other
partners to make sure the US does its part toward achieving a nature
positive future.”
\[[Statement](https://www.worldwildlife.org/press-releases/global-deal-struck-to-reverse-nature-loss-by-2030-but-immediate-action-and-funds-needed-to-deliver),
12/19/22\]

**Andrew Deutz, Director of Global Policy, Institutions and Conservation
Finance at** ***The Nature Conservancy:*** *“*Make no mistake: this is
an historic result for nature. The Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity
Framework provides a long-needed international blueprint to guide our
collective turnaround of nature’s fortunes within this crucial decade.”
\[[Statement](https://www.nature.org/en-us/newsroom/media-statement-tnc-kunming-montreal-global-biodiversity-framework/),
12/18/22\]

\###
