---
date: '2022-12-23'
published_time: 2022-12-23 10:35:50-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/23/statement-by-the-president-on-h-r-7776-the-james-m-inhofe-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2023/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by the President on H.R. 7776, the James M. Inhofe National Defense\
  \ Authorization Act for Fiscal Year\_2023"
---
 
Today, I have signed into law H.R. 7776, the “James M. Inhofe National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023” (the “Act”).  The Act
authorizes fiscal year appropriations for the Department of Defense, for
Department of Energy national security programs, and for the Department
of State, Department of Homeland Security, and the Intelligence
Community.  The Act provides vital benefits and enhances access to
justice for military personnel and their families, and includes critical
authorities to support our country’s national defense, foreign affairs,
and homeland security.  While I am pleased to support these critical
objectives, I note that certain provisions of the Act raise concerns.

Section 1033 of the Act continues to bar the use of funds appropriated
to the Department of Defense to transfer Guantánamo Bay detainees to the
custody or effective control of certain foreign countries.  Section 1031
of the Act likewise would continue to prohibit the use of such funds to
transfer certain Guantánamo Bay detainees into the United States.  It is
the longstanding position of the executive branch that these provisions
unduly impair the ability of the executive branch to determine when and
where to prosecute Guantánamo Bay detainees and where to send them upon
release.  In some circumstances, these provisions could make it
difficult to comply with the final judgment of a court that has directed
the release of a detainee on writ of habeas corpus, including by
constraining the flexibility of the executive branch with respect to its
engagement in delicate negotiations with foreign countries over the
potential transfer of detainees.  I urge the Congress to eliminate these
restrictions as soon as possible.

Moreover, certain provisions of the Act raise constitutional concerns or
questions of construction.

A number of provisions of the Act (e.g., sections 1209(c), 1236(a),
1237, 1240, 1276(d), 1640(d), 5510(c), 5593(e), 6316, and 6402) would
effectively require the President and other executive branch officials
to submit reports and plans to certain congressional committees that
will, in the ordinary course, include highly sensitive classified
information, including information that could reveal critical
intelligence sources or military operational plans.  The Constitution
vests the President with the authority to prevent the disclosure of such
highly sensitive information in order to discharge his responsibility to
protect the national security.  At the same time, congressional
committees have legitimate needs to perform vital oversight and other
legislative functions with respect to national security and military
matters.  Accordingly, it has been the common practice of the executive
branch to comply with statutory reporting requirements in a way that
satisfies congressional needs pursuant to the traditional accommodation
practice and consistent with due regard for the protection from
unauthorized disclosure of classified information relating to sensitive
intelligence sources and methods or other exceptionally sensitive
matters.  I believe the Congress shares this understanding, and my
Administration will presume it is incorporated into statutory reporting
requirements of the kind at issue in the Act.

Moreover, section 6316 of the Act purports to require the President,
acting through the Director of National Intelligence, to submit to
certain congressional intelligence committees (and appropriations
subcommittees) all Presidential Executive Orders, memoranda, and policy
directives that “contain\[\] a direction to, establish\[\] a requirement
for, or include\[\] a restriction on any element of the intelligence
community.”  My Administration is fully committed to continuing to
fulfill its statutory obligations to keep the intelligence committees
“fully and currently informed of the intelligence activities of the
United States,” 50 U.S.C. 3091, and to provide those committees
requested information, 50 U.S.C. 3092(a)(2); see also 50 U.S.C.
3093(b).  However, the documents that section 6316 of the Act would
require the President to share would often contain Presidential
communications, the confidentiality of which “is fundamental to the
operation of Government and inextricably rooted in the separation of
powers under the Constitution.”  United States v. Nixon.  Because my
Administration’s commitment to keeping the intelligence committees fully
and currently informed provides the Congress with the comprehensive and
detailed information it needs to oversee the activities of the
Intelligence Community, there is no constitutional justification for the
additional intrusion section 6316 of the Act would require into
confidential and sensitive Presidential communications.  Accordingly,
section 6316 of the Act is unconstitutional to the extent it imposes
requirements for access to those communications beyond those already
present under existing law.  I will commit to complying with its
disclosure requirements only in such cases where a committee has a need
for such Presidential communications that outweighs the potential harm
to the confidentiality interests underlying the Presidential
communications privilege.

A number of provisions of the Act may, in certain circumstances,
interfere with the exercise of my constitutional authority to articulate
the positions of the United States in international negotiations or fora
(e.g., sections 1260(a), 1508(a), 1658(a), 5518(d), 5573(b), 5701, and
11338(b)).  I recognize that “\[i\]t is not for the President alone to
determine the whole content of the Nation’s foreign policy” (Zivotofsky
v. Kerry) and will make every effort to take action consistent with
these directives.  Indeed, I support many of the objectives in these
provisions.  Nevertheless, I will not treat them as limiting my
constitutional discretion to articulate the views of the United States
before international organizations and with foreign governments.

Section 9303(b)(1) of the Act provides that the Secretary of State
“should” establish or upgrade certain diplomatic facilities in foreign
nations.  Although section 9303(b)(3) of the Act later refers to these
provisions as “requirements,” I do not read section 9303(b) of the Act
to mandate the specified actions.

Section 7201 of the Act requires Presidential designees to enter into
information-sharing agreements with certain congressional officers “for
timely sharing of tactical and operational cybersecurity threat and
security vulnerability information and planned or ongoing
counterintelligence operations or targeted collection efforts with the
legislative branch.”  The congressional findings in section 7201 of the
Act make clear that the information-sharing in question is designed to
ensure that the Congress has information concerning cybersecurity and
counterintelligence threats to the Congress itself.  I therefore
construe the requirements of section 7201 of the Act to be limited to
information-sharing related to such cybersecurity and
counterintelligence threats to the legislative branch.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    December 23, 2022.

\###
