---
date: '2022-12-19'
modified_time: 2022-12-18 19:51:09-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-19 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-more-than-100-actions-in-2022-to-strengthen-energy-efficiency-standards-and-save-families-money/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:  Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes More Than\_100 Actions\_\
  in 2022\_to Strengthen\_Energy\_Efficiency Standards and Save\_Families\_Money"
---
 
*Department of Energy Proposes New Lightbulb Efficiency Rule *

Today, the White House and the Department of Energy (DOE) announced that
the Biden-Harris Administration has [surpassed its
goal](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/31/fact-sheet-president-bidens-plan-to-respond-to-putins-price-hike-at-the-pump/)
to take 100 actions in 2022 to strengthen energy efficiency standards
for a range of appliances and equipment to lower costs for American
families. These new standards advanced by the Biden-Harris
Administration will help save the average family at least $100 annually
through lower energy bills.

Today, DOE [proposed a
rule](https://energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-proposes-raising-efficiency-standard-light-bulbs)
to further boost lightbulb efficiency to lock in household savings and
climate benefits for years to come. The proposed rule to strengthen
lightbulb efficiency standards would deliver cumulative consumer savings
of $20 billion and reduce carbon emissions by 131 million metric tons
over 30 years.

This is the 110th action to strengthen energy efficiency standards that
the Administration has taken in 2022. These 110 actions span a range of
household products—everything from air conditioners and furnaces, to
clothes washers and dryers, to kitchen appliances and water heaters—as
well as commercial and industrial equipment. Once finalized, these
standards will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by an estimated 2.4
billion metric tons, equivalent to the carbon emissions from 10 million
homes, 17 million gas cars, or 21 coal-fired power plants over 30 years.
The projected consumer savings from these standards would be $570
billion cumulatively, and for an average household this will mean at
least $100 in annual savings.

The Biden-Harris Administration has moved quickly to address a vast
backlog of outdated energy efficiency standards. DOE took critical steps
in 2021 to remedy the rollbacks and procedural roadblocks left by the
prior Administration, and throughout 2022 delivered on an ambitious
slate of new actions to lower costs, boost American energy security, and
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other harmful air pollution. 

President Biden’s unprecedented actions
to strengthen efficiency standards are a key part of his work to save
families money and create good-paying jobs. He secured [historic
investments](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/Inflation-Reduction-Act-Guidebook.pdf) in
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act for home
efficiency upgrades, including weatherization and electric appliance
rebates. Last month the
Administration [announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/02/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-lower-energy-costs-for-families/) a
range of actions to lower energy costs for families, including $9
billion from President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act for states and
Tribes to administer home efficiency rebate programs that could support
cost-saving upgrades for up to 1.6 million households. 

**<u>Highlights of 100+ Actions to Strengthen Energy Efficiency
Standards</u>**

Today, Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm, Office of Management and
Budget Director Shalanda Young, and National Climate Advisor Ali Zaidi
are highlighting successful completion of more than 100 actions in 2022
to strengthen energy efficiency standards and save the average household
at least $100 annually. 

Key highlights of these wide-ranging actions include:

-   **Lightbulbs:** Today’s proposed rule to strengthen lightbulb
    efficiency standards would deliver cumulative consumer savings of
    $20 billion and reduce carbon emissions by 131 million metric tons
    over 30 years. These benefits are in addition to DOE’s [final
    actions](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-administration-implements-new-cost-saving-energy-efficiency-standards-light-bulbs) earlier
    this year to implement a nearer-term phaseout of inefficient
    incandescent bulbs, which will save consumers nearly $3
    billion annually, while reducing carbon emissions by 222 million
    metric tons over 30 years—the equivalent of what 28 million homes
    emit in a year.
-   **Gas Furnaces:** DOE proposed new standards for [residential gas
    furnaces](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-administration-proposes-new-cost-saving-energy-efficiency-standards-home-furnaces)—which
    had not been significantly strengthened in over three decades—to
    achieve a 95% annual fuel utilization efficiency level, improvements
    that will save consumers $1.9 billion annually. Over 30 years, the
    rule would reduce carbon emissions by 373 million metric tons and
    methane emissions by 5.1 million tons, the equivalent of what 61
    million homes emit in a year. 
-   **Room Air Conditioners: **American households purchase over seven
    million room air conditioners each year.
    DOE [issued](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-releases-energy-saving-rules-federal-buildings-and-proposes-new-standards-consumer) a proposed
    rule to boost the efficiency of these units, which would save
    consumers up to $275 over the life of the product. The proposal
    would also reduce carbon emissions over 30 years by nearly 50
    million metric tons, the equivalent of what more than 6 million
    homes emit in a year. 
-   **Clothes
    Dryers: **DOE [proposed](https://www.energy.gov/eere/articles/biden-harris-administration-proposes-new-cost-saving-efficiency-standard-clothes) stronger
    efficiency standards for both electric and gas clothes dryers, which
    could save the average household $36 on annual utility bills. Over
    30 years, the rule would reduce carbon emissions by 116 million
    metric tons, the equivalent of what 14.6 million homes emit in a
    year. 

Along with stronger standards for common household appliances, DOE has
also advanced updated standards for commercial and industrial equipment
(including [commercial water heating
equipment](https://www.energy.gov/eere/articles/biden-administration-proposes-new-cost-saving-energy-efficiency-standards-commercial) and [circulator
pumps](https://www1.eere.energy.gov/buildings/appliance_standards/standards.aspx?productid=66)),
and for buildings overall (including [manufactured
home](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-updates-mobile-home-efficiency-standards-lower-household-energy-bills)
energy efficiency, [federal building energy
efficiency](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-releases-energy-saving-rules-federal-buildings-and-proposes-new-standards-consumer),
and [federal building emissions
reduction](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-steps-electrify-and-cut-emissions-federal-buildings)). In
addition to proposed and final standards, DOE’s 110 actions this year
also include test procedures and coverage determinations—rulemakings
that lay the groundwork for DOE to issue stronger efficiency standards.

DOE will continue to make rapid progress in 2023, with additional
actions planned including issuance of 30 proposed and final rules to
update standards for a variety of product categories.

\###
