---
date: '2022-12-15'
modified_time: 2022-12-15 11:38:28-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-15 12:01:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/15/biden-harris-administration-releases-inflation-reduction-act-guidebook-for-clean-energy-and-climate-programs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases Inflation Reduction Act Guidebook\
  \ for Clean Energy and Climate\_Programs"
---
 
Today, the White House
[released](https://whitehouse.gov/cleanenergy/inflation-reduction-act-guidebook/)
the first edition of a new resource titled *Building a Clean Energy
Economy: A Guidebook to the Inflation Reduction Act’s Investments in
Clean Energy and Climate Action,* which provides clear descriptions of
the law’s tax incentives and funding programs to build a clean energy
economy, lower energy costs, tackle climate change, and reduce harmful
pollution. The Guidebook will help state, local, territorial, and Tribal
leaders, the private sector, non-profit organizations, homeowners, and
communities better understand how they can benefit from these
investments and unlock the full potential of the law. The Guidebook
walks through the law program-by-program and provides background on each
program’s purpose, eligibility requirements, period of availability, and
other key details. 

In a letter at the beginning of the Guidebook, John Podesta, President
Biden’s Senior Advisor for Clean Energy Innovation and Implementation,
said:  
  
“When President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act into law in
August 2022, he said the new law ‘is not just about today, it’s about
tomorrow. It’s about delivering progress and prosperity to American
families.’ The Inflation Reduction Act makes a historic commitment to
build a new clean energy economy, powered by American innovators,
American workers, and American manufacturers, that will create
good-paying, union jobs and cut the pollution that is fueling the
climate crisis and driving environmental injustice.”  
  
The Inflation Reduction Act Guidebook follows the successful model of
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Guidebook and creates a roadmap for
the clean energy and climate funding available under the law at the
program level.  
  
Since President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act four months
ago, his administration has been working quickly to design, develop, and
implement its programs. This Guidebook provides information on current
and prospective clean energy and climate programs. In the coming weeks
and months, new developments will be published on
[www.CleanEnergy.gov](http://www.CleanEnergy.gov) to keep stakeholders
and potential beneficiaries up to date on the latest deadlines and
details.  
  
The Inflation Reduction Act builds on the foundational climate and clean
energy investments in President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
Through his historic legislative accomplishments, along with key
executive actions and international leadership, the Administration is
delivering on the President’s ambitious climate agenda centered on
workers, families, and communities. President Biden has made transparent
communication and open engagement top priorities as a means to ensure
successful implementation and to fully unlock the unprecedented benefits
of the law. This Guidebook is critical step toward delivering on that
vision.  
  
To view the Guidebook in full, [click
here](https://whitehouse.gov/cleanenergy/inflation-reduction-act-guidebook/).  
  
Here’s what leaders have to say about the new Inflation Reduction Act
Guidebook:  
  
**New York Governor Kathy Hochul, Co-Chair, U.S. Climate Alliance:**
“States are leading the way to a cleaner, greener climate and with the
extraordinary investments made possible through the IRA, we’re getting
ready to transform our states and our country. Thanks to the hard work
of President Biden, Leader Schumer and Speaker Pelosi, New York and the
United States are poised to rapidly reduce emissions, support green
jobs, save money for hard-working Americans, and improve the health of
our communities. This new resource is a critical tool to help get the
job done.”

**Mayor Sylvester Turner, Houston, Texas:** “Cities have long been on
the frontlines of climate change, but the federal support provided by
the Inflation Reduction Act will allow us to take action like never
before. We thank Congress and President Biden for passing such historic
legislation and providing guidance to lawmakers which will light the
path forward to justice driven environmental policies, clean energy
economies and a livable planet for all.”  
  
**Mayor Satya Rhodes-Conway, Madison, Wisconsin, Co-Chair of Climate
Mayors:** “As the incoming Chair of Climate Mayors, I am pleased that
Congress and the White House are delivering critical resources for
climate action in the form of the historic Inflation Reduction act, and
providing strong guidance for policy makers. We are eager to begin
implementing the Inflation Reduction Act at the local level and will be
making use of the climate provisions, rebates, and tax breaks within it
to better the lives of people in our communities while also securing a
sustainable, resilient, and prosperous future for all.”  
  
**Abigail Ross Hopper, President and CEO of the Solar Energy Industries
Association (SEIA):** “The Inflation Reduction Act is the most robust
and forward-looking climate bill ever enacted. Solar and storage
companies are eager for clear guidance on the bill so they can focus on
creating hundreds of thousands of new jobs for all Americans and
deploying low-cost, reliable energy in communities across the country.
Timely, easy to understand discussion of this transformative – but
complex – new law is exactly what consumers and industry alike need and
we look forward to referring to the IRA Guidebook for this valuable
information as we work with other allies to build an equitable and just
clean energy future.”  
  
**Lori Lodes, Executive Director, Climate Power:** “Passing the
Inflation Reduction Act was an historic victory in the fight against
climate change. Now, it’s time for the hard work of implementing the law
and making sure people understand how the climate and clean energy
investments will positively impact their lives and keep their
communities healthy and strong. Cleaner, cheaper, American-made energy
is taking off. The guidebook is a critical resource to help people and
communities get the information needed to use the incentives found in
the climate law.”  
  
**Faye Park, President, U.S. PIRG:** “The new Implementation Guidebook
for the Inflation Reduction Act makes it clear: Consumers, cities,
states, businesses and community organizations now have myriad
opportunities to reduce pollution that makes us sick and worsens global
warming. Cities can swap dirty buses and garbage trucks for clean
electric ones. Your favorite home chef can get a clean electric or
induction stove that doesn’t increase the risk of asthma for their kids.
All of us can save energy in our homes and businesses. We encourage
everyone to use this great resource to learn more.”  
  
**Lisa Frank, Executive Director, Washington Legislative Office,
Environment America:** “Climate change is a problem that impacts all of
us. Now, the Inflation Reduction Act helps us all be part of the
solution too, by making it cheaper and easier for Americans to go solar,
purchase an electric vehicle or weatherize their home. This new
implementation guidebook will help raise awareness of new tax incentives
and other programs we can use to take President Biden up on this
historic offer to save energy, save money and save the planet. We’re
excited to put it to work.”  
  
**David Masur, Executive Director, PennEnvironment:** “The Inflation
Reduction Act’s tax credits and climate programs will help
Pennsylvanians breathe cleaner air, make their homes more energy
efficient and expand our use of clean, renewable energy. Thanks to the
new Implementation Guidebook, it’ll be easier for cities, school
districts, community organizations and all Pennsylvanians to understand
and utilize these beneficial programs.”

\###
