---
date: '2022-12-20'
modified_time: 2022-12-20 10:56:29-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-20 10:57:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/20/biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-announces-historic-investment-to-electrify-u-s-postal-service-fleet/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Historic Investment to Electrify\
  \ U.S. Postal Service\_Fleet"
---
 
Today, the U.S. Postal Service (USPS)
[announced](https://about.usps.com/newsroom/national-releases/2022/1220-usps-intends-to-deploy-over-66000-electric-vehicles-by-2028.htm)
an historic, $9.6 billion investment over the next five years to
electrify its delivery fleet. The USPS investment includes electrifying
75% of its new purpose-built Next Generation Delivery Vehicles (NGDV)
and a commitment to acquire 100% electric NGDVs starting in 2026. This
$9.6 billion investment – which includes $3 billion in funding from the
Inflation Reduction Act – installs modern charging infrastructure at
hundreds of USPS facilities, electrifies 66,000 delivery vehicles, and
modernizes mail delivery by creating a smarter network to more
efficiently reach its 163 million delivery locations across the country
and further strengthen the sustainability of this critical public
service.  
  
Earlier this year, President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act to
help bring down everyday costs – including costs for energy. The
Inflation Reduction Act’s once-in-a-generation investment in America’s
infrastructure delivers the most significant action ever to tackle the
climate crisis and strengthen U.S. energy security, including $3 billion
to modernize the USPS delivery fleet. The USPS actions announced today
sustain reliable mail service to Americans while modernizing the fleet,
reducing operating costs, increasing clean air in our neighborhoods,
creating jobs, and improving public health.  
  
President Biden’s ambitious goal for 50% of new vehicles sold in 2030 to
be electric has accelerated investments and jumpstarted the EV market in
America. Since President Biden took office, U.S. electric vehicle sales
[tripled](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.anl.gov%2Fesia%2Flight-duty-electric-drive-vehicles-monthly-sales-updates&data=05%7C01%7Ckerry.arndt%40dot.gov%7Ca16c0a6283324dd2d9dd08daa869fbb1%7Cc4cd245b44f04395a1aa3848d258f78b%7C0%7C0%7C638007470393578092%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=TxxqroNNPDH4gf5mHKWW26EX36S%2BL%2FT%2FJz8AXJQAYWk%3D&reserved=0)
and are now higher than ever before. One year ago, through the
President’s [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/08/executive-order-on-catalyzing-clean-energy-industries-and-jobs-through-federal-sustainability/)
on *Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal
Sustainability*, the Biden-Harris Administration released the most
ambitious sustainability plan ever, [establishing a
goal](https://www.sustainability.gov/federalsustainabilityplan/fleet.html)
for 100% acquisition of zero emission light-duty vehicles by 2027 and
medium- and heavy-duty vehicles by 2035.   
  
With today’s announcement, USPS will exceed President Biden’s
requirement for each agency to electrify its Federal fleet. Over the
next five years, the Postal Service will purchase 45,000 specialized
USPS NGDV electric vehicles and 21,000 commercial off-the-shelf electric
vehicles.  
  
“We commend the U.S. Postal Service,” **said John Podesta, Senior
Advisor to the President**. “The USPS plan leverages the $3 billion
provided by the Inflation Reduction Act to hit the target of 100%
electric delivery vehicle purchases in 2026, sets the postal fleet on a
course for electrification, significantly reduces vehicles miles
traveled in the network, and places USPS at the forefront of the clean
transportation revolution.”  
  
The U.S. government operates the largest vehicle fleet in the world, and
USPS is the largest vehicle fleet in the Federal government. Through
today’s action, USPS sets the bar for the rest of the Federal
government, and, importantly, the rest of the world.

In the bold modernization plan unveiled today, the USPS invests the full
$3 billion in Inflation Reduction Act funds to increase ambition and
pace in electrifying its fleet, including $1.3 billion for electric
delivery vehicles and $1.7 billion for charging infrastructure. Coupled
with $6.6 billion in USPS funds, the overall $9.6 billion,
100,000-vehicle modernization plan results in 66,000 electric delivery
vehicles and tens of thousands of charging stations through 2028, and a
target of acquiring only electric delivery vehicles after 2026.   
  
“The U.S. Postal Service plan sets the pace for other leading public and
private sector fleets. It is clear that the future of transportation is
electric – and that future is here,” **said Council on Environmental
Quality Chair Brenda Mallory.** “As electric mail trucks hit routes
across the country, neighborhoods will see cleaner air, better health,
and good-paying clean energy jobs.”  
  
“Moving packages from point A to point B in a way that’s cleaner, more
cost-effective, and accelerating toward an electric vehicle future
stamped ‘Made in America,” **said the President’s National Climate
Adviser Ali Zaidi**. “This is the Biden climate strategy on wheels, and
the U.S. Postal Service delivering for the American people.”  
  
With this announcement, USPS demonstrates how it is leading by example
for the Federal Government in achieving President Biden’s charge to
electrify the U.S. Government’s 650,000 vehicles.

\###
