---
date: '2022-12-01'
modified_time: 2022-12-01 12:47:02-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-01 12:50:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/01/joint-statement-following-the-meeting-between-president-biden-and-president-macron/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement Following the Meeting Between President\_Biden and President\_\
  Macron"
---
 
Today, the President of the United States and the President of the
French Republic met in Washington during the first State Visit of the
Biden-Harris Administration. This special occasion reaffirms a
relationship founded on more than two centuries of friendship, economic
partnership, defense and security cooperation, and shared commitment to
democratic principles, values, and institutions. France is the United
States’ oldest ally, and while our relationship is rooted in history, it
is oriented squarely toward the future. Building on their joint
statement of October 29, 2021, the leaders outlined a shared vision to
strengthen security and increase prosperity worldwide, combat climate
change, build greater resilience to its effects, and advance democratic
values. This vision is built on a shared conviction that the United
States and its European allies and partners can better face our greatest
challenges and capitalize on our most promising opportunities together.
This includes addressing global issues such as climate change and energy
transition, investing in technologies and building resilient value
chains in strategic sectors such as health, semiconductors, and critical
minerals, as well as strengthening our security and defense
cooperation.   
  
**Transatlantic, European and Global Security **  
The Presidents resolve to continue working tirelessly for a Europe that
is whole, free, and at peace. This entails maintaining our nations’
collective defense and security, including through NATO; pursuing a more
robust, integrated, and coherent approach to building national and
collective resilience against military and non-military threats to our
security; and promoting international stability in response to the full
range of current threats. The Presidents recognize the importance of a
stronger and more capable European defense that contributes positively
to transatlantic and global security and is complementary to and
interoperable with NATO.  European-led missions and operations, such as
in Bosnia and the training mission for Ukraine, are positively
contributing to transatlantic security.  
  
The Presidents commend the U.S.-France defense relationship and welcome
the Statement of Intent signed on November 30, 2022, by the U.S.
Secretary of Defense and French Minister of Armed Forces, which allows
for increased interoperability and enhanced cooperation in the areas of
space, cyberspace, intelligence, and countering malign influence. The
Presidents intend to expand defense cooperation on advanced capabilities
and key technologies that will be critical to deterrence and defense in
the future.   
  
They welcome progress made by the U.S.-France Defense Trade Strategic
Dialogue in fostering shared views on defense market access and export
issues. The United States and France intend to continue our cooperation
to enhance the efficiency of the defense export authorization process,
with a view to developing stronger and interoperable defense industrial
bases in Europe and in the United States as a means to deliver better
military capabilities for the benefit of the Alliance.   
  
*Ukraine *  
  
The Presidents strongly condemn Russia’s illegal war of aggression
against Ukraine and stress that intentionally targeting civilians and
civilian infrastructure constitutes war crimes whose perpetrators must
be held accountable. They also condemn and reject Russia’s illegal
attempted annexation of sovereign Ukrainian territory, in clear
violation of international law. The United States and France deplore
Russia’s deliberate escalatory steps, notably its irresponsible nuclear
rhetoric and its disinformation regarding alleged chemical attacks, and
biological and nuclear weapons programs. They reaffirm their nations’
continued support for Ukraine’s defense of its sovereignty and
territorial integrity, including the provision of political, security,
humanitarian, and economic assistance to Ukraine for as long as it
takes.  This includes the provision of significant resources to support
Ukrainian civilian resilience through the winter, including stepping up
the delivery of air defense systems and equipment needed to repair
Ukraine’s energy grid. The United States and France plan to continue
working with partners and allies to coordinate assistance efforts,
including at the international conference taking place in Paris on
December 13, 2022. They also intend to continue providing robust direct
budget support for Ukraine, and to urge the international financial
institutions to scale up their financial support.  
  
The United States and France reiterate their duty to uphold applicable
international obligations and the principles and purposes of the UN
Charter. They also reiterate their steadfast resolve to hold Russia to
account for widely documented atrocities and war crimes, committed both
by its regular armed forces and by its proxies, including mercenary
entities such as Vagner and others, through support for international
accountability mechanisms, including the International Criminal Court,
the Ukrainian prosecutor general, UN Human Rights Council Commission of
Inquiry, and the OSCE Moscow Mechanism, sanctions, and other means.   
  
The United States and France remain committed to addressing the wider
effects of Russia’s war, including working with the international
community to build greater resilience to food and energy disruptions.
   
  
*Indo-Pacific *  
  
The United States and France, two nations of the Indo-Pacific, are
strengthening their partnership in the Indo-Pacific region to advance
prosperity, security, and shared values based on a rules-based
international order, transparent governance, fair economic practices,
and respect for international law, including freedom of navigation. The
United States and France intend to expand their regional diplomatic,
development, and economic engagement with a view to building resilience
in the Pacific Islands. They also intend to increase practical
coordination in the region on maritime security. The United States
intends to increase its support and material contributions to air and
maritime deployments conducted by France and other European nations in
the region.   
  
The United States and France will continue to coordinate on our concerns
regarding China’s challenge to the rules-based international order,
including respect for human rights, and to work together with China on
important global issues like climate change. The Presidents reaffirm the
importance of maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.
Both leaders also strongly condemn the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea’s (DPRK) unprecedented number of unlawful ballistic missile tests
this year that violate multiple UN Security Council resolutions and pose
a threat to regional peace and stability, and are committed to continue
coordination at the UN Security Council to address DPRK violations.  
  
*Africa *  
The Presidents renew their resolve to work with African partners to
pursue shared governance, security, and economic priorities on the
continent. They affirm the importance of African voices in multilateral
fora, especially in addressing global crises like climate change,
pandemic response and recovery, sustainable energy access, and food
insecurity. They aim to support democratic institutions and civil
societies in Africa to enhance accountability and the delivery of basic
services.   
  
They reaffirm their joint support for the African-led Great Green Wall
initiative to address the climate and biodiversity crisis, contributing
to sustainable development, peace, and security in the Sahara and Sahel
regions. Fighting disinformation and terrorism remain joint priorities
of France and the United States on the continent. France and the United
States intend to continue to work closely with the African Union and
African regional organizations to address the continent’s challenges and
seize opportunities to increase trade and investment.  
  
*Middle East*  
France and the United States are determined to work closely in support
of peace and prosperity in the Middle East. The Presidents welcome the
launch of the Negev Forum and the second anniversary of the signing of
the Abraham Accords, along with the historic breakthrough of the October
2022 Israel-Lebanon maritime boundary agreement. They are determined to
sustain joint efforts to urge Lebanon’s leaders to elect a president and
advance critical reforms. They remain committed to maintain the means
and capabilities necessary for the counterterrorism mission in Iraq and
Syria as members of the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS. France and the
United States continue to work to improve the grave humanitarian
situation faced by the Syrian people as well as to promote a
long-lasting, just solution to the Syrian conflict. They will continue
engaging with partners in the Middle-East and follow up on the August
2021 Baghdad Conference.  
   
The Presidents also express their respect for the Iranian people, in
particular women and youth, who are bravely protesting to gain the
freedom to exercise their human rights and fundamental freedoms, which
Iran itself has subscribed to and is violating.  
   
They remain determined to ensure that Iran can never develop or acquire
a nuclear weapon. France and the United States continue to work with
other international partners to address Iran’s nuclear escalation, its
insufficient cooperation with the IAEA, including on serious and
outstanding issues relating to Iran’s legal obligations under its
Non-Proliferation Treaty Safeguards Agreement, and its destabilizing
activities in the Middle East, most urgently its transfers of missiles
and drones, including to non-state actors. These transfers can threaten
key Gulf partners and stability and security in the region, contravene
international law, and now contribute to Russia’s war of aggression
against Ukraine. France and the United States will work with partners to
enhance cooperation regarding enforcement of relevant UN Security
Council resolutions and countering these activities. They will undertake
joint efforts aimed at further strengthening the international framework
constraining the proliferation of Iranian missile and unmanned aerial
vehicle technologies in the region and beyond and in enhancing practical
efforts to counter this proliferation.  
  
**Nuclear Deterrence, Nonproliferation, and Disarmament**  
The United States and France reaffirm that nuclear deterrence remains
essential for their national security and a core component of NATO’s
overall capabilities for deterrence and defense. They reaffirm that the
fundamental purpose of NATO’s nuclear capability is to preserve peace,
prevent coercion, and deter aggression against the Alliance. They
reaffirm the importance of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons and their opposition to the Treaty on the Prohibition of
Nuclear Weapons, which does not reflect the increasingly challenging
international security environment and is at odds with the existing
non-proliferation and disarmament architecture. The United States and
France also reaffirm support for their Mutual Defense Agreement and
intend to expand their technical cooperation on a wide range of
strategic risk reduction topics.  
  
**Economy, Emerging Technologies, Trade, and Supply Chains**  
The bilateral investment and trade relationship between our nations is
longstanding and deep, creating significant jobs and prosperity for
both. The United States and France reaffirm their commitment to an open
and rules-based multilateral trading system, with a modernized WTO at
its core. In that spirit, they continue to promote bilateral trade and
investments that support supply chain resilience and our high-tech and
innovative industries, including aerospace, information technology,
pharmaceuticals, and finance. With a view to further enhancing their
bilateral trade and investment relationship, they intend to hold
discussions on reciprocal facilitation of visa issuance and renewal, and
authorizations of stay.  
   
The United States and France are committed to developing diverse and
robust supply chains for critical minerals, including through their
collaboration in the Mineral Security Partnership and the Partnership
for Global Infrastructure and Investment. They reaffirm their shared
goal of accelerating the global green energy transition. They look
forward to the work of the U.S.-EU Taskforce on the Inflation Reduction
Act to further strengthen the U.S.-EU partnership on clean energy and
climate through mutually beneficial ways.    
  
**Space**  
The Presidents are committed to strengthening the U.S.-France alliance
across all sectors of space cooperation. They highlight their engagement
in continuing the longstanding bilateral cooperation in Earth
observation for monitoring and assessing climate change and adapting to
its consequences. In that spirit, they plan to working jointly on future
Earth science missions. They welcome France’s commitment not to conduct
destructive, direct-ascent anti-satellite missile testing and will work
towards universal adherence to this pledge.  The United States and
France are determined to deepen collaboration on defense space
activities, including military planning, information sharing, and
operational coordination. They welcome the June 2022 signings of the
Artemis Accords by France and of the Space for Climate Observatory
Charter by the United States, as well as the first meeting of the
U.S.-France Comprehensive Dialogue on Space in Paris in November 2022.  
  
**Energy**  
The Presidents welcome the successful first year of the U.S.-France
Bilateral Clean Energy Partnership, which convened most recently in
October 2022, as the high-level platform to advance our energy and
climate cooperation. In reaffirming their joint determination to further
synchronize and deepen cooperation on civil nuclear energy, the United
States and France plan to set up a nuclear energy small group within the
Partnership’s framework. The Partnership’s priorities also include
deepening civilian nuclear cooperation and contributing to a reliable
nuclear supply chain, in accordance with the highest standards of
nuclear nonproliferation, including the application of IAEA Additional
Protocol, and by further reducing reliance on civil nuclear and related
goods from Russia. The Partnership will promote advanced nuclear power
globally, which has a key role to play in order to reduce global CO2
emissions, while continuing efforts to limit the spread of sensitive
enrichment and reprocessing technology.  
   
The United States and France continue to promote energy policies,
technology, and innovation that enhance renewable energy production and
accelerated deployment. They intend to continue to support the
diversification of Europe’s natural gas supply, including through U.S.
liquified natural gas exports, as well as to cooperate in reducing
overall demand for natural gas in alignment with climate objectives. The
Presidents welcome the progress made through the U.S.-EU Task Force on
Energy Security to diversify the EU’s natural gas supplies, reducing its
cost and limiting its dependence on natural gas.  
  
**Climate and Biodiversity **  
The Presidents express their deep concern regarding the growing impact
of climate change and nature loss and intend to continue to galvanize
domestic and global action to address it. France and the United States
plan to continue pursuing their efforts to support the phase out of coal
as soon as possible, both domestically and in emerging economies. They
plan to increase their support towards those countries that host the
most critical reserves of irrecoverable carbon and important
biodiversity. France and the United States will also work together to
protect rainforests and to tackle deforestation and illegal forest
clearances, including through the One Forest Summit that will be held
early 2023 in Libreville. They will work together to ensure better ocean
protection in view of the next UN Ocean Conference that will be held in
France in 2025 and are fully mobilized at the highest level for the
conclusion of the UN Treaty on the protection of the High Sea in
2023.   
  
**Strengthening the International Financial Architecture**  
France and the United States intend to work jointly to strengthen the
international financial architecture to support the most vulnerable
countries in a context of multiple shocks, from the COVID-19 pandemic to
the repercussions of Russia’s war against Ukraine and the accelerating
effects of climate change. The United States and France will also
cooperate closely to reduce the financing gap in emerging and developing
economies in order to foster sustainable pathways towards net zero. This
includes working together to ensure that multilateral systems are
delivering timely debt relief from all key creditors to countries in
distress.   
  
As two major shareholders, France and the United States reaffirm their
determination to drive an evolution of the multilateral development
banks, starting with the World Bank, to better address global challenges
and support private investment in emerging and developing markets.
France and the United States reiterate their commitment to help meet the
global ambition of $100 billion U.S. dollars in voluntary contributions
as soon as possible for countries most in need, including through the
channeling of special drawing rights.   
  
The Presidents affirm their willingness to cooperate to raise the level
of ambition on these issues, including at the summit to be held in Paris
in June 2023.    
  
**Global Health and Food Security**  
It is fitting that this State Visit coincides with World AIDS Day, given
our nations’ leadership in turning the tide of the AIDS pandemic and as
the most recent hosts of the replenishments for the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Learning from the COVID-19 pandemic,
France and the United States plan to intensify their cooperation on
global health security and pandemic prevention, preparedness, and
response, including by supporting the newly established Pandemic Fund,
bolstering national health systems, training health workers, and
strengthening multilateral institutions including the World Health
Organization.  The United States and France intend to continue working
together to respond to regional and global food security challenges.
They also intend to promote and safeguard an open and transparent
agricultural market, to invest in resilient food systems, and to refrain
from imposing any unnecessary trade obstacles.  
  
**Democracy and Human Rights**  
The Presidents recognize that strengthening democratic values and
respect for universal human rights is essential to meeting the
unprecedented challenges of our time. They reinforce the commitments
they each made at the first Summit for Democracy to support free and
independent media, tackle the proliferation of surveillance technologies
and disinformation, bolster democratic reformers, and advance technology
for democracy. The United States and France intend to strengthen and
expand the Freedom Online Coalition, advance the commitments made in the
Christchurch Call to Action to counter the dissemination of terrorist
and violent extremist content online to better protect human rights both
on- and off-line, and plan to promote the principles outlined in the
Declaration for the Future of the Internet.  
  
**Cyber and Disinformation**  
The Presidents renew their determination to work alongside partners and
stakeholders to advance cybersecurity and to uphold international law
and established, non-binding global peacetime norms in cyberspace,
including through the Paris Call for Trust and Security in Cyberspace
and through an ambitious United Nations Program of Action. The United
States and France plan to hold their fifth U.S.-France Cyber Dialogue in
early 2023. They also intend to strengthen bilateral coordination in
combating foreign manipulation of information online. They reaffirm
their support for independent media at the international level,
including through the International Fund for Public Interest Media
(IFPIM) to be hosted in Paris. The United States and France underscore
the importance of last month’s Counter Ransomware Initiative Summit
where they and 35 other participants reaffirmed their cooperation to
disrupt ransomware globally. Recognizing the growing use of commercial
space capabilities to support critical functions and the increasing
cybersecurity threats to those capabilities, France and the United
States intend to work together to strengthen the cybersecurity of these
space systems.  
  
**Education and Science Partnerships**  
The United States and France are committed to deepening their
educational cooperation with the shared objective of fostering greater
equity and access to excellence in education. Because the power of
language and international mobility can lead to meaningful partnerships,
they intend to undertake new initiatives to foster language learning,
such as facilitating French and English language teaching assistant
exchanges between their respective countries. They welcome and support
the French for All initiative, which promotes greater and more equitable
access to French language education and the benefits of bilingualism for
young learners across the United States.  
   
The United States and France aim for a robust network of educational
partnerships and exchange programs to reach the next generation of
transatlantic leaders who will shape Franco-American relations for
decades to come. This includes strengthening the flagship U.S.-French
Fulbright Program, which will celebrate the 75th anniversary in 2023.
They also intend to develop new ways for young French and Americans to
learn about each other’s culture and history, including through Villa
Albertine’s residency program for French and Francophone creators across
the United States as well as for American creators across France. 
Likewise, they are creating the “250 for 250” program, which celebrates
France’s role in the founding of the United States, and the enduring
friendship between their two nations, by sending 250 French students to
study or intern in the United States and 250 American students to study
or intern in France.   
   
Through technical and scientific exchange, the United States and France
intend to deepen their collaboration on shared priorities such as
health, the environment, and emerging technologies, including
biotechnology, quantum science, and artificial intelligence.   
  
Joseph R. Biden, Jr.   
                                                                  
Emmanuel Macron

December 1, 2022

\###
