---
date: '2022-12-02'
modified_time: 2022-12-02 14:55:42-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-02 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/02/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for\_USDA"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA):

-   Ginger Sykes Torres, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
    Agency, Arizona
-   William Bunce, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Wyoming
-   Maximiliano J. Trujillo, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
    Puerto Rico

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of America and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**

The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.

USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.

**<u>Ginger Sykes Torres, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
Agency, Arizona</u>**

Born in the small town of Tuba City, Arizona, Ginger Sykes Torres is a
registered member of the Navajo Nation. She is an environmental planner
and a civic leader who has spent her professional career working to
create a more equitable, resilient, and sustainable planet for future
generations. Sykes Torres graduated from Stanford University with a
degree in the Earth Systems Science Program. Previously, she worked as a
consultant on land use planning, environmental impact assessment, and
environmental policy for Federal agencies, utilities, and renewable
energy developers in the western U.S. She serves as the Vice Chair of
the City of Phoenix Environmental Quality and Sustainability Commission
which advises the Mayor and Phoenix City Council on environmental,
sustainability, and climate resilience issues. She has led the charge to
develop innovative community-driven strategies to expand the city’s
shade capacity and prepare vulnerable communities for the impacts of
rising heat as the chair of the City’s Urban Heat Island Tree and Shade
Subcommittee. She also serves on the City’s Executive Committee of the
proposed $500 million 2023 General Obligation Bond Program, and is
helping shape Phoenix’s critical infrastructure investments in projects
that would reduce energy consumption and GHG emissions and ensure future
environmental and economic livability in the region. Sykes Torres and
her husband Javier have three young children and live in Phoenix.

**<u>William Bunce, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Wyoming</u>**

William “Bill” Bunce brings decades of agriculture production and
agribusiness experience to USDA’s Farm Service Agency, having managed
multiple large-scale Wyoming ranches, including livestock, sheep, and
cattle feedlot operations. A graduate of University of Missouri –
Columbia with a Bachelor’s of Science in Animal Science, he’s had a
distinguished career in ranch management, agribusiness, and livestock
breed association management, including serving as senior operational
management with the American Quarter Horse Association, The Quarter
Horse Journal and The Quarter Racing Journal, Vice-President of the
American Polled Hereford Association, and Executive Director of the New
Mexico Livestock Board. Bunce has served the State of Wyoming as
Marketing Director of the Wyoming Department of Agriculture and as one
of the foundational staff directors of the Wyoming Business Council
serving in dual roles as Wyoming’s Director of International Business
and Agribusiness for 7 years. He actively served on the Board of
Directors of United States Livestock Genetics Export Inc, Wyoming Rural
Development Council, University of Wyoming-College of Agriculture
Advisory Committee, and Governor Jim Geringer’s Sub-Cabinets on Natural
Resources and Economic Development.

**<u>Maximiliano J. Trujillo, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Puerto Rico</u>**

Maximiliano J. Trujillo is a senior government affairs and policy
professional with 20 years of experience working in the U.S. Congress,
the government of Puerto Rico, and the private sector. He was born and
raised in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Trujillo most recently served as a
policy and strategic government affairs consultant in Washington, DC,
providing advice on federal telecommunications, health care, and
economic development. He served as a Senior Policy Advisor in the House
of Representatives on a broad portfolio of Puerto Rico-related issues,
among others.

Prior to his work in Congress, he was the Advocacy Director for AARP in
Puerto Rico. Trujillo educated policy stakeholders and the public on
federal issues including Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, as
well as advocated on pro-consumer protection and utility regulatory
issues. He has also served as a Deputy Advisor to the Governor of Puerto
Rico on economic security and the protection of citizens’ rights and as
Legislative Counsel at the Puerto Rico House of Representatives on
economic development. A graduate of Marquette University, Trujillo holds
a law degree from the Inter-American University of Puerto Rico School of
Law and a Master of Laws in International Legal Studies from American
University’s Washington College of Law.

\###
