---
date: '2022-12-07'
modified_time: 2022-12-07 12:43:37-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-07 12:02:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-first-ever-federal-building-performance-standard-catalyzes-american-innovation-to-lower-energy-costs-save-taxpayer-dollars-and-cut-emissions/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces First-Ever Federal\
  \ Building Performance Standard, Catalyzes American Innovation to Lower Energy Costs,\
  \ Save Taxpayer Dollars, and Cut\_Emissions"
---
 
*In Addition to New Federal Actions, California Joins President Biden’s
National Building Performance Standard Coalition*

Today the Biden-Harris Administration announced the first-ever *Federal
Building Performance Standard<u>,</u>* setting an ambitious goal to cut
energy use and electrify equipment and appliances in 30 percent of the
building space owned by the Federal government by 2030. Today’s actions
are the latest step forward in pursuit of President Biden’s [goal of
achieving net-zero emissions in all Federal buildings by
2045](https://www.sustainability.gov/federalsustainabilityplan/buildings.html).

As a complementary step, today the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
announced a [proposed
rulemaking](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-steps-electrify-and-cut-emissions-federal-buildings)
to electrify new Federal buildings and Federal buildings undergoing
major renovations. As the country’s single largest energy consumer and
building manager, these new actions will save taxpayer dollars by
reducing energy use while cutting millions of tons of greenhouse gas
emissions, increasing resilience, strengthening U.S. energy
independence, and growing the jobs of the future in America.

Additionally, the State of California announced it is joining the
President’s [National Building Performance Standard
Coalition](https://nationalbpscoalition.org/), a nationwide group of
over 30 state and local governments that have committed to reducing the
emissions footprint of existing buildings. With the addition of
California to the coalition and the new *Federal Building Performance
Standard*, one quarter of all commercial, Federal, and multifamily
buildings in the United States are now either covered by or moving
toward sustainable building performance standard policies.

In the United States, residential and commercial buildings represent [35
percent of carbon dioxide
emissions](https://nationalbpscoalition.org/#FAQ). Commercial and
government buildings [cost $190
billion](https://www.energy.gov/eere/buildings/about-commercial-buildings-integration-program)
to power each year. With eighty percent of all existing U.S. buildings
expected to remain in service in 2050, electrifying existing buildings
is essential to achieving President Biden’s climate goals.

**<u>Council on Environmental Quality Announces First-Ever Building
Performance Standard for Existing Federal Buildings</u>**

The **Council on Environmental Quality’s (CEQ)** *Federal Building
Performance Standard* requires agencies to cut energy use and electrify
equipment and appliances to achieve zero scope 1 emissions in 30 percent
of their buildings by square footage by 2030*.* To reach that mark,
agencies will be buying American-made products such as heat pumps,
electric water heaters, and other energy efficiency and building system
technologies supported by the Inflation Reduction Act.

Federal buildings are a major source of the U.S. Government’s direct
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Energy used in Federal buildings for
space heating, water heating, cooking, and other needs account for over
25 percent of Federal emissions. In addition to lowering costs,
efficient electrification of building equipment and appliances reduces
air pollution—improving health in workplaces and communities.

Upgrading the Federal building portfolio to meet the new standard will
reduce reliance on imported fossil fuels from volatile parts of the
world and cut millions of tons of GHG emissions. **Funding provided
through the President’s** Bipartisan Infrastructure Law**, agency
operating budgets, and the** [Climate Smart Buildings
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/03/fact-sheet-white-house-takes-action-on-climate-by-accelerating-energy-efficiency-projects-across-federal-government/#:~:text=The%20Climate%20Smart%20Buildings%20Initiative%20is%20an%20integral,by%202032%20and%20achieve%20net-zero%20emissions%20by%202045.)
**will aid implementation.** To further reduce costs and maximize
efficiencies, agencies will apply electrification strategies in
conjunction with deep energy retrofits, energy use and water use
reductions, and other facility improvements.

**<u>Department of Energy Releases Clean Energy Rule for New Federal
Buildings</u>**

Today **DOE** released a Supplemental Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
seeking public comment on a forthcoming rule, *Clean Energy for New
Federal Buildings and Major Renovations of Federal Buildings*, to
support building decarbonization. The rule would set emissions reduction
targets and require equipment and appliance electrification in new
Federal buildings as well as Federal buildings undertaking major
renovations. The rule is projected to save $8 million per year in
building costs. The *Federal Building Performance Standard* and the rule
work together to ensure a comprehensive approach to Federal building
decarbonization while reinforcing the urgency to reduce GHG emissions
and creating new markets and well-paying jobs.

**<u>President Biden’s Building Performance Standard Coalition
Grows</u>**

The **State of California** today announced that it has joined the
[National Building Performance Standard
Coalition](https://nationalbpscoalition.org/), a White House initiative
to accelerate building performance standards across over 30 state and
local governments. California joins Colorado, Washington, and cities
including New York City, Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Boston, and many
others in committing to developing building performance standards with a
goal of adoption by Earth Day 2024. As a result of building performance
standards applied across jurisdictions participating in the National BPS
Coalition, it is estimated that $124 billion will flow into the building
electrification and construction industry by 2040.   

To support building owners, developers, and contractors seeking to meet
a building performance standard, the President’s Inflation Reduction Act
provides substantial tax incentives. Under the revised Energy-Efficient
Commercial Buildings Deduction, 179D, the total available deduction for
developers and contractors completing these projects will nearly triple,
increasing from $1.80 per square foot to potentially $5.00 per square
foot, depending on the project’s demonstrated increase in energy
efficiency. Further, the Inflation Reduction Act expanded eligibility
for the deduction to a broader range of organizations, including
non-profits and Tribal governments. The [Department of Treasury
(Treasury) recently announced that it will release
notices ](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cleanenergy/clean-energy-updates/2022/11/07/how-to-engage-with-treasury-on-clean-energy-tax-incentives/#incentives-for-homes-and-buildings)to
collect input from stakeholders, experts, and the public on key climate
and energy tax provisions of the law.

To support effective city and state building performance policies,
**DOE** and the **Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)** are providing
[guidance](https://www.energystar.gov/buildings/resources_topic/what_are_building_performance_standards/benchmarking_policies_and_building)
and [technical assistance](https://www.energycodes.gov/BPS) for
policymakers and program administrators. Policy design and
implementation support includes analysis, policy design, implementation,
and stakeholder engagement. DOE and EPA are further collaborating to
facilitate access to new Federal programs and related activities that
reduce emissions from the built environment.

**<u>Agencies Are Taking Action Now to Cut Building Energy Use and
Emissions</u>**

In response to the President’s early executive orders and Federal
sustainability goals, Federal agencies are advancing net-zero goals
across new building construction, major modernizations, and existing
building retrofits—electrifying systems, saving energy, and lowering
emissions. Highlights include:

-   Last month the **General Services Administration (GSA)**
    [**announced**](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/newsroom/news-releases/at-greenbuild-gsa-administrator-makes-commitment-toward-achieving-netzero-portfolio-11032022)
    that it will not use Inflation Reduction Act funding to install
    fossil fuel-based equipment, a commitment that reaffirms the Federal
    Government’s commitment to building electrification.
-   In 2023, **GSA** will open the [**Des Moines U.S.
    Courthouse**](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/regions/welcome-to-the-heartland-region-6/buildings-and-facilities/iowa/new-des-moines-us-courthouse),
    a new all-electric, energy-efficient Federal courthouse for the
    Southern District of Iowa that features a highly reflective cool
    roof, insulated windows, and LED lighting. Next year **GSA** also
    will complete the modernization of the [**Denver Federal Center
    Building
    48**](https://ibc.doi.gov/sites/default/files/GSA-B48-Modernization-Project-Fact-Sheet.pdf),
    an existing vacant warehouse that will be converted into an
    efficient, all-electric 150,000-square foot office space for the
    **Department of the Interior.** Modernizing this existing building
    will minimize embodied carbon emissions, and it will be designed and
    operated to achieve net zero carbon emissions.
-   Earlier this year **DOE** announced a $38 million [**Net Zero Labs
    (NZL) Pilot
    Initiative**](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-announces-38-million-launch-decarbonization-initiative-national-laboratories)
    to decarbonize four national laboratories and lay the foundation to
    address hard-to-decarbonize industries. The Initiative will
    demonstrate solutions that can be replicated at facilities across
    DOE, state and local governments, and the Federal Government.
    Project examples from this initiative that will meet the new
    *Federal Building Performance Standard* include:
    -   By 2023, **DOE’s** [**National Renewable Energy Laboratory
        (NREL)**](https://www.nrel.gov/about/net-zero-labs.html) will
        eliminate the use of gas at its Flatirons Campus by converting
        four existing facilities to electric heating. Further, NREL aims
        to eliminate the use of gas for heating and switch to a
        carbon-free district heating and cooling system at its South
        Table Campus by 2027.
    -   In 2021, **DOE’s** [**Pacific Northwest National Laboratory
        (PNNL)**](https://www.pnnl.gov/net-zero) began a replacement
        project to upgrade a gas-fired boiler and steam system at
        Battelle Inhalation Lab with two efficient electric boilers.
        Additionally, in 2023, PNNL will replace aging gas-fired steam
        systems that support four buildings with new high efficiency
        electric systems. These conversions will improve facility
        reliability and increase energy efficiency, yielding significant
        cost savings and reducing GHG emissions.

<!-- -->

-   Across the commercial building sector, more than 40
    companies—representing 1.2 billion square feet—have joined
    **DOE’s** [Better Climate
    Challenge](https://betterbuildingssolutioncenter.energy.gov/climate-challenge) where
    they’ve committed to reducing portfolio-wide GHG emissions by at
    least 50 percent by 2030. These owners are accelerating
    decarbonization efforts throughout all of their buildings, and
    sharing common sense solutions for cutting energy waste across the
    country.

\###
