---
date: '2025-01-29'
modified_time: 2025-01-29 09:20:47-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-29 09:20:46-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/01/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karoline-leavitt/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt
---
 
1:06 P.M. EST

     MS. LEAVITT:  Good afternoon, everybody. 

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. LEAVITT:  How are we?  Good to see all of you.  It’s an honor to be
here with all of you.  A lot of familiar faces in the room, a lot of new
faces.

And President Trump is back, and the golden age of America has most
definitely begun. 

The Senate has already confirmed five of President Trump’s exceptional
Cabinet nominees: Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Defense Secretary Pete
Hegseth, CIA Director John Ratcliffe, Homeland Security Secretary Kristi
Noem, and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent.  It is imperative that the
Senate continues to confirm the remainder of the president’s
well-qualified nominees as quickly as possible.

As you have seen during the past week, President Trump is hard at work
fulfilling the promises that he made to the American people on the
campaign trail.  Since taking the oath of office, President Trump has
taken more than 300 executive actions; secured nearly $1 trillion in
U.S. investments; deported illegal alien rapists, gang members, and
suspected terrorists from our homeland; and restored common sense to the
federal government.

I want to take a moment to go through some of these extraordinary
actions. 

On day one, President Trump declared a national emergency at our
southern border to end the four-year-long invasion of illegal aliens
under the previous administration.  Additionally, President Trump signed
an executive order to end catch and release and finish construction of
his effective border wall.  By using every lever of his federal power,
President Trump has sent a loud and clear message to the entire world:
America will no longer tolerate illegal immigration. 

And this president expects that every nation on this planet will
cooperate with the repatriation of their citizens, as proven by this
weekend, when President Trump swiftly directed his team to issue harsh
and effective sanctions and tariffs on the Colombian government upon
hearing they were denied a U.S. military aircraft full of their own
citizens who were deported by this administration.  Within hours, the
Colombian government agreed to all of President Trump’s demands, proving
America is once again respected on the world stage.

So, to foreign nationals who are thinking about trying to illegally
enter the United States, think again.  Under this president, you will be
detained, and you will be deported.   
  
     Every day, Americans are safer because of the violent criminals
that President Trump’s administration is removing from our communities.

On January 23rd, ICE New York arrested a Turkish national for entry
without inspection who is a known or suspected terrorist.  On January
23rd, ICE San Francisco arrested a citizen of Mexico unlawfully present
in the United States who has been convicted of continuous sexual abuse
of a child aged 14 years or younger.  ICE Saint Paul has arrested a
citizen of Honduras who was convicted of fourth-degree criminal sexual
conduct with a minor.  ICE Buffalo arrested a citizen of Ecuador who has
been convicted of rape. 

ICE Boston arrested a citizen of the Dominican Republic who has a
criminal conviction for second-degree murder.  This criminal was
convicted of murder for beating his pregnant wife to death in front of
her five-year-old son.   
  
     And ICE Saint Paul also arrested a citizen of Mexico who was
convicted of possessing pornographic material of a minor on a work
computer.

These are the heinous individuals that this administration is removing
from American communities every single day.  And to the brave state and
local law enforcement officers, CBP, and ICE agents who are helping in
the facilitation of this deportation operation, President Trump has your
back and he is grateful for your hard work.

On the economic front, President Trump took immediate action to lower
costs for families who are suffering from four long years of the Biden
administration’s destructive and inflationary policies.  President Trump
ordered the heads of all executive departments and agencies to help
deliver emergency price relief to the American people, untangle our
economy from Biden’s regulatory constraints, and end the reckless war on
American energy.

President Trump also signed sweeping executive orders to end the
weaponization of government and restore common sense to the federal
bureaucracy.  He directed all federal agencies to terminate illegal
diversity, equity, and inclusion programs to help return America to a
merit-based society.

President Trump also signed an executive order declaring it is now the
policy of the federal government that there are only two sexes: male and
female.  Sanity has been restored.

Before I take your questions, I would like to point out to — all of you
once again have access to the most transparent and accessible president
in American history.  There has never been a president who communicates
with the American people and the American press corps as openly and
authentically as the 45th and now 47th president of the United States. 

This past week, President Trump has held multiple news conferences,
gaggled on Air Force One multiple times, and sat down for a two-part
interview on Fox News, which aired last week.  As Politico summed it up
best, “Trump is everywhere again,” and that’s because President Trump
has a great story to tell about the legendary American revival that is
well underway.

And in keeping with this revolutionary media approach that President
Trump deployed during the campaign, the Trump White House will speak to
all media outlets and personalities, not just the legacy media who are
seated in this room, because apporting — according to recent polling
from Gallup, Americans’ trust in mass media has fallen to a record low. 
Millions of Americans, especially young people, have turned from
traditional television outlets and newspapers to consume their news from
podcasts, blogs, social media, and other independent outlets.

It’s essential to our team that we share President Trump’s message
everywhere and adapt this White House to the new media landscape in
2025.  To do this, I am excited to announce the following changes will
be made to this historic James S. Brady Briefing Room, where Mr. Brady’s
legacy will endure.

This White House believes strongly in the First Amendment, so it’s why
our team will work diligently to restore the press passes of the 440
journalists whose passes were wrongly revoked by the previous
administration. 

We’re also opening up this briefing room to new media voices who produce
news-related content and whose outlet is not already represented by one
of the seats in this room.  We welcome independent journalists,
podcasters, social media influencers, and content creators to apply for
credentials to cover this White House.  And you can apply now on our new
website, WhiteHouse.gov/NewMedia. 

Starting today, this seat in the front of the room, which is usually
occupied by the press secretary staff, will be called the “new media”
seat.  My team will review the applications and give credentials to new
media applicants who meet our criteria and pass United States Secret
Service requirements to enter the White House complex.

So, in light of these announcements, our first questions for today’s
briefing will go to these new media members whose outlets, despite being
some of the most viewed news websites in the country, have not been
given seats in this room. 

And before I turn to questions, I do have news directly from the
president of the United States that was just shared with me in the Oval
Office from President Trump directly — an update on the New Jersey
drones: After research and study, the drones that were flying over New
Jersey in large numbers were authorized to be flown by the FAA for
research and various other reasons. 

Many of these drones were also hobbyists — recreational and private
individuals that enjoy flying drones.  In meanti- — in the — in time, it
got worse, due to curiosity.  This was not the enemy.  A — a statement
from the president of the United States to start this briefing with some
news.

And with that, I will turn it over to questions, and we will begin with
our new media members: Mike Allen from Axios, Matt Boyle from
Breitbart.   
  
     Mike, why don’t you go ahead.

Q    Thank you very much.  Karoline, does the president see anything
fishy about DeepSeek, either its origins or its cost?  And could China’s
ability to make these models quicker, cheaper affect our thinking about
expanding generation data centers, chip manufacturing?

MS. LEAVITT:  Sure.  The president was asked about DeepSeek last night
on Air Force One when he gaggled for, I think, the third or fourth time
throughout the weekend with members of the traveling press corps.  The
president said that he believes that this is a wake-up call to the
American AI industry.  The last administration sat on their hands and
allowed China to rapidly develop this AI program.

And so, President Trump believes in restoring American AI dominance, and
that’s why he took very strong executive action this past week to sign
executive orders to roll back some of the onerous regulations on the AI
industry.  And President Trump has also proudly appointed the first AI
and crypto czar at this White House, David Sacks, whom I spoke with
yesterday — very knowledgeable on this subject.  And his team is here
working every single day to ensure American AI dominance.

As for the national security implications, I spoke with NSC this
morning.  They are looking into what those may be, and when I have an
update, I will share it with you, Mike.

Q    And, Karoline, you say “restore” U.S. dominance.  Is there fear
that the U.S. either is falling or has fallen behind?  And how would the
president make sure the U.S. stays ahead?

MS. LEAVITT:  No.  The president is confident that we will restore
American dominance in AI. 

Matt.

Q    Yeah.  So, Karoline, first off, thank you to you and President
Trump for actually giving voices to new media outlets that represent
millions and millions of Americans.  The thing I would add — the — I’ve
got a two-part question for you.  The first is just: Can you expand upon
what steps the White House is going to take to bring more voices, not
less — which is what our founder, Andrew Breitbart, believed in — into
this room, where they rightly belong?

MS. LEAVITT:  Yeah, absolutely.  And as I said in my opening statement,
Matt, it is a priority of this White House to honor the First
Amendment.  And it is a fact that Americans are consuming their news
media from various different platforms, especially young people.  And as
the youngest press secretary in history, thanks to President Trump, I
take great pride in opening up this room to new media voices to share
the president’s message with as many Americans as possible.

In doing so, number one, we will ensure that outlets like yours — Axios
and Breitbart, which are widely respected and viewed outlets — have an
actual seat in this room every day.  We also, again, encourage anybody
in this country — whether you are a TikTok content creator, a blogger, a
podcaster — if you are producing legitimate news content, no matter the
medium, you will be allowed to apply for press credentials to this White
House. 

And as I said earlier, our new media website is WhiteHouse.gov/NewMedia,
and so we encourage people to apply.  Again, as long as you are creating
news-related content of the day and you’re a legitimate independent
journalist, you’re welcome to cover this White House. 

Q    And secondly, Karoline, you sa- — you laid out several of the
actions that President Trump has taken.  Obviously, it’s a stark
contrast to the previous administration and a breakneck speed from
President Trump.  Can we expect that pace to continue as the hun- — the
— you know, the first 100 days moves along here and beyond that?

MS. LEAVITT:  Absolutely.  There is no doubt President Trump has always
been the hardest working man in politics.  I think that’s been proven
over the past week.  This president has, again, signed more than 300
executive orders.  He’s taken historic action. 

I gaggled aboard Air Force One to mark the first 100 days of this
administration — 4:00 p.m. last Friday — first 100 hours, rather.  And
this president did more in the first 100 hours than the previous
president did in the first 100 days. 

So, President Trump, I think you can all expect to — for him to continue
to work at this breakneck speed.  So, I hope you’re all ready to work
very hard.  I know that we are.

Zeke Miller.

Q    Thanks, Karoline.  A question that we’ve asked your predecessors of
both parties in this job.  When you’re up here in this briefing room
speaking to the American public, do you view yourself and your role as
speaking on — advocating on behalf of the president, or providing the
unvarnished truth that is, you know, not to lie, not to obfuscate to the
American people?

MS. LEAVITT:  I commit to telling the truth from this podium every
single day.  I commit to speaking on behalf of the president of the
United States.  That is my job. 

And I will say it’s very easy to speak truth from this podium when you
have a president who is implementing policies that are wildly popular
with the American people, and that’s exactly what this administration is
doing.  It’s correcting the lies and the wrongs of the past four years,
many of the lies that have been told to your faces in this very briefing
room.  I will not do that.

But since you brought up truth, Zeke, I would like to point out, while I
vow to provide the truth from this podium, we ask that all of you in
this room hold yourselves to that same standard.  We know for a fact
there have been lies that have been pushed by many legacy media outlets
in this country about this president, about his family, and we will not
accept that.  We will call you out when we feel that your reporting is
wrong or there is misinformation about this White House. 

So, yes, I will hold myself to the truth, and I expect everyone in this
room to do the same. 

Q    And, Karoline, just on a substantive question.  Yesterday, the
White House Office of Management and Budget directed an across-the-board
freeze with — with some exceptions for individual assistance.  We
understand just federal grants.

MS. LEAVITT:  Right.

Q    It’s caused a lot of confusion around the country among Head Start
providers, among providers — from services to homeless veterans, provid-
— you know, Medicaid providers, states saying they’re having trouble
accessing the portal.  Could you put — help us clear up some confusion —

MS. LEAVITT:  Yes.

Q    — give some certainty to folks?  And then also, is that uncertainty
— how does that uncertainty service the president’s voters?

MS. LEAVITT:  Well, I think there’s only uncertainty in this room
amongst the media.  There’s no uncertainty in this building. 

So, let me provide the certainty and the clarity that all of you need. 
This is not a blanket pause on federal assistance in grant programs from
the Trump administration.  Individual assistance, that includes — I’m
not naming everything that’s included, but just to give you a few
examples — Social Security benefits, Medicare benefits, food stamps,
welfare benefits — assistance that is going directly to individuals will
not be impacted by this pause. 

And I want to make that very clear to any Americans who are watching at
home who may be a little bit confused about some of the media reporting:
This administration — if you are receiving individual assistance from
the federal government, you will still continue to receive that. 

However, it is the responsibility of this president and this
administration to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars.  That is
something that President Trump campaigned on.  That’s why he has
launched DOGE, the Department of Government Efficiency, who is working
alongside OMB.  And that’s why OMB sent out this memo last night,
because the president signed an executive order directing OMB to do just
this.  And the reason for this is to ensure that every penny that is
going out the door is not conflicting with the executive orders and
actions that this president has taken. 

So, what does this pause mean?  It means no more funding for illegal DEI
programs.  It means no more funding for the Green New Scam that has ta-
— cost American taxpayers tens of billions of dollars.  It means no more
funding for transgenderism and wokeness across our federal bureaucracy
and agencies.  No more funding for Green New Deal social engineering
policies.  Again, people who are receiving individual asintan- —
assistance, you will continue to receive that.

And President Trump is looking out for you by issuing this pause because
he is being good steward of your taxpayer dollars.

Q    Thanks, Karoline. 

MS. LEAVITT:  Sure.

Q    How long is this pause going to last?  And how is the Trump
administration recommending that organizations that rely on federal
funding make payroll, pay their rent in the meantime?

MS. LEAVITT:  It is a temporary pause, and the Office of Management and
Budget is reviewing the federal funding that has been going out the
door, again, not for individual assistance, but for all of these other
programs that I mentioned.

I also spoke with the incoming director of OMB this morning, and he told
me to tell all of you that the line to his office is open for other
federal government agencies across the board, and if they feel that
programs are necessary and in line with the president’s agenda, then the
Office of Management and Budget will review those policies. 

I think this is a very responsible measure.  Again, the past four years,
we’ve seen the Biden administration spend money like drunken sailors. 
It’s a big reason we’ve had an inflation crisis in this country, and
it’s incumbent upon this administration to make sure, again, that every
penny is being accounted for honestly.

Q    Why impose this pause with so little notice?  Why not give
organizations more time to plan for the fact that they are about to
lose, in some cases, really crucial federal funding —

MS. LEAVITT:  There was —

Q    — at least for a — for a period of time?

MS. LEAVITT:  There was notice.  It was the executive order that the
president signed. 

There’s also a freeze on hiring, as you know; a regulatory freeze; and
there’s also a freeze on foreign aid.  And this is a — again, incredibly
important to ensure that this administration is taking into
consideration how hard the American people are working.  And their tax
dollars actually matter to this administration. 

You know, just during this pause, DOGE and OMB have actually found that
there was $37 million that was about to go out the door to the World
Health Organization, which is an organization, as you all know, that
President Trump, with the swipe of his pen in that executive order, is —
no longer wants the United States to be a part of.  So, that wouldn’t be
in line with the president’s agenda. 

DOGE and OMB also found that there was about to be 50 million taxpayer
dollars that went out the door to fund condoms in Gaza.  That is a
preposterous waste of taxpayer money. 

So, that’s what this pause is focused on: being good stewards of tax
dollars. 

Q    And so, this doesn’t affect —

MS. LEAVITT:  Jennifer.

Q    — Meals on Wheels or Head Start or disaster aid?

MS. LEAVITT:  Again, it does not affect individual assistance that’s
going to Americans.

Q    To follow up on Nancy, do you think there will be a list of who is
affected and how much money is affected?  How — how will these
contractors and organizations know if they are actually being — having
their funding frozen?

And then, secondly, if you’re willing, can you just clarify, is the end
goal of this to essentially challenge Congress or to — to prove that the
president can withhold federal funding?  Is — in other words, is this an
attempt to pick a fight to prove that he can do this?

MS. LEAVITT:  No, absolutely not.  As it says right here in the memo,
which I have — and I’d encourage all of you to read it — it says, “The
American people elected President Trump to be the president of the
United States and gave him a mandate to increase the impact of every
federal dollar.”  “This memo requires federal agencies to identify and
review all Federal financial assistance programs and supporting
activities consistent with the president’s policies and requirements.” 

The American people gave President Trump an overwhelming mandate on
November 5th, and he’s just trying to ensure that the tax money going
out the door in this very bankrupt city actually aligns with the will
and the priorities of the American people. 

(Cross-talk.)

Brian Glenn.

Q    Yes.  Welcome. 

MS. LEAVITT:  Thank you.

Q    You look great.  You’re doing a great job. 

MS. LEAVITT:  Thank you.

Q    You talked about transparency.  And some of us in this room know
how just transparent President Trump has been the last five or six
years; I think you’ll do the same. 

My question is, do you think this latest incident with the president of
Colombia is indicative of the global, powerful respect they have for
President Trump moving forward not only to engage in — in economic
diplomacy with these countries but also world peace?

MS. LEAVITT:  Absolutely.  I’ll echo the answer that the president gave
on Air Force One last night when he was asked a very similar question by
one of your colleagues in the media: This signifies peace through
strength is back, and this president will not tolerate illegal
immigration into America’s interior. 

And he expects every nation on this planet, again, to cooperate with the
repatriation of their citizens who illegally entered into our country
and broke America’s laws.  Won’t be tolerated. 

And as you saw, the Colombian government quickly folded and agreed to
all of President Trump’s demands.  Flights are underway once again.

(Cross-talk.)

Diana.

Q    Two questions on deportations, if I may.  President Trump had said
on the campaign trail that he would deport pro-Hamas students who are
here on visas, and on his first day in office, he signed an executive
order that said, quote, “The U.S. must ensure that admitted aliens and
aliens otherwise already present in the U.S. do not bear hostile
attitudes toward its citizens, culture, government, institutions, or
founding principles.”  So, should we take this executive order as Trump
saying he would be open to de- — deporting those students who are here
on visas, but, you know, hold pro-Hamas sympathies?

MS. LEAVITT:  The president is open to deporting individuals who have
broken our nation’s immigrations laws.  So, if they are here illegally,
then certainly he is open to deporting them, and that’s what this
administration is hard at work at doing. 

We receive data from DHS and from ICE every single day.  From what we
hear on the ground, ICE agents are feeling incredibly empowered right
now because they actually have a leader in this building who is
supporting them in doing their jobs that they were hired to do, which is
to detain, arrest, and deport illegal criminals who have invaded our
nation’s borders over the past four years.  That’s what the president is
committed to seeing. 

Q    One more. 

MS. LEAVITT:  Peter.  
      
     Q    Just following up on that, Karoline —

Q    Karoline, if I could ask you very quickly, just following up on the
question on immigration.  First, President Trump, during the course of
the campaign in 2024, said the following about illegal im- —
immigration.  He said, “They’re going back home where they belong, and
we start with the criminals.  There are many, many criminals.”  NBC News
has learned that ICE arrested 1,179 undocumented immigrants on Sunday,
but nearly half of them — 566 of the migrants — appear to have no prior
criminal record besides entering the country illegally. 

MS. LEAVITT:  (Laughs.)

Q    Is the president still focused exclusiv- — which is a civil crime,
not a — not a — it’s not criminal —

MS. LEAVITT:  It’s a federal crime. 

Q    It’s a fed- — so, I’m asking though, he said he was going to focus
on those violent offenders first.  So, is violent offenders no longer
the predicate for these people to be deported?

MS. LEAVITT:  The president has said countless times on the campaign
trail — I’ve been with him at the rallies; I know you’ve been there
covering them too, Peter — that he is focused on launching the largest
mass deportation operation in American history of illegal criminals. 

And if you are an individual, a foreign national, who illegally enters
the United States of America, you are, by definition, a criminal.  And
so, therefore —

Q    So, to be clear, it’s not exclusively —

MS. LEAVITT:  — you are subject deportation. 

Q    I apologize for interrupting.  So, to be clear, it’s not — violent
criminals do not receive precedence in terms of the deportations taking
place?

MS. LEAVITT:  The president has also said — two things can be true at
the same time.  We want to deport illegal criminals, illegal immigrants
from this country.  But the president has said that, of course, the
illegal dr- — criminal drug dealers, the rapists, the murderers, the
individuals who have committed heinous acts on the interior of our
country and who have terrorized law-abiding American citizens,
absolutely, those should be the priority of ICE.  But that doesn’t mean
that the other illegal criminals who entered our nation’s borders are
off the table. 

Q    Understood.  Then let me ask you a separate question about the
confusion that still exists across the country right now as it relates
to the — the freeze — or the pause, as it’s described.  President Trump,
of course, ran — one of the key policy items was that he was going to
lower prices, lower the cost of everything from groceries, as he often
said.  But in many of the cases, it would seem that some of these moves
could raise prices for real Americans on everything from low-income
heating — that program; childcare programs.  Will nothing that the
president is doing here, in terms of the freeze in these programs, raise
prices on ordinary Americans?

MS. LEAVITT:  What particular actions are you referring to that would —

Q    I’m referring to LHEAP right now.  That’s the low-income heating
program, for example.  We can talk about — there’s no clarity, so I
could refer to a lot of them.  We don’t know what they are
specifically.  Can you tell us that LHEAP — that LIHEAP is not one of
those affected?

MS. LEAVITT:  So, you’re asking a hypoc- — -thetical based on programs
that you can’t even identify?

Q    No, I just identified — I —

MS. LEAVITT:  What I can tell you is that the —

Q    Well, just to be — just to be clear, since you guys haven’t
identified, let’s do it together, just for Americans at home.  Medicaid,
is that affected?

MS. LEAVITT:  I gave you a list of examples — Social Security, Medicare,
welfare benefits —

Q    Medicaid too, correct?

MS. LEAVITT:  — food stamps — that will not be impacted by this federal
pause.  I can get you the full list after this briefing from the Office
of Management and Budget.

But I do want to address the cost cutting, because that’s certainly very
important, and — and cutting the cost of living in this country. 
President Trump has taken historic action over the past week to do
that.  He actually signed a memorandum to deliver emergency price relief
for American families, which took a number of actions.  I can walk you
through those. 

He also repealed many onerous Biden administration regulations.  We
know, over the past four years, American households has been essentially
taxed $55,000 in regulations from the previous administration. 
President Trump, with the swipe of his pen, rescinded those, which will
ultimately put more money back in the pockets of the American people. 
So, deregulation is a big deal. 

And then, when it comes to energy, I mean, the president signed an
executive order to declare a national energy emergency here at home,
which is going to make America energy dominant.  We know that energy is
one of the number-one drivers of inflation, and so that’s why the
president wants to increase our energy supply: to bring down costs for
Americans.  The Trump energy boom is incoming, and Americans can expect
that.

Q    Please share that memo.  Thank you.

MS. LEAVITT:  I will.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Karoline, I think — some of the confusion, I think, may be here
with this pause on federal funding.  You’ve made it clear you’re not
stopping funds that go directly to individuals, but there certainly are
lots of organizations that receive funding and then may pass along a
benefit — Meals on Wheels, for one.  They provide meals for over 2.2
million seniors. 

What is the president’s message to Americans out there, many of whom
supported him and voted for him, who are concerned that this is going to
impact them directly, even if, as you said, the funding isn’t coming
directly to their wallet?

MS. LEAVITT:  I have now been asked and answered this question four
times.  To individuals at home who receive direct assistance from the
federal government, you will not be impacted by this federal freeze.  In
fact, OMB just sent out a memo to Capitol Hill with Q and A to — to
clarify some of the questions and the answers that all of you are a- —
are asking me right now. 

Again, direct assistance will not be impacted.  I’ve been asked and
answered about this OMB memo.  There’s many other topics of the day. 

Jacqui Heinrich. 

Q    But on indirect assistance, Karoline —

Q    Thank you, Karoline.

Q    — if it’s going to another organization and then trickling down?

MS. LEAVITT:  Direct assistance that is in the hands of the American
people will not be impacted. 

Again, as I said to Peter, we will continue to provide that list as it
comes to fruition.  But OMB right now is focused on analyzing the
federal government’s spending, which is exactly what the American people
elected President Trump to do. 

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Thank you, Karoline.

Q    And one question on immigration, Karoline.  On immigration. 

Q    Thank you, Karo- —

Q    Of the 3,500 arrests ICE has made so far since President Trump came
back into office, can you just tell us the numbers?  How many have a
criminal record versus those who are just in the country illegally.

MS. LEAVITT:  All of them, because they illegally broke our nation’s
laws, and, therefore, they are criminals, as far as this administration
goes.  I know the last administration didn’t see it that way, so it’s a
big culture shift in our nation to view someone who breaks our
immigration laws as a criminal.  But that’s exactly what they are. 

Jacqui.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Karoline, on tariffs.

Q    But you made a point of going with the worst first. 

Q    On tariffs.

Q    They all have a criminal record?

Q    And welcome to the briefing room.

MS. LEAVITT:  If they broke our nation’s laws, yes, they are a
criminal. 

Yes.

Q    Thank you.  On stripping security details for figures like John
Bolton, Pompeo, Brian Hook.  Senator Tom Cotton said that he’s seen the
intelligence and the threat from Iran is real for anyone who played a
role in the Soleimani strike.  He voiced concern it wouldn’t just impact
those individuals but potentially their family, innocent bystanders,
friends — anyone who is near them when they’re out in public.  Is the
president open to reconsidering his decision?

MS. LEAVITT:  The president was asked and answered this yesterday, and
he was firm in his decision, despite some of the comments that you had
referenced.  And he’s made it very clear that he does not believe
American taxpayers should fund security details for individuals who have
served in the government for the rest of their lives.  And there’s
nothing stopping these individuals that you mentioned from obtaining
private security. 

That’s where the president stands on it.  I have no updates on that. 

Q    Is there any concern that this decision might jeopardize the
administration’s ability to hire the best advisers for these kinds of
positions in the future?

MS. LEAVITT:  No.  In fact, I’ve talked to the Presidential Personnel
Office who has told me directly that there is such an influx of resumes
for this administration that it’s incredibly overwhelming.  There is no
lack of talent for the Trump administration. 

Reagan Ree- —

Q    And would he — would he take any responsibility —

Q    Thanks, Karoline.

Q    — if anything happened to these people?  Would he feel at all that
his decision was a factor in that?

MS. LEAVITT:  The president was asked and answered this yesterday.  I’d
defer you to his comments.

Q    Thanks, Karoline.

Q    Karoline —

MS. LEAVITT:  Reagan, since you’re in the back row, I hear y- — the back
row hasn’t gotten much attention in the last four years —

Q    Yes, thank you.

MS. LEAVITT:  — so I’m happy to answer your question. 

Q    And I can project.  (Laughter.)

Does the president intend to permanently cut off funding to NGOs that
are bringing illegal foreign nationals to the country, such as Catholic
Charities?

     MS. LEAVITT:  I am actually quite certain that the president signed
an executive order that did just that, and I can point you to that.

     Q    One more, Karoline.

MS. LEAVITT:  Yeah.

Q    President Trump issued an executive order on increased vetting for
refugees in visa applications. 

MS. LEAVITT:  That’s right.

Q    Part of that order was considering an outright ban for countries
that have deficient screening processes.  Has the president considered
yet which countries might fall into this category?  Are countries like
Afghanistan or Syria under consideration for a full ban?

MS. LEAVITT:  Yeah.  So, the president signed an executive order to
streamline the vetting for visa applicants and for illegal immigrants in
this country who are coming, of course, from other nations. 

It also directed the secretary of State to review the process and make
sure that other countries around the world are being completely
transparent with our nation and the individuals that they are sending
here.  And so, the secretary of State has been directed to report back
to the president.  I haven’t seen that report yet.  We’ve only been here
for a few days.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Karoline, two questions for you.  One on the freeze in federal
funding.  Who advised the president on the legality of telling
government agencies that they don’t have to spend money that was already
appropriated by Congress?

MS. LEAVITT:  Well, as the OMB memo states, this is certainly within the
confines of the law. 

So, White House Counsel’s Office believes that this is within the pe- —
president’s power to do it, and therefore, he’s doing it.

Q    Okay.  So, they disagree with lawmakers who say that they don’t
have the power to — to freeze this funding?

MS. LEAVITT:  Again, I would point you to the language in the memo that
clearly states this is within the law.

Q    And on what happened on Friday night.  The — the administration
fired several inspectors general without giving Congress the 30-day
legally required notification that they were being fired.  I think only
two were left at DO- — DHS and the DOJ.  And then, yesterday, we saw
several prosecutors — I believe 12 — fired from the Justice Department
who worked on the investigations into the president.  As you know, they
are career prosecutors; therefore, they are afforded civil service
protections.  How is the administration deciding which laws to follow
and which ones to ignore?

MS. LEAVITT:  So, it is the belief of this White House and the White
House Counsel’s Office that the president was within his exe- —
executive authority to do that.  He is the executive of the executive
branch, and, therefore, he has the power to fire anyone within the
executive branch that he wishes to. 

There’s also a case that went before the Supreme Court in 2020:
<s>Scaila</s> \[Seila\] Law LLC, v. the Customs — the \[Consumer
Financial Protection\] Bureau <s>Protection</s>.  I would advise you to
look at that case, and that’s the legality that this White House has
rested on. 

Q    So, you’re confident that if they bring lawsuits against you —
those prosecutors who were fired — that — that they will succeed?

MS. LEAVITT:  We will win in court, yes.

Q    And did he personally direct this, given they worked on the
classified documents investigation and the election interference
investigation?

MS. LEAVITT:  This was a memo that went out by the Presidential
Personnel Office, and the president is the leader of this White House. 
So, yes.

Q    So, it did come from him?

MS. LEAVITT:  Yes, it came from this White House.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Karoline.

MS. LEAVITT:  Sir.

Q    Thank you.  Congrats on your first day behind the podium.

MS. LEAVITT:  Thank you.

Q    President Trump ended funding for UNRWA and also designated the
Houthis a foreign terrorist organization.

MS. LEAVITT:  That’s right.

Q    Both were decisions that the previous administration had reversed. 
So, here’s my question: Will there be an investigation into who gave the
previous administration this terrible advice?

MS. LEAVITT:  Well, that’s a very good point.  I haven’t heard
discussions about such an ins- — investigation, but it wouldn’t be a bad
idea, considering that the Houthis cer- — certainly are terrorists. 
They have launched attacks on U.S. naval ships across this world, and so
I think it was a very wise move by this administration to redesignate
them as a terrorist group, because they are.  And I think it was a
foolish decision by the previous administration to do so. 

As for an investigation, I’m not sure about that, but it’s not a bad
idea.

(Cross-talk.)

Josh.

Q    Thank you for the question.  I appreciate it.  Can you give us an
update on the president’s plan for his tariff agenda?  He spoke a lot
about this yesterday, and there’s a couple of dates coming up that —

MS. LEAVITT:  Sure.

Q    — he’s spoken to.  Number one, February 1st.  He’s alluded to both
the potential for tariffs for Canada and Mexico but also China to take
effect on those days.  Where is — what’s he thinking about that?

MS. LEAVITT:  Yeah.

Q    Should those countries expect that on the 1st?

MS. LEAVITT:  Again, he was asked and answered this question this past
weekend when he took a lot of questions from the press, and he said that
the February 1st date for Canada and Mexico still holds.

Q    And what about the China 10 percent tariff that he also had mused
about last Tuesday going into effect on the same date?

MS. LEAVITT:  Yeah, the president has said that he is very much still
considering that for February 1st.

Q    And then, separately, yesterday, he talked also about sectoral
tariffs on, for instance, pharmaceuticals, as well as semiconductor
computer chips.  He talked about steel, aluminum, and copper.  What’s
the timeline on those?  Is that a similar sort of “coming days” thing or
—

MS. LEAVITT:  Yeah, so when the president talked about that in his
speech yesterday, that actually wasn’t a new announcement.  That was
within a presidential memorandum that he signed in one of the first days
here in the White House on his America First trade agenda.  So, there’s
more details on those tariffs in there.

As far as a date, I don’t have a specific date to read out to you, but
the president is committed to implementing tariffs effectively, just
like he did in his first term.

Q    And then — and then, finally, he also was asked on the plane when
he gaggled about the potential for a universal tariff.  He was asked
maybe about two and a half percent.

MS. LEAVITT:  Yeah.

Q    There was a report about that.  He said he wanted “much bigger than
that.”  Should we understand that these tariffs would add up?  You know,
in other words, you might have country-specific tariffs like Canada,
Mexico, China.  You might have sectoral tariffs, like on
pharmaceuticals, as well as a potential universal tariff on top of
that.  Do these stack on one or the other, or would one sort of take
precedence over another?

MS. LEAVITT:  All I can point you to is what the president has said on
this front: the February 1st date for Canada and Mexico and also the
China tariff that he has discussed.

He rejected the 2.5 percent tariff.  He said that was a little bit too
low.  He wants it to be higher. 

I’ll leave it to him to make any decisions on that front.

Q    Do you have any comment on what the —

(Cross-talk.)

Q    — what the Mexicans and Canadians —

MS. LEAVITT:  Phil.

Q    — have done so far?  Do you have any comment on whether that has
met the bar of what he wants to see on fentanyl?  Thank you.

MS. LEAVITT:   I — I won’t get ahead of the president, again, on
advocating to foreign nations on what they should or shouldn’t do to get
away from these tariffs.  The president has made it very clear, again,
that he expects every nation around this world to cooperate with the
repatriation of their citizens.  And the president has also put out
specific statements in terms of Canada and Mexico when it comes to what
he expects in terms of border security.

We have seen a historic level of cooperation from Mexico.  But, again,
as far as I’m still tracking — and that was last night talking to the
president directly — February 1st is still on the books.

Q    Thank you.

MS. LEAVITT:  Phil.

Q    Thank you, Karoline.  Quick programming note, and then a question
on taxes.

MS. LEAVITT:  A programming note.

Q    Well, in terms of programming, should —

MS. LEAVITT:  That sounds fun. 

Q    — we expect to see you here every day?  How frequently will these —

Q    That’s a good question.

Q    — press briefings be?

MS. LEAVITT:  It is a good question, April.

So, look, the president, as you know, is incredibly accessible.  First
day here, he wanted all of you in the Oval Office.  You got a 60-minute
press conference with the leader of the free world — while he was
simultaneously signing executive orders, I may add.  That’s pretty
impressive.  I don’t think the previous office holder would be able to
pull such a thing off. 

So, look, the president is the best spokesperson that this White House
has, and I can assure you that you will be hearing from both him and me
as much as possible.

Q    And then a question about tax cuts.  You know, the president has
promised to extend the tax cuts from the previous term.  I’m curious,
you know, does the president support corresponding spending cuts, as
some Republicans have called for in Congress?  And will the new Treasury
secretary be leading those negotiations with the Hill, as Mnuchin did
during the first administration?

MS. LEAVITT:  The president is committed to both tax cuts and spending
cuts.

And he has a great team negotiating on his behalf, but there’s no better
negotiator than Donald Trump, and I’m sure he’ll be involved in this
reconciliation process as it moves forward.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Karoline, in the announcement that you made last night on the Iron
Dome, it said the president had directed that the United States will
build this Iron Dome.

MS. LEAVITT:  Yeah.

Q    When you read into the executive order, it seemed short of that. 
It asked for a series of studies —

MS. LEAVITT:  Yeah.

Q    — and reports back on — can you tell us whether the president has
directed this and, if he is this concerned on this issue, why the
suspensions that we saw listed by OMB included so many different nuclear
programs, nonproliferation programs, programs to blend down nuclear
weapons, and s- — and so forth?

MS. LEAVITT:  First of all, when it comes to the Iron Dome, the
executive order directed the implementation of the — of an Iron Dome. 
It also, as you said, kind of directed research and studies to see if —
or — or how the United States can go about doing this, particularly the
Department of Defense.

When it comes to the other question that you asked about those specific
programs, again, I would say, this is not a — a ban; this is a temporary
pause and a freeze to ensure that all of the money going out from
Washington, D.C., is in align with the president’s agenda.

And as the Office of Management and Budget has updates on what will be
kick-started, once again, I will provide those to you. 

Q    Can you clarify for a sec what you were saying before on Medicaid? 
It wasn’t clear to me whether you were saying that no Medicaid would be
cut off.  Obviously, a lot of this goes to states before it goes to
individuals and so forth.  So, are you guaranteeing here that no
individual now on Medicaid would see a cutoff because of the pause?

MS. LEAVITT:  I’ll check back on that and get back to you. 

Jon.

Q    Thanks a lot, Karoline.  As you know, in the first week that the
president was in office, signed an executive order as it relates to
birthright citizenship — trying to eliminate that.  Now, 22 state
attorney generals have said that this is unconstitutional.  A federal
judge has just agreed with their argument.  What’s the administration’s
argument for doing away with birthright citizenship?

MS. LEAVITT:  The folks that you mentioned have a right to have that
legal opinion, but it is in disagreement with the legal opinion of this
administration. 

This administration believes that birthright citizenship is
unconstitutional, and that is why President Trump signed that executive
order.  Illegal immigrants who come to this country and have a child are
not subject to the laws of this jurisdiction.  That’s the opinion of
this administration. 

We have already appealed the rul- — the lawsuit that was filed against
this administration, and we are prepared to fight this all the way to
the Supreme Court if we have to, because President Trump believes that
this is a necessary step to secure our nation’s borders and protect our
homeland. 

Monica.

Q    And then on foreign policy — on foreign policy, Karoline —

Q    Thank you, Karoline.  It’s great to see you, and you’re doing a
great —

Q    — on foreign policy, if I may.  The president’s commitment to the
NATO defense Alliance, is it as strong as the prior administration?  Is
it the same as when he served as president in his first term in office?

MS. LEAVITT:  As long as NATO pays their fair share.

And President Trump has called on NATO Allies to increase their defense
spending to 5 percent.  You actually saw the head of NATO at Davos last
week on Bloomberg Television saying that President Trump is right and if
Europe wants to keep itself safe, they should increase their defense
spending. 

I would just add that there was no greater ally to our European allies
than President Trump in his first term.  The world, for all nations in
Europe, and, of course, here at home was much safer because of
Presidents Tru- — Trump’s peace through strength diplomatic approach. 

Monica.

Q    Karoline —

Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Karoline.  And it’s great to finally be
called on as well in the briefing room.  I appreciate that. 

MS. LEAVITT:  You’re welcome. 

Q    Of course, we know President Trump just got back from North
Carolina and California meeting with victims of natural disasters. 
There’s the two-year anniversary of the East Palestine, Ohio, toxic
train derailment.  Does the president have any plans to go visit the
victims of that toxic spill or just visit in general?

MS. LEAVITT:  Not — no plans that I can read out for you here.  If that
changes, I will certainly keep you posted. 

What I can tell you is that President Trump still talks about his visit
to East Palestine, Ohio.  That was one of the turning points, I would
say, in the previous election campaign, where Americans were reminded
that President Trump is a man of the people.  And he, as a candidate,
visited that town that was just derailed by the train derailment — no
pun intended — and he offered support and hope, just like I saw the
president do this past week. 

It was a purposeful decision by this president, on his first domestic
trip, to go to North Carolina and to California to visit with Americans
who were impacted by Hurricane Helene and also by the deadly fires — a
red state and a blue state, both of which feel forgotten by the previous
administration and the federal government.  That has now — that has now
ended under President Trump. 

He will continue to put Americans first, whether they’re in East
Palestine, in Pacific Palisades, or in North Carolina.

(Cross-talk.)

Sure.

Q    Thank you, Karoline.  On California, could you please clarify what
the military did with the water last night, as referenced in the
president’s Truth Social post?

MS. LEAVITT:  The water has been turned back on in California, and this
comes just days after President Trump visited Pacific Palisades and, as
you all saw, applied tremendous pressure on state and local officials in
Pacific Palisades, including Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass, to turn on
the water and to direct that water to places in the south and in the
middle of the state that have been incredibly dry, which has led to the
expansion — the rapid expansion of these fires.

Q    So, could you clarify what the military’s role was, where the water
came from, and how it got there?

MS. LEAVITT:  Again, the Army Corps of Engineers has been on the ground
in California to respond to the devastation from these wildfires.  And I
would point out that just days after President Trump visited the
devastation from these fires, the water was turned on.  That is because
of the pressure campaign he put on state and local officials there, who
clearly lack all common sense. 

And I will never forget being at that round table with the president
last week and hearing the frustration in the voices of Pacific Palisades
residents who feel as though their government has just gone insane. 
Before President Trump showed up on the scene, Karen Bass was telling
private property owners that they would have to wait 18 months to access
their private property.

So, this administration, the president and his team that’s on the ground
in California — Ric Grenell, who he has designated to oversee this great
crisis — ha- — will continue to put pressure on Karen Bass and state and
local officials to allow residents to access their properties. 

This is a huge part of it.  These residents want to take part in their
own clearing out of their properties.  They should be able to do that. 
It’s the United States of America.  What happened to our freedom? 
Clearly, it’s gone in California, but not anymore under President Trump.

Q    Karoline —

MS. LEAVITT:  April.

Q    Karoline, welcome to the briefing room.

MS. LEAVITT:  Thank you.

Q    Several questions.  One on the pause.  Will minority-serving
institutions, preferably colleges and universities, have those monies
held back temporarily at this moment?

MS. LEAVITT:  Again, I have not seen the entire list, because this memo
was just sent out.  So, I will provide you all with updates as we
receive them.  Okay?

Q    Karoline —

Q    And secondly — als- —

Q    Karoline.

Q    Also, secondly, when it comes to immigration, there is this
southern border focus.  What happens to those who have overstayed their
visas?  That is part of the broken immigration system.  In 2023, there
was a report by the Biden administration, the Homeland Security
Department, that said overstays of visas were three times more than
usual.  Will there be a focus on the overstays for visas as well?

MS. LEAVITT:  If an individual is overstaying their visa, they are
therefore an illegal immigrant residing in this country, and they are
subject to deportation.  

Q    And also, lastly —

MS. LEAVITT:  Yes.

Q    Lastly, as we’re dealing with anti-DEI, anti-woke efforts, we
understand this administration could — is thinking about celebrating
Black History Month.  Have you got any word on that?  Anything that you
can offer to us?

MS. LEAVITT:  As far as I know, this White House certainly still intends
to celebrate, and we will continue to celebrate American history and the
contributions that all Americans, regardless of race, religion, or
creed, have made to our great country.  And America is back.

Christian Datoc.

Q    Thanks, Karoline.  Just real quick.  You mentioned the inflation
executive order the president signed, but egg prices have skyrocketed
since President Trump took office.  So, what specifically is he doing to
lower those costs for Americans?

MS. LEAVITT:  Really glad you brought this up, because there is a lot of
reporting out there that is putting the onus on this White House for the
increased cost of eggs.  I would like to point out to each and every one
of you that, in 2024, when Joe Biden was in the Oval Office — or
upstairs in the residence sleeping; I’m not so sure — egg prices
increased 65 percent in this country.  We also have seen the cost of
everything, not just eggs — bacon, groceries, gasoline — have increased
because of the inflationary policies of the last administration.

As far as the egg shortage, what’s also contributing to that is that the
Biden administration and the Department of Agriculture directed the mass
killing of more than 100 million chickens, which has led to a lack of
chicken supply in this country, therefore a lack of egg supply, which is
leading to the shortage.

So, I will leave you with this point.  This is an example of why it’s so
incredibly important that the Senate moves swiftly to confirm all of
President Trump’s nominees, including his nominee for the United States
Department of Agriculture, Brooke Rollins, who is already speaking with
Kevin Hassett, who is leading the economic team here at the White House,
on how we can address the egg shortage in this country.

As for cots, I laid out — costs — I laid out the plethora of ways that
President Trump has addressed saving costs for the American people over
the past week.  He looks forward to continuing to doing that —

Q    Karoline, what —

MS. LEAVITT:  — in the days ahead.

(Cross-talk.)

Thank you, guys, so much.  I’ll see you soon.

END                1:52 P.M. EST
