---
date: '2024-12-30'
modified_time: 2024-12-30 18:24:43-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-30 18:24:42-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/12/30/a-proclamation-on-national-human-trafficking-prevention-month-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Human Trafficking Prevention Month,\_2025"
---
 
Across the world, more than 27 million people, including thousands here
at home, are subjected to the shameful, abhorrent abuse of human
trafficking and forced labor.  Human trafficking targets the most
vulnerable in society and exploits them — denying their human rights,
freedom, and dignity.  It is a stain on our collective conscience and an
affront to basic human dignity.  During National Human Trafficking
Prevention Month, we recommit to working to end human trafficking in
America and around the globe.

Any form of trafficking in people — from forced labor to sex trafficking
— must not be tolerated, in the United States or anywhere around the
world.  That is why in 2021, I signed an updated National Action Plan
(NAP) to Combat Human Trafficking, detailing my Administration’s focus
on prosecuting perpetrators, protecting survivors, and partnering with
governments and organizations around the globe to end this scourge.  The
NAP also recognizes that human traffickers target people considered
vulnerable in society — people from racial and ethnic minorities, women
and girls, LGBTQI+ individuals, and others from marginalized
backgrounds. 

Here at home, we have worked to crack down on human trafficking and
combat gender-based violence in America.  I remain proud that I first
wrote the Violence Against Women Act as a United States Senator and I
have worked to strengthen it ever since.  That is why when I
reauthorized it in 2022, I expanded Tribal court jurisdiction to
prosecute non-Native sex traffickers.  Furthermore, through my American
Rescue Plan, my Administration delivered tens of thousands of housing
vouchers to ensure people fleeing human trafficking or other violence
have a safe home to go to.  At the same time, we have been committed to
working with survivors to support their path to recovery and healing,
and improving our approach to preventing, identifying, and prosecuting
these crimes.  We have also taken steps to prevent trafficking in the
United States by strengthening protections for vulnerable workers,
including issuing new rules to improve worker protections and strengthen
program integrity in temporary visa programs and releasing an updated
version of the Department of State’s Wilberforce “Know Your Rights”
pamphlet.

Around the world, we are also working with governments and organizations
to put a stop to human trafficking.  I signed the bipartisan Uyghur
Forced Labor Prevention Act in 2021 and, from the moment the law took
effect in 2022, Federal agencies have been working to ensure that no
American imports are produced using forced labor.  I signed the
first-ever Presidential Memorandum to prioritize strong labor standards
in our Nation’s foreign policy as we work to build a world where our
economic system gives predatory traffickers no safe harbor.  In the 2024
Trafficking in Persons Report, the Department of State measured progress
in 188 countries, including the United States, by deploying powerful
technology tools to combat this scourge, and sanctioned over 240
individuals and entities for serious human rights abuses under the
Global Magnitsky Sanctions Program.

During National Human Trafficking Prevention Month, I encourage
Americans to learn the signs of human trafficking and share the National
Human Trafficking Hotline (888-373-7888), where one can report a tip or
ask for help.  Together, we can create a world where every person is
treated with dignity and respect, lives free from fear, and can lead a
life full of freedom and liberty.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 2025 as
National Human Trafficking Prevention Month.  I call upon businesses,
civil society organizations, communities of faith, families, and all
Americans to recognize the vital role we play in combating human
trafficking and to observe this month with appropriate programs and
activities aimed at preventing all forms of human trafficking.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
