---
date: '2024-12-31'
modified_time: 2024-12-31 21:32:53-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-31 21:32:52-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/12/31/a-proclamation-on-national-mentoring-month-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Mentoring Month ,\_2025"
---
 
Leading by the power of their example, mentors represent the very best
of America’s spirit of community and care for one another.  During
National Mentoring Month, we honor all the Americans who give their time
and their hearts to mentor our Nation’s young people. 

My Administration has been committed to giving youths the resources they
need to thrive, including by ensuring students feel supported and have
opportunities to connect to meaningful mentors.  My American Rescue Plan
secured a record $130 billion for K-12 schools, putting more teachers,
counselors, social workers, and staff in our schools, who are so often
our young people’s first mentors.  And that law gave AmeriCorps funding
to support new mentors and volunteers who can serve our communities. 
Moreover, my Administration created the National Partnership for Student
Success, which recruited more than 300,000 tutors and mentors to help
young people reach their full potential, as well as student success
coaches and postsecondary transition coaches.  We also called on
colleges and universities to use at least 15 percent of their Federal
work study funds to assist their students in serving as mentors and
other critical volunteer roles that support our Nation’s children and
youth.

At the same time, my Administration recognizes the value of mentorship
in the workplace, and Registered Apprenticeships not only help provide
it, they also produce some of the best workers in the world.  That is
why I am proud to have worked with labor unions and made historic
investments in pre-apprenticeship and Registered Apprenticeship programs
that provide the training and skills necessary to get a good job and
launch a fulfilling career.  My Administration also launched the
American Climate Corps to put over 20,000 Americans to work in
fast-growing green sectors like clean energy and conservation.  

I have often said that we are a great Nation because we are a good
people.  During National Mentoring Month, we honor all the good people
across our Nation, who are helping young people find direction, grow,
and tap into our Nation’s unlimited possibilities.  As so many mentors
know, being a mentor can be a transformative and enriching life
experience.  I encourage every American — whether you are a college
student, community leader, or person hoping to make a difference — to
explore opportunities to mentor or tutor by visiting
americorps.gov/serve and partnershipstudentsuccess.org. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 2025 as
National Mentoring Month.  I call upon Americans across the country to
observe this month with mentoring, appropriate ceremonies, activities,
and programs.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
