---
date: '2024-12-01'
modified_time: 2024-12-02 16:35:14-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-01 16:32:03-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/12/01/a-proclamation-on-world-aids-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World AIDS Day,\_2024"
---
 
Our Nation has made enormous strides toward preventing, diagnosing, and
treating HIV — a terrible disease that has stolen the precious lives of
over 40 million people since the epidemic began in 1981.  Despite our
progress, over 39 million people worldwide continue to live with it,
including over 1 million people in the United States.  On World AIDS
Day, we honor the memory of all those we tragically lost to HIV around
the world.  We stand in solidarity with all those who are courageously
facing the disease today.  And we renew our commitment to accelerating
efforts to finally end the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 

My Administration has made historic progress toward addressing this
fight.  In my first year in office, I reestablished the White House
Office of National AIDS Policy and launched a new National HIV/AIDS
Strategy, to put us on the path to end this epidemic by 2030.  To that
end, the Health Resources and Services Administration committed nearly
$10 billion in funding through the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program to ensure
that low-income individuals in America with HIV can receive the
medication and quality care they need.  The Department of Health and
Human Services is also working to guarantee that Americans have access
to HIV interventions like pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and self-tests
to prevent HIV.  And the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has
ensured that PrEP medications — including long-term injectable options —
and critical support services like counseling and screenings for HIV and
hepatitis B are free for people with Medicare.  Furthermore, the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention invested $10 million in a pilot
program that covers the cost of PrEP to five health departments across
the Nation — an important step toward ensuring everyone has access to
this vital medication.  Additionally, my Administration’s investments in
the Ending the HIV Epidemic in the United States initiative, which
reaches over 50 jurisdictions, has helped decrease HIV incidence by 21
percent in the past year in those areas.

At the same time, my Administration is working to fight the stigma
surrounding HIV and to ensure that people with HIV do not face bias or
discrimination — which too often stops people from getting life-saving
care.  I am proud that last year my Administration ended the shameful
practice of banning gay and bisexual men from donating blood.  We also
released updates to the Rehabilitation Act that strengthen civil rights
protections in medical settings for people with HIV.  And I join
advocates around the country in sharing the message of U=U, which stands
for undetectable equals untransmittable, and makes clear that a person
living with HIV who is on treatment and maintains an undetectable viral
load has zero risk of transmitting HIV.  We are committed to ensuring
people understand the latest science about HIV transmission, testing,
prevention, and care.  And we are calling on States and community
leaders to repeal or reform outdated HIV criminalization laws, so people
are not wrongfully punished for exposing others to HIV without the
intent to cause harm.  

Globally, my Administration is working with international partners to
lead the global fight to end HIV/AIDS as a public health threat by 2030,
including through the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief
(PEPFAR) and our investments in the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis, and Malaria.  PEPFAR has saved more than 25 million lives
in 55 countries by working to prevent HIV infections and expand access
to HIV treatment and care services.  In 2023, my Administration worked
with the Congress to reauthorize PEPFAR for the fourth time ensuring
that America continues to help build a future where HIV infections are
prevented and every person has access to the treatment they need.  This
year, we also celebrate the 10th anniversary of the DREAMS (Determined,
Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-Free, Mentored, and Safe) partnership, which
has worked to lower HIV infections in adolescent girls and young women
around the world.

This year, on World AIDS Day, the AIDS Quilt which was first displayed
on the National Mall in 1987, will be publicly displayed at the White
House for the first time in our Nation’s history.  The Quilt is a
memorial for all those we have lost to AIDS and AIDS-related illnesses.

We also express our gratitude to the activists, scientists, doctors, and
caregivers who have worked tirelessly to advance our Nation’s progress
in the fight against this epidemic.  And we recommit as a Nation to
shining a light on the struggle, strength, and resilience of people
affected by HIV.  Together, let this World AIDS Day be a moment of unity
that rallies the country to give all those affected the care, hope, and
support they deserve. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim December 1, 2024,
as World AIDS Day.  I urge the Governors of the United States and its
Commonwealths and Territories, the appropriate officials of all units of
government, and the American people to join the HIV community in
activities to remember those who have lost their lives to AIDS and to
provide support, dignity, and compassion to people with HIV.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
