---
date: '2024-12-16'
modified_time: 2024-12-16 14:02:24-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-16 14:02:23-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/12/16/a-proclamation-on-wright-brothers-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Wright Brothers Day,\_2024"
---
 
On Wright Brothers Day, we celebrate the bold vision, steadfast
determination, and transformative innovation of Orville and Wilbur
Wright.  Their aircraft, which completed the first sustained,
controlled, and powered flight 121 years ago, forever altered the course
of human history and took our Nation to new heights.

     The Wright brothers embody the best of America’s grit, heart, and
unstoppable spirit of ingenuity.  Before they took to the skies that
fateful December day, the Wright brothers had spent years conducting
arduous research, redesigns, and dangerous trials.  They were driven by
the belief that what so many had written off as impossible could
actually be done — that sustained, controlled, and powered flight was
possible.  And on the sand dunes of Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, on
December 17, 1903, they were proven right — their aircraft, the Wright
Flyer, took flight for 12 seconds.  In less than a minute, that one feat
altered our understanding of technological possibilities and human
potential forever, laying the foundation for putting a man on the moon;
breaking the sound barrier; and beginning a new, deeper exploration of
our universe. 

     My Administration has been committed to building on their legacy of
innovation and advancement.  We have made improvements to modern air
travel — from making airports more accessible through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law to making air travel safer.  And we have harnessed
the spirit of American ingenuity in everything we do, like tackling the
climate crisis, working toward ending cancer as we know it, and ensuring
that the technologies of the future will benefit Americans for
generations to come.

     On Wright Brothers Day, we honor two visionary men from Dayton,
Ohio, who chose to look to the sky with not just wonder but with an
ambition to take Americans where no one had gone before.  Because of
their work, generations of visionary scientists, engineers, and dreamers
and doers have followed in their footsteps, believing that, here in
America, we do big things and nothing is beyond our capacity. 

     The Congress, by a joint resolution approved December 17, 1963, as
amended (77 Stat. 402; 36 U.S.C. 143), has designated December 17 of
each year as “Wright Brothers Day” and has authorized and requested the
President to issue annually a proclamation inviting the people of the
United States to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim December 17, 2024, as Wright
Brothers Day.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day
of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
