---
date: '2024-12-09'
modified_time: 2024-12-09 18:12:47-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-09 18:12:46-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/12/09/a-proclamation-on-human-rights-day-and-human-rights-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Human Rights Day and Human Rights Week,\_2024"
---
 
     On Human Rights Day and during Human Rights Week, we recommit to
upholding the equal and inalienable rights of all people.

     America was founded on an idea — that every person is created equal
and deserves to be treated equally throughout their lives.  And 76 years
ago today, after the wreckage of 2 world wars and the Holocaust, the
United States joined countries around the globe to enshrine this idea
into a Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  We also helped establish
the United Nations, upholding the inherent dignity of every person on
the world stage and establishing a rules-based international order. 
Today, our country continues to stand with our partners and allies to
defend human rights and fundamental freedoms around the world — from
combatting threats to silence and intimidate human rights defenders like
journalists to championing democracy, fair elections, and the universal
human rights to freedoms of association, peaceful assembly, religion,
and expression.  When crises erupt, we protect civilians from mass
atrocities, promote accountability for those responsible for human
rights violations and abuses, seek to free political prisoners, and
create space for civilian dialogue.  This year, we also recognize
another landmark achievement in the global fight for human rights with
the 40th anniversary of the adoption of the Convention Against Torture
and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.  And we
continue to stand with free people everywhere who are bravely fighting
for justice and defending life and liberty at home and around the world.

     My Administration has been committed to protecting the dignity and
rights of people here at home and around the globe.  We established the
White House Gender Policy Council to advance the rights and
opportunities of women and girls across domestic and foreign policy —
from preventing and responding to gender-based violence to promoting
participation in peace and security efforts.  We rejoined the United
Nations Human Rights Council to highlight and address pressing human
rights concerns.  From the beginning of my Administration, we have
worked to protect the rights of LGBTQI+ people, working toward a future
where no one is targeted or persecuted because of who they are.  We are
working to ensure all people are treated equally and have equal access
to opportunities, no matter who they are or where they come from.  We
have made progress in bringing new investments to communities that have
too often been left behind and in expanding accessibility for people
with disabilities.  And we have worked to advance technology in support
of democracy and internet freedom, while leading important efforts to
stop the expansion and misuse of commercial spyware, which has enabled
human rights abuses around the world.

     I have made the preservation of democracy — the best tool for
protecting human rights — the central cause of my Presidency.  That is
why we convened the Summit for Democracy to strengthen democratic
institutions, root out corruption, promote gender equality and human
rights, and reject political violence.  There will always be forces that
pull the world apart:  aggression, extremism, chaos, cynicism, and a
desire to retreat from the world and go it alone.  The task of our time
is to ensure that the forces holding us together are stronger than those
that are pulling us apart.  Together, we can make sure our shared values
and determination withstand any challenge. 

     Today and this week, may we reaffirm our commitment to standing up
for human rights at home and around the world.  The future will be won
by those who unleash the full potential of their people to live with
dignity, prosper, think freely, innovate, and exist and love openly
without fear.  Together, nothing is beyond our capacity.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
December 10, 2024, as Human Rights Day and the week beginning December
10, 2024, as Human Rights Week.  I call upon the people of the United
States to mark these observances with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
  

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
