---
date: '2024-12-09'
published_time: 2024-12-09 12:17:03-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/12/09/a-proclamation-on-the-establishment-of-the-carlisle-federal-indian-boarding-school-national-monument/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on the Establishment of the Carlisle Federal Indian Boarding\
  \ School National\_Monument"
---
 
For a century and a half spanning the early 19th and mid- 20th
centuries, the Federal Government removed American Indian, Alaska
Native, and Native Hawaiian children (Native children) from their
families, Tribes, and homelands, often by force or coercion, and
transported them to institutions across the United States.  These
institutions collectively became known as the “Federal Indian boarding
school system.”  The Federal Government’s goal was to assimilate Native
children by stripping them of their languages, religions, and cultures.
 To that end, the children taken to these institutions were often
separated from their families for years, and many never returned to
their homes.  The schools often used physical abuse, compulsory labor,
and corporal punishment to achieve their assimilative ends.  Many Native
children were subjected to sexual abuse at the schools.  School staff
cut their hair, made them give up their traditional clothes and names,
provided them with inadequate medical services, and deprived them of
essential nutrition.  According to available records, nearly 1,000
Native youths died in schools across the system, but the actual number
of lives lost is likely much higher.  Many children attempted to flee
from schools in the system; while some managed to escape, those who did
not often faced severe discipline.  For the survivors of the schools,
and for the families and Tribes whose children were taken from them, the
trauma and violence inflicted by the Federal Indian boarding school
system have had profound effects across multiple generations, and those
impacts continue today. 

     The Federal Government’s attempt to control and assimilate Native
children into Anglo-European culture, society, and religion through the
Federal Indian boarding school system was part of a broader effort to
destroy American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian political,
social, and cultural structures; stifle opposition and resistance in
those communities; and appropriate Tribal lands, waters, and resources.
 This effort was carried out through policies implemented at Federal
Indian boarding schools and actions taken by multiple executive
departments and agencies across the administrations of 34 Presidents —
from Thomas Jefferson through Lyndon B. Johnson — using today’s
equivalent of at least $23 billion in Federal appropriations.  

     Despite this system and other destructive Federal policies, Indian
Tribes (Tribes, or Tribal Nations), including Alaska Native Villages,
and the Native Hawaiian Community retained their identities and cultures
and rebuilt their political and community institutions, including by
taking over and transforming some of the Federal Indian boarding schools
that once caused widespread and enduring pain.

     Founded in 1879, the Carlisle Indian Industrial School (Carlisle
School) in Pennsylvania was the first Federal off-reservation boarding
school for Native children.  By the time it ceased operations in 1918,
the Carlisle School had subjected 7,800 Indian children from more than
140 Tribes to its coercive form of education.  Some children were as
young as 5 years old when they arrived.  The Federal Indian boarding
school system, which continued through the 1960s following practices
first used at the Carlisle School, inflicted a legacy of individual,
collective, and multi-generational trauma on Tribes and the Native
Hawaiian Community.  

     The former campus of the Carlisle School is located within the
boundaries of what is now the United States Army’s Carlisle Barracks
(Carlisle Barracks), one of the Nation’s oldest military installations. 
The Continental Congress first used the property as a center for
artillery and ordnance supplies for the Continental Army under General
George Washington.  In 1863, during the Civil War, Confederate troops
torched buildings on the campus, which functioned at the time as a
central supply center for the Union Army.  The Federal Government
rebuilt the barracks between 1863 and 1864 in the original footprint and
style.

     The Carlisle School campus was designated as a National Historic
Landmark in 1961 and added to the National Register of Historic Places
in 1966.  The 24 historic structures associated with the Carlisle School
include residential, vocational, and athletic buildings that evoke the
Federal Indian boarding school era.  Prominent among these are the
historic School Road Gateposts.  Constructed by the labor of children
and youths at the Carlisle School, these gateposts were the first
structures that some children taken to Carlisle would have seen as they
walked along the pathway and entered the campus.  The gateposts still
stand today as a marker of the removal and separation of children from
their families, Tribes, and homelands.

     The concept of using the education of Native children and
separation from their families and Tribes as weapons of control and
religious conversion echoes back centuries to early colonial times in
the 1600s.  In 1819, the Congress laid the groundwork for a general
system of Indian education by enacting the Civilization Fund Act (3
Stat. 516).  The Act authorized the President to provide for
“\[e\]mployment of instructors for Indians,” including “for teaching
their children in reading, writing, and arithmetic,” and provided an
annual appropriation of funds for that purpose.  Over the ensuing five
decades, these funds were distributed to various entities (particularly
missionary organizations) and individuals “prominent in the effort to
‘civilize’ the Indians.”  At least 59 religious institutions and
organizations received Federal Government funding to operate or support
schools in the Federal Indian boarding school system.  

     The more immediate origins of the philosophy of the Federal Indian
boarding school system trace to an organized “experiment of enforced
civilization” in 1875.  At that time, President Ulysses S. Grant’s War
Department, acting on directions from the Congress, selected Tribal
members labeled as “hostiles” or “ringleaders” to be taken prisoner and
transported by train from the West to Fort Marion, Florida.  The United
States Army targeted and arrested 72 members from a range of Tribes.
 The War Department then issued Special Orders detailing 1st Lieutenant
Richard Henry Pratt of the 10th Cavalry to accompany the prisoners — a
group of men, women, and children — on their trip and remain in charge
of them upon arrival.  

     Pratt oversaw all aspects of the Fort Marion incarceration and
treatment of the prisoners:  cutting off their hair, clothing them in
military uniforms, running military drills, selling their crafts and
drawings, teaching them English, and assigning prisoners to work as
laborers.  During a speech delivered in 1892 to the National Conference
of Charities and Corrections in Denver, Colorado, Pratt expressed his
infamous approach to assimilation:  “\[T\]hat all the Indian there is in
the race should be dead.  Kill the Indian in him and save the man.” 
This soon became the blueprint and philosophy for how children would be
treated at Federal Indian boarding schools.

     In 1882, the Congress authorized the Secretary of War to set aside
any vacant posts or barracks for industrial training for Indian youth
and to detail Army officers for Indian education under the direction of
the Secretary of the Interior.  Three years earlier, in August 1879, the
Secretary of War had approved the first such transfer, of the vacant
Carlisle Barracks in Pennsylvania, to the Secretary of the Interior to
be used as a school for Native children.  On October 6, 1879,
83 American Indian and Alaska Native children — 24 girls and 59 boys —
arrived at the newly founded Carlisle School.  The Congress subsequently
passed a law that paid a salary to Pratt, whom the Secretary of War had
placed in charge of the Carlisle School at the request of the Secretary
of the Interior.  For almost 40 years, the Department of the Interior
operated the Carlisle School as an Indian Industrial School, melding the
approach of incarceration with assimilative education policies.  

     When children arrived at the Carlisle School, they were immersed in
the practices of so-called “civilized” life — a term frequently used to
describe the goal of the Federal Indian boarding schools in Federal
Government reports.  Their hair was cut and their clothing was replaced
with military uniforms for boys and Victorian dresses for girls.  One of
the children brought to the Carlisle School in its opening year, Luther
Standing Bear — a child of the Oglala Lakota Chief Standing Bear — later
recounted his experience:  “Now, after having my hair cut . . . I felt
that I was no more Indian but would be an imitation of a white man.”
 Zitkala-Sa, a Dakota woman from the Yankton Sioux Reservation, recalled
the confusion and fear she felt on her first day as a child at Carlisle,
during which school officials dragged her from her hiding place under a
bed, tied her to a chair, and forcibly cut her thick braids:  “Then
I lost my spirit. . . . In my anguish I moaned for my mother, but no one
came to comfort me . . . for now I was only one of many little animals
driven by a herder.”

     All children at the Carlisle School experienced a regimented daily
schedule starting at 6:00 a.m. and concluding with Taps and room
inspection at 9:00 p.m.  Sunday school, chapel services, Catholic
instruction, and Bible study classes were required.  Carlisle School
instructors also imposed strict rules about teaching English and
prohibited the children from speaking their native languages — a rule
that was often enforced with corporal punishment. 

     “Vocational” or “industrial” training in the form of compulsory
labor was a central component of the Carlisle School throughout its
operation.  Boys were assigned mechanics, blacksmithing, tin-smithing,
wagon-making, carpentering, tailoring, shoemaking, harness-making,
baking, painting, printing, and farming.  Girls were assigned cooking,
laundry, and housekeeping.  In what became known as the “outing system”
-– an arrangement intended to “impart\[\] the lesson of Americanism” —
Carlisle School administrators regularly sent children and youths to
spend a portion of each year living with and working for white
families.  School administrators then deposited the children’s
compensation “to their credit” with the school.

     Carlisle School leaders also used the children’s labor to perform
maintenance, construction, and operations work on the campus.  Several
buildings — including a large brick printing office, a gymnasium, a
hospital, doctor’s quarters, a model home, a laundry building, the Leupp
Indian Art Studio, and a warehouse — were primarily constructed by the
youths of the Carlisle School.  

     The Carlisle School’s start as a Federal Indian boarding school
coincided with the rise of American football.  Although students also
participated in other athletics, the Carlisle School used the football
team as a means to earn publicity and garner support for the boarding
school approach to assimilation.  In 1899, the Carlisle School hired a
well-known football coach, Glenn “Pop” Warner, and in the ensuing years
the Carlisle football team boasted an impressive win-loss record,
including victories over colleges such as Harvard and the University of
Pennsylvania.  Newspapers published articles with sensational stories
and photographs of the Carlisle School games, spotlighting Carlisle
student athletes Dennison Wheelock, Gus Welch, and Jim Thorpe.  For a
small number of players, like Thorpe, football provided access to higher
educational opportunities and athletic success.  But for most players,
the Carlisle football team did not lead to additional opportunities.  

     Indeed, for the student body more generally, the athletic program
amounted to another form of exploitation by the school.  To fund the
gymnasium, the Carlisle School took purported donations from the
children’s Individual Indian Money Accounts, which were trust accounts
created and managed by the Federal Government.  The school also used
sales of items made by children and gate receipts from athletic events
held on the Carlisle School’s fields and cinder track for its own uses. 
A congressional investigation in 1914 received testimony that Warner
used the Carlisle football game proceeds for his personal gain.

     Conditions at the Carlisle School — located in a remote area over a
thousand miles away from many children’s homes — were unfamiliar and
harsh.  Children lived in close quarters and were exposed to diseases
they had not encountered previously.  More than 180 children died while
attending the Carlisle School; many of them are buried in marked
gravesites at the Carlisle Barracks Main Post Cemetery.  

     The Carlisle School’s tenure as a Federal Indian boarding school
ended in 1918, at the end of World War I, when the War Department took
back control of the post and opened a hospital to care for wounded
soldiers.  At that time, 279 children left the Carlisle School and were
transferred to other Federal Indian boarding schools.  

     The Carlisle School’s legacy extends far beyond its almost 40 years
of operation.  The Carlisle School became a model replicated in more
than 417 federally supported Indian boarding schools in 37 States and
then-territories over the course of the next century.  In addition, some
Indian boarding schools were operated by religious institutions and
organizations that did not receive Federal Government support.  Across
the Federal Indian boarding school system, the Federal Government’s
policies of cultural disruption and assimilation resulted in a
collective loss of language, religion, and identity, and inflicted
intergenerational trauma that persists today and remains a painful but
important part of our Nation’s story.

     Many Tribal leaders resisted the Federal Indian boarding school
system and took steps to try to protect Native children and reunite
families.  After the United States military entered Third Mesa of Hopi
in 1890 and took 104 children from their families into the Federal
Indian boarding school system, Hopi leaders refused to send additional
Hopi children to the school.  In response, in November 1894, the Federal
Government arrested 19 Hopi leaders and held them as prisoners for
nearly a year at Alcatraz Island in California, a former United States
military installation.  The names of these Hopi leaders were:
 Heevi’ima, Polingyawma, Masatiwa, Qotsventiwa, Piphongva, Lomahongewma,
Lomayestiwa, Yukiwma, Tuvehoyiwma, Patupha, Qotsyawma, Sikyakeptiwa,
Talagayniwa, Talasyawma, Nasingayniwa, Lomayawma, Tawalestiwa, Aqawsi,
and Qoiwiso.

     On May 23, 1881, Chief Spotted Tail and parents from the Rosebud
Sioux Tribe requested that the Federal Government return the human
remains of Rosebud Sioux Tribe children buried at the Carlisle School to
their Indian Reservation in South Dakota.  On July 14, 2021 — over 140
years later — the Army transferred the human remains of nine children to
the Rosebud Sioux Tribe to return them to their homelands.  The names of
these nine children were:  Dennis Strikes First (Blue Tomahawk); Rose
Long Face (Little Hawk); Lucy Take The Tail (Pretty Eagle); Warren
Painter (Bear Paints Dirt); Ernest Knocks Off (White Thunder); Maud
Little Girl (Swift Bear); Alvan, aka Roaster, Kills Seven Horses, One
That Kills Seven Horses; Friend Hollow Horn Bear; and Dora Her Pipe
(Brave Bull).  The Army is currently implementing its Carlisle Barracks
Disinterment Program, which, consistent with Army regulations and
policy, promotes engagement with the Tribes and families of the children
who died at the Carlisle School to return their remains to their
ancestral homelands.  This program has successfully disinterred and
returned the remains of 41 children to their families.

     Many buildings that made up or are connected to the original
Carlisle School campus remain.  Twenty-four historic structures
associated with the Carlisle School have been preserved by the Army and
stand today within the National Historic Landmark district at Carlisle
Barracks.  In addition to those structures mentioned above, the site
also includes living quarters, the Superintendent’s residence, the “Pop”
Warner House, Washington Hall, the Hessian Powder Magazine (built in
1777 and known since 1870 as a guard house), and athletic fields that
parallel the original Carlisle School track.  The four School Road
Gateposts, when constructed in 1910, marked the main entrance to the
boarding school campus.  

     Designating the former campus of the Carlisle School, with
boundaries consistent with the National Historic Landmark, as a national
monument will help ensure this shameful chapter of American history is
never forgotten or repeated.  Establishing a national monument at the
historic Carlisle School and acknowledging the Federal Government’s
policies aimed at destroying Tribal and Indigenous political structures,
cultures, and traditions — including through the Federal Indian boarding
school system — takes a step toward redress and national healing in the
arc of the survival, resilience, and triumph of Indian Tribes (including
Alaska Native Villages) and the Native Hawaiian Community.

     WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (the
“Antiquities Act”), authorizes the President, in the President’s
discretion, to declare by public proclamation historic landmarks,
historic and prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or
scientific interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled
by the Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a
part thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to
the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and

     WHEREAS, the Department of the Interior, at the direction of the
Secretary of the Interior, who is herself a descendant of survivors of
the Federal Indian boarding school system, established the Federal
Indian Boarding School Initiative, which has helped bring to light the
extensive breadth and depth of the role the Federal Government played in
creating the Federal Indian boarding school system; and

     WHEREAS, I issued a long-overdue Presidential apology to Tribal
Nations and Native people on behalf of the Federal Government
acknowledging the lasting harms caused by the Federal Indian boarding
school policy and recognizing the need to learn from this history and
advance the goal of healing; and

     WHEREAS, the Carlisle School was the Nation’s first off-reservation
Federal Indian boarding school, provided a template for institutions
across the Nation and internationally for its assimilation practices,
and today remains one of the Nation’s best-preserved examples of the
Federal Indian boarding school era; and

     WHEREAS, the Department of the Army (Army) has taken steps to
preserve part of the Carlisle School campus and the historic objects it
contains, ensuring that its history can be told; and

     WHEREAS, the historic buildings and pathways that are part of the
Carlisle School campus — where thousands of Native children lived, and
in some cases died, far from their families, Tribes, and homelands; were
compelled to participate in school activities designed to separate them
from their cultures and identities; and performed compulsory manual
labor — are important historic objects that reflect and embody the
Carlisle School’s years of operation and the similar practices of other
institutions in the Federal Indian boarding school system; and

     WHEREAS, the School Road Gateposts are a nationally significant
passageway and an historic object on the site through which Native
children walked after being removed from their homes and families during
the Federal Indian boarding school era, and are contributing features of
the Carlisle Indian Industrial School National Historic Landmark first
designated by the Secretary of the Interior in 1961 and updated in 1985;
and

     WHEREAS, designation of the monument will further the efforts of
the United States to aid in recovery, reconciliation, and healing for
Indian Tribes, the Native Hawaiian Community, and survivors and their
descendants affected by the Federal Indian boarding school system, while
honoring and mourning the lives of Native children lost and celebrating
those who persisted; and

     WHEREAS, I find that all the objects identified above, and objects
of the type identified above within the area described herein, are
objects of historic interest in need of protection under section 320301
of title 54, United States Code, regardless of whether they are
expressly identified as objects of historic interest in the text of this
proclamation; and

     WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by
this proclamation represent the smallest area compatible with the proper
care and management of the objects of historic interest identified
above, as required by the Antiquities Act; and

     WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to preserve and protect the
objects of historic interest associated with the Carlisle School and its
prominent role in the story of Federal Indian boarding schools
instituted under the United States policy of forced assimilation of
Native children;

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of
title 54, United States Code, hereby proclaim the objects identified
above that are situated upon lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government to be part of the Carlisle Federal
Indian Boarding School National Monument (monument) and, for the purpose
of protecting those objects, reserve as part thereof all lands and
interests in lands that are owned or controlled by the Government of the
United States within the boundaries described on the accompanying map,
which is attached to and forms a part of this proclamation.  The
reserved Federal lands and interests in lands within the monument’s
boundaries consist of approximately 24.5 acres, which are coextensive
with the boundaries of the Carlisle Indian Industrial School National
Historic Landmark and lie within the approximately 520-acre boundary of
Carlisle Barracks.  The boundaries described on the accompanying map are
confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care and
management of the objects to be protected.

     All Federal lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of
the monument are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of
entry, location, selection, sale, or other disposition under the public
land laws or laws applicable to the Army, including withdrawal from
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and from disposition
under all laws relating to mineral, solar, and geothermal leasing.  The
establishment of the monument is subject to valid existing rights.

     The Secretary of the Army is hereby directed to transfer to the
National Park Service (NPS) administrative jurisdiction over the
approximately 258 square feet (0.006 acres) identified by the Army as
the School Road Gateposts.  In furtherance of the Antiquities Act and
pursuant to their respective legal authorities, the Secretary of the
Interior and the Secretary of the Army shall manage the monument through
the NPS and the Army, respectively.  The management of the monument
shall be conducted in a cooperative manner, in accordance with the
terms, conditions, and direction provided by this proclamation, and
consistent with an agreement between the NPS and the Army that details
their respective duties and responsibilities for management of the
monument.

     Following transfer of administrative jurisdiction over the School
Road Gateposts, the NPS shall administer that portion of the monument,
and the Army shall continue to administer the remaining portion of the
monument.  The NPS shall be responsible for interpretation of and
education regarding the entirety of the monument in consultation with
the Army. 

     Within 3 years of the date of this proclamation, or as soon as
practicable to incorporate Tribal views, knowledge, and expertise, as
appropriate, for the purpose of preserving, interpreting, and enhancing
the public understanding and appreciation of the monument, the NPS, in
consultation with the Army, shall prepare a management plan for the
monument.  The management plan shall ensure the monument fulfills the
following purposes for the benefit of present and future generations:
 (1) to preserve the historic resources within the boundaries of the
monument; (2) to interpret the story of the Carlisle School and its
significance to the history of the Federal Indian boarding school
system; and (3) to commemorate the efforts and resilience of Tribal
Nations and Indigenous Peoples, including survivors of the Carlisle
School and others affected by Federal Indian boarding schools, who are
working to advance healing and reconciliation, to recover Native
languages and cultures, and to chart a vibrant future for all Native
children.   

     In recognition of the centrality of Tribal participation to tell
this story, to inform interpretation of the objects that are part of the
monument, and to enhance public understanding and appreciation of the
monument, the Secretary of the Interior, through the NPS and in
coordination with the Army, shall meaningfully engage Tribal Nations and
the Native Hawaiian Community in the development of the management plan
and ongoing management of the monument.  The Secretary of the Interior,
through the NPS, shall also take steps to ensure that management
decisions affecting the monument incorporate Tribal expertise and
Indigenous Knowledge in an appropriate manner consistent with Tribal
Nations’ concerns for protecting Indigenous Knowledge and expertise.
 The Secretary of the Interior, through the NPS, shall enter into an
agreement with interested federally recognized Indian Tribes to set
forth terms, pursuant to applicable laws, regulations, and policies, for
co-stewardship of the monument.  The Secretary of the Interior, through
the NPS, shall also provide for consultation with any federally
recognized Indian Tribe with historical connections to any part of the
Federal Indian boarding school system regarding the interpretation of
that system’s history at the monument. 

     As the Federal Indian boarding school system affected nearly every
Indian Tribe (including Alaska Native Villages) and the Native Hawaiian
Community, and in view of the wide array of resulting experiences and
perspectives, the Secretary of the Interior, through the NPS, is also
directed, as appropriate, to use applicable authorities to seek to enter
into agreements with other entities to address common interests related
to the interpretation of and education regarding the monument, and care
and preservation of historic objects therein.  These entities may
include Dickinson College; the Cumberland County Historical Society;
Phoenix Indian School; Haskell Indian Nations University; Stewart Indian
School Cultural Center and Museum; Sheldon Jackson Museum; Fort Apache
Heritage Foundation, Inc.; Kamehameha Schools; and existing National
Park System units with resources related to the Federal Indian boarding
school system.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall affect or diminish the Army’s
authority to administer Carlisle Barracks, including the Army’s ability
to execute its mission at Carlisle Barracks, or the Army’s obligations
to comply with environmental protection and historic preservation laws
or engage in appropriate Tribal consultation.  Further, nothing in this
proclamation shall limit the Army’s ability to control public access to
Carlisle Barracks or take all necessary measures to ensure emergency
preparedness, safety, and security.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing
withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the monument shall
be the dominant reservation.

     Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to
appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of the monument and
not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.

     If any provision of this proclamation, including application to a
particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not be
affected thereby.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
