---
date: '2024-12-29'
modified_time: 2024-12-29 22:25:20-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-29 22:25:19-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/12/29/proclamation-announcing-the-death-of-james-earl-carter-jr/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Proclamation Announcing the Death of James Earl Carter,\_Jr."
---
 
TO THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES:

It is my solemn duty to announce officially the death of James Earl
Carter, Jr., the thirty-ninth President of the United States, on
December 29, 2024.

President Carter was a man of character, courage, and compassion, whose
lifetime of service defined him as one of the most influential statesmen
in our history.  He embodied the very best of America:  A humble servant
of God and the people.  A heroic champion of global peace and human
rights, and an honorable leader whose moral clarity and hopeful vision
lifted our Nation and changed our world.

The son of a farmer and a nurse, President Carter’s remarkable career in
public service began in 1943 as a cadet at the United States Naval
Academy.  He later served in both the Atlantic and Pacific fleets before
becoming a decorated lieutenant and being selected to join the elite
nuclear submarine program.

After his father died, he shifted from active duty to the Navy Reserve
and returned home to Plains, Georgia, to help manage his family’s peanut
farm.  He worked hard stewarding the land while leading his community as
a church deacon, Sunday school teacher, and board member of a hospital
and library.  His deep faith inspired a passion for public service that
led him to be elected State Senator, Georgia’s 76th Governor, and
ultimately President of the United States.  

As President, he understood that Government must be as good as its
people — and his faith in the people was boundless just as his belief in
America was limitless and his hope for our common future was perennial.

With President Carter’s leadership, the modern Department of Education
and the Department of Energy were created.  He championed conservation,
and his commitment to a more just world was at the heart of his foreign
policy, leading on nuclear nonproliferation, signing the Panama Canal
treaties, and mediating the historic 1978 Camp David Accords.  His
partnership with Vice President Walter Mondale is one that future
administrations strived to achieve.

Following his Presidency, President Carter advanced an agenda that
elevated the least among us.  Guided by an unwavering belief in the
power of human goodness and the God‑given dignity of every human being,
he worked tirelessly around the globe to broker peace; eradicate
disease; house the homeless; and protect human rights, freedom, and
democracy.

Through his extraordinary moral leadership, President Carter lived a
noble life full of meaning and purpose.  And as a trusted spiritual
leader, he shepherded people through seasons of pain and joy, inspiring
them through the power of his example and healing them through the power
of his guidance.

As we mourn the loss of President Carter, we hold the memory of his
beloved Rosalynn, his wife of over 77 years, close in our hearts. 
Exemplifying hope, warmth, and service, she and her husband inspired the
Nation.  The love Rosalynn and President Carter shared is the definition
of partnership, and their devotion to public service is the definition
of patriotism.

May President Carter’s memory continue to be a light pointing us
forward.  May we continue to be guided by his spirit in our Nation and
in our world.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States, in honor and tribute to the memory of
President James Earl Carter, Jr., and as an expression of public sorrow,
do hereby direct that the flag of the United States be displayed at
half-staff at the White House and on all public buildings and grounds,
at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval vessels
of the Federal Government in the District of Columbia and throughout the
United States and its Territories and possessions for a period of 30
days from the day of his death.  I also direct that, for the same length
of time, the representatives of the United States in foreign countries
shall make similar arrangements for the display of the flag at
half‑staff over their embassies, legations, consular offices, and other
facilities abroad, including all military facilities and naval vessels
and stations.

     I hereby order that suitable honors be rendered by units of the
Armed Forces under orders of the Secretary of Defense.

     I do further appoint January 9, 2025, as a National Day of Mourning
throughout the United States.  I call on the American people to assemble
on that day in their respective places of worship, there to pay homage
to the memory of President James Earl Carter, Jr.  I invite the people
of the world who share our grief to join us in this solemn observance.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
