---
date: '2024-12-31'
modified_time: 2024-12-31 21:28:01-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-31 21:28:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/12/31/a-proclamation-on-national-stalking-awareness-month-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Stalking Awareness Month,\_2025"
---
 
During National Stalking Awareness Month, we honor the courage and
resilience of the millions of people in America who have suffered from
stalking and recommit to ensuring every American feels safe and
protected from this abuse.  And we recommit to building a world where
every person can walk through life knowing they are safe, secure, and
will be treated with respect.

For the one in three women and one in six men who have endured stalking,
the fear it causes can be all-consuming.  No matter where it was
committed or who it was committed by — at home, at work, online, or by a
stranger or a neighbor — stalking can destroy a person’s sense of
security and safety.  And it can have immense consequences on their
lives:  some have to leave everything behind to flee at a moment’s
notice or are haunted by their experience forever.  It is wrong.

For too long, people refused to talk about stalking and other forms of
gender-based violence, leaving survivors feeling alone, isolated, and
forgotten.  That changed with the passage of the landmark Violence
Against Women Act more than 30 years ago — a law I was proud to write
and champion as a United States Senator.  It helped shine a harsh light
on the scourge of gender-based violence in America and ensured that
survivors were getting the support they needed.  In 2022, I signed a
reauthorization of the law, giving survivors of stalking more support
and cracking down on perpetrators.  It expanded the jurisdiction of
Tribal courts to prosecute non-Native perpetrators of stalking and other
gender-based violence, while ensuring survivors can bring a civil
lawsuit in Federal court against someone who shared intimate images of
them online without their consent.

My Administration has taken action to crack down on stalking and
gender-based violence in America.  We released our Nation’s first-ever
National Plan to End Gender-Based Violence, laying out a strategy to
best support survivors, work on prevention, and ensure perpetrators are
held accountable.  The Department of Justice’s Office on Violence
Against Women has continued providing grants to community organizations,
prosecutors, and law enforcement to stop stalking and other gender-based
crimes.  And to ensure victims have a safe place to call home and
rebuild their lives, the Department of Housing and Urban Development has
provided tens of thousands of emergency housing vouchers.  Furthermore,
I established the White House Task Force to Address Online Harassment
and Abuse to make sure we are stopping gender-based violence committed
online. 

My father used to say that one of the greatest sins a person could
commit is the abuse of power — and that is fundamentally what stalking
is.  During National Stalking Awareness Month, we recommit to supporting
survivors of stalking and reaffirm that harassment, abuse, and violence
have no place in America. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 2025 as
National Stalking Awareness Month.  I call on all Americans to speak out
against stalking and to support the efforts of advocates, courts,
service providers, and law enforcement to help those who are targeted
and send the message to perpetrators that these crimes will not go
unpunished.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
