---
date: '2024-12-20'
modified_time: 2024-12-20 15:42:52-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-20 16:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/12/20/2024-amendments-to-the-manual-for-courts-martial-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "2024 Amendments to the Manual for Courts-Martial, United\_States"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, including chapter 47 of title
10, United States Code (Uniform Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C.
801-946a), and in order to prescribe additions and amendments to the
Manual for Courts-Martial, United States, prescribed by Executive Order
12473 of April 13, 1984, as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:

     Section 1.  Part II, Part III, Part IV, and Part V of the Manual
for Courts-Martial, United States, are amended as described in the Annex
attached to and made a part of this order.

     Sec. 2.  With this order, I hereby prescribe regulations for the
randomized selection of qualified personnel as members of a
court-martial to the maximum extent practicable, pursuant to section 543
of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2023, Public Law 117-263 (10 U.S.C. 825(e)(4)).

     Sec. 3.  Except as provided in sections 4 and 5 of this order,
these amendments shall take effect on the date of this order, subject to
the following:

     (a)  Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to make
punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the date of this order
that was not punishable when committed or omitted.

     (b)  Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to invalidate
any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing,
referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other
action begun prior to the date of this order, and any such nonjudicial
punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of
charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may
proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if these
amendments had not been prescribed.

     <u>Sec</u>. <u>4</u>.  The amendments to Rule for Courts-Martial
(R.C.M.) 908(c)(3), R.C.M. 1205(a), and R.C.M. 1209(a)(1) shall take
effect on December 22, 2024, subject to the following:

     (a)  Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to make
punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the effective date that
was not punishable when committed or omitted.

     (b)  Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to invalidate
any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing,
referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other
action begun prior to the  effective date, and any such nonjudicial
punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of
charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may
proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if these
amendments had not been prescribed.

     Sec. 5.  The amendment to R.C.M. 503(a)(1) shall take effect on
December 23, 2024, subject to the following:

     (a)  Nothing in this amendment shall be construed to make
punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the effective date that
was not punishable when committed or omitted.

     (b)  Nothing in this amendment shall be construed to invalidate any
nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing,
referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other
action begun prior to the  effective date, and any such nonjudicial
punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of
charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may
proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if this amendment
had not been prescribed.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    December 20, 2024.
