---
date: '2024-12-30'
modified_time: 2024-12-30 14:33:55-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-30 14:33:54-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/12/30/message-to-the-congress-on-death-of-james-earl-carter-jr/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the Congress on Death of James Earl Carter,\_Jr."
---
 
By this Message, I officially inform you of the death of James Earl
Carter, Jr., the thirty-ninth President of the United States.

     President Carter was a man of character, courage, and compassion,
whose lifetime of service defined him as one of the most influential
statesmen in our history.  He embodied the very best of America:  A
humble servant of God and the people.  A heroic champion of global peace
and human rights, and an honorable leader whose moral clarity and
hopeful vision lifted our Nation and changed our world.

     The son of a farmer and a nurse, President Carter’s remarkable
career in public service began in 1943 as a cadet at the United States
Naval Academy.  He later served in both the Atlantic and Pacific fleets
before becoming a decorated lieutenant, and being selected to join the
elite nuclear submarine program.

     After his father died, he shifted from active duty to the Navy
Reserve and returned home to Plains, Georgia, to help manage his
family’s peanut farm.  He worked hard stewarding the land while leading
his community as a church deacon, Sunday school teacher, and board
member of a hospital and library.  His deep faith inspired a passion for
public service that led him to be elected State Senator, Georgia’s 76th
Governor, and ultimately President of the United States.

     As President, he understood that Government must be as good as its
people — and his faith in the people was boundless just as his belief in
America was limitless and his hope for our common future was perennial.

     With President Carter’s leadership, the modern Department of
Education and the Department of Energy were created.  He championed
conservation and his commitment to a more just world was at the heart of
his foreign policy, leading on nuclear nonproliferation, signing the
Panama Canal treaties, and mediating the historic 1978 Camp David
Accords.  His partnership with Vice President Walter Mondale is one that
future administrations strived to achieve.

     Following his Presidency, President Carter advanced an agenda that
elevated the least among us.  Guided by an unwavering belief in the
power of human goodness and the God-given dignity of every human being,
he worked tirelessly around the globe to broker peace; eradicate
disease; house the homeless; and protect human rights, freedom, and
democracy.

Through his extraordinary moral leadership, President Carter lived a
noble life full of meaning and purpose.  And as a trusted spiritual
leader, he shepherded people through seasons of pain and joy, inspiring
them through the power of his example and healing them through the power
of his guidance.

     As we mourn the loss of President Carter, we hold the memory of his
beloved Rosalynn, his wife of over 77 years, close in our hearts. 
Exemplifying hope, warmth, and service, she and her husband inspired the
Nation.  The love Rosalynn and President Carter shared is the definition
of partnership, and their devotion to public service is the definition
of patriotism. 

     May President Carter’s memory continue to be a light pointing us
forward.  May we continue to be guided by his spirit in our Nation and
in our world.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    December 30, 2024.
