---
date: '2024-12-16'
modified_time: 2024-12-16 15:50:44-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-16 15:50:43-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/12/16/a-proclamation-on-the-establishment-of-the-frances-perkins-national-monument/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on the Establishment of the Frances Perkins National\_Monument"
---
 
            Few Americans have had deeper influence in shaping labor and
social policy in the United States than Frances Perkins.  Perkins became
the first woman to serve as a Cabinet Secretary when President Franklin
Delano Roosevelt appointed her as the Secretary of Labor in 1933.
 During the subsequent 12 years, Secretary Perkins played a pivotal role
in constructing the New Deal and helping to guide the country out of the
Great Depression by designing and leading the implementation of sweeping
labor and economic reforms that have made life better for generations of
Americans.  The longest serving Secretary of Labor in United States
history, Secretary Perkins was the architect of many programs and
standards — including a minimum wage, overtime pay, unemployment
insurance, and prohibitions on child labor — that have endured as the
backbone of Federal support for workers and families and continue to
benefit millions of Americans today.  Secretary Perkins chaired
President Roosevelt’s effort to investigate the benefits of social
insurance and then worked to achieve passage of the Social Security Act,
which became one of the most successful programs in the United States to
prevent poverty among older adults.  When the United States and other
nations initially failed to face the horrors of the Holocaust, Secretary
Perkins demonstrated leadership on behalf of immigrants and refugees by
actively working to bring Jewish children and adults from Europe to the
United States to ensure their safety.  
     The Perkins Homestead in Newcastle, Maine, played a pivotal role in
Frances Perkins’ life and supported her work to deliver lasting
protection and benefits to American workers and families.  The rural
setting of the Perkins Homestead on the Damariscotta River was the place
she felt most at home.  She spent her childhood summers there and
returned frequently for respite throughout her career.  Continuously
owned by her family for over 260 years, the Perkins Homestead remains
much as it was during Secretary Perkins’ lifetime, including the
buildings, structures, gardens, and paths where she spent substantial
time throughout her life.  The core area contains historic structures
including a brick house, an attached barn, a gravel driveway, a garden,
and portions of a stone wall.  The surrounding landscape of the Perkins
Homestead contains additional portions of the stone wall, an ice pond,
walking trails, a family cemetery, foundations of the 18th and 19th
century Perkins Homestead buildings, and remnants of a pre-Revolutionary
era garrison.  Visitors to the Perkins Homestead today can wander
through these places where Perkins returned time and again during her
Government service.  They can view the stone wall where she sat
listening to the radio on September 1, 1939, when it was reported that
the Germans invaded Poland, prompting her to rush back to Washington,
D.C., to assist the President.  Preserving the core area of the Perkins
Homestead and its associated historic objects will ensure that current
and future generations have the opportunity to learn about Secretary
Perkins’ foundational contributions to the Nation’s social and labor
policy through the place that helped shape her as a person and support
her throughout her extraordinary career.  
     Frances Perkins was born in Boston as Fannie Coralie Perkins in
1880.  At the age of 25, she changed her name to Frances Perkins, which
she used for the rest of her life, even after marriage.  She graduated
in 1902 from Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts, where she credited
a class trip to a nearby mill with inspiring her early interest in
improving working conditions for women and children.  
     After college, Frances Perkins worked with social service
organizations in Chicago and Philadelphia, including settlement houses
for poor and unemployed people and an organization to support and
protect immigrant and Black women and girls from labor and sexual
exploitation they faced upon arrival in these cities looking for work.
 These experiences deepened her resolve to help reduce poverty and
support the working poor.  
     In 1911, while employed at the New York City Consumers’ League,
Frances Perkins heard the sirens of fire engines racing to put out
flames that had engulfed the nearby Triangle Shirtwaist Factory. 
Running to the site of the fire, she witnessed the horrific scene of
workers, mostly young women, jumping to their deaths after being locked
in the factory.  In total, 146 people died in the fire –- including many
immigrant workers.  Perkins later cited that tragic day as the impetus
for policies that would become central to the New Deal.  
     Perkins’ subsequent work at the New York Factory Investigating
Commission, where she investigated and advocated for worker health and
safety reforms, led to 33 new State laws that improved worker safety,
workplace sanitation, and working conditions; provided workers’
compensation; and placed limits on child labor.  These were some of the
first workplace health and safety standards in the Nation, and they
became models that other States and the Federal Government adopted.  
     In 1919, Perkins was named to the New York State Industrial
Commission, making her the first woman appointed to serve in a New York
State government administration.  In 1929, newly elected Governor
Franklin Delano Roosevelt asked Perkins to become the State’s Industrial
Commissioner and oversee the labor department.  As the United States
careened toward the Great Depression, Perkins used her position to shine
a national spotlight on rising unemployment while also helping workers
in New York and elsewhere by connecting them to jobs through a State
employment service and inviting surrounding States to participate in an
unemployment insurance system.  Her early warnings regarding the depth
of the Nation’s economic problems and her work to develop solutions
established Perkins as a national leader in the 20th century employment
and labor reform movements.  
     When President Roosevelt formally asked Perkins to join his Cabinet
as Secretary of Labor, she responded by saying that if she accepted the
position, she intended to execute an ambitious plan of action that
included establishing maximum hours and minimum wages, ending child
labor, developing unemployment relief through public works, providing
unemployment insurance, and creating an old-age pension and a national
health insurance program.  After detailing her plan, she asked if
President Roosevelt was sure he wanted this list of policies put in
place, explaining that, “you won’t want me for Secretary of Labor if you
don’t want those things done.”  President Roosevelt responded that he
would back her; he had promised the American people that he would
improve their lives, and he intended to keep his promise.  
     At a time when few women were in leadership positions and just 13
years after the 19th Amendment granted women the right to vote, Frances
Perkins became Secretary of Labor.  During an unprecedented 12 years in
the position — from 1933 to 1945 — Secretary Perkins achieved
hard-fought social and economic reforms, often over vocal opposition and
personal attacks from critics.  She summarized her work in a five-page
letter to President Roosevelt, describing the reforms as “a turning
point in our national life — a turning from careless neglect of human
values and toward an order . . . of mutual and practical benevolence
within a free competitive industrial economy.”  The list of
accomplishments detailed in her letter encompasses many programs and
laws that continue to undergird the Nation’s economy and social safety
net, including establishing Social Security and contributing to the
development of the Fair Labor Standards Act and the Walsh-Healey Public
Contracts Act.  She also helped create millions of jobs across the
country through the novel Civilian Conservation Corps and Public Works
Administration.   
     As Secretary of Labor, Perkins often supported the rights of
workers to organize unions and to negotiate with employers through
collective action, laying the foundation for the rebirth of American
labor –- including through helping write recovery legislation that
provided a right to collective bargaining and laid the groundwork for
the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 (also known as the Wagner
Act).  She used her post not only to advance labor protections in
national policy, but also to call personally for workers’ fair treatment
and access to the halls of power.  She persuaded President Roosevelt not
to deploy Federal troops to quell the 1934 San Francisco General Strike,
and instead encouraged the parties to settle their differences, which
was accomplished within a week, and she frequently advised President
Roosevelt to help resolve contentious strikes for the benefit of
workers.     
     At the close of her time at the Department of Labor, Perkins had
accomplished nearly all of the items in the ambitious plan she laid out
for President Roosevelt when he asked her to serve, but she lamented the
one exception:  health care benefits for American workers.  Historians
have also noted that, because of deep racial inequities and injustices
of the time –- including segregation -– the benefits of the New Deal
were not available to all Americans initially.   
     When her time as Secretary of Labor concluded, Perkins continued in
public service as President Harry Truman’s appointee to the United
States Civil Service Commission, a post she held from 1945 until 1953. 
She then became a lecturer at the New York State School of Industrial
and Labor Relations at Cornell University, a role she held until her
death in 1965.   
     When Secretary Perkins died, the Secretary of Labor at the time, W.
Willard Wirtz, recognized her legacy as central to the New Deal, stating
that “every man and woman in America who works at a living wage, under
safe conditions, for reasonable hours, or who is protected by
unemployment insurance or social security is her debtor.”  The final
resting place of Secretary Perkins is near her daughter, husband,
sister, parents, and grandparents in the Glidden Cemetery, located a
half mile north of the Perkins Homestead in Newcastle, Maine.   
     Throughout Perkins’ life and career, the Perkins Homestead served
as a place of rejuvenation and reflection, including during her time as
Secretary of Labor.  Throughout her working life, she continued the
family tradition of summer visits to Maine, often living there with her
daughter from August into September.  Perkins and her sister became
joint owners of the property in 1927 and it stayed within the family
until 2020.  Perkins wrote about how the woods surrounding the brick
house and the shoreline at the Perkins Homestead’s edge restored and
comforted her, and how the brick house provided a place for her to relax
and to recover from her work as Secretary of Labor.  
     The Perkins Homestead, originally over 200 acres, was settled by
Perkins’ great-great grandfather in the early 1700s.  A mid-18th century
garrison existed on the property that was in use for 3 years during the
French and Indian War.   
     The core area, on the west end of the Perkins Homestead, has a
brick house built by the Perkins family in 1837 along with a connected
barn.  The two-story home is constructed of bricks manufactured on site
at the family brickyard.  The east end of the Perkins Homestead borders
the Damariscotta River and has a family cemetery, foundations of the
18th and 19th century Perkins Homestead buildings, the remains of the
brick kilns, wharves, and a clay pit from the 19th century brickyard, as
well as the remains of the garrison.  Agricultural fields, pastures,
woodland, and planted trees connect the two sides of the Perkins
Homestead.  
     The National Park Service first documented the Perkins Homestead
through the Historic American Buildings Survey in 1960, while Secretary
Perkins still occupied the home.  In 2009, the National Park Service
listed the Brick House Historic District on the National Register of
Historic Places; the Brick House Historic District included the brick
house, adjacent structures, and the wooded and agricultural lands
extending to the shoreline of the Damariscotta River.  In 2014, the
Secretary of the Interior designated this same 57 acres as the Perkins
Homestead National Historic Landmark, recognizing the property’s
historic importance and nationally significant association with Frances
Perkins.  
     The Perkins Homestead contains several objects that reflect
Secretary Perkins’ lifelong commitment to supporting and protecting
American workers.  Hanging above a doorway in the brick house is a
custom “No Smoking” sign that reflects the lasting influence the
Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire had on Perkins.  It reads:  “Please Do
Not SMOKE In Any Part of This Building.  DANGEROUS.  F. Perkins.”  The
brick house also includes Secretary Perkins’ Award for Distinguished
Service, which the Department of Labor presented to her on March 4,
1963, on the occasion of the Department’s 50th anniversary.  The Award
citation reads:  “For her courage in entering an arena previously
considered a masculine domain; for her strength in guiding the
Department through a dozen years of domestic stress and international
travail; for her spirit in waging the good fight for good objectives;
and finally, for herself.”    
     Conserving the Perkins Homestead will ensure that the family home
and surrounding landscape that were a constant source of support for
Secretary Perkins will remain protected and accessible in perpetuity for
the benefit of all people to learn about her life, her unparalleled
contributions to labor and social policy that would eventually benefit
generations of Americans, and core principles at the heart of the New
Deal that she championed:  economic security and dignity for workers.  
     WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (the
“Antiquities Act”), authorizes the President, in the President’s
discretion, to declare by public proclamation historic landmarks,
historic and prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or
scientific interest that are situated on land owned or controlled by the
Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a part
thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and  
     WHEREAS, the Perkins Homestead was designated a National Historic
Landmark on August 25, 2014, establishing its national significance as
the ancestral home and lifelong summer residence of Frances Perkins, the
first woman to serve as a Cabinet Secretary and one of our Nation’s most
influential and effective public servants whose legacy includes the
historic New Deal; and  
     WHEREAS, the Frances Perkins Center has been managing and
preserving the approximately 57-acre Perkins Homestead, including the
objects identified above and additional archives and collections
illustrating the historic value of this site, and has expressed support
for inclusion of the Perkins Homestead in the National Park System;
and  
     WHEREAS, the Frances Perkins Center has donated to the Federal
Government for the purpose of establishing a unit of the National Park
System fee interest in the core area comprising approximately 2.3 acres
of land in Newcastle, Maine, which includes several historic objects
associated with the Perkins Homestead and Perkins’ life located on this
site, including the brick house, the connected barn, and portions of the
stone wall; and  
     WHEREAS, in support of the establishment of a national monument to
be administered by the National Park Service, the Frances Perkins Center
has also indicated its intent to develop a partnership with the National
Park Service to help manage, oversee, interpret, maintain, and protect
the Perkins Homestead (including the core area) and the historic objects
it contains as appropriate; and  
     WHEREAS, the Frances Perkins Center has indicated an interest in
donating a majority of the remaining approximately 54.7 acres of the
57-acre Perkins Homestead to the Federal Government in the future; and  
     WHEREAS, the designation of a national monument to be administered
by the National Park Service would recognize the historic significance
of Frances Perkins and her role in the New Deal, particularly her
contributions to social welfare, safe working conditions, and protection
of workers’ health and well-being, and would provide a national platform
for preserving and interpreting this important history; and  
     WHEREAS, I find that all the objects identified above, and objects
of the type identified above within the area described herein, are
objects of historic interest in need of protection under section 320301
of title 54, United States Code, regardless of whether they are
expressly identified as objects of historic interest in the text of this
proclamation; and  
     WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by
this proclamation represent the smallest area compatible with the proper
care and management of the objects of historic interest identified
above, as required by the Antiquities Act; and  
     WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to preserve and protect the
objects of historic interest associated with the Perkins Homestead in
Maine;  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of
title 54, United States Code, hereby proclaim the objects identified
above that are situated on lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government to be part of the Frances Perkins
National Monument (monument) and, for the purpose of protecting those
objects, reserve as part thereof all lands and interests in lands owned
or controlled by the Government of the United States within the
boundaries described on the accompanying map, which is attached to and
forms a part of this proclamation.  The monument’s boundaries are
coextensive with the Perkins Homestead National Historic Landmark
boundaries, and the reserved Federal lands and interests in lands within
the monument’s boundaries comprise approximately 2.3 acres.  
     All Federal lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of
the monument are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of
entry, location, selection, sale, leasing, or other disposition under
the public land laws, including withdrawal from location, entry, and
patent under the mining laws, and from disposition under all laws
relating to mineral and geothermal leasing.   
     The establishment of the monument is subject to valid existing
rights.  Specifically, the Frances Perkins Center retains reserved
rights to occupy and use the premises; complete preservation,
maintenance, and renovation work; and store and maintain artifacts
currently located in the brick house.  These reserved rights shall
expire not later than 25 years after the date of this proclamation.   
     If the Federal Government acquires any lands or interests in lands
not owned or controlled by the Federal Government within the boundaries
described on the accompanying map, such lands and interests in lands
shall be reserved as part of the monument, and objects of the type
identified above that are situated upon those lands and interests in
lands shall be part of the monument, upon acquisition of ownership or
control by the Federal Government.  
     The Secretary of the Interior shall manage the monument through the
National Park Service, pursuant to applicable legal authorities and
consistent with the purposes and provisions of this proclamation.  For
the purpose of preserving, interpreting, and enhancing the public
understanding and appreciation of the monument, the Secretary of the
Interior, through the National Park Service, shall prepare a management
plan for the monument.  The management plan shall ensure that the
monument fulfills the following purposes for the benefit of present and
future generations:  (1) to preserve the historic objects and other
resources within the boundaries of the monument, and (2) to interpret in
its entirety the story of Frances Perkins and the history of the New
Deal, including the impact Perkins had as the first woman Cabinet
Secretary; the complexities of Perkins as an individual and of her
ideas, perspectives, and views; and her role in advancing hallmark
labor, economic, and social reform within the historical and political
context of the early-to-mid 20th century.   
     The National Park Service shall consult with appropriate Federal,
State, and local agencies; local communities; nongovernmental
organizations; and the general public in the region of the monument —
including the Frances Perkins Center and the Damariscotta River
Association — in developing the management plan for the monument, which
shall include resource management, interpretation and education, visitor
access, and services at the monument.  The National Park Service shall
also consult on all aspects of the management plan with the Penobscot
Nation and other Wabanaki Peoples, whose ancestral lands include areas
in Maine near the monument.  
     The National Park Service is directed, as appropriate, to use
applicable authorities to seek to enter into agreements with other
entities, including the Frances Perkins Center, to address common
interests and promote management efficiencies, including the provision
of visitor services, interpretation and education, establishment and
care of museum collections, and preservation of historic objects.   
            Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any
existing withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the
monument shall be the dominant reservation.  
     Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to
appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of the monument and
not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.  
     If any provision of this proclamation, including its application to
a particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of
this proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not
be affected thereby.  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
sixteenth day of December, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.  
   
   
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
