---
date: '2023-09-01'
published_time: 2023-09-01 14:03:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/01/readout-of-white-house-meeting-with-families-on-international-overdose-awareness-day/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Meeting with Families on International Overdose Awareness\_\
  Day"
---
 
*Biden-Harris Administration announced more than $450 million in new
funding to support President Biden’s Unity Agenda efforts to beat the
overdose epidemic and save lives*

**Washington, D.C.** – Today, on International Overdose Awareness Day,
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff, White House Office of National Drug
Control Policy (ONDCP) Director Dr. Rahul Gupta, and Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC) Director Dr. Mandy Cohen hosted a meeting
at the White House with families from across the country who have lost
loved ones to drug overdose.  
  
Family members shared their personal experiences with substance use
disorder and drug overdose, and stressed the critical importance of
increasing access to substance use prevention, treatment, harm
reduction, and recovery support services. They spoke about their efforts
to raise awareness about the dangers of illicit drugs, including
counterfeit pills and fentanyl, and the life-saving effects of overdose
reversal medications like naloxone.  
  
Earlier in the day, the Administration announced [more than $450 million
in new
funding](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/31/fact-sheet-on-intl-overdose-awareness-day-the-biden-harris-administration-announces-more-than-450-million-in-new-funding-to-support-president-bidens-unity-agenda-efforts-to-beat-t/)
to help to strengthen prevention, harm reduction, treatment, and
recovery support services and crack down on illicit drug trafficking in
support of President Biden’s Unity Agenda.  
  
During this convening, the Second Gentleman highlighted the new funding
and thanked the family members for their courageous work to beat the
overdose epidemic and save lives. He expressed the need to expand mental
health and substance use disorder services across the country, and spoke
about President Biden and Vice President Harris’ tireless work to
address this crisis since day one of this Administration. Dr. Gupta
spoke about his experience as a physician treating patients with opioid
use disorder and the President’s commitment to taking bold action to
save lives in memory of those who have been lost to this crisis. Dr.
Cohen highlighted $279 million in Overdose Data to Action (OD2A) grants
to states and localities to expand harm reduction strategies, link
people to life-saving care, and make the latest data available so that
we can get ahead of the constantly evolving overdose crisis.  
  
President Biden [declared August 27 through September 2 as Overdose
Awareness
Week](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/25/a-proclamation-on-overdose-awareness-week-2023/).
During this week of recognition, the Biden-Harris Administration
reaffirms our commitment to beating this epidemic — in memory of those
we have lost and to protect the lives we can still save.

\###
