---
date: '2023-09-21'
published_time: 2023-09-21 10:11:47-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/21/icymi-washington-post-harris-makes-political-personal-connection-with-students-during-college-tour/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI: Washington Post: Harris makes political, personal connection with students\
  \ during college\_tour"
---
 
This week, as part of Vice President Kamala Harris’ “Fight for Our
Freedoms” College Tour, she visited Reading Area Community College
(RACC), a Hispanic-Serving Institution in Reading, PA to mark National
Voter Registration Day. In front of a high-energy, packed room – with an
overflow audience gathered outside – Vice President Harris made the case
for attendees to register to vote, use their voices, and stay active.
The Vice President also took questions from students and spoke about a
range of issues important to young people including ending the scourge
of gun violence, reproductive freedom, and climate action.  
  
Among those in attendance, a RACC student, Ahnya O’Riordan teared up
listening to Vice President Harris speak, afterwards saying “I felt like
she actually gave us a voice and wants us to be heard and even gave us
some strength. I just love her.” Other students noted that “it’s
definitely like a once-in-a-lifetime experience for a lot of RACC
students,” that Harris was “very to the people, just gets straight to
the point,” and that the visit was “a pretty nice gesture to say the
least.”  
  
*Read the full story below:*  
  
**Washington Post: [Harris makes political, personal connection with
students during college
tour](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/09/21/kamala-harris-black-hispanic-college-tour/)**  
\[Sabrina Rodriguez, 9/21/23\]  
  
After a rousing opening featuring a marching band, cheerleaders and
students waving red and white pom poms, the crowd fell quiet when Vice
President Kamala Harris asked for a show of hands: How many had grown up
participating in active shooter drills in school?  
  
Most of the students in the 500-seat auditorium at Reading Area
Community College raised their hands.  
  
“Here’s the thing: I think older adults don’t understand what you have
been through and what that means in terms of the fear that you have to
live with,” Harris said during the Tuesday event. “So when I think about
our young leaders, they have been through a lot. But… what I love about
you is that you’re not waiting for other people to figure it out.”  
  
“You are leading on these issues,” the vice president added, prompting a
loud round of applause. “I’m here to say thank you and to encourage you
to keep doing it.”  
  
The need to address gun violence was what seemed to most resonate with
the students, who were still talking about the issue after the vice
president had left the campus of this Hispanic-serving institution in a
Hispanic-majority city located roughly 60 miles northwest of
Philadelphia.  
  
Harris is in the midst of a month-long “Fight for Our Freedoms” tour to
several colleges across the country. The tour, which kicked off last
week with her visits to two historically Black schools, is an
opportunity for Harris to talk about issues the Biden administration
sees as most pressing for young voters as an election year approaches.  
  
\[…\]  
  
The vice president was well-received during Tuesday’s upbeat event,
similar to her reception last week at Hampton University in Virginia and
North Carolina A&T University. Upcoming visits over the next few weeks
are scheduled for schools in Georgia, Wisconsin, Arizona and Nevada,
most of which have sizable Black and Latino student populations.  
  
Hours before Harris’s arrival, long lines formed outside of the
college’s Miller Center for the Arts, while inside the auditorium a DJ
played top hits from artists like Bad Bunny, Latto and Beyoncé and
Reading High School band and cheerleaders energized the crowd. The
cheerleaders closed out with a cheer for Harris: “She got that fever.
She got that heat. She’s our VP. You cannot compete,” they chanted.  
  
Before she took the stage, Harris made brief remarks to students in the
overflow area outside the auditorium and to a group of student leaders
in the center’s lobby. She then talked about a range of issues with
actress Annie Gonzalez, who appeared in the Netflix show “Gentefied” and
the Hulu film “Flamin’ Hot,” and took questions from students about such
concerns as climate change, reproductive rights and gun safety.  
  
Gabriella Soto, 19, who attended the event, said Harris’s question about
active shooter drills particularly resonated with her. She has lost
count of the number of drills she did at school while growing up. Now,
as a daycare teacher, she has taught young kids to stay quiet in their
hiding spots. And as an education major, she expects those drills — and
the fear of school shootings — will be part of her future in the
classroom.  
  
Soto said it was meaningful for her to hear the vice president
acknowledge how present the issue is in young people’s lives, as guns
are the number one cause of death among children and teens. It also
reminded her of her own conversations with her family about living
through school shooting drills.  
  
“I talk to my parents or my grandparents about it and they look at me
like I have three heads and I’m like, ‘that’s normal.’ Even now, I work
in a school and my kids are not fazed by it. It’s weird to think about
it but it just feels like it’s normal to me and that’s not OK,” Soto
said.  
  
Biden, for his part, on Friday will announce the creation of a new
office for gun violence prevention amid stalled progress in Congress to
pass firearms-related legislation.  
  
Several students, including Soto, marveled over Harris’s decision to
come to their community college, calling it a sign of her dedication to
them.  
  
“It’s definitely like a once-in-a-lifetime experience for a lot of RACC
students,” Soto said as she stood outside the auditorium on the sunny
afternoon hoping to get a glimpse of Harris leaving.  
  
Colin Pinkerton, 21, said he felt Harris’s visit sent a positive message
to Reading, a city of about 95,000 that is the county seat of
Republican-leaning Berks County. Reading’s median household income is
$38,738, compared to the county median household income of $69, 272. It
has a poverty rate of nearly 30 percent and was named by U.S. News and
World Report as one of the nation’s 10 poorest cities.  
  
“It could just be her trying to get us to vote for her but it kind of
shows that she cares about our small community here,” Pinkerton said.
“It’s a pretty nice gesture to say the least.”  
  
Harris’s visit comes as Democrats work to energize young voters and
shore up support among Hispanic voters ahead of the 2024 election. Youth
voter participation has reached historic levels in recent election
cycles, with a majority backing Democratic candidates. It also comes at
the start of Hispanic Heritage Month, a point Reading Mayor Eddie Moran
said had a “profound significance” for the community where more than
two-thirds of the population is Latino.  
  
\[…\]  
  
Alexander Hitchens, 19, attended Harris’s event feeling unsure about
which presidential candidates he likes — and if he’ll even vote. He
acknowledged entering the event that he didn’t feel educated on the
issues and was skeptical of politicians.  
  
“I’m not on anybody’s side,” Hitchens said, who’s studying criminal
justice and called himself an independent.  
  
But he left the event saying: “I think I’m gonna vote.”  
  
He felt that Harris was “very to the people, just gets straight to the
point.” Her messaging on the need to combat climate change and address
gun violence while keeping people’s right to bear arms, in particular,
resonated with him.  
  
“I probably would vote for Biden and Harris. My family probably won’t
like it,” he said, laughing and adding that his family supports former
president Donald Trump.  
  
Nangelie Zapata, 19, said she hoped Harris’s visit would bring about
some momentum for change among youth in Reading and show them they and
their city matters.  
  
Zapata, who is studying art, added that she’s eager to vote in 2024 and
is trying to sway friends and other students who are less sold on the
importance of voting.  
  
“It’s hard to bring an understanding just because there’s such a strange
stigma against it. But I think we can always change that,” she said.
“It’s just hard for some people to understand why their vote matters but
I’m trying to explain it and change their minds.”  
  
Aracelis Carrero, 21, is one of those students who doesn’t know if her
vote really matters. She didn’t attend the event but stood outside the
auditorium in hopes of catching a glimpse of Harris.  
  
Carrero, who is studying criminal justice, said she registered to vote
but she doesn’t know if she will actually do it.  
  
“I’m not a Republican nor a Democrat. … Sometimes, me as a person, I
feel like my voice doesn’t matter. So I just keep it to myself,” Carrero
said.  
  
Pinkerton, who chatted with Carrero and other students outside the
event, chimed in saying he felt just the opposite.  
  
“I feel like voting is the way that you get your voice heard,” said
Pinkerton, who is studying secondary education. “Even though it’s like
you’re only one out of however many millions… if everybody thought that
their vote didn’t matter, then nobody would vote.”  
  
For Justin Perez, 19, who was inside the event, Harris’s remarks on gun
violence stood out the most.  
  
“This is just an issue that hits really close to home,” Perez said,
sporting a red student ID lanyard that said \#RACCProud. “Changing that
for us is what really would make a difference in our lives because I
feel like our whole community feels it.”  
  
Perez, Pinkerton and Carrero debated among their group of friends after
the event what gun control would look like but they all agreed it needed
to be a bigger focus in Washington. They agreed they would support a ban
on assault weapons, more background checks and want more efforts to curb
illegal gun sales.  
  
Ahnya O’Riordan, 19, teared up listening to Harris speak. It wasn’t
about any one issue the vice president addressed but hearing her offer
them advice about being proud of who they are. She recited almost
verbatim a closing portion of Harris’s remarks in which she told the
students that they’re often going to walk in rooms where they’re the
only one that looks like them.  
  
“When you walk in those rooms, you walk in those rooms chin up,
shoulders back, knowing that we are all in that room with you and that
your voice is the voice of all the people you carry into that room and
you make sure your voice is heard,” Harris said.  
  
“I felt like she actually gave us a voice and wants us to be heard and
even gave us some strength,” O’Riordan, who is majoring in forensic
psychology, said. “I just love her.”

\###
