---
date: '2023-09-11'
modified_time: 2023-09-11 13:34:48-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-11 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/11/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-55/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
  

WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his Administration:

-   Basil Ivanhoe Gooden, Nominee for Under Secretary of Rural
    Development, Department of Agriculture
-   Thomas G. Day, Nominee for Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory
    Commission

<!-- -->

-   Patrice J. Robinson, Nominee for Member of the Tennessee Valley
    Authority Board of Directors
-   Colleen Duffy Kiko, Nominee for Member (Republican) of the Federal
    Labor Relations Authority

**<u>Basil Ivanhoe Gooden, Nominee for Under Secretary of Rural
Development, Department of Agriculture</u>**

Basil Ivanhoe Gooden currently serves as the Director of State
Operations for the Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Office of Rural
Development. Appointed to this position in July of 2021, he is
responsible for providing leadership, support, and supervision to the 47
State Directors in USDA Rural Development. Gooden has led the efforts in
planning and establishing the newly created State Operations Office in
Rural Development. Before this, he served as the Secretary of
Agriculture and Forestry for the Commonwealth of Virginia from 2016 to
2018. As Secretary, he provided strategic vision and leadership to two
of Virginia’s largest private industries, agriculture and forestry, with
an annual economic impact of $91 billion on the Commonwealth. 

Prior to serving as Agriculture Secretary, Gooden served as the Virginia
State Director for Rural Development at USDA, where he oversaw the
allocation of approximately $1.25 billion annually to improve the
housing, health, and economic well-being of communities throughout
Virginia. In this position, he implemented policies to support
asset-accumulation, homeownership, and wealth development in
economically distressed communities. 

From 2002 until 2014, Gooden served as the Chief Deputy Director of the
Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD). At
DHCD, he worked with many diverse populations to create safe,
healthy, and affordable housing. He worked to implement comprehensive
neighborhood revitalization strategies that rehabilitated existing
houses, upgraded infrastructure, removed blighted structures, and
increased new affordable-housing opportunities. Gooden
received his B.A. in Political Science from Virginia Tech and a
Master’s in Social Work from Syracuse University. He also holds a
Master’s in Public Health and a Ph.D. in Social Work from the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 

**<u>Thomas G. Day, Nominee for Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory
Commission</u>**

Thomas G. Day has 45 years of service in the federal government in both
the U.S. Army and the U.S. Postal Service. During his 35 years at the
Postal Service, he served in several senior roles, including Vice
President of Engineering, Senior Vice President of Government Affairs,
Senior Vice President of Intelligent Mail, and Chief Sustainability
Officer. From 2007 to 2011, he also served as the Chair of the Standards
Board at the Universal Postal Union – the U.N. Agency that governs the
international exchange of mail.

Immediately following his retirement from the U.S. Postal Service in
2019, he began work at the International Post Corporation (IPC) in
Brussels, Belgium. At the IPC he served as the Chief Commercial and
Chief Financial Officer, and as Secretary to the Board of Directors. At
the IPC he also chaired the Board of Advisors from the 25-member
countries, which includes the U.S., as well as chairing three
remuneration committees that governed the exchange of mail and packages
among member countries.

Day is a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point with a B.S.
in Engineering. He has an M.A. in Management from Central Michigan
University and was a Sloan Fellow at the Graduate School of Business at
Stanford University with an M.S. in Management.

**<u>Patrice J. Robinson, Nominee for Member of the Tennessee Valley
Authority Board of Directors</u>**

Patrice Jordan Robinson was elected to the Memphis City Council in
November 2015 as the District 3 representative. In 2020, she guided the
Council through the COVID-19 pandemic as the Chairwoman. Since 2016,
Robinson has chaired the Memphis City Council Memphis Light Gas and
Water (MLGW) Committee. She also serves as the Council’s liaison for the
MLGW Board of Commissioners and the Shelby County Aging Commission of
the Mid-South. Robinson served on the Memphis City/Shelby County Schools
Board of Education for 13 years, holding the title of board President in
2004 and 2007. Under her leadership in 2007, 127 schools were in “Good
Standing”, the most significant number of Memphis City schools in good
standing in the history of the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB). As a
board member, she distinguished herself by chairing the Policy,
Personnel, Audit, and Capital Improvements Committees. As a result of
her efforts, Robinson earned the designation of Master School Boardsman
in Tennessee. 

She earned a Master’s of Science from the University of Tennessee and a
Bachelor’s Degree from Memphis State University. Robinson is a certified
senior professional in human resources (SPHR). She retired as a
Supervisor at Memphis Light Gas and Water Division. Most recently,
Robinson was honored for her persistent efforts at the 2023 unveiling of
the Georgette and Cato Johnson YMCA. The aquatics center was named in
honor of her and her husband, Patrice & Jackie Robinson Natatorium. 

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Colleen Duffy Kiko, Nominee
for Member (Republican) of the Federal Labor Relations
Authority</span>**

Colleen Duffy Kiko has served as Member of the Federal Labor Relations
Authority (FLRA) since December 2017. Kiko served as FLRA Chairman from
2017 until January 2021. Kiko has a long history with the FLRA, first
working in its predecessor agency, the Labor Management Services
Administration of the Department of Labor (DOL). When the FLRA opened
its doors on January 1979, she began work in the Washington Regional
Office investigating unfair labor practices. She ultimately moved into
positions within the headquarters of the FLRA. From 2005 to 2008, Kiko
served as FLRA General Counsel, having been nominated by President
George W. Bush and unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate.

Prior to her FLRA Chairmanship, Kiko served as one of the three
permanent Judges of the DOLs Employees’ Compensation Appeals Board
(ECAB), a position to which she was appointed in March of 2008. She
previously served as an ECAB Judge from 2002 through 2005. Kiko has also
served in the Justice Department as an attorney advisor in the Civil
Rights Division and as a Special Assistant to the U.S. Attorney, Eastern
District of Virginia, in Alexandria, Virginia, as an Associate Counsel
to the House Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Civil and
Constitutional Rights, as well as in the private practice of law.

Kiko holds a J.D. from Antonin Scalia Law School and a B.S. degree from
North Dakota State University. She was born and raised in North Dakota,
and she lives in Virginia with her husband, Phil. They have four
children and eight grandchildren.

\###
