---
date: '2023-09-28'
modified_time: 2023-09-28 09:30:55-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-28 10:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-landmark-step-to-counter-antisemitism/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes Landmark Step to Counter\_\
  Antisemitism"
---
 
Today, as part of President Biden’s National Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism, eight federal agencies clarified—for the first time in
writing—that Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits certain
forms of antisemitic, Islamophobic, and related forms of discrimination
in federally funded programs and activities. These wide-ranging
protections provide important tools to curb discrimination based on
shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics and to better protect the
civil rights of all Americans.

The Departments of Agriculture, Health and Human Services, Homeland
Security, Housing and Urban Development, Interior, Labor, Treasury, and
Transportation will also ensure that agency staff understand and are
ready to respond to this kind of discrimination, engage with entities
that are prohibited from discriminating in these ways to explain their
legal responsibilities, and inform communities of their rights to be
free from such discrimination and how to file complaints. In addition,
the agencies will continue to investigate complaints under Title VI and
other civil rights authorities and vigorously enforce protections within
federally funded programs and activities they administer. Examples
include shielding people from harassment or discrimination on transit
systems funded by the Department of Transportation (DOT); in housing
funded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD); or in
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)-funded food programs.

Each agency today is clarifying the ways in which Title VI covers
discrimination on the basis of shared ancestry or ethnic
characteristics, including certain forms of antisemitism, Islamophobia,
and related forms of bias and discrimination. These actions were
developed with support from the Department of Justice (DOJ) and provide
details about how these protections may cover individuals of many
different faith traditions, such as people who are Jewish, Muslim, Sikh,
Christian, Hindu, or Buddhist. Agency fact sheets are being translated
into Yiddish, Hebrew, Arabic, Punjabi, and other languages to ensure
that a diverse array of populations can access this vital civil rights
information, and additional languages will be available upon request.

Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act applies to all programs and
activities supported by federal financial assistance. Thus, these
protections are wide-ranging and provide important tools to prevent and
curb discrimination.  
Today’s announcement is a deliverable of President Biden’s National
Strategy to Counter Antisemitism, released in May 2023. This strategy
represents the most comprehensive and ambitious U.S. government effort
to counter antisemitism in American history. It includes over 100
actions the Biden-Harris Administration is taking to address the rise of
antisemitism in the U.S. Since the release of the strategy, agencies
have taken dozens of actions. Highlights include:

• The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Department of Justice
(DOJ) published a resource guide for houses of worship and other
faith-based institutions to increase security while sustaining an open
and welcoming environment.

• DHS has held listening sessions nationwide with communities impacted
by targeted violence to better understand evolving threats and address
their safety and security needs, with an emphasis on underserved
communities. These sessions are ongoing and will help improve
accessibility and information-sharing of DHS’ resources to meet the
needs of those impacted by hate-motivated violence.

• The Department of Education (ED) launched an Antisemitism Awareness
Campaign to ensure all students are able to attend schools free of
discrimination. To open this campaign, in May, ED issued a Dear
Colleague Letter specifically on antisemitism to schools, reminding them
of their legal obligation under Title VI. The Department of Education
has long detailed how Title VI applies to shared ancestry and ethnic
characteristics in the educational setting. To further these crucial
efforts to counter antisemitism, today, ED will launch the first of
several Fall site visits to address and learn about antisemitism at
schools and colleges. Deputy Secretary of Education Cindy Marten will
visit the Contemporary Jewish Museum in San Francisco to engage with
students, educators, school administrators, and community leaders around
countering antisemitism. Then, the ED team will join San Francisco
Hillel for a closed-door conversation with Jewish students from Bay Area
colleges around their experiences of antisemitism on college campuses.

• The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency at DHS is
expanding security capacity-building services to historically targeted
communities, including Jewish communities. This includes sessions on
active shooter preparedness; an introduction to bomb threat management;
tabletop exercise packages for places of worship, such as synagogues; a
training on responding to suspicious behaviors and items; and a workshop
held at the White House, in cooperation with the White House and DHS
Offices of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, on Sept. 28.

• DOJ released updated informational materials about the Religious Land
Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA), which provide an
overview of the law and DOJ’s enforcement efforts, as well as
information about how to identify and report violations. DOJ also
announced that it will host a series of outreach events on RLUIPA in
2023 and 2024.

• By the end of September, DOJ will launch the United Against Hate
program in all 94 of its U.S. Attorneys’ Offices to strengthen trust
between law enforcement and communities that are often the targets of
hate, including Jewish communities, teach community members how to
identify and report hate crimes and hate incidents. DOJ has already held
more than 200 events nationwide.

• DOT, through the Federal Transit Administration, has initiated
research to identify the data available at the transit-agency level to
better understand the extent to which race, ethnicity, and religion or
religious appearance impact assaults on, harassment of, and
discrimination against transit riders, including antisemitism. DOT
completed interviews at the nine largest transit agencies in the United
States and plans to share its findings in a future report.

• The Small Business Administration (SBA) is providing training and
resources for small business owners and employees on preventing and
responding to antisemitism, Islamophobia, and related forms of hate. For
example, SBA is working with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
(EEOC) to encourage small businesses and employees to report antisemitic
and other hate incidents to the proper authorities. SBA will host a
webinar to share these resources broadly.

• The EEOC has disseminated materials on nondiscrimination and religious
accommodations in the workplace, including a fact sheet to inform
employees of their rights when they face antisemitism at work. Since
last October, it has held more than 40 outreach and training events at
its field offices around the country.

• HUD issued a letter to 200 federally-funded fair housing partners on
how to identify and counter antisemitism, Islamophobia, and related
forms of bias and discrimination in housing.

• The U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum (USHMM) will extend its national
tour of the Americans and the Holocaust exhibition at public and
academic libraries in partnership with the American Library Association.
To date, it has reached more than 300,000 visitors at 50 host sites
across the country. The tour will continue to an additional 50 libraries
in 2024.

• AmeriCorps circulated resources to its grantees and sponsors, who
support about 200,000 AmeriCorps members and AmeriCorps Seniors
volunteers in nearly 40,000 locations across the country, on ways to
help counter antisemitism and hate, and enhance the physical security of
religious communities.

• The Department of the Interior (DOI) is distributing new resources on
Jewish American heritage through the National Park Service (NPS).
Additionally, starting in October, NPS will integrate guidance on
stopping or preventing antisemitic behavior in parks into staff
trainings. NPS will also add tools on countering antisemitism to
bystander intervention and conflict de-escalation trainings that are
available to all DOI staff.

• In November, USDA will host a summit in Omaha, Nebraska that will
include a diverse group of more than 100 religious leaders from across
the country to assess the state of antisemitism, highlight effective
strategies to counter antisemitism, and build solidarity across faiths.

• The Department of State and the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat
Antisemitism produced a report documenting existing overseas programs,
policies, and actions that counter antisemitism to help inform domestic
efforts to counter antisemitism.

• The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is providing ongoing
trainings on antidiscrimination laws to medical students nationwide. HHS
is also holding listening sessions with Jewish and Muslim chaplains on
religious discrimination in healthcare settings. These sessions will
inform future HHS departmental priorities.

• The National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) will launch its Artists for
Understanding and Connecting initiative in October. Through this work,
the NEA will raise awareness of the power of the arts to counter
antisemitism, Islamophobia and others forms of hate.

• The National Endowment for the Humanities has placed a special call
for applications within existing funding opportunities to encourage
research and projects on antisemitism and Islamophobia. Additionally,
last week, NEH announced $2.8 million in funding in every state and
jurisdiction through its United We Stand: Connecting Through Culture
initiative for humanities-based programming that counters hate-motivated
violence as well as antisemitism, Islamophobia, and related forms of
bias and discrimination in the United States.

\# \# \#
