---
date: '2023-09-21'
published_time: 2023-09-21 16:03:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/21/c51-leaders-joint-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "C5+1 Leaders\u2019 Joint\_Statement"
---
 
*The New York Declaration: C5+1 Resilience through Security, Economic,
and Energy Partnership*

 This week, we – the presidents of the United States, the Republic of
Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Republic of Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan, and the Republic of Uzbekistan – met on the occasion of
the first-ever C5+1 Presidential Summit, held during the 78<sup>th</sup>
session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York City and
commit to the following principles of further interaction.   
  
***Resilience through Partnership  
***  
United in an unwavering commitment to uphold the principles of the
United Nations Charter, our partnership is founded on respect for the
independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of all states.  We
commend the considerable progress made on shared objectives since the
first C5+1 ministerial meeting in 2015.  The establishment of the C5+1
Secretariat in 2022 and the Working Groups on Economy, Energy and the
Environment, and Security have further deepened our engagement.  We
remain committed to enhancing our partnership through the C5+1
platform.   
  
Dedicated to our pursuit of peace and prosperity, we share a vision for
sustained cooperation to address the region’s complex challenges and
emerging threats.  Collectively, we embrace the C5+1 goal of seeking
regional solutions to global challenges.  Together we affirm our
commitment to activities in Central Asia that enhance security, improve
economic resilience, support sustainable development, combat climate
change, and promote peace.   
  
Achieving our shared vision requires sustained partnership that is
rooted in mutual respect and accountability to our people.  Undertaking
this ambitious agenda marks the next chapter for cooperation between the
United States and the countries in Central Asia and further underscores
the importance of the C5+1 mechanism.   
  
***Expanded Security Cooperation  
***  
We reaffirm our commitment to strengthening security cooperation as a
necessary cornerstone to addressing shared regional security challenges
and maintaining the sovereignty and independence of the Central Asian
states.  Recognizing that the situation in Afghanistan remains an
important factor in security and stability for Central Asia, we remain
committed to cooperation on defense, law enforcement, and
counterterrorism issues.  We affirm our desire to deepen cooperation,
including through expanded information sharing; cooperation on border
security and safe migration; support for repatriation of nationals from
northeast Syria; and the sharing of best practices on countering
terrorism and preventing radicalization leading to violence.  These
long-term efforts will require greater capacity, and Central Asian
leaders welcome the United States’ commitment to prioritizing security
assistance tools and other resources to sustain and enhance U.S.-Central
Asian security partnerships.  The C5+1 members recognize the benefit of
enhanced dialogue on these issues, including at the ministerial level. 
Finally, all countries in the region and the broader international
community should continue to support a sovereign and self-reliant
Afghanistan that is free of terrorism, respects human rights and
fundamental freedoms, including for women and girls, is at peace with
itself and its neighbors, and establishes an inclusive government
representative of all its ethnic, religious, and political groups.  We
further affirm our support for recognizing Central Asia as a zone of
peace, trust, and cooperation that promotes the purposes and principles
of the United Nations Charter.  
  
***C5+1 Economic and Energy Corridor  
***  
Strengthening the conditions that underpin long-term economic resilience
is necessary to increase access to global markets and attract
sustainable international investment to Central Asia, including in the
green economy.  This, in turn, will set the stage for the region to
unlock inclusive economic growth through a dynamic trade corridor.  To
that end, we are determined to accelerate regional cooperation and
connectivity, and we commit to advance efforts to create a more
favorable business environment for U.S. private sector trade and
investment in Central Asia, including by working toward permanent normal
trade relations.  We intend to take significant steps to enhance
alternative trade routes, facilitate new connections among U.S. and
Central Asian businesses, and create a regional network of young
professionals receiving English language and professional development
training.  The U.S. Department of State and the Center for International
Private Enterprise (CIPE) – an affiliate of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
– will work to establish a private-sector business platform to
complement the C5+1 diplomatic platform and strengthen U.S.-Central Asia
economic ties.   
  
Continued investment in and development of the Trans-Caspian Trade
Route, or the so-called “Middle Corridor,” as well as energy
infrastructure and extension of transportation networks connecting
Central Asia to South Asia are also necessary to diversify transport
routes.  To further C5+1 economic goals, the Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment (PGI) will evaluate opportunities to scale
infrastructure investments to accelerate the economic development,
energy security, and connectivity of the Middle Corridor.  We affirm
that we stand ready to leverage economic tools available through the
U.S. Department of State, Development Finance Corporation, the U.S.
Export-Import Bank, and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) to support infrastructure across PGI priorities,
including critical transport, clean energy and critical minerals supply
chains, and digital connectivity.  We will also continue our dialogue on
regional economic collaboration and discuss concrete actions for the
C5+1 countries to take to drive inclusive, sustainable economic
development at the USAID C5+1 Connectivity Ministerial in October.  
  
We also intend to leverage partnerships with the international financial
institutions to support investment and a business environment that
enables inclusive economic growth in C5+1 countries.  This includes
through new innovative financing mechanisms at the World Bank and Asian
Development Bank to spur investments to address global challenges like
climate change, and by supporting a capital increase for the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development.   
  
***Enhancing Energy Security and Combating the Effects of Climate
Change  
***  
To enhance Central Asia’s energy security, we remain committed to
integrating regional energy systems to diversify and expand new energy
export routes and reliably supply global markets.  We also commit to
redoubling efforts to increase clean energy production, methane
mitigation projects, development of sustainable hydropower capacity, and
energy efficiency, particularly by mobilizing public and private
financing aimed at energy transition.  Through C5+1 programs such as
USAID Power Central Asia, the United States and Central Asian states
will unlock the economic benefits of regional, clean energy trade and a
clean economy future.  We are committed to deepening cooperation to
develop the capacity to meet growing global clean energy demands,
including by potentially providing the world with safe, secure, and
sustainable nuclear fuel supplies.  Our attention to energy security in
the region includes building diverse, resilient, and secure critical
minerals supply chains; developing new technologies for the extraction
and processing of raw materials; and adding value through regional
industrial cooperation to reduce strategic dependencies and meet our
respective economic, energy security, and climate goals.  Demand for
critical minerals, which are essential for clean energy and other
technologies, will expand significantly in the coming decades.  To
further develop Central Asia’s vast mineral wealth and advance critical
minerals security, we will launch a C5+1 Critical Minerals Dialogue.  It
will provide a forum in which the C5+1 can share information about
critical minerals challenges and opportunities, promote connections
between government officials and private sector industry, catalyze
investment, and collaborate on critical minerals supply chains.  
  
We are invested in enhancing Central Asia’s water security and
environmental quality, working to increase regional cooperation on water
and ecological issues that take into account food security, sanitation,
agriculture, and energy sector linkages.  USAID programs in Central Asia
have provided meteorological software, training, and scholarships to
better forecast water inflows and outflows, improve data quality and
information-sharing, develop climate-adaptable agriculture, and preserve
endangered species habitats, including in snow-covered areas.  We affirm
our commitment to further strengthen cooperation in order to improve the
efficiency of water resource management and the introduction of
water-saving technologies in Central Asia to increase stability,
economic prosperity, and the health of the region’s ecosystems.  Through
the USAID Regional Water and Vulnerable Environment program, we plan to
collaborate to address water, energy, food, and environmental needs that
simultaneously combat climate change with appropriate mitigation,
adaptation, and resilience measures.  Further, we reaffirm our support
for glacier preservation and commit to increasing capacity for community
adaptation.     
  
***Partnership through People  
***  
Our richest relationships are among our people, and we recognize the
importance of incorporating the human dimension in all C5+1 activities. 
We reaffirm our commitment to working together to promote the rule of
law and democratic governance.  We will continue to support and
strengthen connections between the United States and Central Asia
through support for educational capacity building, vocational training,
youth development, and exchange opportunities.  We are determined to
continue support for institutions of higher education in Central Asia
that serve male and female students from across Central Asia and
Afghanistan as a means of increasing regional connectivity and
cross-cultural understanding.  Moreover, we challenge our governments to
identify new opportunities to expand cooperation in the cultural,
educational, scientific, and social spheres and develop closer
people-to-people ties.  We affirm our commitment to protecting human
rights, including the rights of women, children, and persons with
disabilities.   
  
***Towards A New Atmosphere of Partnership  
***  
We recognize the new atmosphere of partnership under the C5+1 framework,
reaffirm the value of the format, and commit to strengthen cooperation,
regional security, and sustainable development through regular dialogue
and joint action.  The commitments made during this Summit are rooted in
a shared vision for a more resilient, secure, and prosperous Central
Asia.  As we work to implement these commitments, we seek to model a
sustainable path based on trust to promote inclusive prosperity and
security.  
  
This joint vision will guide us as we enter the most consequential
period in the history of the C5+1 partnership.  To that end, our teams
will meet regularly, bilaterally and collectively, and we commit to
continue our engagement through C5+1 Ministerial meetings on subjects
such as trade, energy, climate, and security.  We will endeavor to
maintain a high-level dialogue to collectively address emerging
challenges, and to ensure our partnership continues to deliver practical
results for our people.   
   
  
September 21, 2023  
   
President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev of the Republic of Kazakhstan  
President Sadyr Japarov of the Kyrgyz Republic  
President Emomali Rahmon of the Republic of Tajikistan  
President Serdar Berdimuhamedov of Turkmenistan  
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. of the United States of America  
President Shavkat Mirziyoyev of the Republic of Uzbekistan  
 

\###
