---
date: '2023-09-18'
published_time: 2023-09-18 10:33:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/18/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-return-of-american-detainees-from-iran/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Return of American Detainees from\_\
  Iran"
---
 
Today, five innocent Americans who were imprisoned in Iran are finally
coming home.  
  
Siamak Namazi, Morad Tahbaz, Emad Sharghi, and two citizens who wish to
remain private will soon be reunited with their loved ones—after
enduring years of agony, uncertainty, and suffering.  I am grateful to
our partners at home and abroad for their tireless efforts to help us
achieve this outcome, including the Governments of Qatar, Oman,
Switzerland, and South Korea.  
  
I give special thanks to the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad, and
to the Sultan of Oman, Haitham bin Tariq, both of whom helped facilitate
this agreement over many months of difficult and principled American
diplomacy.  
  
As we celebrate the return of these Americans, we also remember those
who did not return. I call on the Iranian regime to give a full account
of what happened to Bob Levinson. The Levinson family deserves answers.
Today, we are sanctioning former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the
Iranian Ministry of Intelligence under the Levinson Act for their
involvement in wrongful detentions.  And, we will continue to impose
costs on Iran for their provocative actions in the region.   
  
And as we welcome home our fellow citizens, I once more remind all
Americans of the serious risks of traveling to Iran. American passport
holders should not travel there.    
  
The U.S. State Department has a longstanding travel warning that states:
“Do not travel to Iran due to the risk of kidnapping and the arbitrary
arrest and detention of U.S. citizens.” All Americans should heed those
words and have no expectation that their release can be secured if they
do not.   
  
Reuniting wrongfully detained Americans with their loved ones has been a
priority for my Administration since day one. We have now brought home
dozens of our fellow citizens, including from Afghanistan, Burma, Haiti,
Russia, Rwanda, Venezuela, West Africa, and more locations globally.
Still, too many remain unjustly held in Russia, Venezuela, Syria, and
elsewhere around the world. We remain unflinching in our efforts to keep
faith with them and their families—and we will not stop working until we
bring home every American held hostage or wrongfully detained.

\###
