---
date: '2023-09-08'
modified_time: 2023-09-13 09:08:42-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-08 11:46:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/08/joint-statement-from-india-and-the-united-states/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement from India and the United\_States"
---
 
1\.           Prime Minister Narendra Modi welcomed United States
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., to India today, reaffirming the close
and enduring partnership between India and the United States.  The
leaders expressed their appreciation for the substantial progress
underway to implement the ground breaking achievements of Prime Minister
Modi’s historic, June 2023, visit to Washington.  
  
2.           The leaders called on their governments to continue the
work of transforming the India-U.S. Strategic Partnership across all
dimensions of our multifaceted global agenda, based on trust and mutual
understanding.  The leaders re-emphasized that the shared values of
freedom, democracy, human rights, inclusion, pluralism, and equal
opportunities for all citizens are critical to the success our countries
enjoy and that these values strengthen our relationship.   
  
3.           President Biden lauded India’s G20 Presidency for further
demonstrating how the G20 as a forum is delivering important outcomes. 
The leaders reaffirmed their commitment to the G20 and expressed
confidence that the outcomes of the G20 Leaders’ Summit in New Delhi
will advance the shared goals of accelerating sustainable development,
bolstering multilateral cooperation, and building global consensus
around inclusive economic policies to address our greatest common
challenges, including fundamentally reshaping and scaling up
multilateral development banks.  
  
4.           Prime Minister Modi and President Biden reaffirmed the
importance of the Quad in supporting a free, open, inclusive, and
resilient Indo-Pacific.  Prime Minister Modi looked forward to welcoming
President Biden to the next Quad Leaders’ Summit to be hosted by India
in 2024.  India welcomed the U.S. decision to co-lead the Indo-Pacific
Oceans Initiative Pillar on Trade Connectivity and Maritime Transport,
further to the U.S. decision to join IPOI in June 2023.  
  
5.           Continuing to share the view that global governance must be
more inclusive and representative, President Biden reaffirmed his
support for a reformed UN Security Council with India as a permanent
member, and, in this context, welcomed once again India’s candidature
for the UNSC non-permanent seat in 2028-29.  The leaders once again
underscored the need to strengthen and reform the multilateral system so
it may better reflect contemporary realities and remain committed to a
comprehensive UN reform agenda, including through expansion in permanent
and non-permanent categories of membership of the UN Security Council.  
  
6.           Prime Minister Modi and President Biden reaffirmed
technology’s defining role in deepening our strategic partnership and
lauded ongoing efforts through the India-U.S. Initiative on Critical and
Emerging Technology (iCET) to build open, accessible, secure, and
resilient technology ecosystems and value chains, based on mutual
confidence and trust, which reinforce our shared values and democratic
institutions.  The United States and India intend to undertake a midterm
review of iCET in September 2023 to continue to drive momentum toward
the next annual iCET review, co-led by the National Security Advisors of
both countries, in early 2024.  
  
7.           President Biden congratulated Prime Minister Modi and the
scientists and engineers of the Indian Space Research Organisation
(ISRO) on Chandrayaan-3’s historic landing at the south polar region of
the Moon, as well as the successful launch of India’s first solar
mission, Aditya-L1.  Having set a course to reach new frontiers across
all sectors of space cooperation, the leaders welcomed efforts towards
establishment of a Working Group for commercial space collaboration
under the existing India-U.S. Civil Space Joint Working Group. 
Determined to deepen our partnership in outer space exploration, ISRO
and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) have
commenced discussions on modalities, capacity building, and training for
mounting a joint effort to the International Space Station in 2024, and
are continuing efforts to finalise a strategic framework for human space
flight cooperation by the end of 2023.  India and the United States also
intend to increase coordination on planetary defence to protect planet
Earth and space assets from the impact of asteroids and near-Earth
objects, including U.S.  support for India’s participation in asteroid
detection and tracking via the Minor Planet Center.  
  
8.           The leaders reiterated their support for building resilient
global semiconductor supply chains, noting in this respect a multi-year
initiative of Microchip Technology, Inc., to invest approximately US$300
million in expanding its research and development presence in India and
Advanced Micro Device’s announcement to invest US$400 million in India
over the next five years to expand research, development, and
engineering operations in India. The leaders expressed satisfaction at
the ongoing implementation of announcements made in June 2023 by U.S.
companies, Micron, LAM Research, and Applied Materials.   
  
9.           Sharing a vision of secure and trusted telecommunications,
resilient supply chains, and global digital inclusion, Prime Minister
Modi and President Biden welcomed the signing of a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) between Bharat 6G Alliance and Next G Alliance,
operated by Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions, as a
first step towards deepening public-private cooperation between vendors
and operators. They further acknowledged the setting-up of two Joint
Task Forces focused on collaboration in the field of Open RAN and
research and development in 5G/6G technologies.  A 5G Open RAN pilot in
a leading Indian telecom operator will be undertaken by a U.S. Open RAN
manufacturer before field deployment.  The leaders continue to look
forward to the participation of Indian companies in the U.S. Rip and
Replace Program; President Biden also welcomed India’s support for a Rip
and Replace pilot in the United States.  
  
10.        The United States reiterated its commitment to working
together with India in the quantum domain, both bilaterally and through
the Quantum Entanglement Exchange, a platform to facilitate
international quantum exchange opportunities; and welcomed the
participation of India’s S.N. Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences,
Kolkata, as a member of the Quantum Economic Development Consortium.  It
was also recognized that the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay
joined the Chicago Quantum Exchange as an international partner.  
  
11.        The leaders hailed the signing of an Implementation
Arrangement between the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) and
India’s Department of Biotechnology to enable scientific and
technological research collaborations in biotechnology and
biomanufacturing innovations.  They welcomed the call for proposals
released by NSF and India’s Ministry of Electronics and Information
Technology to foster academic and industrial collaboration in
semiconductor research, next generation communication systems,
cyber-security, sustainability and green technologies, and intelligent
transportation systems.  
  
12.        Reaffirming their commitment to building resilient technology
value chains and linking defence industrial ecosystems, the leaders
recommitted their administrations to promoting policies and adapting
regulations that facilitate greater technology sharing, co-development,
and co-production opportunities between Indian and U.S.  industry,
government and academic institutions.  They also welcomed continued
engagement through an inter-agency monitoring mechanism under the
auspices of the bilateral Strategic Trade Dialogue, launched in June
2023.  
  
13.        The leaders welcomed the signing of an MoU between Indian
universities, represented by the Council of Indian Institutes of
Technology (IIT Council), and the Association of American Universities
(AAU) to establish the India-U.S. Global Challenges Institute, with a
combined initial commitment of at least US$10 million.  The Global
Challenges Institute will bring together leading research and
higher-education institutions from across our two nations, including
beyond AAU and IIT membership, to advance new frontiers in science and
technology, spanning collaboration in sustainable energy and
agriculture, health and pandemic preparedness, semiconductor technology
and manufacturing, advanced materials, telecommunications, artificial
intelligence, and quantum science.  
  
14.        The leaders also welcomed the growing number of
multi-institutional collaborative education partnerships, such as those
between New York University-Tandon and IIT Kanpur Advanced Research
Center, and the Joint Research Centers of the State University of New
York at Buffalo and IIT Delhi, Kanpur, Jodhpur, and BHU, in the areas of
critical and emerging technologies.  
  
15.        The leaders affirmed the importance of efforts to close the
gender digital divide in the digital economy, noting a G20 commitment to
halve the digital gender gap by 2030 and expressed support for the Women
in the Digital Economy Initiative, which brings together governments,
private sector companies, foundations civil society and multilateral
organizations to accelerate progress toward the closure of the digital
gender divide.  
  
16.        Prime Minister Modi and President Biden reaffirmed their
commitment to deepen and diversify the India-U.S. Major Defence
Partnership through expanded cooperation in new and emerging domains
such as space and AI, and accelerated defence industrial
collaboration.  
  
17.        The leaders welcomed completion of the Congressional
Notification process on 29 August 2023 and the commencement of
negotiations for a commercial agreement between GE Aerospace and
Hindustan Aeronautical Limited (HAL) to manufacture GE F-414 jet engines
in India, and recommitted to work collaboratively and expeditiously to
support the advancement of this unprecedented co-production and
technology transfer proposal.  
  
18.        The leaders applauded the conclusion of a second Master Ship
Repair Agreement, with the most recent agreement signed by the U.S. Navy
and Mazgaon Dock Shipbuilders, Ltd., in August 2023.  Both sides
recommitted to advancing India’s emergence as a hub for the maintenance
and repair of forward-deployed U.S. Navy assets and other aircraft and
vessels.  The leaders also welcomed further commitments from U.S.
industry to invest more in India’s maintenance, repair, and overhaul
capabilities and facilities for aircraft.  
  
19.        The leaders commended the India-U.S. Defence Acceleration
Ecosystem (INDUS-X) team for establishing a robust collaboration agenda
to harness the innovative work of the U.S. and Indian defence sectors to
address shared security challenges. INDUS-X convened the inaugural
Academia Start-up Partnership at IIT Kanpur, with the participation of
Penn State University, and initiated the Joint Accelerator Program for
Indian Startups, through a workshop led by U.S. accelerator M/s Hacking
4 Allies (H4x) and IIT Hyderabad in August 2023. Both sides also
welcomed the announcement by the Indian Ministry of Defence’s
Innovations for Defence Excellence and the U.S. Department of Defense’s
Defense Innovation Unit to launch two joint challenges, which will
invite start-ups to develop solutions to shared defence technology
challenges.  
  
20.        President Biden welcomed the issuance of a Letter of Request
from the Ministry of Defence of India to procure 31 General Atomics
MQ-9B (16 Sky Guardian and 15 Sea Guardian) remotely piloted aircraft
and their associated equipment, which will enhance the intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities of India’s armed
forces across all domains.  
  
21.        Reiterating the importance of nuclear energy as a necessary
resource to meet our nations’ climate, energy transition, and energy
security needs, Prime Minister Modi and President Biden welcomed
intensified consultations between the relevant entities on both sides to
expand opportunities for facilitating India-U.S. collaboration in
nuclear energy, including in development of next generation small
modular reactor technologies in a collaborative mode. The United States
reaffirmed its support for India’s membership in the Nuclear Suppliers
Group and committed to continue engagement with like-minded partners to
advance this goal.  
  
22.        The leaders welcomed the inaugural meeting of the India-U.S.
Renewable Energy Technologies Action Platform \[RE-TAP\], in August
2023, under which the two countries will engage in lab-to-lab
collaboration, piloting, and testing of innovative technologies;
collaboration on policy and planning to advance renewable energy and
enabling technologies; investment, incubation and outreach programmes;
and training and skill development to accelerate the uptake and adoption
of new and emerging renewable technologies and energy systems.  
  
23.        Reiterating the importance of decarbonizing the transport
sector, the leaders welcomed progress to expand electric mobility in
India, including joint support for a payment security mechanism financed
through both public and private funds. This will accelerate the
procurement of 10,000 made-in India electric buses including those for
the Indian PM e-Bus Sewa program that will include the associated
charging infrastructure.  The two countries are committed to working
together to help diversify the global supply chain for e-mobility.  
  
24.        India and the United States are also advancing the creation
of investment platforms to lower the cost of capital and accelerate the
deployment of greenfield renewable energy, battery storage and emerging
green technology projects in India. Towards this end, India’s National
Investment and Infrastructure Fund and the U.S. Development Finance
Corporation exchanged letters of interest to each provide up to US$500
million to anchor a renewable infrastructure investment fund.  
  
25.        The leaders lauded the settlement of the seventh and last
outstanding World Trade Organisation (WTO) dispute between India and the
United States. This follows the unprecedented settlement of six
outstanding bilateral trade disputes in the WTO in June 2023.  
  
26.        The leaders welcomed efforts to develop an ambitious
“Innovation Handshake” agenda under the India-U.S. Commercial Dialogue,
to include two anchor events in the fall (one in India and one in the
United States), in which our two sides will collaborate to bring
together start-ups, private equity and venture capital firms, corporate
investment departments, and government officials to forge connections
between the two countries’ innovation ecosystems.  
  
27.        The leaders welcomed our growing bilateral cooperation in
cancer research, prevention, control, and management, and looked forward
to the launch of the India-U.S. Cancer Dialogue in November 2023. This
dialogue will focus on advancing knowledge in cancer genomics,
developing new diagnostics and therapeutics to enhance and strengthen
cancer care including for underserved urban and rural communities.  The
leaders also highlighted the upcoming U.S.-India Health Dialogue, taking
place in October 2023 in Washington, D.C., underscoring their joint
commitment to strengthening and facilitating scientific, regulatory, and
health cooperation between our two nations.  
  
28.        The leaders welcomed the renewal of a Memorandum of
Arrangement between the U.S. Department of Defense POW/MIA Accounting
Agency and the Anthropological Survey of India (AnSI) to facilitate
recovery from India of the remains of fallen U.S. service members who
served in World War II.  
  
29.        Prime Minister Modi and President Biden pledged to sustain
the high-level of engagement between our governments, industries, and
academic institutions and realize their ambitious vision for an enduring
India-U.S. partnership that advances the aspirations of our people for a
bright and prosperous future, serves the global good, and contributes to
a free, open, inclusive, and resilient Indo-Pacific.
