---
date: '2023-09-20'
published_time: 2023-09-20 11:43:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/20/white-house-appoints-2023-2024-class-of-white-house-fellows/
tags: statements-releases
title: "White\_House Appoints 2023-2024 Class of White\_House\_Fellows"
---
 
The President’s Commission on White House Fellows is pleased to announce
the appointment of the 2023-2024 class of White House Fellows. Founded
in 1964, the White House Fellows program offers exceptional young
leaders first-hand experience working at the highest levels of the
Federal government. Fellows spend a year working with senior White House
Staff, Cabinet Secretaries, and other top-ranking Administration
officials, and leave the Administration equipped to serve as better
leaders in their communities. Fellowships are awarded on a non-partisan
basis.

This year’s Fellows advanced through a highly competitive selection
process, and they are a remarkably gifted, passionate, and accomplished
group. These Fellows bring experience from across the country and from a
broad cross-section of professions, including from the private sector,
local government, academia, non-profits, medicine, and the armed forces.

Applications for the 2024-2025 Fellowship year will be accepted starting
November 1, 2023. The application link and additional information is
available at: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/get-involved/fellows/apply/>.

**<u>  
Class of 2023-2024 White House Fellows  
</u>**  
**Lauren Cherry is from Cleveland, Ohio, and is placed at the Central
Intelligence Agency.** A Lieutenant Commander in the Navy Judge Advocate
General’s Corps, she most recently served in the Department of Defense
Office of General Counsel advising on cyber, space, and sensitive
military operations. She has previously advised U.S. and foreign forces
on counter-piracy, maritime security, and counter-terrorism operations
in the Middle East. Passionate about promoting civic education as a
national security imperative, Lauren is an adjunct law professor at
Georgetown University, a Fellow at Georgetown’s Center on National
Security, and a member of the American Bar Association’s Standing
Committee on Law and National Security. Lauren serves on the board of
Homes Not Borders, a non-profit supporting D.C.-area refugees. She holds
a B.A. from Washington University in St. Louis, a J.D. from Loyola
University Chicago, an M.A. from the U.S. Naval War College, and an
LL.M. from Georgetown University.

**Monica Dus is from Ann Arbor, Michigan, and is placed at the
Department of the Navy.** She is a tenured professor in the Department
of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology at the University of
Michigan College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. There she leads a
research laboratory that studies the interplay between food and genes,
teaches genetics to undergraduate students, and is involved in public
engagement. Her scholarly and science communication work has been
recognized with awards such as the Guggenheim Fellowship, the Sloan
Research Fellowship, the NIH New Innovator Award, and the NSF CAREER
Award. She has organized museum exhibits, published *SugarBuzz*, a
children’s comic book about food and the brain, hosted her own science
podcasts (How to Science and Neuroepic), and written science for the
public. She holds a Ph.D. in molecular biology from Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory, NY, and a post-doctorate in neurobiology from New York
University, NY.

**Martha Esparza is from Phoenix, Arizona, and is placed at the Office
of the United States Trade Representative.** She is a physician focused
on providing care for medically underserved, uninsured and refugee
patients in a primary care setting. She recently completed residency in
family medicine as a chief resident, where she served as a health policy
scholar and collaborated with the Pima County Health Department on
education and prevention of opioid deaths. She has been involved in
health research and is published on interventions in out-of-hospital
cardiac arrests, promatora model diabetes prevention programs in older
Latinas, and clinical biomarkers in diabetes. Her experience also
includes program evaluation in Ready To Learn pre-kindergarten literacy
programs at PBS and Georgia’s State Children’s Health Insurance Program
(SCHIP). Martha earned an M.D. from The University of Arizona – Phoenix,
an MPA from the Maxwell School at Syracuse University and B.A. from The
University of Arizona.

**Ryan Fraser is from Pennington, New Jersey, and is placed at the
Department of Commerce.** Ryan earned a Bachelor of Science in Business
Management from Rowan University, and an Executive Master of
Professional Studies in Emergency and Disaster Management from
Georgetown University, where he published scholarship on disaster
recovery. He is a New Jersey Transit Police (NJT) Captain and the
Commanding Officer of the NJT Office of Emergency Management. Ryan is
responsible for leading emergency and disaster response across the state
and contributed to recovery from Hurricane Sandy and supported rescue
efforts during the “Miracle on the Hudson.” He is an adjunct professor
at Georgetown University, teaching graduate classes in Emergency and
Disaster Management. Before his career in law enforcement, Ryan was a
professional ice-hockey referee for eighteen seasons, officiating over
1,000 games. Ryan is also a local Fire Commissioner and volunteers his
time in support of Special Olympics, NJ.

**William G. Godwin is from Jackson, Tennessee, and is placed at the
Office of the National Cyber Director.** William is an attorney, real
estate broker, and former President of the Gary City Council. He resides
in Gary, Indiana, where he founded Godwin Realty Company, a brokerage
company serving Chicago, Northwest Indiana, and Southwest Michigan. In
2019, he was elected to serve on the Gary City Council as 1st District
Councilman. Previously, he served as External Affairs Manager for
Communities In Schools of Chicago, Associate Vice-Chancellor of
Workforce & Economic Development at City Colleges of Chicago, and an
Associate at McDermott Will & Emery LLP. He completed the General Course
at The London School of Economics and earned a J.D. from the University
of Chicago Law School, M.A. from Chicago Theological Seminary, and a
B.A. in Sociology, magna cum laude, from Georgetown University where he
was a Truman Scholar.  
  
**Anna Gunn-Golkin is from Cherry Hill, New Jersey, and is placed at the
Office of the Second Gentleman.** She is a Lieutenant Colonel in the
U.S. Space Force, having most recently served as the Commander of the 3d
Test and Evaluation Squadron, leading a team of over one hundred
Guardians in the development and execution of first-of-kind missions to
protect and defend space capabilities. Anna taught astrodynamics and
rocket propulsion at the U.S. Air Force Academy and served as both a
Flight Test Engineer and Program Manager for multiple aerospace systems
that enable missions of the highest national priority. She is deeply
committed to STEM outreach. Anna received a B.S. in Astronautical
Engineering from the U.S. Air Force Academy, an M.S. in Astronautical
Engineering from the Air Force Institute of Technology, and she is a
distinguished graduate of the Air Force Test Pilot School.

**Yuwynn Ho is from Carlsbad, California, and is placed at the Office of
the First Lady: Joining Forces Initiative.** He is a judge advocate and
foreign area officer in the U.S. Marine Corps. He previously served as
congressional liaison for the Department of Navy’s Legislative Affairs
Office. He was also adjunct professor at the Naval Academy, commanding
officer for recruit training at Marine Corps Recruit Depot-San Diego,
and defense attorney. He served at ISAF Headquarters and the U.S.
Embassy while deployed to Afghanistan. Prior to military service, he
worked at Sun Microsystems and Wilson Sonsini. He volunteered with the
Innocence Project, and served as military mentor for the U.S. Senate
Youth Program. He is a 2023 Presidential Leadership Scholar. Yuwynn came
to the U.S. from Malaysia at age 11 to pursue the American Dream. He
received his B.A. from U.C. Berkeley, J.D. from U.C. Hastings College of
Law, and LLM from the Army JAG School.

**Michael Hole is from Darlington, Indiana, and is placed at the
Domestic Policy Council.** He’s a physician for homeless families and
incarcerated youth, public policy professor, researcher with 70-plus
publications, and executive director of The Impact Factory, a
social-entrepreneurship hub at UT Austin. The 2023 Austinite of the Year
and a *Forbes* 30 Under 30 honoree, Michael is a nine-time founder of
organizations strengthening Americans’ health and finances. Formerly a
case manager and Spanish interpreter, Michael led campaigns to fund a
Ugandan school and Haitian orphanage. He serves CVS Health’s advisory
board and chairs a nonprofit that eliminates medical debt. A
ninth-generation Hoosier and first-generation college graduate, Michael
attended Butler University, where he’s now a board trustee. He earned
M.D. and MBA degrees from Stanford before pediatrics residency at
Harvard. Michael is a Presidential Leadership Scholar, Council on
Foreign Relations term member, and captain in the U.S. Air Force
Reserve.

**Craig Johnson is from Medford, Oregon, and is placed at the Office of
Cabinet Affairs.** He is a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Coast Guard.
Craig’s most recent assignment was teaching in the Government Department
at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, where he advised the LGBT affinity
council and was an assistant coach for the men’s basketball team. His
past operational assignments support maritime law enforcement and
anti-terrorism operations in U.S. ports. Craig is a four-time member of
the U.S. military basketball team, former White House Social Aide, and
Term Member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Craig earned a B.S. in
Operations Research from the Coast Guard Academy, an M.A. in Defense and
Strategic Studies from the Naval War College, and a Master of Public
Policy from the Harvard Kennedy School. An avid kitesurfer and skier,
Craig enjoys spending his free time in the ocean and mountains.

**Kamal Menghrajani is from New York, New York, and is placed at the
Office of Science and Technology Policy.** Kamal is a cancer physician
who treats patients with leukemia. While on faculty at Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, she conducted cancer research focused on early
diagnosis and prevention. She has spearheaded health equity efforts for
vulnerable populations in global contexts, including Nicaragua, Bolivia,
and Uganda. As an entrepreneur, Kamal has co-founded startups to address
unmet needs in cancer treatment and deploy AI for rapid cancer
diagnosis. She helped grow the non-profit Nourish International, which
engages student leaders as social entrepreneurs in international
development work. Kamal is also passionate about using journalism as a
tool for health education. Having completed her M.D. at University of
North Carolina and her M.S. in Biostatistics at Columbia University,
Kamal trained in medicine at the University of Michigan and as chief
fellow at MSK.

**Beau Muniz is from Orlando, Florida, and is placed at the Office of
the White House Chief of Staff.** Beau was a consultant at Bain and
Company where his work has included a collaboration with MIT to develop
environmental sustainability programming. Before Bain, he was an
engineer at GE Appliances, where he developed products and digital
startups, leading to two U.S. patents. He received his MBA from the
University of Virginia’s Darden School of Business, where he was elected
Vice President of Honor and helped pass the most significant change to
the honor code in 180 years, addressing inequalities in the expulsion of
students. Beau serves as a mentor for FIRST Robotics where he has
volunteered over a thousand hours to inspire students in STEM. He also
received an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of
Louisville and a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering as a first-generation
college graduate from the University of Florida.

**Sin Pheiffer is from Ashburn, Virginia, and is placed at the National
Security Council.** Sin is a Lieutenant Commander in the United States
Navy. While serving as a Surface Warfare Officer, she deployed around
the world aboard Navy destroyers, supporting combat operations in the
Middle East and orchestrating Freedom of Navigation Operations and
Oceania Maritime Security Initiatives in the Indo-Pacific. As a Foreign
Area Officer, she led the coordination of the Pacific Fleet’s maritime
operations, activities, and investments in Southeast Asia and served as
Aide-de-Camp to Commander, U.S. Indo-Pacific Command, where she had
Congressional and national-level impact on our most pressing national
security challenges. She most recently served at the American Institute
in Taiwan, Taipei, working to bolster Taiwan’s materiel impacts in
warfighting. Sin holds a B.S. from Tulane University and a M.A. in
National Security Affairs from the Naval Postgraduate School.

**Mariah Sklyr is from Chicago, Illinois, and is placed at the
Department of Veterans Affairs.** As Deputy Executive Director of the
Wisconsin Association for Perinatal Care, Mariah focused on broadening
the health care workforce by incorporating culturally adept providers,
thereby fostering a patient-centric system that effectively addresses
diverse needs and circumstances. Previously, Mariah served as a Maternal
Child Health and Child Protection Social Worker where she partnered with
the most vulnerable, institutionally neglected populations to engender
systems of shared accountability to ensure they have structural
opportunities to thrive. As a member of the Wisconsin Maternal Mortality
Review Team, Mariah reviews every maternal death in the state to
determine preventability and recommend policy and procedural changes
that center patients and mitigate risk for poor outcomes. She earned an
M.A. in Social Work from the University of Chicago Crown Family School
of Social Work and a B.A., Cum Laude, from Marquette University.

**Bryan Smith is from Mundelein, Illinois, and is placed at the Social
Security Administration.** Bryan is a heart failure cardiologist at the
University of Chicago and a health equity expert whose work focuses on
health disparities in cardiovascular disease. He serves on the Chicago
board of the American Heart Association, where he is co-chair of its
Health Equity Advisory Committee, and as a spokesperson, he provides
trusted medical information through television, radio, and print media.
He founded the University of Chicago Heart and Vascular Center
Mentorship Program for minority high school students interested in
medicine, and he is an Associate Program Director for the Internal
Medicine Residency focused on DEI efforts. He has authored numerous
publications, and his research addresses racial disparities in the
management of heart failure. He received an M.D. from the University of
Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine and a B.A. in biology from Harvard
University.

**Elizabeth Verardo is from Centerport, New York, and is placed at the
National Security Council.** Liz is a Major in the United States Army
and has served multiple combat deployments as an Apache helicopter
pilot. Most recently, Liz was the senior aviation advisor for a Stryker
Brigade Combat Team based at Fort Carson, CO, and served as Operations
Officer for the Division’s Air Cavalry Squadron. Outside of operational
assignments, she taught American Politics and American Foreign Policy as
an Assistant Professor at the United States Military Academy’s
Department of Social Sciences. Liz is an active Term Member at the
Council on Foreign Relations and 2014 Pat Tillman Scholar. She earned a
B.S. in American Politics from the United States Military Academy, an
M.A. in Defense and Strategic Studies from the Naval War College, and an
M.A. in Global Affairs from Yale University’s Jackson School of Global
Affairs.  

\###
