---
date: '2023-09-10'
modified_time: 2023-09-11 00:57:21-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-10 10:57:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/10/fact-sheet-president-joseph-r-biden-and-general-secretary-nguyen-phu-trong-announce-the-u-s-vietnam-comprehensive-strategic-partnership/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President Joseph R. Biden and General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong\
  \ Announce the U.S.-Vietnam Comprehensive Strategic\_Partnership"
---
 
During a historic state visit to Hanoi, Vietnam, President Joseph R.
Biden and General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong elevated U.S.‐Vietnam
relations to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, renewing the
strength and dynamism of the U.S.‐Vietnam relationship as both countries
work together to achieve our shared goals of peace, prosperity, and
sustainable development.

The unprecedented and momentous elevation of ties between the two
countries, moving from a Comprehensive Partnership established in 2013
to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, was the result of intense
efforts by both governments to establish and build mutual understanding
and to chart a forward-looking path toward the opportunities and
challenges in a rapidly-evolving world.  
  
To support our shared vision for broader bilateral cooperation, deeper
institutional ties, and more extensive and innovative economic
engagement, including in support of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework
for Prosperity (IPEF), the United States, in partnership and
collaboration with the government and people of Vietnam, is expanding
engagement and announcing new initiatives as outlined below.

**INVESTING IN THE INNOVATION ECONOMY, COOPERATING IN SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY**

As innovation changes the landscape of the global economy, the United
States and Vietnam are deepening cooperation on critical and emerging
technology to increase the prosperity for our people—and for people
across the Indo-Pacific region.  During his trip, President Biden and
Secretary Blinken will convene a U.S.-Vietnam Innovation and Investment
Summit with U.S. and Vietnamese industry leaders—alongside Vietnamese
Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh and Minister Nguyen Chi Dung—to discuss
priorities for expanding technology and economic cooperation, including
Vietnamese investments in the United States.  The United States will
announce an ambitious set of new initiatives to propel the partnership
into the future, including:

-   **New Semiconductor Partnership to Support Resilient Semiconductor
    Supply Chains for U.S. Industry, Consumers, and Workers:  **The
    United States recognizes Vietnam’s potential to play a critical role
    in building resilient semiconductor supply chains, particularly to
    expand capacity in reliable partners where it cannot be re-shored to
    the United States and further promote manufacturing and industry
    development at home under the U.S. CHIPS Act.   A newly-signed
    Memorandum of Cooperation on Semiconductor Supply Chains, Workforce
    and Ecosystem Development will formalize this bilateral partnership
    to expand the capacity of the semiconductor ecosystem in Vietnam, in
    support of U.S. industry.  Under the International Technology
    Security and Innovation Fund (“ITSI” Fund), created by the CHIPS Act
    of 2022, the United States will partner with Vietnam to further
    develop Vietnam’s current semiconductor ecosystem, regulatory
    framework, and workforce and infrastructure needs.  
     
-   **Establishing Workforce Development Initiatives to Support
    Semiconductor Capacity in the United States: **The United States and
    Vietnam announce the launch of comprehensive workforce development
    initiatives in Vietnam that jointly develop hands-on teaching labs
    and training courses for semiconductor assembly, testing, and
    packaging.  The U.S. government will provide initial seed funding of
    $2 million to launch the initiatives, in conjunction with future
    support from the Government of Vietnam and the private sector.  The
    effort will support the expansion of good jobs for the American
    middle class for work further up the semiconductor industry value
    chain.    
     
-   **Developing Electronics & Leading Technology Advancement
    Partnerships (DELTA) Network:**  The United States and Vietnam
    intend to launch a DELTA network with key regional governments and
    industry entities to bridge and coordinate technology strategies
    with like-minded partners that share our commitment to building
    secure and resilient technology supply chains.  The DELTA Network
    will promote talent cultivation, policy coordination, and sector
    efficiencies in the manufacture of electronic components, against
    the backdrop of regional trends.  
     
-   **Vietnam-U.S. Science and Technology Agreement for Research: **The
    United States and Vietnam intend to expand bilateral joint research
    through the Vietnam-U.S. Science and Technology Agreement for
    Research (VUSTAR).  VUSTAR will identify priorities for potential
    collaboration in areas that include artificial intelligence, R&D and
    governance, health and medical science, climate science,
    biotechnology, and conservation.

**CULTIVATING PEOPLE-TO-PEOPLE TIES:  EDUCATION AND TRAINING**  
  
People-to-people ties are the foundation of our enduring partnership
with Vietnam.  It is through cooperation on education and training that
the United States and Vietnam have made some of the greatest gains to
rebuild mutual trust and understanding.  Vietnamese students studying in
United States represent the fifth-largest foreign student population,
and many of these students are pursuing careers in science, technology,
and engineering at community colleges, universities, and higher
education institutions.  For more than 31 years, the Fulbright Program
in Vietnam has connected thousands of American and Vietnamese scholars
and students in fields such as climate science, business, and arts, and
prepared them to be leaders in their fields.  In June 2023, the
U.S.-supported Fulbright University, Vietnam’s first independent
non-profit higher education institution, graduated its first
undergraduate class and, with financing from the U.S. International
Development Finance Corporation (DFC), will expand to a new campus. 
After a historic, successful first year with its inaugural cohort of
nine volunteers in Vietnam, the Peace Corps’ English education program,
in partnership with Vietnam’s Ministry of Education and Training, looks
forward to welcoming its second group of volunteers in 2023.   
  
To expand educational cooperation as part of the bilateral upgrade in
relations and to the benefit of people in both countries, the United
States plans the following new programs:  
  
**STEM Champions of Vietnam Initiative**: New STEM-focused education
initiative that targets the full spectrum of the Vietnamese education
sector – from K-12 to post-graduate studies – to connect Vietnamese
education and governmental institutions with their U.S. counterparts to
strengthen their ability to develop future leaders in science and new
technologies.  
  
**Upskill Vietnam and Foster Digital Growth:** This program will enable
Vietnam to unleash the potential of the digital economy to become a key
driver of the country’s continued growth.  Working with Congress, USAID
will provide an initial investment of $12.75 million.  The program will
engage in: (1) a five-year Higher Education Policy Support project with
the Ministry of Education and Training (MOET) to modernize and
internationalize Vietnam’s higher education sector; (2) a three-year
Vietnam Digital Trade activity that facilitates digital trade and
promotes private sector engagement in Vietnam; (3) new five-year
Innovative Workforce Development activity that supports the Ministry of
Planning and Investment’s (MPI) National Innovation Center.

**DEEPENING OUR TRADE, INVESTMENT, AND ECONOMIC COOPERATION**

In elevating our partnership, the United States and Vietnam reaffirm a
shared commitment to regional prosperity through improved economic
cooperation.  In partnership with Vietnam, the United States will drive
new investments through the Partnership for Global Infrastructure by
strategically deploying more public capital to better mobilize financing
and expertise from the private sector to scale these investments for the
years to come.  
  
The United States intends to do this by:  
  
**Expanding Agricultural Trade:**  Building on recent announcements that
market access was granted to U.S. grapefruit and Vietnamese pomelos, the
two countries anticipate market access for additional agricultural
products will soon follow.  
  
**Increasing Access to Capital for Underserved Borrowers:  **New
projects by the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation
(DFC), such as Tien Phong (TP) Commercial Joint Stock Bank ($100
million), the Vietnam Prosperity Joint Stock Commercial Bank (VP
Bank)($300 million), and the Beacon Fund ($50 million), that expands
lending opportunities to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that
are women-owned, women-operated, and/or climate-focused.  These efforts
help address issues such as the financing gap for women entrepreneurs,
support weather-related adaptation and mitigation measures, promote
sustainable agriculture, and improve energy efficiency through the
deployment of renewable energy sources.  
  
  
**PROMOTING AND PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS**

President Biden underscores the universality of human rights and the
importance of our bilateral cooperation to advance human rights and
fundamental freedoms, including freedoms of expression, association,
peaceful assembly, and religion or belief, at home and abroad.  
  
**Enhanced Commitment to Meaningful Dialogue:  **The U.S.-Vietnam Human
Rights Dialogue is an important mechanism to discuss a wide range of
human and labor rights-related issues including: freedoms of expression
and association; freedom of religion or belief; rule of law and legal
reform; and the rights of members of marginalized populations, including
women and girls, ethnic minority groups, LGBTQI+ persons, and persons
with disabilities, as well as individual cases of concern.  
  
  
**ADVANCING CLIMATE, ENERGY, ENVIRONMENT, AND HEALTH COOPERATION**  
  
Climate, energy, environment, and health are all essential elements of a
dynamic thriving technology-focused innovation-based society and
economy.  To promote progress in these areas, the United States is
expanding its collaboration with Vietnam through new projects and
mechanisms:  
  
**U.S – Vietnam Bilateral Climate Working Group:**  The two countries
will launch a new working group to coordinate bilateral climate related
projects and initiatives to strengthen adaptation and resilience to the
impacts of climate change such as the Net Zero World Program.  
  
**Climate Resilient Agriculture in the Mekong Delta:**  USAID will
launch a new project that builds climate resilience for traditional
agriculture-based economies of the Mekong Delta.  With an initial
investment of $11.41 million over two years, subject to engagement with
Congress, this project will support a vital region that produces roughly
half of Vietnam’s total rice harvest and nearly three quarters of its
fruit, aquaculture, and fisheries products.  
  
**Expand Energy Storage Capacity: **The U.S. government, in
collaboration with AMI AC Renewables, a Vietnamese company, and
Honeywell, a U.S. company, will launch a new pilot project that develops
Vietnam’s first ever battery energy storage system in Khanh Hoa
Province.  This pilot project demonstrates how energy storage can help
Vietnam integrate more renewable energy into its power system to meet
ambitious climate goals.    
  
**Diverse and Securing Critical Mineral Supply Chains:**  A bilateral
Memorandum of Understanding strengthens technical cooperation to support
Vietnam’s efforts to quantify its Rare Earth Elements (REE) resources
and economic potential, attract quality investment for integrated REE
sector development, and meet high environmental, social, and governance
standards.  
  
**Cooperation on Global Health Security: ** A new suite of new
activities that strengthen Vietnam’s core public health capacities,
increase laboratories’ capabilities, improve surveillance systems, and
enhance Infection Prevention and Control capacities.  
  
**Advanced Care and Treatment for Cancer:  **The United States intends
to expand existing academic and health partnerships to train and mentor
medical professionals and faculty to enhance palliative care for cancer
patients.  
  
**Medical Device Policy Frameworks:**  U.S. Trade and Development Agency
plans to host a healthcare workshop and Reverse Trade Mission (RTM) from
Vietnam’s Ministry of Health to facilitate increased information sharing
on best practices in synchronizing a single regulatory framework to
govern all aspects of medical devices in Vietnam through the development
of their first ever “Law on Medical Devices.”  
  
  
**ADDRESSING WAR LEGACIES**  
  
The United States and Vietnam have overcome a difficult past to become
trusted partners.  President Biden committed to Vietnamese government
leaders our resolve and unwavering cooperation in our collective pursuit
to continue addressing war legacy issues.  
  
The U.S. government is dedicated to supporting the Vietnamese in
developing a technology-led system for identification of remains from
the war.  An interagency effort intends to extend archival research to
help identify locations of Vietnamese missing or fallen individuals, as
well as cutting-edge DNA technology, including the transfer of expertise
and equipment to Vietnamese laboratories.   
  
The United States is expanding the following efforts:  
  
**Advancing our Commitment to Complete Dioxin Remediation at Bien Hoa**:
The United States Government announces a new step toward completing the
dioxin remediation project at the Bien Hoa Air Base Area, in accordance
with the project Master Plan.  The United States and Vietnam signed an
amended bilateral partnership agreement, raising the ceiling of our
existing agreement from $183 million to $300 million, and expands the
agreement to cover implementation of the project until 2028.  With this
expanded agreement, the United States plans to make available an
additional $55 million for the Project in the next year, subject to
engagement with Congress, with additional investments in the future from
both USAID and the Department of Defense (DOD).  
  
**Supporting Persons with Disabilities:  **USAID will expand their
essential health and social service programs that support persons with
disabilities into two new provinces Bac Lieu and Ca Mau, thus raising
the number of supported provinces to 10.  
  
**Scientific Training for the Vietnamese Office for Seeking Missing
Persons:  **The United States seeks to increase scientific training and
technology support and exchanges offered at Joint Base Pearl
Harbor-Hickam in Hawaii, as well as on-site in Hanoi.  
  
**Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Activities:**  The United States will
provide an additional $25 million to further UXO clearance and tracking
activities to the Vietnam National Mine Center in Central Vietnam.  The
United States’ long-standing commitment to this effort totals over $230
million in UXO since 1993.  
  
  
**BOLSTERING OUR SECURITY THROUGH ENHANCED COOPERATION**  
  
In deepening our bilateral security cooperation, the United
States-Vietnam Comprehensive Strategic Partnership will also enhance the
collective security of the region.  The United States is announcing new
programs and equipment donations worth $8.9 million to build Vietnamese
capacity to fight regional and international transnational crime.  These
programs include improving maritime domain awareness, port facility
security, cargo security, and building Vietnam’s ability to counter
illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing. The United States and
Vietnam have enhanced bilateral engagement on Trafficking in Persons
(TIP) to address new and emerging trafficking trends, including support
to combat TIP, child sexual exploitation, and the growing issue of cyber
scam operations in Southeast Asia.   
  
  
**REINFORCING OUR BUSINESS-TO-BUSINESS TIES**  
  
We welcome the progress of U.S. and Vietnamese businesses moving ahead
with new and expanded initiatives that will increase trade and commerce
between our two countries.  Some examples include:  
  
**Expanding Commerce in the Aviation Industry:  **Boeing and Vietnam
Airlines will sign a multi-billion-dollar proposal acceptance to
purchase 50 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft that will benefit both countries by
supporting U.S. manufacturing jobs and providing world-class aircraft to
support Vietnam’s growing travel and tourism industry as they aspire to
become a leading aviation hub.  This deal is will support over 33,000
direct and indirect jobs across the United States.  
  
**Strengthening Semiconductor Supply Chains:  **Arizona-based Amkor
Technology will announce the commencement of operations at its
state-of-the art factory in Bac Ninh Province in October 2023.  Total
investment for the project is $1.6 billion.  California-based Synopsys
is launching a semiconductor design and incubation center in
collaboration with Saigon Hi-Tech Park.  California-based Marvell will
announce that it will establish a world class semiconductor design
center in Ho Chi Minh City.  
  
**Furthering Technology Partnerships**:  Microsoft and Trusting Social
will announce an agreement to develop a generative AI-based solution
tailored for Vietnam and emerging markets.  NVIDIA is partnering with
FPT, Viettel, and VinGroup to deploy AI in the cloud, automotive, and
healthcare industries.  Meta Platforms and the Vietnam National
Innovation Center will announce the Vietnam Innovation Challenge, a
program to promote digital transformation among small and medium
enterprises.  
  
**Boosting Travel, Transport, Tourism:**  VinFast continues to progress
on the construction of its $4 billion electric vehicle (EV)
manufacturing facility in North Carolina. 3M concluded an agreement with
Vietnam’s Ministry of Transport to improve traffic safety.  New
York-based Nobu Hospitality will announce a partnership with Viet
Capital Real Estate (CVRE) to bring the first ever Nobu hotel,
residences, and restaurant to Vietnam.   
  
**Enhancing Strategic Port and Energy Infrastructure:**  Seattle-based
port operator SSA Marine and Vietnamese private company Gemadept will
announce their intent to collaborate on strategic port projects in
southern Vietnam, including their joint interest in developing the
proposed $6.7 billion dollar Cai Mep Ha Logistics Center.  
  
**Promoting Climate Resilience and Innovation:** Massachusetts-based
Australis Aquaculture will sign an MOU with Khanh Hoa Province to invest
an additional $100 million to expand its sustainable aquaculture
operations in Van Phong Bay.  
  
**Strengthening Financial Services and Capital Markets:**  United Beacon
Asia Media will launch the inaugural issue of Bloomberg BusinessWeek
Vietnam in October 2023.  VNG filed for an Initial Public Offering on
the Nasdaq, representing the first Vietnamese technology company to list
in the United States, and one of several Vietnamese companies looking to
access U.S. capital markets to fuel growth and innovation.  Crane
Currency has signed an MoU with Vietnam-based Q&T Hi-Tech Polymer Co.
Ltd. to help the State Bank of Vietnam secure Vietnam’s next generation
of bank notes.

\###
