---
date: '2023-09-15'
published_time: 2023-09-15 09:53:02-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/15/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-international-day-of-democracy/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on International Day of\_Democracy"
---
 
When I came into office, it was clear that one of the defining questions
of our time was whether democracies could still come together to deliver
for our people in a rapidly changing world. I believed then—as I do
now—that the answer is yes. ** **Democracyremains humanity’s most
enduring means to advance prosperity, security, and dignity for all. And
over the last two and a half years, we’ve proved it.

Here at home, we’ve demonstrated that American democracy can tackle the
challenges that matter most in peoples’ lives. Through the bipartisan
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, we made a generational
investment to deliver safe roads, clean water, and high-speed Internet
to communities across the country. We passed the Inflation Reduction
Act—a historic law that lowers healthcare, prescription drug, and energy
costs, and takes the most aggressive action to confront the climate
crisis in history. I signed the CHIPS and Science Act, which positions
U.S. workers to compete in manufacturing today and lead the industries
of tomorrow. A year ago today, I hosted the first White House Summit
ever to counter hate-motivated violence and foster unity. In January, I
signed the bipartisan Electoral Count Reform Act to protect the will of
the people and the peaceful transition of power—democracy’s threshold
liberties. And I will remain vigilant in fighting to protect Americans’
right to vote through free, fair, and secure elections.

Abroad, democracy has faced a test for the ages—and the United States
and our partners and allies have stepped up. When Russia launched its
brutal assault against Ukraine, The United States helped rally the world
to stand with the brave people of Ukraine as they defend their liberty.
We’ve revitalized the G7’s commitment to drive inclusive economic
growth—including by launching the Partnership for Global Infrastructure
and Investment, which aims to mobilize $600 billion for quality
infrastructure projects in low and middle-income countries by 2027. 
We’ve elevated partnerships like the Quad, which brings together four
key democracies in the Indo-Pacific to deliver for people around the
world. For the first time ever, we formally identified corruption—which
erodes the ability of governments across the world to deliver for their
people—as a threat to U.S. national security, and launched the first
U.S. Strategy on Countering Corruption. We’ve mobilized an unprecedented
government-wide effort to counter the proliferation and misuse of
commercial spyware that enables human rights abuses around the world. We
have dedicated more resources than ever to digital and physical security
training for journalists and launched a new fund with global partners to
provide defense counsel to journalists facing legal threats meant to
silence them — because a free press is essential to democracy.And at the
second Summit for Democracy in March, we helped bring more than 100
countries together once again—catalyzing hundreds of commitments to
support independent media, empower human rights activists, defend free
and fair elections, advance rights-respecting technology, and counter
authoritarianism. 

Today we recommit to this important work. Because we know there is
nothing inevitable about democracy, just as generations before us
stepped up to defend it, we must answer the call to preserve democracy
for generations to come. So together, let us continue to remember that
government of the people, by the people, and for the people is our
greatest strength. And let us continue to build a future of stronger
human rights protection and freedom for all.

\###
