---
date: '2023-09-18'
modified_time: 2023-09-18 23:17:14-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-18 23:17:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/18/fact-sheet-32-countries-launch-the-partnership-for-atlantic-cooperation/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: 32 Countries Launch the Partnership for Atlantic\_Cooperation"
---
 
*\[[Read the Declaration on Atlantic Cooperation and Plan of Action
here](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/18/declaration-on-atlantic-cooperation/)\]*

Thirty-two coastal Atlantic countries across four continents adopted a
Declaration on Atlantic Cooperation launching the **Partnership for
Atlantic Cooperation **today on the margins of the United Nations
General Assembly in New York**. This new multilateral forum brings
together an unprecedented number of coastal Atlantic countries across
Africa, Europe, North America, South America, and the Caribbean.**   
  
This Partnership is the first grouping to span both the North and South
Atlantic and address a broad range of issues, from economic development
to environmental protection to science and technology. It is also the
first time that so many Atlantic countries have come together to
establish a forum through which we can work together on a more regular
basis and to lay down, via the Declaration, a set of shared principles
for the Atlantic region, such as a commitment to an open Atlantic free
from interference, coercion, or aggressive action. This Declaration
builds on last year’s Joint Statement on Atlantic Cooperation, which
started a process to explore deeper cooperation in the region. Today’s
launch is the product of that process and intensive diplomacy by the
White House and the State Department.  
  
**Coastal Atlantic countries share direct and interconnected interests
in the Atlantic Ocean. **The Atlantic Ocean is the world’s most heavily
traveled ocean with critical trade routes and global energy reserves.
The World Bank estimates that the ocean contributes $1.5 trillion
annually to the global economy—and expects this figure to double by
2030. Sustainable ocean economy sectors are estimated to generate almost
50 million jobs in Africa and to contribute $21 billion to Latin
American GDP. Meanwhile, challenges like illegal, unregulated, and
unreported fishing; natural disasters; and illicit trafficking threaten
this economy. We recognize that no country alone can solve the
cross-boundary challenges in the Atlantic region or fully address the
opportunities before us.  
  
**The Partnership for Atlantic Cooperation seeks to usher in a new
chapter in regional cooperation, forging deeper connections across
Atlantic countries on four continents.** The purpose of the Partnership
is twofold: (1) to enable Atlantic countries to expand cooperation on a
range of shared goals and (2) to uphold a set of shared principles for
Atlantic cooperation.  
  
The Partnership will give our countries a new platform to work together
on issues such as science and technology, sustainable ocean economy, and
climate change. Participating countries also endorsed a Plan of Action
outlining the first phase of work this new grouping will undertake,
including scientific cooperation and shared research, information and
maritime awareness, and development of a cadre of young Atlantic
scientists. The Partnership will convene regularly and establish working
groups to carry out this work. To the greatest extent possible, the
Partnership will collaborate with and build on existing regional
initiatives.  
  
The Partnership’s members will also work together to uphold the guiding
principles for Atlantic cooperation outlined in the Declaration. This
includes:

-   A commitment to uphold international law, including the UN Charter,
    to promote an open Atlantic in which Atlantic states are free from
    interference, coercion, or aggressive action
-   A commitment to uphold the principles of sovereign equality,
    territorial integrity, and political independence of states, among
    others
-   Recognition of the special interest and primary role that Atlantic
    states have in the Atlantic

**<u>Participating Countries</u>**: The following countries came
together to endorse the Declaration on Atlantic Cooperation and the Plan
of Action and to launch the Partnership for Atlantic Cooperation:
Angola, Argentina, Brazil, Cabo Verde, Canada, Costa Rica, Cote
d’Ivoire, Dominica, the Dominican Republic, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon,
The Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Iceland, Ireland, Liberia,
Mauritania, Morocco, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Portugal, the
Republic of the Congo, Senegal, Spain, Togo, the United Kingdom, the
United States, and Uruguay.

**\###**
