---
date: '2023-09-07'
modified_time: 2023-09-07 07:22:31-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-07 07:22:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/07/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-participation-in-the-east-asia-summit/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Participation in the East Asia\_Summit"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris today attended the annual East Asia Summit
in Jakarta, Indonesia. The Vice President reaffirmed the U.S. commitment
to the Indo-Pacific and ASEAN centrality, and emphasized the United
States’ strong support for the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific. Vice
President Harris underscored the Biden-Harris Administration’s
commitment to working with allies and partners to ensure an Indo-Pacific
region that is free, open, prosperous, resilient, and secure. She
highlighted the deep economic ties between the United States and
Southeast Asia, and reviewed ongoing efforts to promote broad-based
prosperity through investing in high-quality and sustainable
infrastructure, accelerating the energy transition, and developing
secure and resilient supply chains, all of which support ASEAN as an
Epicentrum of Growth. She also reiterated the historic progress made
this year to advance an Indo-Pacific Economic Framework that provides
concrete benefits to all of its members and will drive enduring and
broad-based economic growth throughout the region.

  
The Vice President also underscored the importance of the international
rules-based order in preserving decades of peace and prosperity in the
Indo-Pacific, while acknowledging the international community must
address growing threats to that order. The Vice President emphasized
that freedom of navigation and overflight must be respected in the East
China Sea and South China Sea, and that all disputes must be resolved
peacefully and in accordance with international law, including the 1982
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Vice President Harris
reaffirmed U.S. support for the 2016 UN arbitral tribunal ruling and
noted this ruling is final and legally binding. She also reaffirmed the
importance of maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.
 The Vice President welcomed Japan’s continued transparency and
engagement with the scientific community, as well as with regional
stakeholders, related to its release of treated water from the Fukushima
Daiichi site.

Vice President Harris condemned the Burmese military regime’s brutal
campaign of violence against the people of Burma, and reaffirmed the
importance of taking further action to increase pressure on the Burmese
military regime to implement the ASEAN Five Point Consensus and provide
for a return to the path of democracy. She also emphasized the threats
posed by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and condemned the
continued development of its unlawful ballistic missile and nuclear
programs. Additionally, she raised concerns regarding the grave human
rights abuses being committed by the People’s Republic of China. The
Vice President strongly condemned Russia’s brutal and unjust war against
Ukraine, noting how Russia’s actions have exacerbated food insecurity
and harmed millions of vulnerable people in the Indo-Pacific and across
the globe.

*\###*
