---
date: '2023-09-07'
modified_time: 2023-09-07 17:34:59-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-07 17:34:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/07/what-they-are-saying-diverse-leaders-applaud-president-bidens-nomination-of-michael-g-whitaker-for-administrator-of-the-federal-aviation-administration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Diverse Leaders Applaud President\_Biden\u2019s Nomination\
  \ of Michael G. Whitaker for Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration"
---
 
Today, President Biden nominated Mike Whitaker to be Administrator of
the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Whitaker served as Deputy
Administrator at the FAA. He has 30 years of aviation experience,
managing large organizations, and he knows how to work in government and
across the aviation community to get big things done. The FAA needs a
confirmed Administrator – and Mike Whitaker is the right person for the
job.

*See below for what they are saying:*

**Washington Senator Maria Cantwell, Chair of the Senate Committee on
Commerce, Science & Transportation:** “The United States must be the
global standard in aviation safety. From building a well-trained
workforce to addressing critical safety concerns to modernizing the
national airspace system, there is no shortage of issues before the FAA.
Mr. Whitaker will use his substantial aviation experience and knowledge
to meet these challenges. I look forward to working with him and his
strong leadership at the agency.” \[Statement, 9/7/23\]

**Airlines for America (A4A): President and CEO Nicholas E. Calio:** “We
applaud the Administration’s action to submit a nomination to the U.S.
Senate for FAA Administrator. The U.S. aviation industry is currently
facing critical challenges and significant opportunities in management
of the National Airspace System (NAS). As passenger travel continues to
grow and Americans rely daily on cargo shipments, the system must keep
up. New entrants, new technologies and innovations must be integrated
into the system. A permanent, confirmed FAA Administrator is needed to
provide leadership, stability and vision for the NAS, which is becoming
more complex and more important every day. Michael Whitaker has
extensive experience working on a range of priorities including NextGen
modernization at both the FAA and at major airlines. He has a deep
understanding of and appreciation for the collaborative partnership
between industry and government that is necessary to ensure air travel
remains the safest mode of transportation in the world.  We urge
expeditious consideration of this important
nominee.” \[[Statement](https://twitter.com/AirlinesDotOrg/status/1699791892043764204?s=20),
9/7/23\]

**Rich Santa, President, National Air Traffic Controllers Association,
AFL-CIO (NATCA):** “The National Air Traffic Controllers Association,
AFL-CIO, (NATCA) congratulates former Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) Deputy Administrator and Chief NextGen Officer, Michael Whitaker,
on his nomination by President Joe Biden to be the next administrator of
the FAA. NATCA urges the Senate to perform its constitutional duty to
provide advice and consent and move this nomination forward with all due
diligence. A permanent Administrator committed to continued
collaboration must be confirmed to ensure FAA addresses its longstanding
and ongoing controller staffing crisis and more recent safety incidents.
NATCA looks forward to working with Mr. Whitaker to address the FAA’s
pressing challenges, from staffing and training, to runway safety, to
modernization of technology and infrastructure, to the safe and
efficient integration of new users into the National Airspace System.”
\[[Statement](https://www.natca.org/2023/09/07/natca-congratulates-michael-whitaker-on-his-nomination-to-be-the-next-faa-administrator/),
9/7/23\]

**Greg Regan and Shari Semelsberger, President and Secretary-Treasurer,
AFL-CIO Transportation Trades Department (TTD):** “As the nation’s
largest transportation labor federation, we welcome President Biden’s
nomination of Michael Whitaker to lead the FAA. The agency is long
overdue for permanent leadership, especially as our national airspace
system faces urgent challenges such as flight disruptions, safety
incidents, and staffing issues for air traffic controllers and other
aviation safety professionals. The Administrator role is one of the most
critical safety jobs in the Department of Transportation and must be
filled by a permanent leader who can clear the significant backlog of
overdue rule makings and provide stability as the previous five-year
reauthorization of the FAA is set to expire this year.”
[\[Statement](https://ttd.org/news-and-media/press-releases-and-statements/ttd-commends-whitakers-nomination-for-faa-administrator/),
9/7/23\]

**Sara Nelson, President, Association of Flight Attendants-CWA
(AFA-CWA):** “We congratulate Mike Whitaker on his nomination for FAA
Administrator. We support the President’s decision and call on the
Senate to move to swift confirmation. Our national air transportation
system needs attention. Perhaps more than any other time in aviation
history, it is urgent that we have a confirmed FAA Administrator.
Whitaker has the experience to step into the role and immediately lead
us forward.”
\[[Statement](https://www.afacwa.org/flight_attendant_union_calls_for_faa_administrator_confirmation),
97/23\]

**Ray LaHood, Former U.S. Transportation Secretary:** “I have personally
worked with Mike and believe he is the right leader to take the helm at
the FAA… If confirmed, Mike will bring industry and government together
to address current challenges at the FAA and focus on needed reforms to
ensure the United States remains the global standard in aviation.”

**Captain Jason Ambrosi, President, Air Line Pilots Association
(ALPA):** “ALPA applauds the nomination of Michael Whitaker to lead the
safest and most complex aviation system in the world. Michael
understands that the most important safety feature on any aircraft is
two, highly-trained and well-rested pilots, and the paramount need to
protect current pilot safety training regulations. This nomination comes
at a particularly critical time for the FAA. In order to maintain the
world’s safest air transportation system, modernize outdated
infrastructure, and keep passengers and crews safe, we need permanent,
stable leadership that is safety-focused, and we look forward to his
swift approval by the United States Senate.”
\[[Statement](https://www.alpa.org/news-and-events/news-room/2023-09-07-faa-administrator-nomination-michael-whitaker),
9/7/23\]

**American Airlines:** “American is pleased to see Michael Whitaker
nominated to be the next FAA Administrator and we look forward to
supporting his nomination. During this critical time in aviation, it is
essential that the FAA be led by a permanent administrator who
understands the intricacies of the system. A former FAA Deputy
Administrator who has spent decades in the aviation industry, Mr.
Whitaker is eminently qualified for the role.” \[9/7/23\]

**Association of Professional Flight Attendants (APFA):** “APFA
congratulates Mike Whitaker on his nomination to lead the FAA, which has
been without permanent leadership for over a year. Aviation is facing
rapid growth and change since emerging from the pandemic, and we need
strong leadership to ensure that the FAA’s oversight of our airspace and
safety regulations is robust and timely. We appreciate Acting
Administrators Polly Trottenberg and Billy Nolen for their public
service, and we specifically applaud Mr. Nolen for signing the Flight
Attendant 10-hour minimum rest rule into law. Mr. Whitaker has a
background working for the FAA, which will be needed to address the
challenges ahead, including the increase in runway incursions, ATC
staffing levels, aging technology, and promptly filling the vacant
high-level administrative positions. In addition, many aviation labor
groups throughout the industry, including APFA, are in contract
negotiations. APFA urges Congress to pass an FAA Reauthorization Bill
soon to address aviation’s most pressing issues. If confirmed, we look
forward to working with Mr. Whitaker to maintain the highest aviation
safety standards.”
\[[Statement](https://twitter.com/APFAunity/status/1699801840517570637?s=20),
9/7/23\]

**Association of Professional Flight Attendants (APFA)**: “APFA
congratulates @FAANews Mike Whitaker on his nomination to lead the FAA.
If confirmed, we look forward to working with Mr. Whitaker to maintain
the highest standard of safety in aviation.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/APFAunity/status/1699801840517570637?s=20),
9/7/23\]

**Dr. Hassan Shahidi, President and CEO, Flight Safety Foundation:** “As
a member of the Flight Safety Foundation Board of Governors, Mike
Whitaker has brought exceptional expertise and an industry-wide
perspective that have been invaluable in shaping and guiding our mission
to enhance global aviation safety. Mike’s deep understanding of
aviation, combined with his strategic vision, has been a tremendous
asset to the Foundation and a driving force behind our pursuit of
excellence in aviation safety. Mike is an excellent choice for FAA
administrator.” \[9/7/23\]

**General Aviation Manufacturers Association (GAMA):** “President and
CEO Pete Bunce: “The FAA, the civil aviation industry and the American
flying-public deserve a leader with experience in managing large
organizations and an aviation background to develop an aviation system
that is safer, more efficient and technologically advanced. We are
pleased to see that the Biden Administration has nominated Mike
Whitaker, who we feel possesses the leadership skills, management
experience and aviation knowledge needed to lead the FAA. Having worked
with Mr. Whitaker in his previous role as FAA Deputy Administrator, we
are confident that his intimate knowledge of how the agency functions
and interfaces with the Department of Transportation, Congress and the
industry will improve his ability to navigate the challenges now facing
the FAA. We also believe that Mr. Whitaker and Katie Thomson, the
recently appointed Deputy Administrator, will be a strong leadership
team for the agency. GAMA supports the confirmation of Mr. Whitaker to
provide needed stability and direction for the FAA during this
transformative time for
aviation.” \[[Statement](https://gama.aero/news-and-events/press-releases/gama-statement-on-nomination-of-mike-whitaker-for-faa-administrator/),
9/7/23\]

**James Viola, President and CEO, Helicopter Association International
(HAI):** “Mike’s 30 years of aviation policy experience gives him the
knowledge and skillset to effectively lead the FAA. I worked closely
with Mike during my tenure overseeing general aviation at the FAA and,
from what I saw, I am confident that he is the right person to lead the
agency at a time when aviation— particularly vertical aviation—is
evolving at such as rapid pace. \[…\] HAI is confident that Mike will
provide that leadership. Mike is the leader the FAA needs at this time,
and we fully support his nomination.”
\[[Statement](https://rotormedia.com/white-house-nominates-aviation-policy-veteran-michael-whitaker-as-faa-administrator/),
9/7/23\]

**Michael Huerta, Acting Secretary of Transportation, FAA Administrator,
Acting FAA Administrator, Deputy FAA Administrator 2010-2018:** “As a
talented and experienced leader, an aviation professional and a pilot,
Mike Whitaker has the background and qualifications needed to lead and
direct the agency at this critical time.  He recognizes the value of
collaboration between the FAA, the industry it regulates, and the people
that work in it to ensure the highest level of safety for the traveling
public. The FAA is a large and complex organization whose mission is to
provide the safest, most efficient aerospace system in the world.  It
has done its job well, and the U.S. represents the gold-standard in
aviation.  Now, the agency and must deal with rapid growth, and the need
to establish policies and standards for new innovations, new entrants
and the future evolution of this important industry.” \[9/7/23\]

**Delta Airlines:** “The FAA is recognized as a world leader in aviation
safety and innovation, but is long overdue for permanent leadership. We
congratulate Michael Whitaker on his nomination as FAA Administrator. If
confirmed, Delta looks forward to working closely with him and will
continue to collaborate with the FAA to ensure that commercial aviation
remains the safest mode of transportation in the world.” \[9/7/23\]

**United:** “Now more than ever, the FAA needs strong leadership. We are
pleased that Michael Whitaker has been nominated for this critical role
and look forward to working with him to improve our aviation system for
our employees and customers. Mike has deep aviation expertise and a
solid reputation as a problem solver. We urge the U.S. Senate to move
swiftly on his confirmation process.” \[9/7/23\]

**Rich Santa, President, National Air Traffic Controllers Association
(NACTA):** “NATCA looks forward to working with Mr. Whitaker to address
the FAA’s pressing challenges, from staffing and training, to runway
safety, to modernization of technology and infrastructure, to the safe
and efficient integration of new users into the National Airspace
System.”
\[[Statement](https://www.natca.org/2023/09/07/natca-congratulates-michael-whitaker-on-his-nomination-to-be-the-next-faa-administrator/),
9/7/23\]

***Richie Johnsen, Air Transport Territory General Vice President,***
***The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
(IAM):*** *“*As the largest airline union in the United States, the IAM
is confident that Mike Whitaker will put air transport workers at the
forefront of decision-making at the FAA. I commend Mr. Whitaker for
reaching out to the IAM to have meaningful dialogue about the issues
facing our more than 100,000 airline members. Together, we are committed
to work together to protect air transport workers against passenger
assault, address foreign repair station policy, tackle industry
understaffing, and more. After a year-and-a-half of delays, we urge the
U.S. Senate to move swiftly to confirm Mr. Whitaker as the next
administrator of the FAA.”
\[[Statement](https://www.goiam.org/news/imail/iam-union-urges-swift-confirmation-of-faa-administrator-nominee-mike-whitaker/),
9/7/23\]

**American Economic Liberties Project:** “The enormous responsibilities
of the Administrator of the FAA cannot be overstated in respect to
protecting the health and safety of passengers, employees, and the
public at large by overseeing airlines, airports, aircraft
manufacturers, personnel, and America’s entire aviation ecosystem,” said
William J. McGee, Senior Fellow for Aviation and Travel at the American
Economic Liberties Project. “It’s a huge job, and Economic Liberties
believes Mr. Whitaker’s varied experience at the FAA and in the industry
working in both the airline and drone sectors makes him very qualified
to serve well in this role. We urge Congress to move quickly to approve
his nomination.”
\[[Statement](/Users/BDStonick/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/D3J24OL1/Economic%20Liberties%20Supports%20Whitaker%20Nomination%20at%20FAA,%20Urges%20Congress%20to%20Act%20Swiftly%20-%20Economic%20Liberties%20Supports%20Whitaker%20Nomination%20at%20FAA,%20Urges%20Congress%20to%20Act%20Swiftly),
9/7/23\]

**GE:** “GE Aerospace applauds the nomination of Michael Whitaker as FAA
Administrator and urge the Senate to act swiftly in a bipartisan manner
to confirm him. With experience across the aviation sector, Mike will
bring strong and steady leadership at a time when the industry is
experiencing unprecedented demand and tremendous technological
breakthroughs, helping ensure America’s leading role on the world stage
regarding aviation safety and innovation.” \[9/7/23\]

**Kevin Burke, President and CEO, Airports Council International – North
America (ACI-NA):** “The aviation industry is navigating multiple
challenges presented by our industry’s ongoing recovery, changing
customer demands, and mounting infrastructure needs. As Washington
grapples with important policy discussions around FAA reauthorization
and reducing flight delays, the FAA needs permanent leadership at the
top. Mike Whitaker brings immense experience in aviation—including his
tenure as the FAA’s Deputy Administrator— that will allow him to engage
immediately in important policy, regulatory, and infrastructure funding
priorities we continue to confront. We encourage the Senate to
prioritize Whitaker’s confirmation, and we look forward to continued
partnership with FAA as everyone works to ensure a safe, secure, and
efficient air travel experience for all passengers.” \[9/7/23\]

**Todd Hauptli, President & CEO, American Association of Airport
Executives (AAAE):** “Mike has broad experience advancing the cause of
aviation both inside and outside of government and is highly regarded
for his leadership abilities, dedication to the industry, and
willingness to tackle difficult challenges. I am grateful for his
willingness to return to government service. Permanent leadership at the
agency is long overdue.” \[[Statement](https://www.aaae.org/), 9/7/23\]

**George Novak National, President and CEO, Air Carrier Assn (NACA):**
“NACA commends the White House for nominating Michael Whitaker to be the
next Federal Aviation Administration Administrator. As a \[former
commercial airline\] pilot and deputy administrator of the FAA, Mr.
Whitaker is extremely well-positioned to provide the leadership the
agency needs to address several long-standing challenges facing the
airline industry. Modernizing the nation’s air traffic control (ATC)
system, ensuring robust air traffic controller staffing
levels – particularly in Florida, to reduce congestion and delays – and
addressing recent safety issues, including a rise in runway incursions,
are all critical issues needing immediate attention. We look forward to
working collaboratively with Mr. Whitaker, DOT leadership, and other
aviation stakeholders to ensure that we continue to have the safest,
most efficient ATC system in the world.”
\[[Statement](https://naca.aero/naca-applauds-nomination-of-michael-whitaker-for-faa-administrator/),
9/7/23\]

**Ed Bolton, President and CEO, National Business Aviation Association
(NBAA):** “Mike Whitaker has long been an outspoken aviation safety
advocate and champion of innovation in the industry, who demonstrated
during his time as Deputy Administrator at the FAA that he is a proven
leader who delivers results. We enthusiastically support his
confirmation as FAA
administrator.” \[[Statement](https://nbaa.org/2023-press-releases/nbaa-welcomes-nomination-of-michael-whitaker-as-next-faa-administrator/),
9/7/23\]

**Faye Malarkey Black , CEO, Regional Airline Association (RAA):** “We
believe Michael is the kind of ‘roll up your sleeves’ leader that FAA
needs to meet this moment. If he is confirmed, we look forward to
cooperating on major industry challenges from protecting and evolving
Safety Management System programs to advancing the world class pilot
training
standards.” \[[Statement](/Users/BDStonick/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/D3J24OL1/Transportation%20Trades%20Department,%20AFL-CIO),
9/7/23\]

*\###*
