---
date: '2023-09-06'
published_time: 2023-09-06 13:51:04-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/06/asean-u-s-leaders-statement-on-cooperation-on-the-asean-outlook-on-the-indo-pacific/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ASEAN-U.S. Leaders\u2019 Statement on Cooperation on the ASEAN Outlook on\
  \ the\_Indo-Pacific"
---
 
**WE,** the Member States of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN) and the United States of America (United States), gathered on
the occasion of the 11<sup>th</sup> ASEAN-United States (U.S.) Summit in
Jakarta, Indonesia, on 6 September 2023;  
  
**REAFFIRMING** the importance of upholding the purposes and principles
of the UN Charter and the ASEAN Charter, as well as upholding shared
values enshrined in the Declaration on Zone of Peace, Freedom and
Neutrality (ZOPFAN), the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast
Asia (TAC), the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
(UNCLOS), the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone
(SEANWFZ) and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo- Pacific (AOIP);  
  
**AFFIRMING** our support for the objectives and principles of the AOIP,
which provides a guide for ASEAN’s engagement in the wider Asia-Pacific
and the Indian Ocean regions or the Indo-Pacific and a conceptual basis
for growing cooperation between ASEAN and the United States via our
Comprehensive Strategic Partnership (CSP);  
  
**EMPHASIZING** that it is in the interest of ASEAN, with the support of
external partners, including the United States, to remain at the center
of the regional architecture and shape its dynamics to bring about
peace, security, stability and prosperity for the peoples in the
Asia-Pacific and the Indian Ocean regions;  
  
**NOTING** that the AOIP and the United States’ Indo-Pacific Strategy
(IPS) share relevant fundamental principles, in promoting an open,
inclusive, and rules-based regional architecture, in which ASEAN is
central, working alongside partners who share these goals;  
  
**REAFFIRMING** the goals and principles enumerated in the Joint Vision
Statement of the ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit held in Washington, D.C., on
12 May 2022, to commemorate 45 years of Dialogue Partnership, as well as
those articulated in the ASEAN-U.S. Leaders’ Statement on the
Establishment of the ASEAN-U.S. Comprehensive Strategic Partnership,
adopted by the Leaders of ASEAN and the United States in Phnom Penh,
Cambodia, on 12 November 2022;

**COMMENDING** Indonesia’s efforts as the Chair of ASEAN to elevate and
mainstream the AOIP as a catalyst for cooperation with the United States
and other dialogue partners across ASEAN’s political-security, economic,
and socio-cultural communities;  
  
**SEEKING** to advance cooperation furthering the AOIP that promotes
mutual trust and confidence as well as reinforce an open, transparent,
inclusive, and rules-based regional architecture with ASEAN at the
centre;  
  
**UNDERSCORING** ASEAN’s central role in developing and shaping
institutions that strengthen the rules-based regional architecture and
foster a strategic outlook that promotes economic and other forms of
cooperation, respect for national sovereignty, and the peaceful
settlement of disputes in accordance with international law;  
  
**EMPHASIZING** that the Plan of Action (POA) to Implement the
ASEAN-U.S. Strategic Partnership (2021-2025), including the POA Annex
for the ASEAN-U.S. Comprehensive Strategic Partnership adopted at the
ASEAN-U.S. Post-Ministerial Conference on 14 July 2023, in Jakarta,
Indonesia, outlines our shared commitments under ASEAN’s
political-security, economic, and socio-cultural pillars, and sets
priorities for cooperation, including U.S. intent to establish an
ASEAN-U.S. Center in the United States through a public-private
partnership;  
  
**COMMITTING** to engaging in substantive, practical, and tangible
cooperation in keeping with the vision of Southeast Asia as an
epicentrum of growth through practical projects in the four priority
areas of the AOIP: 1) maritime cooperation, 2) connectivity, 3) the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Development
Goals, and 4) economic and other possible areas of cooperation; in order
to promote mutual trust, respect, and benefit through ASEAN-led
mechanisms, thereby contributing to the maintenance and promotion of
peace, security, stability and prosperity in the region;  
  
**WE HEREBY** **COMMITTO:**

1.  **FULFILL** the goals outlined in the POA to Implement the
    ASEAN-U.S. Strategic Partnership (2021-2025), including the POA
    Annex for the ASEAN-U.S. CSP;

Maritime Cooperation

1.  **EXPAND** cooperation on sustainable management of marine
    resources; strengthen capacity to combat illegal, unreported, and
    unregulated (IUU) fishing; protect the livelihood of coastal
    communities; support small-scale fishing communities; promote
    maritime commerce; expand efforts to protect and conserve marine
    environments; and improve maritime domain awareness;

<!-- -->

1.  **ENHANCE** maritime cooperation through ASEAN-led mechanisms by
    upholding freedom of navigation and overflight, reaffirming the need
    to pursue peaceful resolution of disputes in accordance with
    universally recognised principles of international law, including
    the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), as well as
    the relevant Standards and Recommended Practices of the
    International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), and the relevant
    instruments and conventions of the International Maritime
    Organisation (IMO), and promoting cooperation and coordination among
    our relevant agencies, including maritime law enforcement agencies,
    to collaborate to improve maritime domain awareness, search and
    rescue, protection, restoration and sustainable management of the
    marine environment, as well as maritime safety, security and
    education;

<!-- -->

1.  **NOTE** the United Nations General Assembly Resolution A/RES/77/248
    which emphasises, in the Preamble, the universal and unified
    character of the 1982 UNCLOS, and which reaffirms that the
    Convention sets out the legal framework within which all activities
    in the oceans and seas must be carried out and is of strategic
    importance as the basis for national, regional and global action and
    cooperation in the marine sector, and that its integrity needs to be
    maintained;

Connectivity

1.  **PROMOTE** cooperation and partnerships that support digital
    innovation, seamless logistics, regulatory excellence, and
    sustainable infrastructure;

<!-- -->

1.  **ENHANCE** human capital development; build people-to-people
    connectivity within the region and beyond, including through
    ASEAN-led mechanisms, focusing inter alia on human capital
    development and education including digital literacy skills, good
    governance and the rule of law, the promotion and protection of
    human rights and fundamental freedoms, the empowerment of women and
    girls, youth, and vulnerable groups, and the strengthening of
    connections between our peoples, including through the Young
    Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative (YSEALI);

<!-- -->

1.  **SUPPORT** ASEAN’s infrastructure and connectivity in line with the
    Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity (MPAC) 2025, and other relevant
    documents;

2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Development
Goals

1.  **FURTHER PROMOTE** the stability, peace, prosperity, and
    sustainable development of the Mekong subregion through shared
    initiatives under the Mekong-U.S. Partnership (MUSP), which
    complements the Friends of the Mekong and supports the
    implementation of the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity 2025 and the
    IAI Work Plan IV (2021-2025), in support of ASEAN Centrality and
    unity in promoting ASEAN’s sub-regional development;

<!-- -->

1.  **SUPPORT** narrowing the development gap in ASEAN, including the
    emerging gap arising from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and
    assisting the region’s economic recovery to realise an inclusive,
    participatory, and collaborative ASEAN Community that is no longer
    divided by the development gaps among its members;

<!-- -->

1.  **ADVANCE** efforts to accelerate progress and to achieve the
    Sustainable Development Goals by 2030 by maximizing the
    complementarities between the ASEAN Community Vision 2025 and the
    2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development through cooperation in food
    security, health security and the building of resilient health
    systems, gender equality, human rights, clean energy and climate
    action, smart and sustainable cities, environmental conservation,
    transparency, and the rule of law as well as other SDG priorities;

<!-- -->

1.  **FURTHER** collaborate to accelerate clean and just energy
    transition and the fight against climate change; support the
    promotion of an inclusive community in ASEAN; and strengthen support
    for the ASEAN Coordinating Centre for Humanitarian Assistance on
    disaster management (AHA Centre);

Economic or Other Possible Areas of Cooperation

1.  **DEEPEN** economic cooperation, promoting financial stability,
    resilience, and anti-corruption; facilitate trade and investment;
    enhance cooperation on trade facilitation, logistics infrastructure,
    and on services, including the transportation sector; enhance
    engagement to contribute to sustainable, resilient and inclusive
    economic growth, including through the vital economic participation
    of the United States in the region;

<!-- -->

1.  **SUPPORT** cooperation on digital economy, cybersecurity, and
    cooperation that builds an open, safe, secure, stable, accessible,
    interoperable, peaceful and resilient cyberspace;

<!-- -->

1.  **SEEK** to engage, where appropriate, other countries, regional and
    sub-regional mechanisms in the Asia-Pacific and Indian Ocean regions
    to work with ASEAN on specific areas of common interests to
    complement the relevant initiatives through innovative, and
    complementary approaches based on the relevant ASEAN-led mechanisms,
    such as the EAS.

**ADOPTED** in Jakarta, Indonesia, on the Sixth of September in the Year
Two Thousand and Twenty-Three.

  
  
\###
