---
date: '2023-09-05'
modified_time: 2023-09-05 13:17:43-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-05 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/05/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-54/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his Administration:

-   Courtney Diesel O’Donnell, Nominee for United States Permanent
    Representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and
    Cultural Organization, with the rank of Ambassador
-   David Huitema, Nominee for Director of the Office of Government
    Ethics
-   Christopher Charles Fonzone, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General
    of the Office of Legal Counsel, Department of Justice
-   Erik Woodhouse, Nominee for Head of the Office of Sanctions
    Coordination, with the rank of Ambassador
-   Paul Herdman, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
    Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation
-   Janice Miriam Hellreich, Nominee for Member of the Board of
    Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
-   Stuart Alan Levey, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
    the Millennium Challenge Corporation

**  
<u>Courtney Diesel O’Donnell, Nominee for United States Permanent
Representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and
Cultural Organization, with the rank of Ambassador  
</u>**Courtney Diesel O’Donnell currently serves in the Biden-Harris
Administration in the Office of the Vice President as a Senior Advisor
and the Acting Chief of Staff for Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff,
working on a range of national and global issues including gender equity
and efforts to counter anti-Semitism. She has extensive experience in
global partnership development, public affairs, and strategic
communications, having served in senior roles in two presidential
administrations, nonprofit and philanthropic organizations, national
political campaigns, and the private sector. Previously, O’Donnell was
the Director of Global Partnerships at Airbnb, where she established
programs and alliances to encourage sustainable tourism, support
economic empowerment through partnerships, and promote female
entrepreneurship around the world. In the Obama-Biden Administration,
she served as Communications Director to Dr. Jill Biden, driving forward
key initiatives including raising awareness and support for America’s
military families at home and abroad and promoting community colleges,
and access to higher education. O’Donnell was appointed by President
Biden to the President’s Commission on White House Fellows in 2021. She
has served on the Advisory Board of the McCourt School of Public Service
at Georgetown University and the Thomson Reuters Foundation. O’Donnell
received a bachelor’s degree from Georgetown University and holds a
Certificate in Global Leadership and Public Policy for the 21st Century
from the Harvard Kennedy School Executive Education Program.**  
  
  
<u>David Huitema, Nominee for Director of the Office of Government
Ethics</u>  
**David Huitema has served as both the Assistant Legal Adviser for
Ethics and Financial Disclosure as well as the Department of State’s
Alternate Designated Agency Ethics Official (ADAEO) since 2016. The
Alternate DAEO manages the Department of State’s Ethics Program on a
day-to-day basis. Previously, Huitema served as an attorney-adviser
advising the Bureau of Human Resources, the Bureau of Economic and
Business Affairs, the Bureau of Energy Resources, and the Bureau of
Western Hemisphere Affairs. Huitema has also provided legal advice on
internet and international telecommunications issues, presidential
permits for transboundary pipelines, policy towards Cuba, and Foreign
Service personnel matters. He joined the Office of the Legal Adviser in
2006 after several years in private practice and a clerkship on the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. Huitema holds his J.D. from
Stanford Law School, an M.A. from the University of Texas at Austin, and
a B.A. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.**<u>  
  
  
Christopher Charles Fonzone, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General of
the Office of Legal Counsel, Department of Justice  
</u>**Chris Fonzone is the General Counsel of the Office of the Director
of National Intelligence (ODNI), serving as ODNI’s chief legal officer
and providing advice and counsel to the Director of National
Intelligence and other senior leaders on the full range of issues
affecting the Intelligence Community. Prior to the Biden-Harris
Administration, Fonzone was a partner in Sidley Austin’s Washington D.C.
office. During the Obama-Biden Administration, Fonzone served as Deputy
Assistant and Deputy Counsel to President Obama and Legal Adviser to the
National Security Council. Previously, he also served as a Member of the
J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board, Special Counsel to the
General Counsel at the Department of Defense, and also served at
the Department of Justice in the Office of Legal Counsel and on the
Civil Appellate staff. He also clerked for Justice Stephen Breyer of the
United States Supreme Court and Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III of the
United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Raised in
Allentown, Pennsylvania, Fonzone attended Cornell University and Harvard
Law School. **<u>  
  
  
Erik Woodhouse, Nominee for Head of the Office of Sanctions
Coordination, with the rank of Ambassador  
</u>**Erik Woodhouse currently serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary
for Counter Threat Finance and Sanctions in the Bureau of Economic and
Business Affairs at the State Department. In that position, he oversees
the Office of Sanctions Policy and Implementation and the Office of
Global Sanctions and Threat Finance. Woodhouse has previously served as
Senior Advisor to the Under Secretary for International Affairs at the
Treasury Department and as an attorney-adviser with the Office of the
Legal Adviser at the State Department. Apart from his government
service, Woodhouse has worked as an attorney, most recently advising
clients on compliance with U.S. sanctions and anti-money laundering
rules and regulations. Earlier in his career, he was a clerk for a judge
on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and a researcher at
the Program on Energy & Sustainable Development at Stanford University.
Raised in Atlanta, Woodhouse received his B.A. from Emory University and
J.D. from Stanford Law School. He speaks Spanish.  
  
**<u>  
Paul Herdman, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry
Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation  
</u>**Paul Herdman has been President and CEO of Rodel of Delaware since
2004. He is a founding member of the state’s Vision Coalition, one of
the nation’s longest standing public-private partnerships working to
transform Delaware’s public schools to world-class status. He also
serves as Chair of Strategic Planning for Delaware’s Workforce
Development Board and has served on a range of local boards, including
the Warehouse (a community center designed by and for young people), the
Metropolitan Wilmington Urban League, and Delaware’s State Chamber of
Commerce. Prior to his current role, Herdman served as a senior manager
at New American Schools, and through the Center for Reinventing Public
Education, consulted with, and wrote for, the Brookings Institution and
RAND. He assisted the Secretary of Education for two governors in
Massachusetts during the wholesale redesign of the state’s policies on
standards, choice, and finance that contributed to the state’s
nationally recognized academic performance. Herdman began his career as
a teacher, co-founding an Outward Bound school-within-a-school in New
York City which connected hundreds of young people to service and the
natural world and informed the creation of Expeditionary Learning, a
national model. Internationally, Herdman helped coordinate several
benchmarking trips to high performing school systems in Europe, Asia,
and North America and recently, spent several months on loan to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), studying
how young people in five countries transition to work in this rapidly
changing world. Herdman holds a B.A. in Biology from the University of
Delaware, as well as his masters and doctoral degrees in Education
Administration and Planning from Harvard University. He and his wife,
Dana, live in Wilmington and have three grown children.**<u>  
  
  
Janice Miriam Hellreich, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
the Corporation for Public Broadcasting  
</u>**Janice Miriam Hellreich is Chair of the Executive Compensation
Committee and Member of the Corporate Governance Committee and has
served on the Corporation for Public Broadcasting’s Board of Directors
since March 2019. Originally from Alabama, Hellreich is a Speech and
Language Pathologist. She founded the speech and language therapy
program for Taipei American School in Taiwan, and later established a
private practice in Hawaii, delivering services to culturally diverse
adults and children. Hellreich, as President of the Hawaii Speech,
Language, & Hearing Association, developed its first professional
continuing education program, later becoming Chair of its Legislative
Affairs Committee. Active in her community, Hellreich served as
President of the Hawaii Medical Association Auxiliary and served on the
boards of the American Cancer Society as well as the Hawaii Association
of Children and Adults with Learning Disabilities. Helping to train
parents with communicatively handicapped children, she developed a
home-therapy program for Hawaii’s rural preschool children through the
California-Hawaii Elks Major Project. From 2002 to 2009, Hellreich was
appointed by the Governor of Hawaii to the Board of Governors of the
East-West Center, which is an educational, training, and research
institution promoting better relations and understanding among the
nations of the United States, Asia, and the Pacific. She was Vice-Chair
of the Board of Governors and Chair of the Strategic Planning Committee.
Hellreich earned her B.A. and M.A. degrees in Speech and Language
Pathology at the University of Alabama. She is married to Dr. Philip
Hellreich and has a daughter and a granddaughter.

**<u>Stuart Alan Levey, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
the Millennium Challenge Corporation</u>** Stuart Alan Levey is the
Chief Legal Officer and Executive Vice President of Oracle Corporation.
From 2020-2021, he was the CEO of the Diem Association, and from 2012 to
2020, Levey was the Chief Legal Officer of HSBC Holdings in London, UK.
Prior to joining HSBC, Levey was the U.S. Treasury Department’s first
Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, serving in
that role for more than six years under both President George W. Bush
and President Barack Obama. He also served in various capacities at the
Department of Justice, including as Principal Associate Deputy Attorney
General. Before joining the Justice Department, Levey was in private
practice at the Washington law firm Miller, Cassidy, Larroca, & Lewin
LLP, where he had a litigation practice with a special emphasis on white
collar criminal defense. Levey clerked for Judge Laurence Silberman on
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Levey graduated from
Harvard College, summa cum laude, and from Harvard Law School, magna cum
laude.

\###
