---
date: '2023-09-20'
published_time: 2023-09-20 13:07:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/20/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-prime-minister-benjamin-netanyahu-of-israel/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin\
  \ Netanyahu of\_Israel"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met today in New York with Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss a range of bilateral, regional,
and global issues of mutual concern.  The President wished the Prime
Minister and the people of Israel a happy new year during the Jewish
high holidays.  President Biden reaffirmed the unbreakable bond between
the two countries, which is based on the bedrock of shared democratic
values, and the United States’ iron-clad commitment to Israel’s
security.  During the meeting, the two leaders reiterated their
commitment to ensuring Iran never acquires a nuclear weapon, as well as
ongoing close cooperation between Israel and the United States to
counter all threats posed by Iran and its proxies.  They also consulted
on progress toward establishing a more integrated, prosperous, and
peaceful Middle East region, including through efforts to deepen and
expand normalization with countries in the region.  The two leaders
welcomed the historic announcement made at the G20 to develop the India
Middle East Europe Economic Corridor (IMEC) through the UAE, Saudi
Arabia, Jordan, and Israel, and discussed how the project can benefit
the entire Middle East region with investment and new forms of
collaboration across two continents.  The two leaders and their teams
welcomed the likely convening soon of a ministerial meeting in the Negev
format to further advance regional integration initiatives, as well as
deepening the ongoing U.S.-Israeli Tech Dialogue.

With regard to ongoing tension and violence in the West Bank, the
President emphasized the need to take immediate measures to improve the
security and economic situation, maintain the viability of a two-state
solution, and promote a just and lasting peace between Israelis and
Palestinians.  To that end, President Biden called on all parties to
fulfill their commitments made during meetings held earlier this year in
Aqaba, Jordan and Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, to include refraining from
further unilateral measures.  The two leaders and their teams agreed to
consult with regional partners with the aim of convening a meeting soon
in this important Aqaba/Sharm format.  The President also reiterated his
concern about any fundamental changes to Israel’s democratic system,
absent the broadest possible consensus.  Finally, President Biden
invited Prime Minister Netanyahu to Washington D.C. before the end of
the year to continue direct collaboration on this broad range of issues.

\###
