---
date: '2023-09-27'
modified_time: 2023-09-27 11:12:30-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-27 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-action-to-restore-healthy-and-abundant-wild-salmon-and-steelhead-in-the-columbia-river-basin/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Takes Action to Restore Healthy and Abundant\
  \ Wild Salmon and Steelhead in the Columbia River\_Basin"
---
 
*Presidential Memorandum follows a historic agreement signed last week
with Tribal Nations to reintroduce salmon into blocked areas in the
Upper Basin*

Today, President Biden signed a Presidential Memorandum to prioritize
the restoration of healthy and abundant wild salmon, steelhead, and
other native fish populations to the Columbia River Basin. The
Presidential Memorandum is part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s
unprecedented commitment to honor the United States’ obligations to
Tribal Nations and protect and restore America’s natural wonders for
future generations, while also recognizing the important co-benefits
that the Columbia River provides to communities and businesses
throughout the region.

The Columbia River and its tributaries, wetlands, and estuaries are the
lifeblood of the Pacific Northwest. The river ecosystem has supported
ways of life, cultural and spiritual practices, commerce, and economic
growth for generations and continues to provide our nation with abundant
water, power, recreation, agriculture, transportation, and opportunity.
Wild salmon, steelhead, and other native fish populations in the
Columbia River Basin are essential to the culture, economy, religion,
and way of life of Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples. Actions since
1855, including the Federal Government’s construction and operation of
dams, private dam building, population growth, and overfishing, have
changed the ecosystem and severely depleted wild fish populations in the
region, substantially harming the Tribes’ ability to exercise their
rights reserved under treaty to hunt and fish in all usual and
accustomed places. Since the dams were constructed, 13 fish species have
been listed as threatened or endangered.

**Today, President Biden is directing all relevant Federal agencies to
utilize existing authorities and available resources – and assess what
additional authorities and resources may be needed – to restore these
wild fish populations and help ensure that the United States upholds its
treaty and trust responsibilities to the Tribes.** The President is also
directing the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality and the
Director of the Office of Management and Budget to explore opportunities
and mechanisms to develop a partnership with Tribal Nations and States
in the Columbia River Basin to ensure that Federal, Tribal, and State
entities work together to achieve this goal.

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to honoring and respecting
Tribal sovereignty, protecting Tribal homelands, and incorporating
Indigenous Knowledge and robust Tribal consultation into planning and
decision-making. The Presidential Memorandum announced today supports
Tribally led conservation efforts and helps address injustices of the
past, including the decline or elimination of these fish from Tribal
lands. It establishes that it is the policy of this Administration to
work with the Congress and with Tribal Nations, States, local
governments, and stakeholders to pursue effective, creative, and durable
solutions to restore wild fish populations while delivering affordable
and reliable clean energy, supporting the local agriculture economy, and
meeting the many resilience needs of the region.

The Presidential Memorandum builds on the Biden-Harris Administration’s
[commitment to identify a strong and lasting path
forward](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2022/03/28/columbia-river-basin-fisheries-working-together-to-develop-a-path-forward/)
to restore healthy and abundant wild salmon and other native fish to the
Columbia River Basin, President Biden’s [call to
action](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/21/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-white-house-conservation-in-action-summit/)
earlier this year, and a [historic
agreement](https://doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-tribes-reach-historic-agreement-supporting-efforts-restore)
announced last week to support Tribally led efforts to restore salmon in
blocked habitats in the Upper Basin. The agreement with the Coeur
d’Alene Tribe, Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation, and
Spokane Tribe of Indians will provide over $200 million over 20 years
from the Bonneville Power Administration, a federal power marketing
administration under the Department of Energy, to help reintroduce
salmon into blocked habitats in the Upper Columbia River Basin. In
addition, last week the Department of the Interior (DOI) announced $8
million over two years through the Bureau of Reclamation to support
these efforts.

President Biden’s Investing in America agenda has provided historic
resources to support locally led conservation efforts, including in the
Pacific Northwest. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation
Reduction Act together include record resources for fish passage and
ecosystem restoration. Today, DOI is also [announcing $3.6
million](https://www.bia.gov/news/president-bidens-investing-america-agenda-invests-10-million-tribal-fish-hatcheries)
to support the construction and expansion of Tribally led fish
hatcheries in the Columbia River Basin, part of a $10 million investment
through the Bureau of Indian Affairs’ Inflation Reduction Act Fish
Hatchery Program.

Additional Biden-Harris Administration efforts to target resources to
support President Biden’s goal of restoring wild salmon, steelhead, and
other native fish populations to healthy and abundant levels in the
Columbia River Basin include:

-   The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
    [allocated $60
    million](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/national/climate/helping-america-prepare-and-respond-climate-change-under-inflation-reduction-act#:~:text=Mitchell%20Act%20Hatcheries%20(%2460,in%20the%20Columbia%20River%20Basin.)
    in funding from the Inflation Reduction Act to support high-priority
    deferred maintenance projects for Mitchell Act Hatcheries in the
    Columbia River Basin. NOAA also allocated nearly $4.5 million in
    2022 funding for two Tribal priority fish passage projects in the
    Basin through the Restoring Tribal Priority Fish Passage through
    Barrier Removal program.

<!-- -->

-   EPA’s Columbia River Basin Program received $79 million in the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for 2021-2026. This funding provides
    EPA the ability to expand the Columbia River Basin Restoration
    Program and significantly increase competitive grants throughout the
    Basin to reduce toxics. In 2022, EPA awarded approximately [$6.9
    million across 25
    projects](https://www.epa.gov/columbiariver/columbia-river-basin-restoration-funding-assistance-program)
    to reduce toxics in fish and water throughout the Basin. EPA has
    also committed more than $33 million in the Basin in fiscal year
    2023 to address toxics and cold water refugia. 

<!-- -->

-   NOAA Fisheries announced [$95
    million](https://www.noaa.gov/news-release/biden-administration-targets-funding-for-salmon-recovery-and-restoration-in-us-west)
    for 2022 and [$106
    million](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/feature-story/noaa-fisheries-recommends-1061-million-noaa-pacific-coastal-salmon-recovery-funding)
    for 2023 Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund awards, through annual
    appropriations and President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
    Over $12 million of this was directed to the Columbia River Basin in
    2022 and over $16 million in 2023.

<!-- -->

-   NOAA has committed over $2.4 million to the [removal of the Enloe
    Dam in
    Washington](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/feature-story/endangered-salmon-regain-access-healthy-west-coast-habitat-through-20-projects-funded).
    The removal of Enloe Dam is led by the Confederated Tribes of the
    Colville Reservation and will provide access to 1,520 miles of
    potential spawning and rearing habitat for endangered salmon and
    steelhead.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Transportation [awarded over $18
    million](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/biden-harris-administration-announces-first-ever-grants-fix-more-160-fish-culverts#:~:text=Ten%20projects%20in%20the%20Columbia,run%20into%20the%20Columbia%20River.)
    for culvert removals in the Columbia River Basin to help salmon
    migrate more freely through tributaries to their natal spawning
    grounds.

<!-- -->

-   The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has awarded over $7 million in
    2023 for projects to conserve and restore native fish and their
    habitats throughout the Columbia River Basin.

<!-- -->

-   Grants through the [America the Beautiful
    Challenge](https://www.nfwf.org/media-center/press-releases/nfwf-federal-agencies-and-private-partners-announce-91-million-grants-america-beautiful-challenge)
    include funding for priority Tribal projects related to salmon. For
    2022, grants and matching funds
    [included](https://www.nfwf.org/sites/default/files/2022-11/NFWF-ATBC-20221108-GS.pdf)
    over $6 million for the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama
    Nation for habitat restoration projects; nearly $20 million to the
    Nez Perce Tribe for restoring sockeye salmon habitat connectivity at
    the Wallowa Dam; and $621,000 to the North Fork John Day Watershed
    Council for habitat benefiting at-risk Middle Columbia River
    steelhead, bull trout, and spring run chinook salmon.

<!-- -->

-   President Biden’s fiscal year 2024 budget request includes $93
    million for salmon recovery efforts through the U.S. Army Corps of
    Engineers, including [$66.67
    million](https://www.usace.army.mil/Media/News-Releases/News-Release-Article-View/Article/3324648/statement-by-assistant-secretary-of-the-army-for-civil-works-on-the-presidents/)
    specific to Columbia River Fish Mitigation.
