---
date: '2023-09-26'
published_time: 2023-09-26 19:12:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/26/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-50th-anniversary-of-the-rehabilitation-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on 50th Anniversary of the Rehabilitation\_\
  Act"
---
 
Every American, especially those with disabilities, is worthy of dignity
and our respect and should have access to every opportunity available in
our country. Fifty years ago, our nation took a critical step toward
realizing that promise with the enactment of the Rehabilitation Act.
This landmark legislation is one of the most consequential civil rights
laws in our history. It is responsible for banning discrimination on the
basis of disability by federally funded entities through Section 504 of
the law, and it paved the way for the Americans with Disabilities Act.
As a Senator, I was proud to co-sponsor this legislation as one of my
earliest acts in office.

Since then, I’ve remained steadfastly committed to ensuring that the one
in four Americans who live with disabilities have a fair shot at
achieving the American dream. I’ve signed an Executive Order advancing
opportunities for people with disabilities in the Federal workforce, and
my administration continues to help State and local governments,
employers, and nonprofits tap Federal funds to hire more Americans with
disabilities. However we have more work to do to build on the
Rehabilitation Act’s foundation. Disabled Americans are still three
times less likely to have a job – and they often earn less for doing the
same work. Voting locations, transit, and public spaces are too often
inaccessible. This is wrong, and it’s why my Administration is committed
to equal access for all.

On the 50th anniversary of this legislation, we owe a debt of gratitude
to the tireless advocacy of many people with disabilities and others for
the passage of this law and the others that followed. My Administration
will continue our efforts to break down barriers for all those who face
discrimination.

\###
