---
date: '2023-09-09'
modified_time: 2023-09-09 09:52:32-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-09 09:52:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/09/joint-statement-from-the-united-states-and-the-european-union-on-support-for-angola-zambia-and-the-democratic-republic-of-the-congos-commitment-to-further-develop-the-lobito-corridor-and-the/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement from the United\_States and the European Union on Support\
  \ for Angola, Zambia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo\u2019s commitment\
  \ to Further Develop the Lobito Corridor and the U.S.-EU Launch of a Greenfield\
  \ Rail Line Feasibility\_Study"
---
 
Today, on the margins of the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment (PGII) event at the G20 in India, the United States of
America and the European Union welcomed the recent commitment by Angola,
Zambia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to develop the Lobito
Corridor connecting southern Democratic Republic of the Congo and
northwestern Zambia to regional and global trade markets via the Port of
Lobito in Angola.  
  
To accelerate this work in partnership with the three African countries,
the European Union and the United States are teaming up to support the
development of the Corridor, including by launching feasibility studies
for a new greenfield rail line expansion between Zambia and Angola. This
represents a powerful evolution of the Partnership element of the
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment with a
collaborative approach that could be replicated in other strategic
corridors around the world.  
  
The U.S.-EU partnership will upgrade critical infrastructure across
sub-Saharan Africa to unlock the enormous potential of this region. We
are excited to join forces to generate economic benefits with our
partners in Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Zambia.

The partnership will combine financial resources and technical know-how
to accelerate the Lobito Corridor development, including investments in
digital access and agricultural value chains that will increase regional
competitiveness. This announcement shows PGI and Global Gateway at work,
bringing partners together to finance multibillion dollar projects that
will help create local jobs, decrease the carbon footprint and improve
local economies.

As an immediate next step, the United States and the European Union will
support the Governments in launching pre-feasibility studies for the
construction of the new Zambia-Lobito railway line from eastern Angola
through northern Zambia. This builds on the initial U.S.-led support to
refurbish the railway section from the Lobito port in Angola to
the [Democratic Republic of the
Congo](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/2817-Zambia-Angola-Economic-Corridor-G20-WEB.jpg).  
  
Once transport infrastructure connecting all three countries is fully
operational, the Corridor will enhance export possibilities for Zambia,
Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, boost the regional
circulation of goods, and promote the mobility of citizens. By
significantly reducing the average transport time, the new railway will
lower the logistics costs and carbon footprint of exporting metals,
agricultural goods, and other products, as well as for future
development of any mineral discoveries.  
  
The United States and the European Union plan to explore cooperation in
three specific areas: i) transport infrastructure investments; ii)
measures to facilitate trade, economic development and transit; and iii)
support to related sectors to fuel inclusive and sustainable economic
growth and capital investment in Angola, Zambia and Democratic Republic
of the Congo in the longer term. Specifically, this includes developing
clean energy projects to increase the power supply to surrounding
communities, supporting diversified investment in critical minerals and
clean energy supply chains, extending digital access, growing
agriculture value chains to enhance local food production for the
region’s expanding population and to address global food insecurity, as
well as augmenting local workforce training, support for small and
medium enterprises and economic diversification.
