---
date: '2023-02-09'
modified_time: 2023-02-13 10:04:35-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-09 15:13:51-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/02/09/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-tampa-florida/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Tampa,\_Florida"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Tampa, Florida

11:55 A.M. EST

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Today we head to Tampa, Florida, where
the President will contrast his commitment to protecting and
strengthening Medicare and Social Security and lowering prescription
drug prices with congressional Republicans’ plan to cut these programs.

Unfortunately, there is a long history of congressional Republicans’
efforts to cut these programs.  Last year, the Republican Study
Committee, which includes — most House Republicans called for deep cuts
— deep cuts to Medicare and Social Security benefits. 

Senator Mike Lee said, quote, “One thing that you probably haven’t heard
from a politician: It will be my objective to phase out Social Security,
to pull it up by the roots, and get rid of it.”  End quote.

And Florida- — Florida’s own Senator Rick Scott is promoting a plan to
put Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security on the chopping block every
five years, which would put the health and economic security of 63
million Medicare beneficiaries — 69 million Medicaid beneficiaries and
65 million Social Security beneficiaries at risk.

The stakes are high for America’s senior — seniors.  And in Florida
today, the President will highlight the work his administration is doing
to protect and strengthen Medicare and Social Security.

I also wanted to update you all on the President’s continued commitment
to securing paid sick leave for rail workers.  As you know, the
President signed a bill in December that averted a rail disruption and
ensured union members would receive the 24 percent pay raise in their
tentative agreements.  When signing this bill, the President committed
to continuing the fight to secure paid sick leave for all workers,
including rail workers.  
  
This week, C- — CSX, the nation’s largest railroad, and two — and two of
its unions, BMWE and BRC, negotiated agreements ensuring that M- — BMWE
and BRC members can take up to seven days of paid sick leave annually.

These agreements came following continued advocacy and involvement from
the Biden administration, pushing railroad leadership to reach an
agreement that secured paid sick leave for workers, which continues to
be a priority for President Biden. 

The President’s — the agreements between CSX, BMWE, and BRC to provide
paid sick days are good — are good steps, ensuring no covered worker has
to risk their income to take a day off when they are sick. 

Securing paid sick leave for rail workers will continue to be a priority
for the President.  And we are strongly urging other rail companies to
follow suit.

With that —

Q    Thanks.  I have two topics.  Can you talk a little bit about what
the White House wants to accomplish with President Lula’s visit
tomorrow?  
  
And I’m wondering: Obviously, one theme is always democracy ver- —
against autocracy.  But are there limitations to achieving that with a
leader who still maintains good relations with Cuba, Venezuela, has said
Zelenskyy is just as responsible for Russia — or for what’s happening in
Ukraine as Putin?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the President is looking forward to meeting with
the President of Brazil tomorrow.  As you mentioned, they’re going to
have a bilat at the White House. 

We are going to have a backgrounder later this afternoon that the
National Security Council is going to hold.  So I don’t want to get
ahead of what’s on the agenda, what will be discussed, but I would refer
you to the backgrounder that’s going to occur later today.

Q    Do you just have, like, a broad thematic —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t want to get ahead of what the NSC folks
are going to do.  And then, clearly, we’ll have a little bit more to
share tomorrow during the briefing. 

But just want to let them set — set the tone and set the — set what will
be discussed, an agenda, or give a little bit more flavor.  And they’re
going to do that today at the backgrounder.

Q    And not commenting on any imminent Cabinet departures, but the
Biden administration was the first administration in more than 20 years
to not have an Asian Cabinet Secretary.  And I’m wondering in future —
in future Cabinet departures, would the President commit to rectifying
that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, not going to get ahead of any personnel
announcements from here.  As far as we know, as far as I know, as far as
you all know, Marty Walsh is still the Secretary of Labor.  (Laughs.)

Q    I wasn’t asking about him.  (Laughter.)  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just saying — I’m just saying that is still true
today, but I just don’t have anything else to share.  Once — if
something comes up that we need to share, certainly we will — we’ll do
that.

Q    Well, what about the diversity aspect?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean —

Q    Because we’ve heard a lot of anger from the AAPI community about
this.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do want to say, like, we’ve talked many times about
the President’s diversity commitment in this administration, making sure
that this is indeed the most diverse administration that we have seen in
modern politics.   
  
And it is, right?  We have seen that over — over again.  You’ve heard us
say that over and over again that this is the most diverse
administration ever — I shouldn’t even say “in modern times.”  Ever.   
  
And so, look, every community is important to this President.  Clearly,
we want to make sure that we have an administration that represents the
United States.  He thinks that’s important.  And we’ll continue to work
towards that.   
  
So, the AAPI community is important, like every other community.  I just
don’t have anything to share on that particular — that parti- — or any
announcement, any personnel announcement to make.   
  
But I can assure you that this is a President that is committed to
making sure that communities are being represented in his
administration.  And he’s proven that.  And that has been proven to be
the case.    
  
Q    Karine, just to —  
  
Q    So, we’re on a trip to Florida to talk about Social Security and
Medicare, which are both on a path to insolvency.  What is the White
House plan to put them back on sound fiscal footing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Put Medicare and Social Security?  
  
Q    Correct.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you’ve heard the President talk about this for —
gosh, since — since the campaign about how it’s important to fight for
Medicare, how it’s important to fight for Social Security.  And he’s
going to continue to do that.  
  
Q    How?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he’s going to certainly call out Republicans
when they’re trying to — when they’re trying to, you know, put a
bull’s-eye on those two piece- — two programs that taxpayers pay into,
that taxpayers actually deserve.   
  
And you’ve heard me talk about it.  We’re talking about seniors.  We’re
talking about vets.   
  
But if you look at the Infl- — the Inflation Reduction Act, for example
— right? — that has — in that — in that piece of legislation that the
President signed just last year, it strengthens Medicare.  It protects
Medicare.  It helps lower costs, in particular, especially for
seniors.   
  
So, the President has taken actions in the — in his legislation, piece
of legislation turned into law, where we — where he zeroes in on making
sure that we’re protecting Medicare.   
  
Now, look, the President has been very clear.  He’s — you heard him. 
You heard him during the State of the Union.  You heard him yesterday in
Wisconsin.  You heard him in the interview that he did with — with
PBS.   
  
Republicans, if that’s what they want to do, which they have said — we
have the receipts from many of you who have laid out — you know, we like
receipts here, as the young people say — that have laid out — that have
laid out and said when — you know, said specifically — Republicans in
the House have said –and Senate — have said that they want to sunset
these two programs and have put up — put forth plans on how to do
that.   
  
So, what we want to see — the President is going to put his budget out
on March 9th.  He’s going to — he’s going to lay out how he’s going to
put forward a fiscally responsible budget for fiscal year 2024.  And
he’s asking — he’s asking the House, you know, Republicans to put forth
their budget.  If this is what they want to do, okay, let’s see what
your spending cuts are. 

But again, the President is going to continue to fight for these key
consequential programs that Americans deserve.   
  
Q    And when he was on the campaign trail in 2020, the President
actually campaigned on increasing Social Security benefits in a number
of areas.  Is that still on the table?  And what is the President going
to do on that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t want to get ahead of the — of his March
9th budget.  I’m not going to get ahead of what he’s going to talk about
specifically or what he’s going to lay out.  I know better — I know
better to not get ahead of the President, so I’m not going to do
that.   
  
What I can say for sure and for certain, and what the President has said
over and over again, is that he’s going to protect, he’s going to fight,
and he’s going to call out these House Republicans and Senate
Republicans who have continuously said over the years and especially the
last several months that they want to cut those two key benefits, again,
that taxpayers deserve and pay into and should benefit from.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    In the State of the Union Address, the President did say that he
had a plan to shore up the Medicare trust fund (inaudible), but he
didn’t mention — didn’t say the same thing for Social Security.  Does
that mean he doesn’t have a plan for that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to get ahead of what the President
is going to lay out on his budget — in his budget on March 9th.  I’m
just not going to get ahead of it.   
  
Q    And have you looked at the budget cuts that the House Budget
Committee released yesterday as a suggestion of where to start on some
budget cuts?  Are there areas of agreement that you see there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — yeah, I saw that.  Look, what we think is this is
a list just — just another set of Republicans’ suggestions that would
raise costs for seniors — that’s how we see it — middle-class families,
and students; take away people’s healthcare; increase poverty; and
reverse our progress on jobs.   
  
That’s how we saw the list that they put forth.  Republicans need to put
forward, again, a complete budget, like the President is going to do on
March 9th — a complete budget proposal to see what their fiscal
priorities are.   
  
And so, that’s what we want to see.  That’s what we’re going to call out
for.  And we need it to be — we need it to be in full, and we need it to
be transparent, just like we’re going to do.

Go ahead.

Q    I have a couple.  But right off the top, on Turkey: We’ve obviously
seen the catastrophic death toll continue to grow.  I know the
administration has both been in contact and been working on aid
proposals.  Any update from the U.S. side on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, thanks for that question.  What we — clearly what
we are all witnessing and seeing in Turkey and Syria is devastating. 

So, two urban search-and-rescue teams from USAID composed of 159 members
and 12 rescue dogs are now on the ground to support Turkey’s search and
rescue efforts.  We have also deployed approximately 170,000 pounds of
specialized tools and equipment, including hydraulic concrete-breaking
equipment, saw torches — saws, torches, and drills, along with advanced
medical equipment to assist with search-and-rescue operations.  

We also have U.S. personnel on the ground working to address the needs
of those injured and displaced by the earthquakes.  U.S.-supported
humanitarian partners are also responding to the destruction in Syria as
well.  And the Department of Defense is working to identify any future
capabilities that might be needed to support the response.

As you know, the President called the President of Turkey just a couple
of days ago.  I don’t have any calls to read out.  But clearly, we are —
we stand by, and we have — clearly are ready to assist in any way — in
any way possible.

Q    Okay.  And then, obviously, the President is traveling to Florida. 
The governor of Florida is currently in a bit of a battle with Disney at
this point in time.  I was wondering if the President was going to weigh
in or had any thoughts on that, from his point of view.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t know about you all, but I certainly would not
get into a fight with Mickey Mouse.  (Laughter.)  I don’t think that
would be the thing that I would be doing.

And I don’t think that’s what Governor Sanders, as you heard from her
rebuttal — I don’t think that’s what she meant when she said there’s a
choice between “normal and crazy.”  So I’ll leave that there.

But the President — as you know, Phil — is in Florida today to talk
about very real things that matter to Floridians — as I mentioned,
expanding affordable healthcare and protecting Medicare and Social
Security from dangerous attacks by Republican officials, as you’ll hear
the President continue to call out and do.

Q    We received more details about the scope of the Chinese
surveillance balloon program.  What’s the U.S. policy if we detect new
balloons heading towards the country?  Is it to shoot them down before
they enter U.S. territory?  Or what is it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I kind of got this question last time.  It’s a
hypothetical question, so I’m not going to get into hypotheticals. 

Clearly, every — every event is going to be very different.  As we — as
you’ve heard us — as you’ve heard reported, there were three balloons
during the Trump administration that were not shot down — right? — that
we were able to move out of the U.S. continental air.  And this one —
this last one clearly was something different. 

But I’m certainly not going to get into how the intelligence community
or the Pentagon moves forward with this program and how they assess. 
Just not going to get into details on any hypotheticals, which is not
possible to do in reality.

Q    Was the President surprised by the Republican response to his
allegations about Social Security and Medicare cuts during the State of
the Union address?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President actually responded to this a
little bit yesterday during his interview, and he said — he said, look,
it wasn’t all Republicans, it was just a certain sector of the
Republican Party, the extreme. 

And he understands that — look, you know, he has said, especially after
the midterms, he’s ready to work across the aisle to work with
Republicans to get things done for the American people.  That’s what
they want to see.  They want us to put aside political warfare and
actually deliver. 

And he wants to build on the progress that he’s made — the economic
progress.  You heard him talk about that at the State of the Union.  He
spoke directly to the American people. 

And he has an economy that we believe and the data shows that works:
building an economy, growing an economy from the bottom up, middle out;
not believing and not doing the trickle-down economy — the trickle-down
economy that we’ve seen for decades upon decades. 

But at the same time, he is not going to shy away of calling out
Republicans who have been very clear and deliberate by putting, you
know, their plans during the midterms about how they were going to cut
down or get rid of or sunset Medicare and Social Security.  And that is
something that he is proud to do.  That is something that he is proud to
fight for.  And you’ll hear more from him today in Florida.

Go ahead.

Q    Senator Rick Scott has responded, essentially saying that the
President should resign.  He put out an ad in Florida accusing the
President of cheating on his taxes and gutting Medicare.  That’s his
response.  What’s the White House response to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I do have a response.  And — like CNN’s factcheck
la- — just two nights ago verified, as the President said: Scott’s
proposals would sunset all federal legislation, including Medicare and
Social Security.  That has been factchecked by one of your colleagues
here — or, you know, network here, CNN.

Speaking of factchecks though, Senator Scott’s attack on us for lowering
drug costs has been roundly debunked.  Senator Scott’s ad only cements
that congressional Republicans are targeting Medicare, repealing the
AARP-backed Inflation Reduction Act.  As Scott is now calling for, it
would be the largest cut to Medicare benefits in decades.

Every time Rick Scott opens his mouth, he proves the President’s point. 
He doubles down.  He doesn’t step away.  He actually doubles down, as he
did this morning.  The man who got rich overseeing the biggest Medicare
fraud in history — let’s not forget that — is protesting too much, once
again.

So I’ll leave it there.  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, a couple more on China that are hopefully less
hypothetical.  (Laughter.)  Do you think the partisan response of
Republicans bashing the administration for its handling of it sort of
plays to China’s hands here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m just going to keep it really simple and
basically repeat what the President said.  And he said that — he was
very clear: “Make no mistake about it…if China threatens our
sovereignty, we will act and protect our country.”  And that’s what he
did.   
  
He put the — he made sure that we protected Americans.  We made sure
that — remember, when that ball- — balloon was on its — on its path, we
were able to collect sensitive, secure information from that balloon. 
We were also able to protect any national security, sensitive
information that was on the ground as it was moving on its path.  
  
And when it got to a place where it was safe, where — where the Pentagon
felt like American public — the American citizens would be safe and
protected, the President ordered to shoot it down.  That’s what we did. 
That’s what a Commander-in-Chief does.  And we responded very clearly. 
And we proved — we believe, the President believes — that we will
respond when needed.   
  
Q    You know, China seems to be digging in on this, though.  So do you
think — should we expect that there are further consequences for China,
for this program, which you guys are, you know, continuously briefing us
on?  
  
Or do you want to, sort of, put that balloon episode behind you and —
you know, you shot it down, and this is sort of like the end of this
episode?  Or should we expect more actions against the Chinese?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this.  Look, we, the United States, sent
a clear message to the PRC that it’s a violation of our sovereign —
sovereignty was unacceptable by shooting down the balloon, protecting
our own sensitive intelligence, and maximizing our ability to track the
balloon and recover the pay- — payload to get more information on the
PRC’s program.   
  
The U.S. will also explore taking action against PRC entities linked to
the PLA that supported the balloon’s incursion into U.S. airspace.   
  
We will also look at broader efforts to expose and address the PRC’s
larger surveillance activities that pose a threat to our national
security and to our allies and partners as well.  
  
As we saw, the second balloon over Central and South America that they
just acknowledged, they — China — has no explanation for why they
violated the airspace of Central and South America countries.  
  
The PRC’s program will only continue to be exposed, making it harder for
PRC to use this program.  And that’s how we’re going to move forward.  
  
Q    Okay.  One more on China.  The President obviously called out Xi
Jinping during the State of the Union and again last night, in this
interview.  Also said China has enormous challenges, you wouldn’t want
to trade with — with him as a leader.   
  
The Chinese Foreign Ministry says his comments are “highly irresponsible
and violate basic diplomatic protocols.”  Do you have a response to
that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will just say what the — what the President has said
before and especially during the State of the Union.  We — make no
mistake about it: If China threatens our sovereignty, we will act and
protect our country.  I’m just going to leave it there.   
  
Q    Oh, one quick follow-up.  Why hasn’t the President agreed to the
Fox Super Bowl interview yet?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have any — I don’t have anything to
preview on Sunday.  
  
Q    Fox said this morning on their shows that they — you guys haven’t
agreed.  And why — why would he want to miss the chance for a big Super
Bowl audience?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear — I hear the question.  I just don’t have
anything to preview for you about Sunday.  
  
Q    One more, unrelated.  Has the President spoken with Senator
Fetterman?  Are — do you guys have any updates on his health
condition?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, clearly, we wish Senator Fetterman a speedy
recovery.  And just don’t have a — I don’t have a call to preview for
you.  But, clearly, we — you know, we hope he recovers quickly.  
  
Q    Without asking about a specific hypothetical trip –(laughter) —
administration officials —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  I wonder which one this is.  
  
Q    Officials have been clear, though, that they want to elevate the
moment of one year since the Russian invasion.  Can you talk about what
the process has been in preparing for that, which is just a couple weeks
away?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — as I’ve mentioned before, we’ve had internal
conversations about how we are going to commemorate the one year — one
year of, you know, Russia’s brutal war against Ukraine.   
  
And as you have seen and you’ve heard from the President, especially
when the — President Zelenskyy was here, we continued our strong support
for the people of Ukraine as they are fighting against this — fighting
this against — fighting this brutal war.  And we’re going to continue
our security assistance as long as it takes.  
  
I don’t have anything to share beyond that, but that is — that is
something that we’re looking into — as you mentioned, Phil.   
  
And the President just — just, you know, answered this question when he
was asked on — on the South Lawn as he was boarding Marine One, and he
said he just hasn’t made a decision yet.  So, I’ll leave it to what the
President said.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On Senator Scott, what’s the difference between his legislation
that proposes sunsetting federal programs and the President’s — the
legislation that Biden introduced as a — in 1975, as a senator?  Is the
only difference the fact that Biden is no longer in favor of that?  Or
is there any other differences between those two?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m just — I’m just going to say this.  The
President ran on protecting Medicare and Social Security from cuts.  And
he reiterated that in the State of the Union.  He’s been very clear
these past couple of years.  
  
Rick Scott has the opposite point.  That’s just — that’s just what is —
we’re seeing from Rick Scott.  He’s actually doubling down, tripling
down, quadrupling down on that — on his view.  And it keeps — and his
plan that would sunset both programs.   
  
So, Scott did that again just this week.  I think he did that this
morning.  Meanwhile, he’s also pushing for the biggest Medicare cut in
dec- — in decades by wanting to repeal the Inflation Reduction Act.   
  
That is — when I was asked about how — what else he’s doing to
strengthen Medicare, the Inflation Reduction Act actually does that. 
And if you cut it, you know, that’s going to have huge ramifications, as
well.  
  
So, a bill from the 1970s is not part of the President’s agenda.  You
have to listen to what the President said the last couple of years about
protecting and fighting for Medicare and Social Security.  And that will
remain the case.  
  
He was very clear when he spoke to millions of Americans at State of the
Union about that, he’ll be clear today when he’s in Florida, on what
he’s going — on what he sees the fight ahead and how important it is to
protect, again, what taxpayers have paid into and what they deserve:
Medicare and Social Security.  Something that if you’re talking — if
you’re thinking about it, you’re thinking about seniors and veterans.  
And this is something that he is going to be a fighter on.   
  
Okay.  Thanks, everybody.  I’ll see you on the ground.

12:16 P.M. EST
