---
date: '2023-02-03'
modified_time: 2023-02-03 16:00:51-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-03 16:00:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/02/03/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-philadelphia-pa-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Philadelphia,\_\
  PA"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

1:49 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, guys.  Hello, hello, hello.  Okay, I’m going to
do this really fast. 

As you know, we are en route to the home of the future Super Bowl
champion, Philadelphia Eagles.  As the First Lady would say, “Go Birds.”

This week, the President visited Baltimore to make a historic investment
in the rail along the Northeast Corridor and traveled to New York City
to announce funding to complete — to complete a critical early phase of
the Hudson Tunnel Project.

Today, the President and the Vice President are traveling to
Philadelphia to announce hundreds of millions of dollars in Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law funding to upgrade Philadelphia’s water system and
replace lead service lines.

Today — today’s visit continues the administration’s focus on
implementing its economic agenda to deliver real results for the
American people, its aggressive work to replace all lead service lines
in America in the next decade.

Everyone deserves safe drinking water in America.  Your ZIP Code
shouldn’t determine whether your kids are at risk of lead poisoning
every time they access a basic necessity.

The President and the Vice President will be joined in Philadelphia by
EPA Administrator Michael Regan, Governor Josh Shapiro, Senator John
Fetterman, Senator Bob Casey, Congressman Dwight Evans, and Mayor Jim
Kenney.

I think I’m just going to go to questions.  I do have a week ahead, but
I could — we could always send that out, unless you want that right now.

Q    We’ll do questions.  So, Karine, a couple balloon-related
questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    When did the White House learn about the balloon?  And why was
there a delay in, you know, disclosing that the balloon was out there?

Secondly, did the President make the decision to cancel the Secretary of
State’s trip?  And what does this episode say about U.S.-China relations
at this time?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  That’s a lot of questions right there.

Q    Got them all in.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, he was — the President was briefed on this on
Tuesday.  He was — he has been — continued to receive regular briefings
and updates from the national security team.

I just want to reiterate what the Pentagon said earlier today — my
counterpart.  We’ve detected and is tracking a high-altitude
surveillance balloon that is over the continental United States right
now, as you all know.  It does not present a military or physical threat
to people on the ground.

President Biden was briefed, as I just stated.  And he’s — and he asked
the military to present options.  It was the — it was the strong
recommendation by Secretary Austin, Chairman Milley, the commander of
Northern Command not to take kinetic action because of the risk to
safety and security of the people on the mili- — on the ground.

President Biden took the rec- — that recommendation from the military
seriously — of his advisors, clearly.  The President will always put the
safety of the security of the American people first.

And as my colleague said over at the Department of Defense earlier
today, we are tracking closely and keeping all options on the table.

I can say, as it relates to Blinken’s trip, the President agrees with
the Secretary — Secretary’s decision to not go to — go on this trip, and
it was a consensus that — that it was not appropriate to travel to the
People’s Republic of China at this time.

We note that — the PRC statement of regret, but the presence of this
balloon in our airspace, it is a clear violation of our sovereignty as
well as international law, and it is unacceptable this — this occurred.

And to your question about the relationship moving forward: Look, the
President is always going to put the safety of — of Americans and the
security of American people first.  
  
Under this President, we are more prepared to — to outcompete China,
protect our national security, and advance a free and open Indo-Pacific
than ever before.  
  
Many of the efforts we have been pursuing are bipartisan, underscoring
the alignment at home and — and on this key issue.  And so, that’s how
we’re going to continue to proceed.  
  
I think I got everything, but —  
  
Q    Karine, may I ask a follow-up?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    Will the United States attempt to capture this balloon while it is
in U.S. airspace?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you heard from — from my — from my colleague, they
are clearly keeping an eye on the balloon and going to continue to
monitor it.  We’re not going to give any more specifics than that.  But
it is something that the Pentagon is — is keeping a close eye on.  And
I’m just not going to get ahead of — of the flight path or the pattern
or anything like that.  I’ll just leave it to the Department of
Defense.  
  
Q    Has the President ruled out, then, shooting it down, if he’s
already taken that recommendation?  Or is that still something he’s
considering?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, we’re going to continue to monitor.  I’m going
to, clearly, leave it to the Department of Defense to — to figure out
the next steps as they monitor this.  But I just don’t have anything
else to share.  
  
Q    Karine, when you said that —  
  
Q    Was the President —  
  
Q    When you said that it’s not appropriate for him to go right now,
what does the President think would be the appropriate conditions under
which the Secretary of State’s travel could go ahead?  
  
And also, DOD and you have just clearly stated it’s a surveillance
balloon, and the Chinese are trying to sell it as, you know, a weather
intel-gathering balloon.  So you’re not — you seem to not be buying
their propaganda here if you think —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, again, we’ve acknowledged their statement of
regret.  
  
Q    Yeah, but they’re saying they’re not gathering intel the way you
have laid it out.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear you.  I hear you.  I — I’m — what I’m saying is
— look, I’m going to refer you to the Department of Defense as it
relates to intel.   
  
But I will — I will reiterate what my colleague has said, which is: We
acted immediately to take all necessary steps to protect against foreign
intelligence collection of sensitive information.  We are tracking
closely and keeping all options on the table. 

And as the — as the Pres- — as the Pentagon — my — the Pentagon have
said, this is a high-altitude surveillance balloon.  It will — it is
well above commercial airspace.  
  
And again, as my colleague has said at the Pentagon, it is well above
60,000 feet.  It does not pose a military or physical threat.  And
again, I don’t have anything more to share on that.  I would refer you
to my — to my colleagues.

  
Q    Karine — Karine, if this was already found out by Tuesday, why did
it take so long for the decision to cancel Secretary Blinken?  And if
you can just clarify when that decision was made.  And also, are there
any plans for President Biden to call President Xi over this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — as it relates to a conversation
with President Xi, I can tell you this: Our national security team has
communicated directly with the Chinese government about this at several
levels.  And I just don’t have any calls to preview for you.  
  
As it relates to the President’s — the — Secretary Blinken’s trip, I
leave it to the State Department to explain that further.  
  
But again, as I said, the President agrees with the pres- — with the
Secretary postponing this trip.  
  
It is very bumpy, and we are being asked to sit.  And thank you,
everybody.  I’ll see you on the ground.  
  
1:55 P.M. EST
