---
date: '2023-02-13'
published_time: 2023-02-13 17:11:58-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/02/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-council-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-february-13-2023/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby, February 13,\_2023"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:17 P.M. EST  
  
Q    Hello.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.

(A reporter sneezes.)

Bless you.  And good afternoon.

Okay, just have one thing at the top to get us started.

President Biden has made clear that the United States is prepared to
provide any and all types of aid to the people of Turkey and Syria in
response to the ongoing humanitarian crisis there, and we continue to
take steps to do so.

I’m sure you all saw, during the Super Bowl, to — during the Super Bowl
yesterday — to donate to earthquake relief efforts.  And I want to point
out some resources just for that.

There’s a page on <s>USA AID’s </s>\[USAID\] — has a list — where they
have a list of vetted organizations responding to this crisis should
individuals want to contribute.  You can find that at CIDI.org.

In Turkey, our urban search and rescue teams continued their efforts
assisting in live rescues over the weekend.  We also continue to support
the Turkish teams on the ground.  U.S. military helicopters are
providing critical lift for U.S. and international responders. 

Our teams also continue to conduct structural damage assessments of
buildings with the hope of being able to clear as many as possible.  To
date, they have assessed more than 5,500 buildings, allowing thousands
of people who are currently displaced to be able to return home.

In Syria, cross-border aid shipments have increased.  Yesterday, a
fourth U.N. convoy of 10 trucks from a U.S.-supported humanitarian
partner successfully crossed into Syria from Turkey.  That brings the
total to 52 U.N. trucks.  But more needs to be done.

It’s critical for the Security Council to authorize two additional
crossings to help deliver lifesaving assistance.  We cannot delay any
longer.

Again, I want to emphasize that any U.S. or international sanctions
include exemptions for humanitarian, medical, food, and other aid.

And one last thing before I turn it over to the Admiral.  I just wanted
to make sure we address this from the White House.  I know there have
been questions and concerns about this, but there is no — again, no
indication of aliens or extraterrestrial activity — (laughter) — with
these recent takedowns.

Again, there is no indication of aliens or \[extra\]terrestrial activity
with these recent takedowns.  Wanted to make sure that the American
people knew that, all of you knew that.  And it was important for us to
say that from here because we’ve been hearing a lot about it.

Q    Are you disappointed by that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m not — (laughter) —

Q    Would you tell us if there were, really?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just — you know, I loved “E.T.,” the movie.  But
I’m gon — I’m just going to leave it there.  (Laughter.)

With that, with all seriousness, I know there’s a lot of questions about
the flying objects.  Admiral John Kirby is here with us today, and he’s
going to have a topper — couple of things to say at the top about it and
then take your questions.   
Okay?

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks.  Thanks for clearing that up, Karine.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Anytime.  Anytime.

MR. KIRBY:  Makes my job easier.  (Laughter.)

I do have quite a few comments here at the top.  So I do hope that
you’ll just bear with me.  And then I’d be happy to take whatever
questions you — you might have.  
  
So, I’d like to begin today by updating you on our efforts to recover
the debris of several objects that the United States Air Force shot down
over the last few days, as well as that of the spy balloon belonging to
the People’s Republic of China.   
  
And I’d like to put into some context for you how we have worked and are
still working to better understand the issue of high-altitude, low-speed
craft.  
  
Now, let me start with the Chinese program.  
  
When President Biden came into office, he directed the U.S. Intelligence
Community to do a broad assessment of Chinese intelligence capabilities
and to ensure — and to ensure that we were working to detect and to
protect against them.  
  
I think for reasons you will all understand, we cannot publicly go into
many details about how we discover and counteract foreign intelligence
collection efforts, because much of what we have done and are doing is,
of course, sensitive.  
  
But we were able to determine that China has a high-altitude balloon
program for intelligence collection that’s connected to the People’s
Liberation Army.    
  
It was operating during the previous administration, but they did not
detect it.  
  
We detected it.  We tracked it.  And we have been carefully studying it
to learn as much as we can.  
  
We know that these PRC surveillance balloons have crossed over dozens of
countries on multiple continents around the world, including some of our
closest allies and partners.  
  
We assessed that, at this time, these balloons have provided limited
additive capabilities to the PRC’s other intelligence platforms used
over the United States.  But in the future, if the PRC continues to
advance this technology, it certainly could become more valuable to
them.  
  
The President also instructed the Intelligence Community to take a broad
look at the phenomenon of unidentified aerial objects.  
  
Indeed, President Biden conducted the first-ever Daily Intelligence
Briefing session devoted to this phenomenon back in June of 2021.  He
was briefed that this is not just an issue for the United States but one
for the rest of the world.  
  
And as I said, our friends and our partners are dealing with this as
well.   
  
We worked on a bipartisan basis to stand up an office at the Pentagon to
study this, in partnership with the Intelligence Community, academic
institutions, and the private sector.  
  
And these unidentified aerial phenomena have been reported for many
years, without explanation or deep examination by the government.   
  
President Biden has changed all that.  We are finally trying to
understand them better.  
  
Now, in light of the Chinese balloon program and this recent incursion
into our airspace, the United States and Canada, through NORAD, have
been more closely scrutinizing that airspace, including enhancing our
radar capabilities, which — as the Commander of NORTHCOM and NORAD,
General VanHerck, said last night — may at least partly explain the
increase in the objects that have been detected.  
  
Slow-moving objects at high altitude with a small radar cross section
are difficult to detect on radar.  Even objects the size of the Chinese
spy balloon — which had a payload the size of, roughly, three school
busses — were not picked up by previous administrations or other
countries.  
  
We also know that a range of entities — including countries, companies,
research and academic organizations — operate objects at these altitudes
for purposes that are not nefarious at all, including scientific
research.  
  
That said, because we have not yet been able to definitively assess what
these most recent objects are, we acted out of an abundance of caution
to protect the security — our security, our interests, and flight
safety.

In Saturday’s case, we acted in consultation with the Canadian
government, the President speaking personally with the — with Prime
Minister Trudeau.   
  
The spy balloon was, of course, different, because we knew precisely
where that was.   
  
As we have said, we do not assess that these most recent objects posed
any direct threat to people on the ground, and we are laser-focused on
confirming their nature and purpose, including through intensive efforts
to collect debris in the remote locations where they have fallen.   
  
In each instance, we have followed the same basic course.   
  
We assessed whether they posed any kinetic threat to people on the
ground.  They did not.  
  
We assessed whether they were sending any communications signals.  We
detected none.  
  
We looked to see whether they were maneuvering or had any propulsion
capabilities.  We saw no signs of that.   
  
And we made sure to determine whether or not they were manned.  They
were not.  
  
We did, however, assess that their altitudes were considerably lower
than the Chinese high-altitude balloon and did pose a threat to civilian
commercial air traffic.  And while we have no specific reason to suspect
that they were conducting surveillance of any kind, we couldn’t rule
that out.  
  
That is why the President — at the recommendation of Sec- — of the
Secretary of Defense, the chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the
NORTH- — NORTHCOM/NORAD Commander — gave the order to shoot them down.

These missions were completed successfully and safely.  Efforts are
actively underway right now at all sites to find what is left of those
objects so that we can better understand and communicate with the
American people what they are.  
  
I think it’s important to remind: the objects in Alaska and Canada are
in pretty remote terrain — ice, wilderness, all of that — making it
difficult to find them in winter weather.  And the object over Lake
Huron now lies in what is probably very deep water.   
  
So, outside of recovery operations, what are we doing?  
  
Well, first, we are continuing to monitor.  There are no active tracks
today, but the professionals at NORAD will continue to do their
important work.

Secondly, we are consulting with allies and partners on the challenge of
unidentified aerial phenomenon and how we can all work together to deal
with that challenge.   
  
The President has directed the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Defense, and the Director of National Intelligence to engage with their
relevant counterparts to share information and to try to gain their
perspectives as well.  Again, this is an issue that affects everybody
around the world.

Third, we will continue to brief members of Congress and relevant state
leadership on what we are doing and what we learn.  The President has
made this a very top priority.   
  
We have, over the course of just the last few days — and certainly over
the course of last week — reached out to inform and brief members of
Congress and relevant state governors of the operations that we were
conducting and of the recovery operations that are underway. 

We’ve also kept Congress briefed generally on this issue of Chinese
surveillance balloons, including classified briefings last August.  And
last week, administration officials provided classified briefings for
all senators and all members of the House of Representatives on the PRC
surveillance balloon.  We fully expect and anticipate and support the
ability to continue these briefings in the days ahead.  
  
And fourth, the President, through his National Security Advisor, has
today directed an interagency team to study the broader policy
implications for detection, analysis, and disposition of unidentified
aerial objects that pose either safety or security risks.  
  
Every element of the government will redouble their efforts to
understand and mitigate these events.

And I’m happy to take some questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead, Colleen.

Q    John, if the objects don’t pose a military threat and they don’t
pose a threat to anybody on the ground, why shoot them down? 
Particularly because the military has — is routinely monitoring radar —
you know, radar blips and such.

MR. KIRBY:  I kind of covered that in the opening statement.  Two real
reasons here.  First, there was a very real potential risk to civilian
air traffic.  The one shot down on Saturday — I’m sorry, yesterday — was
about 20,000 feet.  And the two shot down Friday and Saturday were at
about 40,000 feet.  And as you know, transcontinental air traffic is
roughly around 30,000 feet.  It depends, of course, on weather. 

And so, because we assessed that they weren’t manned and weren’t being
controlled, therefore left to atmospheric conditions, the real risk to
safety of flight was a problem.   
  
The second purpose — and I talked about this earlier, too — was even
though we had no indications that any of these three objects were
surveilling, we couldn’t rule that out.  And so, there — you know, you
want to err on the side of safety here in terms of protecting our
national security interests, and the fact that these objects could have
and likely did at some point in their path transit over, you know,
potential military sites of ours, or sensitive sites.   
  
So again, out of an abundance of caution, for those two reasons, the
President, with the recommendation of his military leaders, directed
them to be taken down.  
  
Q    And because it’s so unprecedented, should the public be hearing
from the President directly on this?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I have — we have been, I think, as transparent as we can
be.  I won’t speak for the President’s personal speaking schedule.  But,
I mean, he has been deeply engaged in every one of these decisions.  He
has been kept informed, including as of this morning, on what’s going on
with recovery efforts.  And he’s very much staying on top of the issue
and directing his team to make sure we are properly consulting and
briefing not just members of Congress, but state leaders as well.  And,
of course, you know, we’re also doing what we can in the public
sphere.  
  
Q    Can you (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait a second, sir.  Excuse me.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, John.  What is the President’s standard going to be
going forward about when he orders an unidentified object shot down?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  It comes down to one simple formulation.  And that’s if, at
the recommendation of his military leaders, he believes that the safety
and security of the United States, the safety and security of the
American people — his prime responsibility — warrant that kind of a
decision.   
  
Q    So it’s possible we could see these shootdowns on a regular basis,
like we saw over the weekend?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t think it’s useful for me to get ahead of where we
are right now.  The President will always side on preserving and
protecting the safety and security of the American people.   
  
Q    You said we’re not flying any surveillance balloons over China. 
Are we flying any other kind of surveillance craft routinely over
China?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We are not flying surveillance balloons over China.  I’m not
aware of any other craft that we’re flying over — into Chinese
airspace.   
  
Q    And then, finally, can you tell us anything more about this
octagonal object?  How big was it?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re still trying to assess what that was.  I’m not going
to get into a description.  I’ve seen the press reports about what it
looked like.  
  
I think we all need to be humble here in terms of what our ability is to
positively identify stuff from fighter aircrafts that are going several
hundred miles an hour past, essentially, in terms of relative motion, a
stationary object that was not very big.   
  
So we don’t know what this exactly looked like.  And again, we’re still
not sure exactly what the purpose of it was or who owned it.  But we —
we hope to be able to find out more once we can recover the debris from
that one and from the other two as well.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Scott.  
  
Q    Just a few minutes ago, Prime Minister Trudeau said that there’s
some sort of pattern to the objects over the last few days.  Is that
something you could elaborate on — what sort of pattern the White House
has seen?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not familiar with the Prime Minister’s comments, so I
don’t know if I — if I should take a swing at that.   
  
I would just tell you that, going back to what I said before, these
objects were not being maneuvered.  They did not appear to have any
self-propulsion.  So the likely hypothesis is that they were being moved
by the prevailing winds.   
  
And maybe perhaps that’s what the Prime Minister is talking about.  I
don’t want to speak for him.  
  
But certainly, as the prevailing winds, particularly at that altitude,
go west to east across the North American airspace — I mean, there was a
general common movement in that regard.   
  
Q    And you spoke at the top about kind of reassessing radar given what
happened with the initial balloon.  Can you give us a sense — can we
expect — should we assume that this is the regular number of these
objects over the United States, that they’ve always been there and they
just haven’t been looked at the same way?  Or is there any reason to
expect that this is — this is more than usual that are flying over our
airspace?  
  
Q    MR. KIRBY:  So, two thoughts here.  I mean, I think  
— I think we can all get our heads around the fact that there are
sometimes things floating at high altitudes for various purposes.  As I
said, scientific research, weather — weather balloons.  All manner of
innocuous craft can be aloft at high altitudes.  I don’t think that
that’s necessarily unusual here. 

It’s difficult for me to say exactly what you can expect going forward.
One of the reasons that we think we’re seeing more is because we’re
looking for more. As you heard General VanHerck mention last night, they
have -they have modified the filters and the gains, as we call it, of
the radar capabilities  to look more discreetly at high-altitude, small
radar criss section and low-speed objects.  
  
And so if you do that — and anybody that’s operated a radar will know
you can set — you can set the parameters.  And if you set the parameters
in such a way that — to look for a certain something, it’s more likely
that you’re going to find a certain something.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Given all you’ve discussed here and the actions the administration
are taking, and what people have learned — Chinese spy balloon this
year, in previous years; these unidentified objects that we shoot down —
they might have a question.  When it comes to these higher altitudes,
are America’s borders secure?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President takes — as I said earlier, he takes our
national security extremely seriously.  He has no higher responsibility
than the safety and security of the American people.  And I don’t think
you need to look any further, quite frankly, than the decisions he’s
made in just the last week to 10 days to evidence that.  
  
Q    But it feels like he’s plugging holes, like these are
vulnerabilities that we are discovering in real time.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  You’re making an assumption there that I don’t know that the
— I don’t know that the analysis will actually bear out.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Brian, in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  The President gave the order to shoot down
the object over Lake Huron yesterday.  Where was he?  What kind of
information did he have when he gave that order?  What was briefed to
him?  And what — how did he anticipate the outcome of that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  He was here in the White House.  He was kept constantly
informed by his national security team and certainly by the military. 
He made that decision.  I don’t — couldn’t give you the exact time on
the clock, but it was, I believe, mid to late morning.  And then it was
executed in the afternoon.  
  
Q    And were there contingencies in place in case there was a reaction
from a foreign government in reaction to shooting that object down?  Was
the President anticipating —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The one on — the one yesterday?  
  
Q    The one yesterday, yeah.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, it was shot over — I mean, it was shot over Lake Huron
and landed in what we believe to be the Canadian side of the lake.  So
we were obviously in constant communication and consultation with our
Canadian counterparts.  And they are, rightly because of where we think
it splashed down — I mean, they’re sort of the — in concert with the
U.S. Coast Guard, but they are also involved in trying to locate the
debris right now.   
  
But there was good communication with our Canadian allies.  
  
Q    Are there any signs of a foreign government taking a special
interest in that object from yesterday?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.  
  
Q    Or reacting in an unusual way?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, S.V., in the back.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks, John.  Two questions.  One, you mentioned early on
that this — the China balloon might have been giving limited additive
capabilities.  I assume you’re meaning onto their satellite
surveillance.  Can you specify what — I mean, what exactly it’s getting
from a balloon that they’re not getting from orb- — orbiting satellites
that go over, like, dozens of times a day?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  With the caveat that we haven’t fully recovered everything —
though we have recovered some things from the bottom of the — of the
Atlantic, and we’re analyzing that — but with that caveat that we don’t
know exactly what this balloon was surveilling or what its capabilities
were.   
  
So, just in general — and I — that’s an important caveat that I’d like
you to remember — when you are at a lower altitude than space, you could
perhaps get a better fidelity of imagery, for instance, of things on the
ground.   
  
When you are not moving at the speed of a satellite and therefore, you
know, only getting seconds over a site, when you can maneuver left,
right, slow down, speed up, like this thing could, then you can loiter. 
If you can loiter, you can soak in a little bit more, you can spend more
time over a sensitive site.  
  
Q    But some of their satellites are in geostationary orbit.  I mean,
they’re just sitting there gathering signals intelligence, right?  So
what is the benefit?  I mean, is it just to see what kind of fidelity
they’re missing?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re going to learn more.  I’d rather not go into any more
detail than that right now.  We’re going to learn more.  And, frankly, I
think that’s a terrific question you should be asking Beijing.

Q    And one last one.  The — you said that — before — the other objects
shot down were not able to transmit or were not transmitting signals,
that they did not have any propulsion.  Did the China balloon — did that
have any — was it emitting signals back?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to go into more detail about the capabilities
of that.  We are going to be studying it and analyzing it.   
  
There is no question in our minds that that system was designed to
surveil, that that was an intelligence asset.  I’ll leave it there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kelly O.

Q    Has there been any outreach from anywhere in the administration to
the kinds of companies that produce weather balloons or other craft that
would fit these descriptions that might be from the commercial or
corporate world to say, “Is this yours?”  Or any kind of outreach?  Or
have you been hearing from anyone who might say, “We have ours; they’re
in this area”?  Is any of that going on now?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know of any conversations right now, Kelly.  But one
of the reasons why the President directed Mr. Sullivan to put together
an interagency effort is to take a long look at that and try to learn a
little bit better about who is up at that altitude doing what for
completely legitimate purposes.

I think we — we all recognize we need to probably have a better sight
picture on that.  And that’s why the President wants this interagency
effort to take a look.

Q    And what kind of intelligence might be happening in terms of the
diplomacy that’s going on or whatever if these are state-owned objects?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not sure I understand what you mean.

Q    Is there — is there a network of conversations that might be
happening where someone might be able to say, based on this octagonal
description, that, “Hey, that sounds like the so and so.”  I mean, is
there some conversations that are happening that might be able to give
us some descriptions?

MR. KIRBY:  I mean, the short answer to your question is yes, and I
talked about that in my opening statement.  The President also directed
Secretary Blinken, Secretary Austin, Director Haines to have these kinds
of conversations with our allies and partners around the world, to share
with them what we’re learning, but also to see — get the — get their
perspectives.

Q    Because the Chinese were quick to say “it’s ours, but it was for
commercial purposes.”

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  I — again, we’re going to have those kinds of
conversations with our allies and partners to see what kind of
experiences that they have had, what — what we can learn from — from
them, what perhaps they can learn from us.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Trevor.

Q    And are we still with “object,” or can we call them “balloons”?

MR. KIRBY:  Still with “object.”

Q    And just to follow-up on Kelly’s question —

MR. KIRBY:  And I won’t mess that up today.  (Laughter.)

Q    — on the — on the corporate angle.  Is there any expectation that
this is going to affect the — the executive order on surveilling the
U.S. companies and what they’re doing in China and the — their
operations there?

MR. KIRBY:  I know of no such change to that executive order.

Q    Okay.  And then, is there — and just — you said a moment ago that
there’s no knowledge of a U.S. balloon or other craft over Chinese
territory.  Just being cognizant of the fact that China has a different
definition of what their territory is than the United States, is there
any U.S. surveillance aircraft over Taiwan, over the South China Sea
that — that would — would fit into that?

MR. KIRBY:  There is no U.S. surveillance aircraft over Chinese — in
Chinese airspace.

Q    Okay.  Even Chinese-claimed airspace?

MR. KIRBY:  There is no U.S. surveillance aircraft in Chinese airspace.

Q    Okay.  And then, just finally, is there any new formal approach
that’s being developed as far as how you’re going to deal with these
things on a systematic basis going forward?  Is there a review underway?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, again — again, that’s what — that’s exactly what the
President wants Mr. Sullivan to run is a process — an interagency
process to help us, as I said in my opening statement, get around the
policy implications here and whether — and whether or not there needs to
be any policy changes going forward.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Phil.

Q    Thanks, John.  There’s no precedent for U.S. fighters taking down
objects over U.S. territories, as far as I’m aware of.  I guess my
question is — you talked about the tweak in the radar systems.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    Has there been a tweak in the threshold for the Pentagon presenting
to the President, the President signing off on military action related
to anything over our airspace?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not sure I’m following what you mean.

Q    In the wake of the Chinese spy balloon —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    — the radars were tweaked, which is why you think you’re seeing
some of these things.

MR. KIRBY:  Right.

Q    Has the decision about or has threshold for the use of fighters to
take down objects also been tweaked?  Has it been lowered?  Has it been
changed?  We’ve never seen this before.  All of a sudden, we’ve seen
three in three days.

MR. KIRBY:  No, actually — I’m sorry I didn’t understand it at first. 
No, I mean — and you heard General VanHerck talk about this last night. 
He’s using established protocols to engage craft in — in the air —
aircraft in the air that can be legitima- — can be brought down.

And as he said last night, the best way to do that, certainly in a
timely and efficient effective way, was through fighter aircraft and
through the Sidewinder air-to-air missiles.   
  
And they looked at — and he talked about this.  They looked at other
options to try to bring them down, to include gunfire.  But that would
have presented a greater risk to the pilots themselves.  So this was the
safest, most effective way to do that.

Now, where we go from here, I think we just don’t know right now, in
terms of whether there needs to be threshold changes, as you put up.

I think it’s important to just take a step back here.  And — and what
the President did was order these actions with the safety and security
of the American people foremost in his mind.  And there were — there
were very good reasons to do it.  The military then, once given an
order, determines how they’re going to execute that order.  General
VanHerck decided that the best way to do this was with Sidewinder
missiles and fighter aircraft.

Q    And just to put a sharper point on it, this isn’t reactive to the
Chinese spy balloon in the sense of there was political pressure and so
we are going to act quickly to take down any objects over our airspace
because the pressure that came from, say, Republicans on Capitol Hill.

MR. KIRBY:  This was — this was — these were decisions based purely and
simply on what was in the best interests of the American people.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thanks.  Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, John.  John, does the U.S.
government have video or imagery of these latest intercepts?  And will
you guys be releasing it?

MR. KIRBY:  You’d have to talk to DOD about that, Jacqui.  I — I don’t
know what kind of imagery might exist, and they’d be one to talk about
whether they’re releasable or not. 

Obviously, certainly with respect to the spy balloon, we want to make
sure that we are gleaning what we can from this imagery so that we can
answer your questions better.   
  
And so, to what degree there is or will — it will or will not be public
release, I do want to stress that, you know, we’re going to want to make
sure that we have had a chance to analyze that imagery for ourselves as
much as possible.

Q    And following up on Phil’s question, I mean, I guess what we’re
trying to discern is you said earlier, you know, “We’re looking for
these more, so we’re finding more.”

MR. KIRBY:  I said that could be one reason why we’re finding more.

Q    Could be one reason.  But what we’re getting at is, you know, why
are we all of a sudden shooting them down?   
  
And to add to that, you know, the NORAD Commander, for instance, said
that when the first spy balloon was crossing over American and then
Canadian airspace, one of the reasons that he couldn’t take action was
because his assessment was that it didn’t pose a military threat or have
hostile intent, and so he couldn’t take action there.   
  
It seems like maybe that protocol has changed or his — his ability to
make that call where there’s not an immit- — imminent threat militarily
or physically might have changed.  So can you explain to us what
changed?  Why are we shooting them down all of a sudden?

MR. KIRBY:  I kind of feel like I took care of that in my opening
statement, but I’m happy to revisit it.  I mean, really, two reasons
here.  And these are in — certainly in — well, in both cases, they’re —
they’re different.

I think we need to separate the Chinese spy balloon.  We knew what it
was.  We knew where it was going.  We knew what it was trying to do. 
And by not taking it down — I mean, that was also a huge payload — like
I said, the size of three school buses.   
  
So, really, the option of shooting that down over land wasn’t a
legitimate option because somebody really could have gotten hurt.   
  
And we used the time available to us — knowing what this thing was all
about, we used that time to study it, to learn from it, to collect on
it, then taking it down at the earliest opportunity in the water.  And
we have retrieved some of that debris off the bottom, and we’re studying
that —  
  
Hang on a second, I’ll be right there —

But — so let’s separate that from these other three.  These other three,
what are some of the differences?  Altitude is a big difference.

Q    Is that the threshold now: a risk to civilian aircraft?

MR. KIRBY:  Just — just let me — let me get through this.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  And then altitude is different.  The Chinese spy balloon was
at 60,000-plus — well outside commercial air traffic concerns.  These
three were right on the border of it, so there was a legitimate concern
there.  
  
Chinese spy balloon, we knew exactly what that thing was and we knew
what it was trying to do.  And we saw it, Jacqui, as it slowed down,
sped up, maneuvered a little bit, trying to get a look at what we
believe to be sensitive military sites.   
  
These other three, they didn’t have propulsion.  They weren’t being
maneuvered.  It was basically — they were been being driven by the
wind.  
  
We don’t think — we don’t — we don’t know for sure whether they had a
surveillance aspect to them, but we can’t rule it out.  So, there was a
little bit — there was enough uncertainty there that, again, out of an
abundance of caution, doing the prudent thing, the President directed
that they get taken down.  
  
And I — I get where you’re going: Is this the standard going forward? 
And we’re going to — we’re going to dive into this.  We’re going to
learn from these three events.  We’re going to continue to study what
happened.  We’re going to have an interagency effort that helps us get
around the policy implications here.  And we’ll see where this goes.  
  
But bottom line for President Biden is: You got to do the right thing
for the American people, for our safety and security.  
  
Q    Is it strange that no one has claimed these yet as theirs?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I can’t say whether that’s strange or not, since we’re sort
of in uncharted territory here, no pun intended.  But we don’t — you
know, we don’t — we don’t know.  And I suspect that —  
  
Q    (Inaudible), sir?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Go ahead.  I’m —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let him finish with Jacqui.  Go ahead.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m basically done.  I’m basically done.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  What’s your name, sir?  What your name, sir?  
  
Q    Bo, from CBS.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Has the payload been recovered from South Carolina yet?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The —  
  
Q    The large so-called payload that’s (inaudible).  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, as I said, some of the debris — certainly, they were
able to take things off the surface, like the next day — actually, that
afternoon — some of the balloon fabric.  And in the days since, they
have been able to recover some, not all, of the payload that sank to the
bottom of the Atlantic.  It’s in about 45 feet of water.   
  
Weather conditions are pretty tough off the coast right now.  Like
today, for instance, they have not been able to get into the water and
dive on it.  But over the course of the weekend, they were able to raise
some of the debris, including some of the electronics and some of the
structure.  
  
Q    Do you have an expectation of when all that payload is going to be
collected?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t.  I wish I — if I could tell you that, I’d be a very
wealthy man.  I mean, it’s going to — it could take — it could take a
long time, given the sea state and weather conditions and the degree to
which when we have to protect the safety of the divers.  
  
Q    And then, one last question, because you said you were unsure of
the surveillance capabilities of these latest objects.  Last week, we
were told several times that every precaution was taken to ensure that
the sensitive installations were covered.  We don’t know exactly what
you all did.  But has there been a pos- —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Nor are you going to find out.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Well, has there been a posture change nationwide regarding all of
these sensitive sites —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  If you’re —  
  
Q    — taken proactively?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  If you’re — let me just put a fork in this.  If the
implication is that, you know, there’s some sort of blanket, now,
security policy for every base on the continental United States, the
answer is no.   
  
We do have protocols, particularly when we know that surveillance is
going to occur.  Like in the Open Skies Treaty with Russia, for
instance: When all that is scheduled and laid out, and when you know
that there’s going to be an open skies flight by Russia, you take the
appropriate actions.  And that’s what we did in the case of the Chinese
spy balloon.  And we’ll always do that.  
  
I will never talk about what precautions we’re going to make at any
given base at any given time.  But we always do what we need to do to
protect our nation’s secrets.  I  
  
Q    No proactive(inaudible) right now?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I won’t talk about it any more than that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, we have to move.  Way in the back.  Way in the
back.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Me?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  Iraq’s —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.  The gentleman right there.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
Q    Admiral, you started the briefing by talking about the President’s
involvement in this, the report from ODNI recently that goes over
this.   
  
In that ODNI report about unidentified aerial phenomena, it says there
were 247 unidentified aerial phenomena reports since March of 2021, some
of which have, quote, “demonstrated unusual flight characteristics or
performance capabilities.”   
  
So can you say why the President just recently, within the last couple
of weeks, started ordering some of these objects to be shot down and why
there weren’t any orders throughout 2021 or throughout 2022?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s very — it’s very simple.  It comes down to what sort of
safety and security threats and risk we’re talking about.  
  
And — and also, it comes down to — a lot to our ability to tract \[sic\]
— to track, detect, and engage.  
  
Having come from the Pentagon, I can tell you that some of these UAPs,
while we may not be able to know what each and every one is doing, some
of the big concern there was that  
a lot — not — many of those reports were happening around our training
ranges, were happening around air training ranges.  So combat pilots
were seeing these things.  And it was — and there was a potential impact
to the safety of flight of our pilots.  But you may not have but a
fleeting moment on some of these things to see it.  And so, it’s
different.  
  
In these cases, we had time to detect, time to analyze, time to engage,
time to make those kinds of decisions.  But it all comes down to safety
and security, first and foremost.  
  
Q    So, is the time, though, as a matter of capability — you have
better capabilities now than we did back then?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We are certainly improving our capabilities now.  And as I
said, the President has directed the national security team to dig into
this deeper from an interagency effort and to see what — if other
improvements might need to make.  
  
I mean, look, just — just by adapting the way the radar parameters are
set, we have improved our ability to detect.  And again, I said that
could be one reason why we’re seeing more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Aurelia.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  So, you said that the debris fell on frozen
waters or in remote areas.  And these are also, like, huge objects, and
they were shot down by missiles.  So how optimistic are you that you
will be able to collect enough debris to really get an idea of what
these objects were?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We won’t know until we get on site to see, you know, how
much damage was done, not just by the missile strike, but by the fall
from very high altitude — and, as you said, in one case, on sea ice. 
So, we’ll just have to see.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Joey.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Thank you, John.  Does Secretary of State Blinken plan to
meet with his Chinese counterpart this week at the Munich Security
Conference?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’d refer you to the State Department for the Secretary’s
schedule.  I — I don’t have visibility on that.  
  
Q    Okay.  And have you been able to — what have you been able to learn
more — or not you, but the government — since these objects were shot
down?  I mean, you just alluded to the fact that you’ve not been able to
get on site yet.  I mean, has there been any additional information
since one was shot down Friday and then over the weekend?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Because these just happened over the last few days and we
haven’t found the debris, there’s — there’s still a lot more we expect
to be able to learn.  And I think once we can get to the debris — and
I’m not forecasting how easy that’s going to be.  They — all three have
fallen into some pretty remote, difficult areas to reach.  But we’re
going to do everything we can to find them.  And that will tell us a
lot.  
  
Since we have — since — and I know you didn’t ask about this — but in
the case of the Chinese spy balloon, we have been able to recover some
debris and some of the electronics and even some of the structure from
the bottom of the Atlantic.  And that will also tell us a lot.  And we
are — we’re learning from it right now.  
  
(Cross-talk)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.  No, we’ve got to get everybody.  
  
Q    Just a quick follow-up —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, we got to get everybody.  Go ahead.  Go
ahead.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Guys, everybody — go ahead, Catherine.  Go ahead, Catherine.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) Chinese spy balloon has been flying over U.S. military
installation outside —  
  
Q    When do you think that you’ll have all the debris — as much debris
as you can get from all the sites?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry, when do we think we’ll —  
  
Q    When do you think you’ll be satisfied that you’ve gotten as much
debris as you can from all the sites?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I wish I could give you a date certain on the calendar.  I
can’t do that.  We’re going to — we’re working to surveil them right
now.  In fact, you know, there’s a Navy P3 that’s flying over this site
in Alaska.  The Canadians are in charge, obviously, of the one in the
Yukon.  And now the Coast Guard is in Lake Huron working with the
Canadian Coast Guard to do the same thing there.  
  
So we’re working this as hard as we can.  And we will keep you informed
as we learn more.  As I’ve told you today, divers in the water over the
weekend — we have recovered debris off the coast of South Carolina. 
We’ll keep you informed.  
  
Q    Will you brief Congress this week?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  There have been briefings as early as late last week, and we
do fully expect that there’ll be additional briefings this week, perhaps
even — perhaps even later today.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re running out of time, guys.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, John.  Just on Beijing’s response.  They have been very
harsh.  They said the first balloon was an accident and the last three
objects were not theirs.  How do you respond to that?  Has the White
House had conversations with Beijing about this, and can you share a
little bit about that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We know the first one was Chinese.  They admitted it.  They
claimed it was a weather balloon.  We know it’s not.   
  
These three, we don’t have attribution for right now.  We don’t know —
we don’t know who owns them, so I’m not going to take anybody’s word at
face value here until we can get a chance to take — to take a look at
them.  
  
Q    Who else could it be?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Are we in touch with the Chinese?  We have — we have an
embassy in Beijing.  We maintain routine diplomatic conversations, and
we have had in — over that spy balloon incident, we did have private
discussions with senior Chinese leaders.    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Thanks, Admiral.  I know you just said that are you in
touch with the Chinese.  Is there any effort to arrange a call with
President Xi at all?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware of any plans for that.  
  
Q    And then, if I could just ask a question on Israel.  Does the
President plan to speak with PM Netanyahu about the moves his government
is making to try to weaken the Israel judicial system?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I have no calls or conversations to read out.  But we are
deeply concerned by some of the moves here with respect to
settlements.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re running out of time.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Mr. Kirby, at this time, are these spy balloons flying over U.S.
military installation outside the U.S.?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    The Moldovan President just recently has said that there was a
Russian plot to sort of overthrow her government and break Moldova’s
path to Europe.  It was something that President Zelenskyy himself had
also warned about.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    What is the U.S.’s assessment of this possible plot?  And more
broadly, what is the concern about Russia’s attempts to sort of
influence these gov- — these pro-European governments in the region,
even though it’s right now focused on Ukraine, about other countries in
the region?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  So, what I’ll say about that is: Deeply concerning reports. 
Certainly not outside the bounds of Russian behavior.  And we absolutely
stand with the Moldo- — Moldovan government and the Moldovan people.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    But you have no confirmation from the U.S. side of intel?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know independent confirmation, but we’re certainly
not questioning their capacity, the will of the of the Russians and Mr.
Putin to try to do that.  It’s perfectly right — a page right out of his
playbook.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Chris.  
  
Q    Yes.  I was going to ask you a question, if I — (laughter) —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.   
  
Q    Just one quick question.  Have you —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have to get through everybody.    
  
Q    — established whether these were lighter than air or heavier than
air?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We have not.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, but we have to get to everyone.  Okay?  You
already had a question.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    All three shootdowns in the U.S. occurred offshore, but the one in
Canada occurred over land.  So is it effective U.S. policy to not shoot
down these objects over land for safety concerns?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I wouldn’t read into this some kind of policy decision.  We
will always, in deciding whether something should be taken down or not,
consider the impact on the ground.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    When the Chinese balloon came down, the Chinese foreign minister
indicated they would respond in a way that they were prepared to.  If it
turns out that the other objects are also Chinese in origin, is the — is
there a menu of options prepared for the President for how we would
react?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Terrific hypothetical.  We’re just not there yet.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    So, (inaudible) relationship issue.  You have the Chinese spy
airship that went through.  You got China in — buying oil from Russia. 
You’ve got China, you know, opening up cases in the U.S. trying to steal
U.S. technology from universities.  President Xi is going to be meeting
with the Iranian president.  At what point do you review — a big review
— of the U.S. relationship with China?  And at what point does the
President ask for a call from President Xi?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I don’t have a call to talk about today.  Let me
just, again, level-set here.  And I know I’m running close on time, but
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Sorry.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s not your fault.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  But the President met with President Xi at Bali, at the
G20.  The whole purpose of that discussion was to move this relationship
forward in a better way.  The most consequential bilateral relationship
in the world; the President knows that.  And he wanted to move that
relationship forward in a better way.   
  
And Secretary Blinken was dang near wheels up trying to head to Beijing
to have those kinds of conversations to get some of these communication
vehicles and venues back on track, whether it’s climate change or
military-to-military.  We were willing to do that.  We were looking
forward to doing that.   
  
And then the Chinese decided to fly a surveillance balloon over the
continental United States.  And it wouldn’t have been appropriate to
have that meeting.   
  
When is — when are those discussions going to get back on the calendar? 
I couldn’t tell you.  
  
As you — as Secretary Blinken has said, it’ll happen at the appropriate
time.  Now is not that time.   
  
It doesn’t mean — and people shouldn’t take away from this that all
communication has been severed between the United States and China, that
Beijing and Washington aren’t talking.  We still have an embassy there. 
We still have an ability through Secretary Blinken’s good offices to
communicate with senior Chinese leaders.   
  
Unfortunately, the Chinese military is not interested in talking to
Secretary — Secretary of Defense Austin, but there are still ways to
communicate.  
  
And the President would tell you that now is exactly the time to at
least preserve some of those lines of communication so that we can avoid
miscalculation.  
  
Q    But has it set back the relationship?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry?  
  
Q    Has this all — this list of things set back the relationship?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It has certainly not helped us move forward in the way that
we wanted to move.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, last question in the back.  And that’s
going to be the last question for the briefing.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, sir.  No, sir.   
  
Q    Iraq —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  Right here.   
  
Q    James?  Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Oh, thank you.  Last Friday, you answered my question about
President Biden’s message during his trip to Poland.  But I’m wondering
why he’s specifically chosen Poland for this trip, since so many
countries are helping Ukraine and he visited Poland 11 months ago?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President is really looking forward to this trip. 
Certainly not lost, I’m sure, on any of you that it’s timed around what
sadly is going to be a year of war in Ukraine.   
  
Poland has been a strident ally, a tremendous supporter of Ukraine, and
a generous host not only to American troops, but millions of Ukrainian
refugees who have fled there in safety.   
  
The Poles are — pardon the pun — but they’re punching well above their
weight.  And we very much appreciate all the support.  The President
wants to thank President Duda in person.  He wants to thank the Polish
people in person.  He wants to make broader points about how it’s
important for the kind of courage and unity we’re seeing out of Poland
and so many NATO Allies continues, sadly, into what will now be a second
year of war.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right —  
  
Q    What is the message —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  James, you have the last question  
  
Q    — to the people of Poland?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  James, you have the —  
  
Q    Okay, thank you very much.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We actually have to end the briefing.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  And thank you, Admiral.  Naturally, I have two
questions.  (Laughter.)  One on the unexplained aerial phenomena —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  My fault.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    — and the second will be on the Russia-Ukraine war.  
  
My understanding is that the top officials in the Pentagon, when asked
explicitly if they were ruling out any kind of extraterrestrial
presence, said they weren’t ruling anything out.  And yet, at the
beginning of today’s briefing, albeit with her usual winning smile, Ms.
Jean-Pierre seemed to rule out any extraterrestrial activity.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t think the American people need to worry about
aliens, with respect to these craft.  Period.  I don’t think there’s any
more that needs to be said there.  
  
Q    On the Russia-Ukraine war, as we approach the anniversary: In the
days immediately after the commencement of the conflict, we heard from
senior U.S. officials, such as the CIA director in congressional
testimony, that President Putin had been observed by U.S. officials to
have constricted his decision-making circle during the pandemic, that he
was making erratic decisions.  And these were — seemed to have played
out in what happened on the battlefield.   
  
As we approach this year anniversary, what do we observe about President
Putin’s decision-making now, the caliber of his decision-making, and
also his grip on power in his own country?  Has any of that changed over
the course of the year?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  I can’t speak to the way Mr. Putin gets advised and how he —
you know, who’s advising him and what they’re saying.  I couldn’t begin
to get inside Kremlin decision-making processes.   
  
Clearly, Mr. Putin is not making good decisions.  Shouldn’t have invaded
in the first place.  This is a country that posed no threat to anybody,
let alone Russia.   
  
Clearly, he hasn’t made sound decisions, nor has his military, with
respect to their performance on the battlefield.  They’re still
suffering some of the same problems they were a year ago: logistics,
sustainment, integration of joint fires, manpower, personnel, unit
cohesion.  I could go on and on.  The Russian military is still
struggling.  They have not surmounted these — these problems.   
  
And it’s borne out by the fact that, you know, he continues to change
generals the way I change socks.  So, I mean, he’s — he’s still
struggling.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, we have to — sorry, guys, we have to end
the briefing.  I got to go into the Oval.  But I will see you
tomorrow.   
  
And thank you for the compliment on the smile.  I appreciate that.   
  
But I’ll be back — I’ll be back tomorrow.  Thanks, everybody.  Have a
great day.   
  
2:06 P.M. EST     
