---
date: '2023-02-02'
modified_time: 2023-02-02 17:05:06-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-02 17:05:05-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/02/02/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-director-of-the-white-house-gender-policy-council-jennifer-klein/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Director of the White\_\
  House Gender Policy Council Jennifer\_Klein"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:46 P.M. EST  
  
Q    Hey, hey.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, hey.  Well, Steve.  Hi.  That was so nice.  A
little rally.  (Laughter.)  
  
Okay, so today, as you can see, we have Jen Klein in the room with us,
in the briefing room — Director of the Gender Policy Council — here to
discuss today’s event marking the 30th anniversary of the Family and
Medical Leave Act, as well as how the administration is fighting for
women and their access to healthcare amid extreme attacks from
Republican officials just access the country.  
  
So she has a — a hard t- — a hard time out.  Right?  You have to get —
get out of here because she does have to meet with the President in the
Oval Office in a few minutes, but she wanted to speak with all of you
and take some questions.  
  
And, Jen, the podium is yours.   
  
MS. KLEIN:  Thanks.  
  
Q    Which is more terrifying?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  (Laughs.)  I’ll take that question.   
  
Good morning.  Later today, President Biden is hosting an event in honor
of the 30th anniversary of the Family and Medical Leave Act.  He will be
joined by Vice President Harris and several members of his Cabinet and
will welcome President Bill Clinton back to the White House to celebrate
the first bill that President Clinton signed in office.  
  
The Family and Medical Leave Act came about after years of work by
advocates and members of Congress, including support by President Biden
as a senator, and from a historic number of women trailblazers in
Congress, some of whom will join the President at the White House
today.  
  
This event is a moment to recognize the difference that the Family and
Medical Leave Act has made and continues to make for millions of
Americans.  But it’s also a moment to recognize the work that remains to
be done to support workers, including the need to pass a national paid
family and medical leave law.   
  
The President will discuss recent actions the administration has taken
to support women in the workplace, including through the year-end
omnibus, which included the passage of the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act
and the PUMP for Nursing Mothers Act, as well as significant investments
in childcare.  
  
To give you an idea of what these wins mean for women:  
  
The Pregnant Workers Fairness Act requires employers to offer reasonable
accommodations to pregnant women and new moms: basic, long-overdue
protections like bathroom breaks and a stool to sit on.  This is good
for maternal health, infant health, and it’s also good for the economic
security of women and their families, ensuring they’re not pushed out of
a job and instead can stay in the workforce and continue supporting
their families.  It also allows workers to have time off from — to
recover from childbirth, including many women who don’t have access to
parental leave.  
  
The President is also committed to continuing to support women’s
economic security, which is why today he issued a presidential
memorandum to support federal employees’ access to leave when they need
to care for themselves or a loved one, including during their first year
of employment and for reasons related to domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, or stalking.  
  
Fighting for women’s economic security is a top priority, of course, but
I would also like to touch on another priority: protecting access to
reproductive care for women across the country amid a wave of extreme
legislation at the state and national level.  
  
As a result of the Supreme Court’s decision in Dobbs vs. Jackson Women’s
Health Organization, more than 26 million women in the United States
currently live in a state that has banned abortion.  
  
And while the President and Vice President stand with the majority of
Americans in believing that the right to choose is fundamental, we
continue to face an all-out assault by Republican officials on women’s
access to reproductive care.  
  
I’ll just outline briefly the focus of our fight right now.   
  
First, we are fighting anti-choice legislation in Congress.  Since House
Republicans took office, they have proposed three separate national
abortion bans and an additional number of bills to restrict access to
reproductive care.  The President and the Senate Democrats will be a
firewall against this extreme legislation while continuing to call on
Congress to restore the protections of Roe vs. Wade as federal law.  
  
That leads me to our second focus, which is taking executive action to
defend reproductive rights.  As you know, the President has already
issued two executive orders to safeguard access to reproductive
healthcare.  And on what would have been the 50th anniversary of Roe,
the President took another step, issuing a presidential memorandum to
further support safe access to medication abortion.   
  
These efforts are extremely critical and especially critical in the face
of Republican officials denying the science, threatening pharmacies, and
fighting access to safe, FDA-approved medication.  And I’ll remind you
that medication abortion accounts for more than half of all abortions in
the United States.  
  
We’re also working closely with state leaders who are fighting to defend
reproductive rights — those on the frontlines of addressing the more
than 100 anti-choice bills that have already been filed for the 2023
legislation session.  
  
And we’re supporting state leaders in taking proactive action, again, to
— as well, to protect access to abortion.  This week, Minnesota Governor
Tim Walz signed the PRO Act, making Minnesota the first state in 2023 to
pass legislation codifying the protections of Roe.  
  
So there’s a lot of work to be done to ensure women everywhere in this
country are treated with the dignity and respect they deserve, but the
President remains committed to fighting for gender equality and gender
equity.  And I really look forward to taking your questions.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much, Jen.  Thank you.  
  
I think there’s a white jacket memo (inaudible).  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Vibe.  (Laughs.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, I’ll take a couple questions.  Go ahead,
Courtney.  Go to the back.  
  
Q    Hi, Jen.  I’m Courtney Rozen from Bloomberg Government.  I wanted
to ask you — you were talking about the abortion medication.  There’s a
conservative group in Texas that’s seeking an injunction to stop
mifepristone distribution.  And the group is called Alliance for
Defending Freedom.  What will you do or the White House do to help
counter the suit?  I know that this touches on what you’re trying to do
to expand access to abortion drugs.  
  
And will you more clearly argue that the FDA regulations on the abortion
pill preempts state law?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Thanks, Courtney.  I not going to comment on pending
litigation.  And, of course, I direct you to the Department of Justice
to talk more about that.  
  
But I do want to step back and look at the facts.  Mifepristone has been
on the market for 20 years.  The FDA determined that it is safe and
effective, and it’s used all around the world.  And as I just said, it
accounts for the majority of abortions here in the United States.  
  
Lawsuits and other extreme measures that have been announced by state
officials, including threats to the litigation you just referred to,
threats to pharmacies, are about coming after the right to access care
and FDA-approved medication.  And that’s why we are going to remain
committed to protecting legal access to medication abortion within the
limits of the law.  And that’s why the President has already taken
several steps to do that and reaffirm this in his most recent — in his
most recent presidential memorandum on medication abortion.  
  
Q    And you were just talking about supporting state-level leaders and
working against legislation that restricts abortion.  Can you be more
specific about what that means, how you’re supporting them?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  We’ve met regularly — and the Vice President has met with
hundreds of state legislators over the course of the last months, really
since the Dobbs decision came down, to help them — bring them together
so that they can share information about both how to pass proactive
state legislation to protect reproductive rights and also to fight back
defensively against the extreme legislation that they’re seeing in
states.   
  
And so you’ve already seen a number of states pass helpful legislation,
and, you know, as I just mentioned, the fight goes on because there are
100 bills already filed in the 2023 legislative session that are
anti-choice.  And so we will continue to work with state legislators,
governors, mayors to — and state attorneys general to help them in that
fight.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ebony.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you for being here today.  Really quickly, there
are Democrats that are calling on the President put a paid leave
proposal in the upcoming budget.  Can you kind of talk about that?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  I can’t talk about what’s in the President’s budget, but
what I can note is that he included a paid family and medical leave
proposal in both his FY22 and FY23 budgets.  And he has been quite clear
and — and talked about this in the campaign, and prior to that, about
his support for paid family and medical leave.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  As you just noted, the President has pushed for this
before, other administrations have been through this before.  Why do you
think now is different, now is the time to renew this push, especially
when we’ve seen this fall — fallen short before?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Well, I think, you know, we’ve seen — and I just noted a
few, really, pretty major legislative wins with bipartisan support.  The
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act has been introduced for 10 years and
finally passed with, as I said, strong bipartisan support.   
  
And I think that, you know, the lesson there is that you keep fighting
for the things that are good for families, working families, and, by the
way, good for the economy, which is very much true of paid family leave
and the President’s entire CARE agenda, which also includes, of course,
childcare and eldercare.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, are you satisfied, I’m wondering, with the Supreme Court’s
investigation they concluded over the leaking of the Dobbs decision? 
You know, there’s been some criticism that Michael Chertoff advised it
and then, also, that the justices themselves weren’t under oath and got
to, sort of, (inaudible).  
  
MS. KLEIN:  You want to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can take that once you’re done.   
  
MS. KLEIN:  Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I’ll come back to that.  
  
Anything — anybody else?   
  
Go ahead, Colleen.  
  
Q    Jen, I wondered: Have you seen any movement from more moderate
Republicans on reproductive rights?  You know, you were mentioning that
there’s been bipartisan support for some of these other pieces of
legislation when it comes to families.  I just wondered, on the issue of
reproductive rights, like where — where are you guys with trying to move
more moderate Republicans?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Well, the President has been really clear that the only way
to replace a fundamental constitutional right that has been pa- — that
has been taken away, which is what the Supreme Court did in the Dobbs
decision, is to pass federal legislation codifying the protections that
existed under Roe.  
  
And he will and we will and the Vice President will continue to work to
do that with anybody who is willing to work with us on that.  
  
I will note that, you know, we have heard and seen, you know, quite
publicly some Republicans trying to moderate their view.  But I think
it’s really important to look at their voting record.   
  
Many who are talking about protecting women’s access to healthcare are
actually voting quite differently.  They voted for bills that ban or
severely restrict abortion.  They’ve actually co-sponsored legislation
to ban abortion.  And, you know, this summer, a number of them did not
vote for the Right to Contraception Act, which would both protect and
expand the right to contraception.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll take the last question, in the back.  
  
Q    I was just wondering: The HHS Secretary brought up the prospect of
an emergency on abortion again earlier this week.  He sort of said that
an evaluation was still underway.  Do you have any insight on that from
the White House’s perspective?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Yes.  I mean, we have said before and I will continue to say
that no option is off the table that will expand access to reproductive
healthcare.   
  
But at this point, we don’t believe that declaring a public health
emergency would provide meaningful new resources in this fight.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you so much, Jen.  Appreciate it.  Thank
you, thank you for your time.  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  I just have a couple of things at the top,
and then we’ll get to it.  
  
Okay.  So, as you know, last week, President Biden told Tyre Nichols’s
family that he would continue pushing Congress to send the George Floyd
Justice in Policing Act to his desk.  To that end, the President will
host some members of the Congressional Black Caucus at the White House
later today to discuss shared priorities, including the path forward to
police reform in Congress, and the Vice President will also be in
attendance.  
  
This is an issue that is deeply important to the President and one that
he has long partnered with members of the Congressional Black Caucus
on.  Members of the Congressional Black Caucus were critical partners in
advancing the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act last session.   
  
And when Senate Republicans blocked the legislation from reaching the
President’s desk, the President worked with members of the Congressional
Black Caucus to take sweeping executive action to set the gold standard
for effective, accountable policing at the federal level.  
  
Today’s Oval Office meeting will provide an opportunity to discuss the
important reforms that have already been implemented because the
President acted when Congress could not or would not — reforms like
banning chokeholds significantly, restricting no-knock warrants, and
requiring the use of body cams at the federal level, and immediate
changes like prohibiting the transfer of military-grade firearms,
grenade launchers, and other military equipment to law enforcement
agencies.  
  
But as the President has repeatedly said, no executive action can
substitute federal legislation.  Real and lasting change at the state
and local levels will require Congress to act.  It will require
Republicans in Congress to stop getting in the way of ensuring our
justice system lives up to its name.   
  
The President will continue to do everything in his power to fight for
police reform in Congress, and he looks forward to meeting with members
of the Congressional Black Caucus today on the path forward.  
  
Today, as well, we’re also marking the one-year anniversary of the
President and the First Lady’s reigniting the Cancer Moonshot with an
ambitious goal of cutting cancer deaths in half over the next 25 years
and improving the experience of Americans living with and surviving
cancer.  
  
In the past year, the Cancer Moonshot has announced over 25 new
programs, policies, and resources to help close the screening gap,
support patients and caregivers, advance cutting-edge research, and so
much more.  
  
And today, the Moonshot announced new actions that will build on the
strong foundation, including a first-of-its-kind program to connect kids
fighting cancer and their families with the patient — the patient
navigation support they need.  This iss- — this issue is deeply personal
for so many Americans, including the President and the First Lady.  
  
The First Lady has been a tireless champion of the Cancer Moonshot,
traveling the country and the world to hear from cancer patients and
their families as well as those who support them, focusing on the
importance of early detection and improving the experience of patients,
families, and caregivers.   
  
In fact, she’ll be in San Diego tomorrow to visit a community health
center that’s receiving Moonshot funding to increase cancer screenings
in underserved communities.  
  
Thanks to the work of the Moonshot, the federal government has never
been more committed to ending cancer as we know it.  
  
Finally, I wanted to say a few words about an incredible colleague that
I have had the pleasure of working with who will soon be leaving the
White House.  
  
For over two years, Brian Deese has served as the Director of the
National Economic Council and as one of the President’s most trusted
advisors.  
  
Brian has helped shape and pass the most significant economic agenda in
generations: the American Rescue Plan, which brought our economy back
from the brink; the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the most sin- — most
significant investment in our nation’s infrastructure in generations;
the CHIPS and Science Act, which ensures we make more high-end
technology here at home so we can outcompete the world; and the
Inflation Reduction Act, which is giving millions of families a little
bit of breathing room, investing in clean energy manufacturing and
addressing the climate crisis.  
  
Brian has helped steer the President’s economic vision into reality by
helping families get back to work, businesses reopen, and bring prices
under control.  He has been an effective leader in President Biden’s
efforts to rebuild our economy so no one is left behind.  
  
Part of Brian’s success has been the incredible team that he built at
NEC.  His strong team is the most diverse NEC in history: 60 percent
women and 50 percent people of color.  He has — he has a way of
translating very complex economic information.  As you all know, he’s
been in this briefing room many times in front of all of you, taking
your questions.  And he has been able to translate that into language
all of us can understand.   
  
One of — one — and I would say — we will miss Brian very much.  We will
miss his kindness, his intelligence, and just — again, just being an
amazing colleague.  
  
But I know how excited his family is to have more of his time.  And we
wish Brian the absolute — the absolute best in his next chapter.  
  
With that, Colleen.  
  
Q    Thank you.  On the Philippines, I wondered if you had confirmation
on what islands the bases will be stationed on.   And then —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    I’m sorry.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.  Go ahead.  I’m so sorry.  You should
finish your question.  
  
Q    And then, is there a concern that the expanded military presence
could further provoke China?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on the specifics of where — of the location, I
would refer you to the Department of Defense.  I would refer you to my
colleagues there.   
  
And, look, the way that I would see this is as a very important alliance
and a partnership with the Philippines, as you ask about China.  But
that’s the way that we perceive this and how we’re moving forward as an
important partnership and, again, an alliance that we have with the
Philippines.  
  
Q    And then, on the meeting of McCarthy yesterday, I wonder if you
could elaborate a little bit on what continuing the conversation looks
like.  And he specifically had mentioned to reporters outside that there
was a follow-up call scheduled with the White House.  I wondered if that
was happening or had happened.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you heard from the Speaker and also from the
President, it was a good discussion.  It was an honest discussion.  Our
senior staff has followed up and communicated our appreciation to the
Speaker’s team.  And we will continue to stay in touch as we have been
for the past several months.   
  
I don’t have any calls to preview or to speak to.  But, again, I mean,
you heard directly from — from the Speaker.  I believe he spoke for
about 30 minutes at the sticks yesterday, taking your questions as
well.  And he said it was productive.  
  
And again, it was, as I said, a very good discussion, and we appreciated
his time.  
  
Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    On that same topic, you know, there was a fair amount of optimism
on both sides coming out of that meeting yesterday, but the Speaker has
now said to reporters again that there will be no clean debt ceiling
hike.  So why the cause for optimism?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, the cause for optimism is because you
heard it from the Speaker himself: It was a good discussion, it was
going to be a continuing conversation that they’re going to have. 

And there are real — real discussions to continue as it relates to the —
to — to the American people, when you look at the deficit more broadly
and how we — we need to lower — continue to lower the deficit and what
the President has done the last two years.  You’ve heard me talk about
that many times from the podium. 

And we have said — we have said very loud and clear to the Speaker, if
he has any ideas on how to work together on that, we’re willing to
listen and work in good faith. 

But look, as it relates — as I’ve always said, when it comes to lifting
the debt ceiling, that is a completely separate issue.  And that has not
changed.  You saw that from our readout yesterday.  You’ve heard this
from me, you’ve heard it from the President, you’ve heard it from Brian
Deese and others in this administration, that — that we need to do that
without conditions.  The debt ceiling needs to be lifted without
conditions.  And — and so, we still stand by that.  That has not
changed. 

We believe — we truly believe it is a constitutional duty of Congress —
Republican, Democrats, and independents — to get that done as we have
seen this done 78 times before, since 1960. 

Q    But given the optimism — I understand you don’t want to get —
you’re not going to detail negotiations because this is an ongoing
process, but should we take that there were potential areas of agreement
that were identified here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I wouldn’t — I — look, I’m not going to speak for the
Speaker.  I certainly am not his spokesperson.  But President Biden has
made it very clear that it is up to Congress to live out their
congressional duty to avoid economic catastrophe as it relates to a
default.  Like, we’ve been very clear on that. 

And he even said — the Speaker — as you just mentioned, Mary; I think
you were alluding to this — we’re not going to negotiate in public on
anything that is related — right? — to fiscal responsibility and what it
is that they — they want to move forward with — the House, the House
Republicans — what it is — what it is — what is it their plan is going
to be.

What the President has said — he’s been clear on the — on the — the debt
ceiling: We’re not — we’re — it should be done without conditions.  He’s
willing and ready to discuss how we can lower costs when it comes to the
deficit.  And he has said, as well, he’s going to have his budget show
what he believes is — his fiscal priorities are, show how we need to be
fiscally responsible as we talk about the American people.  He’ll have
that on March 9th.  And he asked the Speaker to do the same. 

Q    And just one more.  The State of the Union is coming up.  I was
wondering if you could give us a sense of how the President is preparing
for this, where he may be in the speechwriting process, who’s helping
him with that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a — it’s a good question.  As you know, the
President has been working on — on the — on his speech for some time. 
He sees this as an opportunity — and I spoke — I’ve spoken to this
before — not just to address Congress and the members of Congress,
clearly, but also as an opportunity to speak directly to the American
people. 

He’s done it at least twice before.  This will be his third time.  And
so, he takes this very seriously. 

These types of speeches continue to evolve, sometimes until the final
moments before being delivered, as you can imagine.  And — but you can
expect the President to hit on many of the issues that you hear him
speak about every day: the significant economic progress we’re seeing
under his leadership; his economic vision that’s building our economy
from the bottom up and middle out; the historic pieces of legislation
passed into law over the last two years, which are creating good-paying
middle-class jobs and delivering real results for people by fixing our
roads, bridges, tunnels, lowering costs on everyday goods. 

Those are just a few examples that you will hear from the President. 

I will also say, somebody just asked — I don’t know, it may have been
you, Mary — about the optimism that the — that you see from this
President.  Right?  This is something that you have heard from him over
and over again, especially in the last two years, is how he is
optimistic about the future of this country.  And you’ll hear some of
that as well, and the possibilities — And I’ve said this before; you
hear that from the President as well as — the possibilities that we have
as a country, especially as we look at our economy, as we look at things
moving forward.

Go ahead, Steve.

Q    The Speaker mentioned that the debate could go on for five months. 
Is that what you’re expecting as well?  Is that okay with you?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what we — what we — what we have been very clear
about — and I’ll say it again: When it comes to the debt ceiling, it is
something that should be done.  It is something that is — is a
constitutional duty of House — House — of the — of Congress, more
broadly.

And look — look, we’re not talking about new spending, we’re talking
about spending that the Congress has racked up over the last couple of
years. 

You know, if you think about where the debt is currently, 90 percent of
that debt happened before the President even walked into office.  So it
is a — it is — it is something that they should get done.  And they
voted on this, when it comes to lifting the debt ceilings, three times
in the last administration.  So we don’t see any negotiation here.  We
don’t see anything that needs to be discussed.  We see this as a duty
that they have to get this done.

Again, when it comes to lowering the deficit, when it comes to actually
coming up with real policies to do that — and you’ve seen the President
do that the last two years — $1.7 trillion in lowering the deficit — and
you see that even with the Inflation Reduction Act, which is going to
lower the deficit by $200 billion.   
  
So this is something that the President takes very seriously.  And those
are the conversation — that’s the conversation that he’s willing to
have.  And he wants to see what their plan — plan is going to look like.

Q    Thank you.  Separately, Secretary Blinken is leaving soon for talks
in China.  Is he going to meet with President Xi?  And what is President
Biden hoping to get out of this trip?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I believe the State Department has yet to announce any
travel.  Certainly, I’m not going to get ahead of the State Department
from here.  So I — I would refer you to them.  
  
Q    Thank you.

Q    On police reform, the President is obviously hosting that meeting
with members of the CBC today.  Today, he said that “justice is long
overdue,” relating to the death of Tyre Nichols. 

Looking at the State of the Union, how much of an emphasis will
President Biden be placing on police reform specifically in that
speech?  And what kind of request might he be asking for?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s a good question.  I’m cer- — I’m not going to
get ahead of the President’s speech.  I want to be very careful on doing
that.  As I just mentioned, it’s constantly being reworked, and it will
be till the — to the very last moment.

But as I said from the top, it is a deeply important issue for this
President.  Again, when Congress could not act or would not act because
Republicans got in the way of getting a really important critical piece
of legislation — the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act — he stepped
in.  And what he put forward in the executive actions, clearly on the
federal level, dealing with federal agencies, was something that had
never been done by any other President.  So that shows his commitment. 

And him — today, he’s sitting down and having a conversation with the
Congressional Black Caucus and continuing efforts on how we deal with
this issue, how we really, truly get to a transformational change with
police reform, I think also shows his commitment. 

And so that’s going to occur later today.  As you all know, there’ll be
a pool spray at the top, and you guys will experience the — the
President coming together with the Congressional Black Caucus — members
of the Congressional Black Caucus to have that conversation. 

But, certainly, I’m not going to get ahead of what — what will — what
specifics will be in the President- —

Q    But will he talk about police reform in the State of the Union?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to get ahead of the President on
what he’s going to specifically talk about.  I laid out the economic —
his economic — you know, what he’s — what he has laid out for his
economic policy in the last two years.  And he will certainly talk about
that.   
  
I talked about the optimism that he has for this country.  I’m just not
going to go into details about any specific pieces of legislation that
he’ll discuss or issues that he’ll discuss. 

Q    And then, on Ukraine.  Officials in recent days have been warning
about this increase in an offensive that they’re expecting from Russia. 
One official is saying that Russia is preparing for, quote, “maximum
escalation.”  Is that an assessment that the White House shares?  And is
there any plans — or how soon might we see more security assistance to
Ukraine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as it relates to security assistance, as you
know, we have been — we have been very consistent in providing the
assistance that the people of Ukraine need to defend the aggression that
they’re seeing from Russia, which is almost — we’re up almost to a year
of that.   
  
And the President has shown his commitment throughout this year.  He’s
shown his commitment, as you’ve seen, when the President Zelenskyy was
here most recently and many times before, in bringing together NATO,
bringing together the West to really have that strong partnership with
our partners and allies to really help Ukraine in every way that we
can. 

Look, we’re seeing what’s happening, you all are reporting on it very
courageously in what’s happening in Ukraine.  And we are going to
continue to help Ukraine in any way that we can. 

They are assessing what’s going on in the battlefields, clearly, and we
are talking to them on a regular basis to see what else that we can do
to help. 

As far as security assistance, I don’t have anything further to read
out.  And again, we are going to stand by the Ukrainian people for as
long as it takes.  
  
Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Following up on the police executive order, one part of
that was building a law enforcement accountability database 240 days
after the signing of that executive order.  We’re past that deadline
now.  What’s the status of that database?  It was cited often by the
administration as an example of its reform efforts.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, would have to go back to the team to get you a
number to see exactly where we are with that database.  Don’t have that
number in front of you — in front of me — ex- — pardon me.

But, look, I do want to say that in putting together that executive
order, the President and his team worked with and spoke with — had
months and months of engagement with many folks in the communities —
when you think about the civil rights organizations; you think about the
families who had lost an individual, a loved one to the hands of
police.  And also, law enforcement also came in and gave us advice and
thoughts on what should be put in the executive order.   
  
And if you go back, Zolan — I’m sure you have — you’ll see quotes from
many of those different groups who said how important this executive
order was to move things forward.   
  
Remember, this is a record, historic piece — executive order that we
have not seen from any other President before.  But I can go back and
talk to the team.  
  
Q    To be clear, on the database, though —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah?  
  
Q    — is it that we don’t know how far we are in terms of building it
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —  
  
Q    — or is not yet com- — built yet?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — what I — what I’m saying to you is I just have to
go back to the team to answer this in a way that answers any questions
that you may have on the database.  I just — I don’t have that
information in front of me.  
  
Q    And I’m wondering also, just in terms of the meeting with Speaker
McCarthy as well, he said that they are not touching Medicare or Social
Security.  Did he clarify what programs he would like to see spending
cuts?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, they need to put forward — forward a plan,
and we have not seen a plan yet.  What we have seen and heard — and you
all, again, have reported on this; I’ve gone through this many times
before from here — is what his Hou- — House Republican Conference has
been saying, that they want to cut Medicare, that they want to cut
Social Security.   
  
They’ve been very clear on that.  We’ve seen stories after stories, and
we’ve heard directly from many members of the House conference —
Republican Conference, to be more specific there.  And so, that’s what
we’ve heard.  
  
I know that Speaker <s>Pelosi</s> \[McCarthy\] has said that on TV most
recently, but, again, what we are asking for is: What’s their plan? 
What is their plan that they’re going to put forward?   
  
The President is going to put forward his — his fiscal plan, his budget
on March 9th that’s going to lay out for the American people how he sees
the fiscal year 2024 and how he sees delivering for the American
people.   
  
So, let’s — we want to see what they are going to put forward.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  A few — do you any idea if the President signed
off or weighed in at all on the release of the Guantanamo Bay detainee
Majid Khan?  And should we be anticipating the release of any others
soon?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on that piece, I can let you know and confirm that
— that today we transferred Mr. Khan to Belize after he finished serving
his sentence at Guantanamo Bay detention facility.  Khan had entered a
plea agreement in 2012, in which he pledged to cooperate with the U.S.
government.  And since that time, he has honored his cooperation
commitment.   
  
I can say more broadly, as it relates to the Guantanamo Bay and the
President’s position on that: It remains dedicated, we remain dedicated
to a deliberate and thorough process focused on responsibly reducing the
detainee population at Guantanamo Bay and ultimately closing the
facility.  That is still where we stand.   
  
The Department of State is seeking to identify suitable onward transfer
countries and negotiate transfer arrangements, including appropriate
security and humane treatment assurances for the remaining eligible
detainees.   
  
I don’t have — I know there’s been reports on more detainees being
trans- — transported.  Just don’t have anything to share there.   
  
Q    This weekend, the Democratic National Committee is voting to
approve a new calendar for the 2024 primaries and caucuses.  It’s going
to put South Carolina first; followed, if they have their way, with
Nevada and New Hampshire going second; Georgia and Michigan after
that.   
  
I know you cannot specifically discuss politics because of the Hatch
Act, or at least that’s what you’ll probably tell us.  But I’m curious
if the President himself will ever speak publicly about his calls and
the letter he sent to the DNC saying that this should happen.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I will say this, it’s not what I say, it’s the
rule of law.  And I –  
  
Q    No, I get it.  Yeah, absolutely.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just want to be clear.  I don’t —  
  
Q    Totally.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You kind of just threw it out there —  
  
Q    Well —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — as if it’s a personal decision here.   
  
Q    No, no, no.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It is the rule of law.   
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And we believe the rule of law here.  We follow it.   
  
You know, I have not had that conversation with the President.  I’m
going to be, you know, very honest with you.  I’ve not talked to him
about 2024.  It’s not something that we can do from here.  
  
And I’m sure you will hear a lot more from the President, you know,
moving forward, but I just —  
  
Q    Any idea if that’s a part of what he’s planning to talk about
tomorrow when he’s in Philly —    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    — since he’s meeting with the DNC?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, tomorrow, you — look, tomorrow is an
important moment for the President to be in Philadelphia.  As you know,
the Vice President will be there with him as well and will — and he — he
— we’ll send out a note, obviously, this afternoon with additional
information, which — as we normally do when it comes to events and when
he travels, certainly, outside of D.C.  
  
And — and, you know, what I can say now is that tomorrow the President
will tr- — will highlight the progress on water infrastructure, because
there’s that official component, and replacing lead pipes thanks to the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  And this trip is a continuation of our
emphasis on implementation.   
  
And this week alone, we did — as you know, we went to Baltimore, we went
to New York City and talked about the funding to replace a Civil War-era
bridge.  And in New York, we announced the funding to kickstart the
early phase of the Hudson Tunnel Project.  So, I’ll stay there on the —
on the official pieces.  
  
On anything that’s related to the DNC components, I would refer you to
the DNC.  
  
Go ahead, Tam.  
  
Q    Thank you.  On policing, Karen Bass and Val Demings were two of the
lead House advocates for the George Floyd bill.  They are both no longer
in the House.  So, who does the White House see as your best partners in
the House on that legislation?  
  
And also, are there Republicans who the White House has reached out to
or otherwise sees as potential partners in the House, you know, to make
the numbers work?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, there were some Republicans in the
Senate that were incredibly helpful or tried to be helpful in the last
session as it relates to the George Floyd in Jus- — in Justice in
Policing Act.  So I would refer you to them and see where they are this
time around, as far as it relates to the Republicans.  
  
I can tell you for this meeting — I can give you the list of attendees
who will be here.  And so, clearly, they are certainly involved in this
process — this next — next state of legislation process.   
  
Representative Hor- — Horsford — obviously, the chair — is going to be
here.  Representative Clyburn.  Representative Neguse.  Representative
Jackson Lee.  We have Senator Booker, who played a very big role.   
  
And as you know, I think you guys all heard the Vice President mentioned
yesterday, in the early stages of the bill, she was involved, and she’ll
be in — in the room as well.   
  
And we will also have Reverend Warnock, who will be in — in — in the
meeting as well.   
  
So I would — I would figure that those — those folks are certainly going
to be very involved in this process as well.  
  
Q    And on the investigations, can you say how many people the White
House Counsel’s Office added to prepare for the House investigation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the White House Counsel’s Office
on any staffing or any specifics on how they’re moving forward with
dealing with that.   
  
Go ahead, Nadia.   
  
Q    Thank you.  Two questions on foreign policy.  The President just
met with the King of Jordan.  What role does the White House hopes that
Jordan can play in de-escalation of violence between the Israelis and
the Palestinians?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s a very good question.  As you know — as you
just mentioned, he met with King Abdullah II and His Royal Highness
Crown Prince Hussein of Jordan, and they had lunch together.  They will
reaffirm the close, enduring nature of the friendship between the United
States and Jordan.   
  
And the President will thank His Majesty for his close partnership and
the role he and Jordan play as a force for stability in the — in the
region, in the Middle East.  They will also discuss their vision for the
region, and — that highlights the importance of cooperation and
integration as well as capitalizing on opportunities for economic
prosperity and also stability.   
  
The President will thank His Majesty for the critical role Jordan plays
in defusing tensions in Jerusalem and will underscore the need to
preserve the historic status quo at the Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount.   
  
And they will also address the global impact of Russia’s brutal war on
Ukraine as well.   
  
Q    Also, we saw today the visit of the Israeli Foreign Minister to
Sudan.  Does the White House encourage a potential widening of the
Abraham Accords to include countries like Sudan?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so we have said many times before when there
have been this type — these types of meetings that we — we are always
supportive of all efforts to broaden Israel — Israel’s — Israelis’
integration throughout the region, including with Sudan — right? — this
particular meeting.   
  
So, I would refer you to the — to governments of Israel and Sudan for
more information about their discussion.  But certainly, when it comes
to the efforts of integration in that region, we support that.  
  
Okay, Akayla.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Just a quick follow-up on Nadia’s question and
then —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, sorry.  
  
Q    — an immigration question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yes.   
  
Q    I’m sorry.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s okay.   It’s okay.  
  
Q    I’m sorry.  
  
Q    No, no, go for it.  Go for it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s hard to — it’s okay.  
  
Q    Yeah, just on the meeting with King Abdullah, can you speak more
specifically about how the President responded to the King’s concern
that the Israeli government is not respecting the status quo at Al-Aqsa
Mosque?  And whether the President shared the concern of Jordanians that
the new Israeli right-wing government is escalating tensions with
Palestinians?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’ve been very clear about this.  I know
I’ve gotten many questions about the Israeli government.  And, look, you
know, we have gotten assurances from the Prime Minister that when it
comes to specifics policies, when it comes to, you know, how — what is
decided, the policy of the government, that he has repeatedly emphasized
that he will set the policy for his government.  Right?  This is — this
is something that he’s been very clear on. 

And I do want to also add that, as you know, Secretary Blinken was just
in the region.  He met with the Israeli and the Palestinian leaders. 
This is clearly something that we take very seriously of what’s
occurring in the region. 

You — we mentioned that the President spoke with the Prime Minister on
Friday.  And Jake Sullivan, the National Security Advisor, also spoke to
his counterpa- — -parts on that day.  And we had the Vice President
speak with the President of Israel. 

And so this is — you know, this is something that we have been very
involved and very engaged, and we’ll continue to do so.

Q    And just really quickly, on the meeting.  Is there any reason why
it was completely closed to press, there was no spray?  And can you
speak about why the Crown Prince was also invited?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I will say this: I just laid out why we
think the — what was — was going to be in the conversation, how he saw
the conversation moving forward.   
  
Look, the pri- — it’s a private lunch between two leaders, which we’ve
done before; it’s not unusual.  And, you know, sometimes some of the
pri- — some of the meetings are — will have a press component, some of
them won’t.  And this one happens to be a private meeting between the
two.  I would leave it to the King and the — and the Crown Prince to
speak to why they came to — to the U.S.

Q    Okay.  And then, just one question on immigration.  Can we get your
reaction to Texas?  The Texas governor is appointing a Special Advisor
on Border Matters because of what he says is the administration’s
refusal to secure the border.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, I’m not going to — look, he’s going to
take whatever action he’s going to take.  We are — we’re not about
political stunts, we’re about dealing with a real issue and taking
action.  And that’s what you’ve seen from this President these last two
years.  That’s what you’ve seen from the President most recently,
announcing border measures that’s actually has made a difference, that
has had an impact, as you look at the parolee program.  That is what
we’re going to do. 

The President walked in on day one, put forth a immigration reform, and,
you know, is asking Republicans, instead of doing political stunts, to
come and help him deal with an issue.  But in — in lieu of that, he’s
taken actions, and we’re seeing the impact. 

Go ahead, Peter.  You’re about to — you’re about to jump out of your
seat there.  (Laughter.)

Q    No, no, no.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re making me nervous.  (Laughter.)  I was like — I
was like, let me call on Peter before —

Q    My legs were falling asleep.  (Laughter.)

Republicans just voted to oust Congresswoman Ilhan Omar from the Foreign
Affairs Committee over past antisemitic comments.  What is the White
House and the President’s response or thought on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I ha- — clearly, you said they just — it just
occurred, so I haven’t seen that.  What we believe is Congresswoman O- —
Omar is highly respected member of Congress.  She has apologized for her
comment she made in the past.  I think she was most recently — did an
extensive interview about this on Sunday, I believe on CNN, and has been
vocal about condemning antisemitism as well as affirming our strong
alliance and important partner- — partnership with Is- — Israel. 

Look, the way that we see this: It’s a political stunt, much like House
Republicans’ unjust — unjust removal of other leading Democrats from key
committees in recent weeks, and it is a disservice to the American
people.

Q    If I can ask you about the CBC meeting that’s happening this
afternoon, as well.  We heard during the Tyre Nichols service yesterday
from the Vice President who said, of the George Floyd Justice in
Policing Act, that it was, quote, “non-negotiable.”

Yesterday in our exchange, you said that the White House was open to
supporting something as long as it was done in a bipartisan fashion.  So
is it non-negotiable that it must be the Justice in Policing Act as it
exists?  Or is the White House open to something that’s different than
that if it’s done in a bipartisan form?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I think it’s — I don’t think they’re mutually
exclusive.  I think what she — what — what —

Q    Well, one could be different than the Justice in Policing Act —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, no, I think —

Q    — if it’s done in a bipartisan form.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I think what you saw very passionately from the Vice
President — and I — I heard that part, I was — I watched her as well.  I
— what she was trying to say is: We need to get something done.  Enough
is enough.  We need to get this done.  We need to get a policy — a
police reform that is transformational, that is actually going to bring
forth real change.  And the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act is part
of that.  It is one step in getting to a place where it is the law of
the land. 

That’s why the President has said, many times before, we need to take
legislative action.  We need Congress to act so that we can see change
in states and in cities. 

Right now, as you know — I just laid this out; I’ve laid it out
yesterday, I laid it out just now — the President took executive
action.  But that’s on the federal gov- – on the federal level and when
you think about law enforcement in the federal level.

And so, look, what — what we heard from the Vice President was passion. 
What we heard from the Vice President yesterday was meeting the moment
and being there for a family that is grieving, a family that had to
watch a video of their child being — you know, being brutalized.  And so
she was there comforting and being passionate about an issue that is
incredibly important to the President and, clearly, to her.

Q    I want to let others go, but just to be very clear: So, it — is it
negotiable that there is something that achieves police reform if it
does not come in the form of the Justice in Policing Act?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is: The President — the President
supported the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act last session.  He
supports it now, again.  Right?  He was very clear when he spoke to Tyre
Nichols’s family — his mother and his stepdad.  He said that he was
going to do everything that he can to encourage and ask Congress to
act.  That still stays the same. 

Now, he’s meeting with Congressional Black Caucus to see what can we do,
how do we move forward.  Sometimes — and this is a reality; we know how
Congress works.  Right?  Sometimes it’s going to look different.  And so
that is okay — right? — if it’s going to look different. 

But what we know — what we know that has been introduced in the past
that is clearly available to us is the George Floyd and — Justice in
Policing Act.

So, of course, we’re going to continue to call — call for that.  But,
you know, there’s going to be conversations, and we’ll see where those
conversations go.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Sabrina.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  A follow-up to Peter’s question.  Given the
realities of the Republican-controlled House, is the President open to a
proposal on police reform that would not include qualified immunity just
to get something done?  Or is that a red line for him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into conversation that’s just
about to happen in a couple of hours and where we’re going to
potentially — and that’s going to be a beginning, probably, of multiple
conversations.  I’m not going to sit here and say what’s a red line — or
stand here, clearly, and say what’s a red line and what we won’t or
won’t do.  I want to be very careful there.   
  
But what I’m saying is the President is committed — is committed to —
you know, to working with Congress for Congress to act so it can become
the land of — the law of the land and we don’t have to continue to see
communities, especially — as we know — disproportionately, sadly, brown
and Black communities across the country being affected by this issue. 

Again, that’s why the President took executive action when — when — to
be very frank, when Republicans refused to act the last session.  
Q    And I believe you said yesterday that you would check with NSC on
the question of whether athletes from Russia and Belarus should be
allowed to compete at the Olympic Games in Paris.  This is, of course,
drawing a lot of attention at this time.  Do you have any updates —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do.

Q    — on the administration’s (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do.  I checked in with NSC, and I have a robust
update for you.  (Laughter.)

So, as you know, the United States has rallied the world to support the
people of Ukraine, as I just laid out moments ago, and we have worked to
hold Russia accountable for the brutal and barbaric war their forces are
waging against Ukraine. 

So, as part of those efforts, the United States has supported suspending
Russia and Belarus — Belarus’s sport national governing bodies from
international sports federation; removing individuals closely aligned to
the Russian and Belarusian states, including government officials, from
positions of influence on international sport federations, such as
boards and organizing committees; encouraging national and international
sports organi- — organizations to suspend <s>and</s> broadcasting of
sports competition in- — into Russia and Belarus. 

In cases where sports organizations and event organizers, such as the
International Olympic Committees — Committee, choose to permit athletes
from Russia and Belarus to participate in sporting events, it should be
absolutely clear that they are not representing the Russian or
Belarusian states.   
  
And so that’s the stance that we are providing.  And the use of official
state Russian/Belarusian flags, emblems, and anthems should be
prohibited as well.

Go ahead, Steven.  And then I’ll come to the back.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Back on budget talks.  Yesterday, McCarthy
suggested that what he would like to see ultimately, if there can be an
agreement, is a two-year budget framework.  What’s the President’s
thinking on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will say is the President is going to put forth
his budget on March 9th.  He’s going to be very clear with the American
people.  He’s going to lay out what he believes the fi- — his fiscal
responsibilities, or priorities, are for the American people.  And we
asked the Speaker to do the same.  And until we see that, it’s hard to
talk about timeline, it’s hard to talk about specifics, because we need
to actually see on paper what they’re going to move forward with.

Q    On that point, you know, almost 50 years ago, as a senator, Joe
Biden voted for a framework, or a timeline, that has the President
proposing a budget first and then Congress disposing of that budget. 
Why is it the argument here that the Republicans should put forward
their budget first?  Isn’t — isn’t it “The President proposes, the
Congress disposes”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, actually — actually, that’s not what we said. 
We’re going to put out our budget on March 9th, and we’re asking
Republicans to do the same.   
  
Because here’s the thing, Steve: What we keep hearing from Republicans
is that they want to cut Social Security — right? — which is something
that taxpra- — taxpayers pay into.   
  
And we believe that the President — that the President has said he’s
going to continue to fight for Social Security.  We keep hearing that
they want to cut Medicare, which is also a problem because it’s going to
hurt taxpayers who pay into that.  We’re talking about seniors.  We’re
talking about veterans.   
  
And so, we oppose that.  We are against that.  But that’s what they keep
saying and many of you all have reported.  
  
But we haven’t — but what — where’s the plan?  Like, what is it that
they’re going to lay out to show us exactly — not just to us, but to the
American people?   
  
Now, I want to be very clear.  The conversation that the President and
the Speaker had yesterday was productive.  We appreciated the time that
the Speaker gave to the — to the President to have a conversation.  And
our teams, again, have been in touch.  And we’ll see where we go from
there.  
  
Q    The law says that the President’s budget is due on the first Monday
in February.  Joe Biden is not the first President to be late, but he is
going to be late.  And it’s now five weeks from today that you’ve said
the budget will come out.   
  
Can you explain why it is — it is delayed?  I think you were asked this
last week, and there was a suggestion that it might have something to do
with the omnibus.  But is there — is that the reason?  Is there another
reason?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, and I basically said the omnibus happened so
late in the — as you know, in the last session, which caused us to, you
know, be a little bit later with — with the President’s budget.  So that
did — there’s definitely a correlation there.   
  
But here’s the thing: The President has made a promise that he’s going
to have his budget on March 9th.  That’s what we’re going to do.  That’s
what he’s going to show to the American people.  And we want to see what
the — what the House Republicans are going to put forward.   
  
Okay, I’ll go to the back.  Go ahead, Gerren.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Republicans who have expressed resistance to
passing the George Floyd bill have argued that there’s no law that would
have prevented the deadly beating of Tyre Nichols.  Does the White House
agree with that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’ll say this: When it comes to this issue —
the police — police reform and dealing with an issue that’s certainly
affecting many communities — the brown and Black communities,
specifically — and asking, “Would — would the George Floyd in Justice in
Policing Act have changed anything?”   
  
We believe would — it would have strengthened accountability measures,
which we think is important, for federal officers at the state and local
level.  We think that’s important.   
  
It would give the Department of Justice expanded powers to go after
departments that have patterns of — or practices of excessive force,
bias policing, and other unconstitutional practices.   
  
It would require the Department of Justice to establish accreditation
standards for law enforcement agencies.  It would require officers to
complete training on racial profiling, implicit bias, and the duty to
intervene when another officer uses excessive force.   
  
The President repeatedly called for Congress to pass the George Floyd
Act, even leading law on — law enforcement organizations supported the
reform as well.  And when they could not take action or would not act,
the President acted and put forth an executive action.   
  
And as I stated before, that is a — that executive action was supported
by families who have been affected, who lost loved ones to police —
police brutality, and it was supported even by law enforcement.  It was
supported by civil rights — civil rights organizations as well.   
  
Look, you know, this is a first step.  I was explaining that to Peter. 
George Floyd in Justice Policing Act, while, yes, it will — it will
start the process in hopefully dealing with a real systemic issue, a
systemic problem, it is also one of the ways that we can start dealing
with that.  
  
Q    Another question.  Activists have identified the issue of traffic
stops as a potential area of policy focus.  That — do you — does the
White House see that as a potential area where there can be bipartisan
support or even through executive order?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I don’t want to get into specific on getting
bipartisan support for any piece of provision or policy that would be in
the legislation.  I’m going to allow the President to have his
conversation with the Congressional Black Caucus; see how that goes;
and, you know, continue to talk to Congress about acting and making sure
that we deal with this issue.   
  
Go ahead, James, in the back  
  
Q    Karine, thank you.  I have two questions: one about the documents
case and one about the Tyre Nichols funeral.   
  
On the documents case, one of the features of the early public narrative
of this episode that has kind of already taken root is the reporting to
the effect that statements from this podium at different points later
proved to be inaccurate.   
  
And without expecting you to delve into the details, because we all know
that you cannot from the podium, I nonetheless wonder if you could
simply assure us that you challenge that element of this narrative —
that you are satisfied personally with the accuracy of all of the
information that you dispense from this podium.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, James, look, I’ll say: At this podium, I will
always follow the guidance of the White House Counsel’s Office when it
comes to ongoing investigations.  We’ve been very — you know, we’ve been
very clear about just ongoing investigations that is led by the
Department of Justice — making sure that they have their independence. 
We — this is something that the President has talked about through the
campaign and through the last two years.   
  
I have been consistent about that.  But when I have made statements from
this podium on this investigation, it was at the guidance of the
Counsel’s Office and consistent with what they have said and wanted to
communicate at the time.  Right?   
  
And I have said this, the White House Counsel’s Office has said this:
One of the reasons we try not to comment on this is because it’s
changing — right? — it is currently — it is currently under
investigation.  And when you have a legal matter, as you know — I know
you understand this — things change and things move very, very
quickly.   
  
And so, I’ve continued to provide the information that I have — I have
had at the time, and I will continue to do that.  
  
Q    On the Tyre Nichols funeral — and I’m posing this question with no
aspersions cast on what I think all observers thought was a very
eloquent eulogy delivered by the Vice President  
  
I think it — the event calls into question how the Biden White House
goes about deciding which atrocities, which tragedies merit high-level
attention from the President or the Vice President.   
  
So, in addition to the Nichols funeral, for example, we saw that the
President called the parents of Damar Hamlin, an injured NFL player.   
  
I checked the White House website just before coming into the briefing
room today.  And I see no indication that the chief executive has at any
time reached out to the family of Justin McIntire, who was the police
chief in Brackenridge, Pennsylvania, who was shot to death in the line
of duty, a father of four.  Why not?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this: If you look at this President — who
has been a senator for 36 years, who has been a Vice President for eight
years, and who has been, clearly, you know, finished up his — is
finishing up his two-years’ tenure in a four-year presidency thus far,
he —  
  
You know — if you know Joe Bi- — Joe Biden, you know that he feels the
pain of many families who have lost loved ones, because he knows what
that means.  You’ve named one family in particular.  I understand why
you’re naming that family in particular.  But there’s been many families
that he has called to offer up — you know, to offer up his condolences
and offer up his help and assistance in any way.   
  
We do not read out all of those — all of those conversations.  But if
you know Joe Biden and if you’ve been around Joe Biden, you know that
this is something that the President does in a way that many politicians
— at least that I have worked for — are not — won’t — can’t do — are not
capable of doing.   
  
And the President will always be committed and always be open to talking
to families who are hurting, who are going through a tough time,
especially of a lost loved one.   
  
And I think the two that you just named were just very public.  They
were two incredibly public situations that — that where — you know,
where — where the President was able to reach out in a way that — that
people knew about — right? — that people were able to see how the
President uses what he does so well — his understanding, his compassion
for others.   
  
And so, I would not — again, you named one family.  The President has
been, clearly, in the world of politics for a long time.  And he has had
many, many conversations with families who have lost loved ones.  
  
I’m going to continue to go around.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    This is a question about entitlements and one on the ending of the
public health emergency.  Dr. Jha tweeted yesterday that the
administration is committed to ensuring that vaccines and treatments are
accessible and not too expensive for people without insurance after the
emergency ends.  And he said, quote, “More details to follow.”   
  
Does that mean there’s a new program in the works?  Will it be announced
in the coming days, in the coming weeks?  Will it require more
funding?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, good question.  Don’t have anything to share with
you at this time.  
  
What I can commit to you — and what we are trying to do is we’re — we’re
planning for a smooth transition when it comes to the public health and
a smooth transition for emergency policies in May.  That is our
commitment.  That’s always been our commitment from this
administration.   
  
It does not mean we’re done fighting COVID — right? — as — as Dr. Jha is
laying out how we’re going to move forward.  We are working and
coordinating around the clock with hospitals, with local public health
departments and leaders.  And they are — and they are an integral part
to the process of a smooth transition. 

And, you know, that said, because of the work that we’ve done to fight
COVID from day one, from the moment that the President walked into this
administration, we are in a better place than when we were when we first
started.  And that is because of the work that this administration has
done. 

And — and so we’ll continue to do that.  It’s still — we’re still
fighting COVID, as I just laid out.  And we’ll have more to share.  But
just wanted to be very clear that it is — it is a transition, and it’s
going to take some time, and we’ll have the appropriate conversations.  
Q    Thanks.  And then, on entitlements, what’s the President’s plan for
avoiding automatic benefit cuts to Social Security and Medicare if
nothing is done to shore up their finances?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re going to — we’re going to continue to
ask — I’m not going to get into hypotheticals about what — what actions
could be done down the road.  What we’re going to ask the Speaker, as we
have in our letter, as we have stated many times before, we want to see
what their plan is. 

We’ve heard from the House Republican Congress, but we want to get a
sense of, are you — is this what you all are going to do?  Are you going
to cut Medicare?  Are you going to cut Social Security and keep that
hostage for their — you know, to — to — to hold it so that they don’t do
their constitutional duty, which is lift the debt ceiling.

And so, let’s see.  Let’s see what the House Republican Conference is
going to do, what the House is going to do more broadly, Republicans in
particular.

But, look, again, we — the President and the Speaker had a very
productive conversation, and we’re looking to continue to have — have
those talks.

Go ahead.  And then the person in back.

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, and the person behind you, actually.

Q    Oh, me?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, whoever —

Q    Oh, thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Whoever wants to go first.

Q    Karine, counsel for Hunter Biden has written the National Security
Division of the Justice Department.  I know you like to keep that agency
very arm’s length.  But is it arm’s length when the President’s son
writes seeking — writes DOJ seeking an investigation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I’m going to be pretty consistent, as I
have been from this podium when it relates to that — that particular
question that you — you’re asking me, we have been for the last two
years.  And I will say to you that that is something for Hunter Biden’s
personal representative — their representative to speak to.  I’m just
not going to speak to it from here.

Q    Is this something the White House knew about before it happened?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I would — as far as that piece, I would refer
you to the White House Counsel Office.   
  
And, again, don’t have anything to add.  This is something for his
personal representatives to speak to. 

And as it relates to the agencies, as you were asking me: Look, this is
a President — and I said this before — that believes in the independence
of the Department of Justice, or any — any enforcement investigations. 
And he’s been very clear about that. 

He believes that it should not be politicized, as he has said for the
past couple of years, starting in the campaign.  And he believes that —
that any — any — any investigation should be independent.

So, again, I would refer you to the specific agencies that’s involved
here.  I’m just not going to comment beyond that.

Q    And then — just, it sounded like you had something to say on the
other one.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.

Q    What’s your view of the Supreme Court and how they organized that
investigation where the justices could decide (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m going to — I’m not going to speak to the
actions at the Supreme Court as it relates to the investigation of the
Dobbs decision. 

What I will say and reiterate what the President said the day that —
that the Dobbs decision occurred — right? — which is back in June, which
is: It was a — it was a constitutional right for 50 years — almost 50
years, and it was taken away.  And women’s rights that — we’re talking
about women’s rights; we’re talking about a woman’s right to choose. 
And we think that that action was wrong.  And not just us.  If you look
at the midterms and — and what the American people said, they believe
that we should be continuing to fight for Americans’ rights.  And so
that’s what we’re going to continue to do. 

You heard from Jen Klein, who runs our Gender Policy Council.  She has
done a phenomenal job speaking to groups, trying to figure out ways that
we can continue to protect a woman’s rights to choose.  And also, she
mentioned the Vice President as well.  And the President has spoken to
this many, many times before. 

And so I’ll leave it there.  I’m not going to speak to any legal actions
or that were — or investigations that were taken by the Supreme Court.

Q    Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  I promised him the last — I promised him a
question.  Go ahead.

Q    Just — just a logistical question for the State of the Union day. 
Should we anticipate that the President will be offering a preview of
his remarks and thinking to the network television anchors at lunch or —
as has been the tradition on — on State of the Union day?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We will have more to share as we get closer to the
date.  I don’t have anything at this time. 

Thanks, everybody.  See you guys on Friday — in Philly tomorrow, Friday.

1:50 P.M. EST
