---
date: '2025-09-18'
modified_time: 2025-09-18 17:52:46-04:00
published_time: 2025-09-18 17:52:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/09/constitution-week-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Constitution Week, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This week our Nation proudly celebrates the 238th anniversary of the
signing of the United States Constitution — the legendary charter that
established our experiment in self-government as the greatest Republic
ever conceived.  This Constitution Week, we commit to renewing the
sacred bonds of American citizenship and refortifying our storied
national customs, culture, heritage, and values.  Above all, as we begin
to celebrate 250 glorious years of American Independence, we pledge
allegiance to our beautiful American flag and everything for which it
stands — and we vow to honor, revere, and safeguard our Constitution
against all enemies, foreign and domestic.

When our Founding Fathers gathered at Independence Hall in Philadelphia
in 1787, they codified the timeless truth enshrined in our Declaration
of Independence — that the rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness are granted not by government, but by God — into an enumerated
system.  The Constitution established our system of Government and
immortalized the cornerstone American principles of federalism, the rule
of law, and the separation of powers.  Guided by these eternal truths,
our Nation has been unfailingly sustained by its devotion to justice,
sovereignty, and the common good of its citizens.  To this day, these
principles and our constitutional framework remain the bedrock of our
Nation and the fount of our greatness.

Our ancestors believed that the privileges of citizenship also come with
obligations — including love of country, devotion to our fellow
countrymen, and a steadfast commitment to preserving our inheritance of
freedom.  From the very beginning of our national story, responsible
citizenship has meant obeying our laws, defending our flag, honoring our
heritage, and guarding our homeland and our constitutional way of life
against those who seek to destroy it — from within or without.

For this reason, on my first day in office, I signed an Executive Order
to Protect the Meaning and Value of American Citizenship, reaffirming
that citizenship is a sacred bond between citizen and country. 

I am further defending the value of American citizenship and fighting
back against the left-wing arsonists seeking to defile our history and
defame our Founding by teaching the truth about our Nation’s history in
our museums, saving American education and returning power to the
American parent, and shutting down every radical “Diversity, Equity, and
Inclusion” program in the Federal Government. 

I have also taken bold action to preserve the dignity of the American
flag — the banner under which millions have fought and died — by signing
an Executive Order to prosecute those who desecrate our Stars and
Stripes.

As we approach the 250th anniversary of our Independence next year, we
proudly recommit to upholding our constitutional heritage, striving
toward a more perfect Union, and forging a future that honors our
values, celebrates our traditions, and restores America as one glorious
Nation under God.

The Congress, by joint resolution of February 29, 1952 (36 U.S.C. 106),
designated September 17 as “Constitution Day and Citizenship Day,” and
by joint resolution of August 2, 1956 (36 U.S.C. 108), requested that
the President proclaim the week beginning September 17 and ending
September 23 of each year as “Constitution Week.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of September
17 through September 23, 2025, as Constitution Week.  Throughout this
week, I call on all teachers, school administrators, and State and local
leaders to educate America’s pupils on the rights and responsibilities
of citizenship under our constitutional order.  In doing so, we will
ensure “a more perfect Union,” will continue to prosper for generations
to come.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
fiftieth.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP
