---
date: '2025-09-25'
modified_time: 2025-09-25 17:35:54-04:00
published_time: 2025-09-25 17:32:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/09/enforcing-the-death-penalty-laws-in-the-district-of-columbia-to-deter-and-punish-the-most-heinous-crimes/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Countering Domestic Terrorism and Organized Political Violence
---
 
NATIONAL SECURITY PRESIDENTIAL MEMORANDUM/NSPM-7

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE

               THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

SUBJECT:       Countering Domestic Terrorism and Organized

               Political Violence

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I hereby direct the following:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Domestic Terrorism and
Organized Political Violence</span>.  Heinous assassinations and other
acts of political violence in the United States have dramatically
increased in recent years.  Even in the aftermath of the horrifying
assassination of Charlie Kirk, some individuals who adhered to the
alleged shooter’s ideology embraced and cheered this evil murder while
actively encouraging more political violence.  This was preceded by the
2024 assassination of a senior healthcare executive and the 2022
assassination attempt against Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh.
 Two separate assassination attempts against my own life in less than 3
months took place during the 2024 Presidential election cycle.  Riots in
Los Angeles and Portland reflect a more than 1,000 percent increase in
attacks on U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers since
January 21, 2025, compared to the same period last year.  Just
yesterday, a shooting targeting an ICE facility in Dallas resulted in
multiple casualties.  Separate anti-police and “criminal justice” riots
have left many people dead and injured and inflicted over $2 billion in
property damage nationwide.

This political violence is not a series of isolated incidents and does
not emerge organically.  Instead, it is a culmination of sophisticated,
organized campaigns of targeted intimidation, radicalization, threats,
and violence designed to silence opposing speech, limit political
activity, change or direct policy outcomes, and prevent the functioning
of a democratic society.  A new law enforcement strategy that
investigates all participants in these criminal and terroristic
conspiracies — including the organized structures, networks, entities,
organizations, funding sources, and predicate actions behind them — is
required. 

These campaigns often begin by isolating and dehumanizing specific
targets to justify murder or other violent action against them.  They do
so through a variety of fora, including anonymous chat forums, in-person
meetings, social media, and even educational institutions.  These
campaigns then escalate to organized doxing, where the private or
identifying information of their targets (such as home addresses, phone
numbers, or other personal information) is exposed to the public with
the explicit intent of encouraging others to harass, intimidate, or
violently assault them.  As in the case of several ICE agents in Los
Angeles being doxed, the goal of these campaigns can be to obstruct the
operations of the Federal Government as well as aid and abet criminal
activity the Federal Government is lawfully pursuing.  These campaigns
are coordinated and perpetrated by actors who have developed a
comprehensive strategy to achieve specific policy goals through
radicalization and violent intimidation.

There are common recurrent motivations and indicia uniting this pattern
of violent and terroristic activities under the umbrella of
self-described “anti-fascism.”  These movements portray foundational
American principles (e.g., support for law enforcement and border
control) as “fascist” to justify and encourage acts of violent
revolution.  This “anti-fascist” lie has become the organizing rallying
cry used by domestic terrorists to wage a violent assault against
democratic institutions, constitutional rights, and fundamental American
liberties.  Common threads animating this violent conduct include
anti-Americanism, anti-capitalism, and anti-Christianity; support for
the overthrow of the United States Government; extremism on migration,
race, and gender; and hostility towards those who hold traditional
American views on family, religion, and morality.  As described in the
Order of September 22, 2025 (Designating Antifa as a Domestic Terrorist
Organization), the groups and entities that perpetuate this extremism
have created a movement that embraces and elevates violence to achieve
policy outcomes, including justifying additional assassinations.  For
example, Charlie Kirk’s alleged assassin engraved the bullets used in
the murder with so-called “anti-fascist” rhetoric.  

The United States requires a national strategy to investigate and
disrupt networks, entities, and organizations that foment political
violence so that law enforcement can intervene in criminal conspiracies
before they result in violent political acts.  Through this
comprehensive strategy, law enforcement will disband and uproot
networks, entities, and organizations that promote organized violence,
violent intimidation, conspiracies against rights, and other efforts
to disrupt the functioning of a democratic society.

<u>Sec</u>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>. 
<u>Investigating Domestic Terrorist Organizations</u>.  (a)  The
National Joint Terrorism Task Force and its local offices (collectively,
“JTTFs”) shall coordinate and supervise a comprehensive national
strategy to investigate, prosecute, and disrupt entities and individuals
engaged in acts of political violence and intimidation designed to
suppress lawful political activity or obstruct the rule of law.  This
strategy shall include the investigatory and prosecutorial measures set
forth in this section.

\(b\)  The JTTFs shall investigate potential Federal crimes relating to
acts of recruiting or radicalizing persons for the purpose of:

(i)   political violence, terrorism, or conspiracy against rights; or

(ii)  the violent deprivation of any citizen’s rights.

\(c\)  The JTTFs shall also investigate:

(i)   institutional and individual funders, and officers and employees
of organizations, that are responsible for, sponsor, or otherwise aid
and abet the principal actors engaging in the criminal conduct described
in subsections (a) and (b) of this section; and

(ii)  non-governmental organizations and American citizens residing
abroad or with close ties to foreign governments, agents, citizens,
foundations, or influence networks engaged in violations of the Foreign
Agents Registration Act (22 U.S.C. 611 *et seq*.) or money laundering by
funding, creating, or supporting entities that engage in activities that
support or encourage domestic terrorism.

\(d\)  The JTTFs shall consult and coordinate with executive departments
and agencies (agencies) as needed to determine whether such agencies can
apply existing authorities or exercise their own authorities, as
appropriate, to support the JTTFs’ investigations and relevant
prosecutions of political violence.

(e)  The JTTFs may, to the extent permitted by law, request operational
assistance from and coordinate with law enforcement partners when
investigating domestic terrorism.

(f)  The National Joint Terrorism Task Force shall provide regular
progress updates to the President through the Assistant to the President
and Homeland Security Advisor. 

\(g\)  The Attorney General shall direct the Department of Justice to
prosecute all Federal crimes, to the maximum extent permissible by law,
related to the investigations described in subsections (a) through (c)
of this section.

(h)  The Attorney General shall issue specific guidance that ensures
domestic terrorism priorities include politically motivated terrorist
acts such as organized doxing campaigns, swatting, rioting, looting,
trespass, assault, destruction of property, threats of violence, and
civil disorder.  This guidance shall also include an identification of
any behaviors, fact patterns, recurrent motivations, or other indicia
common to organizations and entities that coordinate these acts in order
to direct efforts to identify and prevent potential violent activity. 

(i)  The Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary), in coordination with the
Attorney General, shall make available all resources, to the maximum
extent permitted by law, to identify and disrupt financial networks that
fund domestic terrorism and political violence.  The Secretary, acting
through the Terrorism and Financial Intelligence Office of the
Department of the Treasury, shall deploy investigative tools, examine
financial flows, and coordinate with partner agencies to trace illicit
funding streams.  The Secretary shall provide guidance for financial
institutions to file Suspicious Activity Reports and investigate indicia
of illicit funding streams to ensure such activity is rooted out at the
source and referred for law enforcement action, as appropriate.

(j)  The Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service (Commissioner)
shall take action to ensure that no tax-exempt entities are directly or
indirectly financing political violence or domestic terrorism.  In
addition, where applicable, the Commissioner shall ensure that the
Internal Revenue Service refers such organizations, and the employees
and officers of such organizations, to the Department of Justice for
investigation and possible prosecution.

\(k\)  All Federal law enforcement agencies with investigative authority
shall question and interrogate, within all lawful authorities,
individuals engaged in political violence or lawlessness regarding the
entity or individual organizing such actions and any related financial
sponsorship of those actions prior to adjudication or initiation of a
plea agreement.  Investigations should prioritize crimes such as the
following:  assaulting Federal officers or employees or otherwise
engaging in conduct proscribed by 18 U.S.C. 111; conspiracy against
rights under 18 U.S.C. 241; conspiracy to commit offense under 18 U.S.C.
371; solicitation to commit a crime of violence under 18 U.S.C. 373;
money laundering under 18 U.S.C. 1956; funding of terrorist acts or
otherwise facilitating terrorism under 18 U.S.C. 2339, 2339A, 2339B,
2339C, and 2339D; arson offenses under 18 U.S.C. 844; violations of the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (18 U.S.C. 1961 *et
seq.*); and major fraud against the United States under 18 U.S.C. 1031.

\(l\)  All Federal law enforcement agencies with investigative authority
shall adopt strategies similar to those used to address violent crime
and organized crime to disrupt and dismantle entire networks of criminal
activity.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Department of Justice
Designation</span>.  In the course of and as a result of the
investigations directed by section 2 of this memorandum, the Attorney
General may recommend that any group or entity whose members are engaged
in activities meeting the definition of “domestic terrorism” in 18
U.S.C. 2331(5) merits designation as a “domestic terrorist
organization.”  The Attorney General shall submit a list of any such
groups or entities to the President through the Assistant to the
President and Homeland Security Advisor.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Domestic Terrorism as a
National Priority Area</span>.  The Attorney General and the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall designate domestic terrorism a national
priority area and develop appropriate grant programs to allocate funding
for law enforcement partners to detect, prevent, and protect against
threats arising from this area.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.
 (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.<s> </s>

(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)  The Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized and directed to
publish this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
