---
date: '2025-09-05'
modified_time: 2025-09-05 19:08:54-04:00
published_time: 2025-09-05 19:05:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/09/modifying-the-scope-of-reciprocal-tariffs-and-establishing-procedures-for-implementing-trade-and-security-agreements/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Modifying The Scope of Reciprocal Tariffs and Establishing Procedures for Implementing
  Trade and Security Agreements
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*), section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862) (section 232),
section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and
section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Background</span>.  In
Executive Order 14257 of April 2, 2025 (Regulating Imports With a
Reciprocal Tariff To Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large
and Persistent Annual United States Goods Trade Deficits), I found that
conditions reflected in large and persistent annual U.S. goods trade
deficits, including the consequences of those deficits, constitute an
unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and economy of
the United States that has its source in whole or substantial part
outside the United States.  I declared a national emergency with respect
to that threat, and to deal with that threat, I imposed certain* ad
valorem* duties that I deemed necessary and appropriate.  In Annex II to
Executive Order 14257, I set forth a list of certain goods that, in my
judgment, should not be subject to the *ad valorem* rates of duty
imposed pursuant to that order. 

In section 4 of Executive Order 14257, section 5 of Executive Order
14326 of July 31, 2025 (Further Modifying the Reciprocal Tariff Rates),
and other Executive Orders issued to address the national emergency
declared in Executive Order 14257, I directed various officials to
monitor the circumstances involving the emergency declared in Executive
Order 14257 and to recommend to me additional action that would more
effectively deal with the emergency conditions described in Executive
Order 14257.  Based on this monitoring, among other things, I have
received additional information and recommendations from these
officials.  After considering the information and recommendations these
officials have provided to me, among other things, I have determined
that it is necessary and appropriate to modify Annex II to Executive
Order 14257 as shown in the updated version of Annex II that is attached
to this order.  In my judgment, these modifications are necessary and
appropriate to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 14257.

Further, in section 4(c) of Executive Order 14257, I noted that I might
further decrease or limit in scope the duties imposed under Executive
Order 14257, as amended, if any trading partner takes significant steps
to remedy non-reciprocal trade arrangements and align sufficiently with
the United States on economic and national security matters. 
Accordingly, I later temporarily suspended the individual *ad valorem*
rate of duty for certain trading partners to reflect the fact that some
trading partners had signaled a willingness to undertake meaningful
economic and national security commitments with the United States
designed to combat the emergency declared in Executive Order 14257.  In
Executive Order 14326, I noted that certain foreign trading partners had
agreed, or were on the verge of agreeing, to meaningful trade and
security agreements with the United States, with the conclusion of the
agreements to be completed in the future. 

In my judgment, it is necessary and appropriate to take steps
contemplated in certain current and forthcoming trade and security
framework agreements (framework agreements) between a foreign trading
partner and the United States.  I determine that any modification of
tariffs required to implement current and forthcoming framework
agreements is necessary and appropriate to deal with the national
emergency declared in Executive Order 14257 and to reduce or eliminate
the threats to national security found in Proclamation 9704 of March 8,
2018 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United States), as amended;
Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the
United States), as amended; Proclamation 9888 of May 17, 2019 (Adjusting
Imports of Automobiles and Automobile Parts Into the United States), as
amended; and Proclamation 10962 of July 30, 2025 (Adjusting Imports of
Copper Into the United States).  Except in rare circumstances, I will
refrain from narrowing the scope of the reciprocal tariff or any
relevant section 232 tariff before the conclusion of a final trade and
security agreement (final agreement) between the foreign trading partner
and the United States.

For example, the United States and the European Union recently announced
a landmark “Framework on an Agreement on Reciprocal, Fair, and Balanced
Trade” (Framework Agreement).  In the joint statement announcing the
Framework Agreement, the United States committed to reduce the
reciprocal tariff imposed under Executive Order 14257, as amended, on
certain products of the European Union to zero percent and to reduce
tariffs imposed under section 232 for automobiles and automobile parts
originating from the European Union if the European Union takes certain
steps.  In my judgment, it is necessary and appropriate to implement the
tariff modifications described in the Framework Agreement.  These
modifications are necessary and appropriate to deal with the national
emergency declared in Executive Order 14257 and to reduce or eliminate
the threat to national security found in Proclamation 9888, as amended.

Similarly, I determine that it is necessary and appropriate to implement
the terms of any final agreement between a foreign trading partner and
the United States related to the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 14257.  In my judgment, the modifications required to
implement the terms of such a final agreement are necessary and
appropriate to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 14257 and to reduce or eliminate the threats to national security
I have found pursuant to section 232.

Though I am generally unwilling for framework agreements to narrow the
scope of the reciprocal tariffs or modify any relevant section 232
tariff before the conclusion of a final agreement, final agreements with
the United States may include such modifications.  My willingness to
reduce the reciprocal tariff to zero percent for a given import or to
modify tariffs imposed under section 232 will depend on numerous
factors, including the scope and economic value of a trading partner’s
commitments to the United States in its agreement on reciprocal trade,
the national interests of the United States, the need to deal with the
national emergency declared in Executive Order 14257, and the need to
reduce or eliminate the threats to national security I have found
pursuant to section 232.  The list of imports for which I may be willing
to provide a zero percent reciprocal tariff rate is set forth in the
Annex to this order entitled “Potential Tariff Adjustments for Aligned
Partners,” which contains products that cannot be grown, mined, or
naturally produced in the United States or grown, mined, or naturally
produced in sufficient quantities in the United States to satisfy
domestic demand; certain agricultural products; aircraft and aircraft
parts; and non-patented articles for use in pharmaceutical
applications.  Given the complex, fact-specific, and sensitive nature of
negotiations and the national emergency declared in Executive Order
14257, among other relevant considerations, the imports that might
receive a reciprocal tariff rate of zero percent may be different for
each final agreement between a foreign trading partner and the United
States.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Updating Scope of Duties
Globally</span>.  (a)  The updated version of Annex II to Executive
Order 14257 is attached to this order and shall be effective with
respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time 3 days
after the date of this order.

(b)  The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) shall
be modified as provided in Annex I to this order.  These modifications
shall enter into effect on the date set forth in Annex I to this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Framework Agreements</span>. 
(a)  Upon the conclusion of any framework agreement of a kind described
in section 1 of this order, the Secretary of Commerce and the United
States Trade Representative shall determine whether the United States
must take any action to implement such framework agreement.  Doing so
shall include determining whether any condition or conditions to an
action by the United States has occurred or will occur before the
relevant action by the United States.

(b)  If the Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade
Representative determine that an action must be taken to implement a
framework agreement pursuant to subsection (a) of this section and that
any condition or conditions to such action have occurred or will occur
before the relevant action by the United States, the Secretary of
Commerce and the United States Trade Representative shall take the
necessary and appropriate actions to implement such framework agreement
in accordance with this order.

(c)  The Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade
Representative shall act in a manner consistent with the national
interests of the United States, the purpose of this order, the need to
deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14257, and
the need to reduce or eliminate the threats to national security I have
found pursuant to section 232.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Final Agreements</span>.  (a)
 Upon the conclusion of any final agreement of a kind described in
section 1 of this order, the Secretary of Commerce and the United States
Trade Representative shall take the necessary and appropriate actions to
implement the final agreement in accordance with this order.

\(b\)  In implementing any final agreement, the Secretary of Commerce
and the United States Trade Representative shall act in a manner
consistent with the national interests of the United States, the purpose
of this order, the need to deal with the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 14257, and the need to reduce or eliminate the threats
to national security I have found pursuant to section 232.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Monitoring and
Recommendations</span>.  (a)  The Secretary of Commerce and the United
States Trade Representative, in consultation with any officials they
deem appropriate, shall continue to monitor the conditions underlying
the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14257, including the
U.S. trade deficit, the lack of reciprocity in our bilateral trade
relationships, disparate tariff rates and non-tariff barriers, U.S.
trading partners’ economic policies that suppress domestic wages and
consumption imports, the strength of our domestic manufacturing base,
the strength of our defense industrial base, and any other relevant
factors.  The Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade
Representative shall, from time to time, update me on the status of
these conditions.

(b)  The Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade
Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for
Trade and Manufacturing, and the Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs, shall continue to inform me of any circumstance that,
in their opinion, might indicate the need for further action and shall
continue to recommend to me additional action that, in their opinion,
will more effectively deal with the emergency declared in Executive
Order 14257.

(c)  The Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade
Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for
Trade and Manufacturing, and the Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs, shall advise me of the conclusion of any agreement on
reciprocal trade with a particular trading partner.   

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Delegation</span>.  (a) 
Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary
of Homeland Security, and the United States Trade Representative are
directed and authorized to take all necessary actions to implement and
effectuate this order and any actions taken under section 3 or section 4
of this order — including through temporary suspension or amendment of
regulations or through notices in the *Federal Register* and by adopting
rules, regulations, or guidance — and to employ all powers granted to
the President, including those granted by IEEPA and section 232, as may
be necessary to implement and effectuate this order. 

(b)  The Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade
Representative, in consultation with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs
and Border Protection (CBP), the Chair of the United States
International Trade Commission, and any other senior official they deem
appropriate, shall determine whether modifications to the HTSUS are
necessary to effectuate this order and any actions taken under section 3
or section 4 of this order and may direct such modifications through
notice in the *Federal Register*.

(c)  If implementation of a framework agreement or final agreement of a
kind described in section 1 of this order requires a refund of duties
collected, CBP shall provide the refund to the extent consistent with
law.  Any refunds shall be processed pursuant to applicable law and
CBP’s standard procedures for such refunds.

(d)  Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of Commerce, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, and the United States Trade
Representative may redelegate any of these functions within their
respective department or agency.  

(e)  All executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate
measures within their authority to implement this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">7</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>. 
(a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)  The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by the
Department of Commerce.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    September 5, 2025.

**ANNEX I**

Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn
from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight
time 3 days after the date of this order, subdivision (v)(iii) of U.S.
note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS shall be amended by
inserting in numerical order the following provisions of the HTSUS:

<figure>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2504.10.10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2604.00.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2609.00.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2612.20.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2613.90.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2825.40.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2833.24.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2903.51.10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2924.29.01</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2924.29.03</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2924.29.23</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2924.29.26</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2924.29.28</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2924.29.33</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2924.29.57</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2924.29.80</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2926.90.50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2933.29.05</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2933.29.60</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>4703.11.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>4703.21.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>4703.29.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>7108.11.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>7108.12.50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>7108.13.10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>7108.13.55</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>7108.13.70</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>7108.20.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>7115.90.05</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>7115.90.30</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>7202.60.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>7501.10.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>7502.10.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>7502.20.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>7503.00.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>7504.00.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>7903.90.30</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>8505.11.0070</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>8541.41.00</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</figure>

Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn
from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight
time 3 days after the date of this order, subdivision (v)(iii) of U.S.
note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS shall be amended by
removing the following provisions of the HTSUS:

<figure>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2818.30.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>3824.99.93 3907.29.00 3907.30.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>3907.61.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>3907.69.00</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>3907.99.50</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>3910.00.00</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</figure>

**[CLICK HERE TO VIEW ANNEX
II](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/ANNEX-II.pdf)**
