---
date: '2025-09-19'
modified_time: 2025-09-19 18:48:01-04:00
published_time: 2025-09-19 18:48:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/09/national-pow-mia-recognition-day-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: National POW/MIA Recognition Day, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the battlefields of the Revolutionary War to the trenches of World
War II to the sprawling jungles of Vietnam, thousands of our patriotic
service members have been horrifically captured by the enemy and forced
to endure excruciating torture, agony, and distress in the service of
our Nation.  On this National Prisoner of War/Missing in Action
(POW/MIA) Recognition Day, we remember our valiant American Soldiers,
Sailors, Marines, Airmen, and Coast Guardsmen who were captured while
fighting on foreign soil and our missing in action who have not yet
returned home.  We honor their courage, we salute their patriotism, and
we vow full accountability for the more than 80,000 heroes still missing
from the wars and conflicts of the past.

Every American POW has answered the call of duty to fight not only for
our country, but for the futures of our families, fellow soldiers, and
our beloved Nation.  Imprisoned by enemy forces, American POWs endured
years of deprivation, brutality, and anguish, sustained only by uncommon
resilience and grit.  Their families lived in their own prison of fear
and perpetual heartache, hoping and praying for a safe return.  For the
loved ones of the missing, the unfathomable grief endures.

During my first Administration, I signed the National POW/MIA Flag Act
directing the POW/MIA flag to be flown with the American flag.  The
black and white banner represents the noble sacrifices made in defense
of our freedom and serves as an enduring and powerful symbol of our
unwavering commitment to leaving no one behind.

As Commander in Chief, I remain committed to pursuing full
accountability for those captured and missing in action.  During my
first term, I secured the repatriation of remains from North Korea,
believed to be at least 250 individuals who paid the ultimate sacrifice
during the Korean War.  In March of this year, our Nation identified the
100th service member from the remains — ending decades of uncertainty
for the families of the fallen.  This sacred mission will continue until
every American is returned home.

Today, the First Lady joins me in honoring America’s POW/MIAs and their
families.  The debt of gratitude for their unimaginable sacrifices in
defense of our sovereignty can never be repaid, and must never be
forgotten.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 19, 2025, as
National POW/MIA Recognition Day.  I salute all American POWs who, in
the presence of great dangers and uncertainties, honored their duty to
this great country.  Let this day also serve as a reminder for our
Nation to strengthen our resolve to account for those who are still
missing and provide their families long-sought answers.  I call upon
Federal, State, tribal, and local government officials and private
organizations to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
fiftieth.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
