---
date: '2025-09-29'
published_time: 2025-09-29 20:41:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/09/adjusting-imports-of-timber-lumber-and-their-derivative-products-into-the-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Adjusting Imports of Timber, Lumber, and their Derivative Products into the
  United States
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

1.  On July 1, 2025, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) transmitted
to me a report on his investigation into the effects of imports of
timber, lumber, and their derivative products (collectively, wood
products) on the national security of the United States under section
232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, 19 U.S.C. 1862
(section 232).  Based on the facts considered in that investigation, the
Secretary found and advised me of his opinion that wood products are
being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States and provided recommendations for action under section 232
to adjust the imports of wood products so that such imports will not
threaten to impair the national security of the United States.

2.  The Secretary found that present quantities and circumstances of
wood product imports are weakening our economy, resulting in the
persistent threats of closures of wood mills and disruptions of wood
product supply chains, among other things, and diminishing the
utilization of production capacity of our domestic wood industry.
 Because of the state of the United States wood industry, the United
States may be unable to meet demands for wood products that are crucial
to the national defense and critical infrastructure.  Taking into
account the close relation of the economic welfare of the Nation to our
national security and other relevant factors, *see* 19 U.S.C. 1862(d),
the Secretary found that the present quantities and circumstances of the
imports of wood products threaten to impair the national security as
defined in section 232.

3.  In reaching this conclusion, the Secretary found that wood products
serve as essential inputs across multiple sectors, supporting national
defense, critical infrastructure, economic stability, and industrial
resilience in the United States. 

4.  The Secretary found that wood products are used in critical
functions of the Department of War, including building infrastructure
for operational testing, housing and storage for personnel and materiel,
transporting munitions, as an ingredient in munitions, and as a
component in missile-defense systems and thermal-protection systems for
nuclear-reentry vehicles.  Further, the Secretary found that wood
products support multiple critical infrastructure sectors of the United
States, sectors that involve assets, systems, and networks considered so
vital that their incapacitation or destruction would have a debilitating
effect on the national security, economic welfare, or national public
health or safety of the United States.  Wood products are particularly
important to communications, energy, transportation, defense, and
manufacturing, especially in supporting the United States power grid and
transportation infrastructure.

5.  The Secretary also found that while the United States possesses
ample raw materials and industrial capacity to meet domestic wood
products demand, wood production in the United States remains
underdeveloped.  At the same time, imports of wood products continue to
rise, signaling foreign dependence and creating vulnerabilities in the
domestic industry.  Foreign subsidies and unfair trade practices are
eroding the competitiveness of the United States wood products industry
and disincentivizing investment and modernization.  These circumstances
have weakened domestic manufacturing capacity for wood products, and
have increased reliance on foreign imports, weakening United States
industrial resilience and placing national security and economic
stability at risk.

6.  The Secretary identified that these practices are threatening the
United States wood products industry in a way that increases mill
closures and weakens domestic capacity and employment across the United
States.  These closures and the attendant loss of jobs will raise costs
and could inhibit the United States from fulfilling its
national-security needs and demands for wood products.

7.  In light of these findings, the Secretary recommended a range of
actions, including actions to adjust the imports of wood products so
that such imports will not threaten to impair the national security of
the United States*.*

 8.  After considering the Secretary’s report, the factors in section
232 (19 U.S.C. 1862(d)), and other relevant factors and information, I
concur with the Secretary’s finding that wood products are being
imported into the United States in such quantities and under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States.  In my judgment, and in light of the Secretary’s report,
the factors in section 232(d) (19 U.S.C. 1862(d)), and other relevant
factors and information, I also determine that it is necessary and
appropriate to adopt a plan of action that imposes tariffs, as described
below, to adjust imports of wood products so that such imports will not
threaten to impair the national security of the United States.

9.  In my judgment, the actions in this proclamation will, among other
things, strengthen supply chains, bolster industrial resilience, create
high-quality jobs, and increase domestic capacity utilization for wood
products such that the United States can fully satisfy domestic
consumption while also creating economic benefits through increased
exports.  These actions will also encourage capital investment and drive
innovation across the United States wood products industry, and
strengthen the ability of the military and national-defense industry to
domestically produce key munitions and defense systems and perform other
required critical national-security functions.  Modernization and
renewed investment will curb further erosion of the United States wood
industry and improve its efficiency, resource utilization, and product
yield.  These actions will adjust the imports of wood products and are
necessary and appropriate to address the threat to impair the national
security of the United States posed by imports of such articles.

10.  To ensure the tariffs on wood products in this proclamation are not
circumvented or that the purpose of this action to eliminate the threat
to the national security of the United States by imports of wood
products is not undermined, I deem it necessary and appropriate to
establish processes to identify and impose tariffs on additional wood
products, as further described below.

11.  To ensure the effectiveness of the actions in this proclamation, I
determine that it is necessary and appropriate to address
undervaluation, as further described below.  In my judgment, when there
is a threat of undervaluation, it may be appropriate for specific,
compound, or mixed tariffs to be imposed. 

12.  Consistent with the General Terms for the United States of America
and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Economic
Prosperity Deal (May 8, 2025), the United States intends to coordinate
with the United Kingdom to adopt a structured, negotiated approach to
addressing the national security threat in the wood-products industry.
 Furthermore, pursuant to the terms of the framework agreements I have
negotiated with the European Union and Japan, I intend to ensure that
the tariff rate that applies to originating wood‑products of the
European Union and Japan subject to this proclamation shall not exceed
15 percent. 

13.  Section 232 authorizes the President to take action to adjust the
imports of an article and its derivatives that are being imported into
the United States in such quantities or under such circumstances as to
threaten to impair the national security.  Section 232 includes the
authority to adopt and carry out a plan of action, with adjustments over
time, to address the national-security threat.  That initial plan of
action may include negotiations of agreements with foreign trading
partners along with other actions to adjust imports to address the
national security threat, including tariffs.  If action under section
232 includes the negotiation of an agreement, such as one contemplated
in section 232(c)(3)(A)(i), 19 U.S.C. 1862(c)(3)(A)(i), then section 232
also directs the President to take other actions he deems necessary to
adjust imports and eliminate the threat that the imported article poses
to national security if such an agreement is not entered into within
180 days of the date of this proclamation or is not being carried out or
is ineffective,  *see* 19 U.S.C. 1862(c)(3)(A).

14.  The Secretary and the United States Trade Representative (Trade
Representative) have advised me that there are ongoing negotiations of
agreements with foreign trading partners that at least in part include
discussions over wood products.  In my judgment, and after considering
the Secretary’s report, the factors in section 232(d), 19 U.S.C.
1862(d), the additional information provided to me by the Secretary and
the Trade Representative, and other relevant factors and information, I
have decided to include in my plan of action negotiations, with
adjustments to tariffs depending on the status or outcome of such
negotiations.  I therefore direct the Trade Representative, in
consultation with the Secretary, to pursue negotiation of agreements or
continue current negotiations of agreements, such as agreements
contemplated in section 232(c)(3)(A)(i), 19 U.S.C. 1862(c)(3)(A)(i), to
address the threatened impairment of the national security with respect
to imported wood products. 

15.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, 19 U.S.C. 2483
(section 604), authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized
Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes
affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including the
removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or
other import restriction.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including section 232, the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*)
(IEEPA), section 604, and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, do
hereby proclaim as follows:

\(1\)  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, imports of
softwood timber and lumber, as set forth in Annex I to this
proclamation, shall be subject to a 10 percent *ad valorem* duty rate.

\(2\)  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, imports of
certain upholstered wooden products, as listed in Annex I to this
proclamation, will be subject to a 25 percent *ad valorem* duty rate.

\(3\)  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, imports of
kitchen cabinets and vanities, as listed in Annex I to this
proclamation, will be subject to a 25 percent *ad valorem* duty rate.
 This duty shall apply to completed kitchen cabinets and vanities as
well as parts imported for use in kitchen cabinets and vanities.

\(4\)  Products tariffed pursuant to this proclamation shall not be
subject to any tariffs imposed by Executive Order 14257 of April 2, 2025
(Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff to Rectify Trade Practices
That Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual United States Goods Trade
Deficits), as amended; Executive Order 14323 of July 30, 2025
(Addressing Threats to the United States by the Government of Brazil);
or Executive Order 14329 of August 6, 2025 (Addressing Threats to the
United States by the Government of the Russian Federation).

\(5\)  The rates of duty established in this proclamation shall apply
with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time
on October 14, 2025.  Effective January 1, 2026, the duty rate in clause
2 shall increase to 30 percent and the duty rate in clause 3 shall
increase to 50 percent, and shall continue in effect, except for
countries with which the United States reaches an agreement that
addresses the threatened impairment of the national security posed by
imports of wood products.  Except as otherwise provided in this
proclamation, the tariffs imposed in this proclamation are in addition
to any other duties, taxes, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to
such imported wood products.

\(6\)  If any wood product is subject to tariffs under both this
proclamation and Proclamation 10908 of March 26, 2025 (Adjusting Imports
of Automobiles and Automobile Parts Into the United States), as amended,
the wood product shall be subject to the terms and duties imposed
pursuant to Proclamation 10908, as amended, and not those imposed
pursuant to this proclamation.  In addition, if any wood product is
subject to tariffs pursuant to both this proclamation and the Executive
Orders listed in section 2(b) or 2(c) of Executive Order 14289 of April
29, 2025 (Addressing Certain Tariffs on Imported Articles), as amended,
the wood product shall be subject to the duties imposed pursuant to this
proclamation, and not those imposed pursuant to the Executive Orders
listed in section 2(b) or 2(c) of Executive Order 14289, as amended.

\(7\)  Notwithstanding clauses 1 through 5 of this proclamation, the
tariff imposed in this proclamation pursuant to section 232 that applies
to imports of wood products from the United Kingdom shall not exceed 10
percent.  Notwithstanding clauses 1 through 5 of this proclamation, the
tariff imposed in this proclamation pursuant to section 232 that applies
to imports of wood products from the European Union and Japan shall not
result in a tariff that, when added to the applicable Column 1 Duty Rate
in the HTSUS, exceeds 15 percent.

\(8\)  Any product described in clauses 1 through 3 of this
proclamation, except those eligible for admission as “domestic status”
as described in 19 C.F.R. 146.43, that is subject to a duty imposed by
this proclamation and that is admitted into a United States foreign
trade zone on or after the effective date of this proclamation may only
be admitted as “privileged foreign” status as described in 19 C.F.R.
146.41, and will be subject upon entry for consumption to any *ad
valorem* rate of duty related to the classification under the applicable
HTSUS subheading.

\(9\)  The Secretary shall continue to monitor imports of wood products
and shall, from time to time, in consultation with any senior executive
branch official the Secretary deems appropriate, review the status of
imports of wood products with respect to the national security of the
United States.  The Secretary shall inform the President of any
circumstances that, in the Secretary’s opinion, might indicate the need
for further action by the President under section 232.  By October 1,
2026, the Secretary shall provide the President with an update on
imports of hardwood timber and lumber, their markets, and the domestic
industry, so that the President may determine whether imposing an
additional duty on imports of hardwood timber or lumber, such as the
phased import duty recommended by the July 1, 2025, report, as well as
any additional duties on derivatives of such products, is warranted to
address a threat to national security.  The Secretary shall also inform
the President of any circumstance that, in the Secretary’s opinion,
might indicate that the increase in duty rate provided for in this
proclamation is no longer necessary. 

\(10\)  The Trade Representative, in consultation with the Secretary and
any senior official the Trade Representative deems appropriate, shall
pursue negotiations of agreements or continue current negotiations of
agreements to address the threatened impairment of the national security
with respect to imported wood products from any country.  The Trade
Representative, in consultation with the Secretary, shall, from time to
time, update me on the status or outcome of the negotiations described
in this proclamation.  At a minimum, the Trade Representative shall
provide one such update before January 1, 2026, and a subsequent update
no later than 180 days after the date of this proclamation.

\(11\)  The Secretary, in consultation with the United States
International Trade Commission and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and
Border Protection (CBP), shall determine whether any modifications to
the HTSUS are necessary to effectuate this proclamation and shall make
such modifications through notice in the *Federal Register*. 

\(12\)  Given the actions directed in this proclamation, and having
considered the actions needed to address the emergency declared in
Executive Order 14257, as amended, I am directing that, effective for
goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for
consumption, on and after 12:01 eastern daylight time on October 14,
2025, all tariff provisions under Chapter 44 of the HTSUS are hereby
removed from Annex II of Executive Order 14257, as amended, except those
tariff provisions that:  (i) are included on the Potential Tariff
Adjustments for Aligned Partners Annex of Executive Order 14346 of
September 5, 2025 (Modifying the Scope of Reciprocal Tariffs and
Establishing Procedures for Implementing Trade and Security Agreements),
and (ii) do not include products of a type that are subject to an
antidumping or countervailing duty order.

\(13\)  To the extent consistent with applicable law and the purpose of
this proclamation, the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of
Homeland Security are directed and authorized to take all actions that
are appropriate to implement and effectuate this proclamation and any
actions contemplated by this proclamation, including, consistent with
applicable law, the issuance of regulations, rules, guidance, and
procedures and the temporary suspension or amendment of regulations,
within their respective jurisdictions, and to employ all powers granted
to the President under section 232, as may be appropriate to implement
and effectuate this proclamation.  The Secretary of Commerce and the
Secretary of Homeland Security may, consistent with applicable law,
including 3 U.S.C. 301, redelegate any of these functions within their
respective agencies.  All executive departments and agencies shall take
all appropriate measures to implement and effectuate this proclamation.

(14)  Drawback shall be available with respect to the duties imposed
pursuant to this proclamation. 

\(15\)  CBP may take any appropriate measure to administer the tariffs
imposed by this proclamation.

\(16\)  The Secretary shall establish a process for including additional
wood products within the scope of the tariffs described in this
proclamation.  The Secretary may add additional wood products within the
scope of the tariffs described in this proclamation if, after
considering the information from his monitoring of wood product imports
with respect to the national security, any factor the Secretary deems
appropriate, among other relevant information or considerations, the
Secretary determines that inclusion of the additional wood product will
reduce or eliminate the national security threat found in this
proclamation and is consistent with the purpose of this proclamation.
 Appropriate factors include whether imports of the wood product have
increased in a manner that threatens to impair the national security or
otherwise undermines the objectives set forth in this proclamation.  The
process the Secretary establishes may include receiving requests or
information from domestic producers of wood products or other interested
entities or individuals. 

\(17\)  The Secretary shall establish a process for determining whether
there is a threat of undervaluation of wood product imports subject to
tariffs pursuant to this proclamation.  If the Secretary finds that
there is a risk of undervaluation of any particular class of imports of
wood products subject to tariffs imposed pursuant to this proclamation,
the Secretary is authorized to impose specific, compound, or mixed
tariffs at a rate that he determines to correspond approximately to the
*ad valorem* duty rate otherwise in effect under section 232 for the
same class of articles through notice in the *Federal Register*. 

(18)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.  If any provision of
this proclamation or the application of any provision to any individual
or circumstance is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
proclamation and the application of its provisions to any other
individuals or circumstances shall not be affected.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and fiftieth.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP

Click
[here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/timber-.pdf)
to view Lumber and Timber 232 Annex
