---
category: blog
date: '2021-09-23'
modified_time: 2021-09-23 11:19:18-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/09/23/when-the-chips-are-down-preventing-and-addressing-supply-chain-disruptions/
published_time: 2021-09-23 11:14:47-04:00
title: 'When the Chips Are Down: Preventing and Addressing Supply Chain Disruptions'
---
 
By: Sameera Fazili and Peter Harrell

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, the things consumers and producers
wanted, from cars to toilet paper to yeast to lumber, simply appeared in
showrooms, on store shelves, and in ports to be purchased and used when
convenient. But over the last 18 months, we’ve seen shortages in goods
large and small, often due to surprisingly small causes and hidden
vulnerabilities.  For example, the [demand for
yeast](https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/food/2020/04/23/coronavirus-pantry-baking-yeast-shortage/3004274001/)
quadrupled in spring 2020, as homebound Americans tried their hand at
making bread. Fleischmann’s Yeast, a major producer, had capacity to
make yeast; it was lack of packaging that led to shortages and delays.
The glass jars used to package the yeast were sourced from India, where
production had been shut down due to the COVID-19 pandemic.[\[1\]](#1)

Nimble firms resolved some of these shortages quickly. Fleischmann’s
figured out how to package yeast in plastic bags, and toilet paper
manufacturers made numerous small adjustments to equipment and product
mix.[\[2\]](#2) Others, like the semiconductor chip shortage, have
proven harder to resolve and are dragging down the US economy. Some
analysts estimate the chip shortage could cut nearly a percentage point
from GDP growth this year, and it has resulted in waves of production
shutdowns that have hurt the hundreds of thousands of U.S. workers
employed in manufacturing jobs across the automotive and heavy trucking
sectors.[\[3\]](#3)

The ability to recover quickly from an unexpected shock is a hallmark of
a resilient system. When it comes to manufacturing supply chains, firms
often adopt three inter-related strategies to strengthen resiliency:

-   Visibility: The capability to monitor the supply chain, often in
    real time.
-   Buffer: Having multiple sources of supply or holding more inventory.
-   Agility: The ability to pivot quickly to alternative processes or
    products.

However, an individual firm’s ability to pivot quickly in the face of a
shock can be limited by collective action problems—including a lack of
communication and trust between firms along a supply chain—and a lack of
access to the data necessary to support visibility and agility.
Government has a unique ability to solve coordination challenges and
serve as a trusted source of data. This role is especially critical at
times of shortage, to counter the tendency of downstream firms, like
manufacturers of finished goods, to overorder or hoard inventory and of
upstream firms, like manufacturers of the inputs, to not fulfill orders
due to a lack of trust in the demand signal, which results in shortages,
delays, price increases, and uncertainty for the workers, families, and
small businesses who ultimately depend on these goods.  

****<u>Renewing our Commitment to Transparency and Agility</u>****  
Since April, the Administration has used its convening power to
strengthen communication and trust between the firms that produce
semiconductors—including those that design chips, produce wafers, and
assemble them into devices—and those that use semiconductors—including
automakers, consumer electronics firms, and medical device firms. The
result has been a change in supply chain management practices by firms
like General Motors, which announced new efforts to build [more direct
working
relationships](https://www.reuters.com/business/autos-transportation/barra-gm-will-make-substantial-shifts-supply-chain-over-chips-2021-09-17/)
with semiconductor suppliers who are downstream suppliers to GM. It also
includes a growing recognition by chip producers that industrial sectors
like the automotive industry represent [a growing customer
base.](https://www.reuters.com/business/autos-transportation/intel-says-it-will-reserve-ireland-chip-factory-capacity-automakers-2021-09-07/)
This is progress, and we continue to look to industry to take further
steps to improve transparency, trust, and communication to address
supply chain bottlenecks.  

Today, the Department of Commerce is taking new steps to improve data
collection, by conducting [a voluntary survey of industry
participants](https://www.federalregister.gov/public-inspection/2021-20348/risks-in-the-semiconductor-supply-chain)
to both diagnose chokepoints in the supply chain and offer firms data
that can help them adapt their production processes to adjust to the
supply shortage. For example, the survey may show that the chips used in
sensors that help activate a pacemaker and power the safety features of
a car are in shortage, but not the ones that support power management on
a device. In this way, the information can also provide a clear demand
signal that can attract more private investment to expand capacity to
resolve the shortage.  

In addition, to address shocks to global supply chains stemming from the
COVID-19 pandemic, we have been working with foreign governments in
Southeast Asia and elsewhere to keep critical factories up and running,
while putting worker health and safety and the public health response of
our trading partners at the center of our efforts. The Biden-Harris
Administration is building on this work by standing up a new early alert
system for COVID-related shutdowns to microelectronics manufacturing
around the world. The system will allow us to detect potential
disruptions earlier, and support faster problem solving and coordination
with our trading partners and the private sector, balancing a focus on
worker health and safety, supporting the public health response, and
safely re-opening plants. This system is also designed to protect
proprietary or business sensitive information for companies that
voluntarily participate. The Commerce Department will be industry’s
entry point, and they will work closely with the State Department—both
here in Washington and also at our Embassies abroad. We will also rely
on technical experts from USAID and the CDC to carry out this mission.

**<u>Preventing the Next Chips Shortage</u>**  
In the longer term, however, the U.S. must take stronger action to
identify and get ahead of vulnerabilities in the supply chains of
critical goods. Supply chain shocks are not unexpected. A McKinsey
Global Institute analysis found that supply-chain shocks affecting
global production lasting at least a month occur on average every 3.7
years, leading companies to lose 42 percent of one year’s earnings every
ten years. The climate crisis is causing supply chain-disrupting
“100-year” events more frequently and with greater ferocity, due to
increased intensity and frequency of storms, droughts, and other extreme
weather events. U.S workers, consumers, and businesses will continue to
suffer from disruptions and price shocks unless we take action, across
the public and private sector and with partners and allies, to build
more resilient supply chains.  

That is why the President has taken swift and persistent action to
address supply chain vulnerabilities since he came into office. In
February, he ordered a 100-day review of supply chains for select
critical products and a 1-year review of vulnerabilities in the supply
chains for select critical sectors. [The 100-day
report](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/100-day-supply-chain-review-report.pdf),
published in June, lays out a framework for closing supply chain
vulnerabilities by investing in U.S. workers, communities, and
innovation. It also makes the case for a new federal toolbox for closing
these vulnerabilities. This includes the capacity to map and monitor
current gaps and conduct stress tests to identify future
vulnerabilities, funding to support applied research on best practices
on supply chain resiliency at both the firm-level and national-level,
and financial tools including grants and loans to pull forward private
sector investments in resiliency, countering the private market’s
tendency to overinvest in short-term cost control and underinvest in
resiliency.  

There are two critical steps that Congress could take to accelerate our
progress towards more resilient supply chains. First, Congress could
fund the bipartisan CHIPS for America Act, which would enable
transformative investments in domestic semiconductor research, design,
and manufacturing. This is the long-term solution to solving the current
chip shortage. Second, Congress could establish the new Critical Supply
Chain Resiliency Program (CSCRP) at the Department of Commerce, which
President Biden has proposed as part of his Build Back Better plan that
is before Congress right now. The program would serve as a central node
in the federal government for supply chain resilience, facilitate better
coordination and planning across federal agencies to address
vulnerabilities, and invest in critical supply chains where the private
market has failed to allocate sufficient capital.  

Some examples of the activities the new office could support include:

***Mapping supply chains for critical industries:*** The U.S. government
is trying to prevent disruptions in the supply chains for advanced
energy and communications equipment. The CSCRP conducts a survey of
firms in each industry, working with industry partners. The data and
mapping from the survey allows the office to run stress tests for
various shocks, including a cyber attack at a critical node, and run
scenario planning exercises to facilitate greater preparedness across
the private sector and government agencies to respond to potential
shocks to a critical supply chain.

***Growing domestic clean energy supply chains:*** A U.S. consortium of
green energy companies wishes to onshore the supply chain for
manufacturing solar panels, 80% of which are currently made by Chinese
companies [due in part to Chinese government
subsidies](https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2021/09/08/solar-panels-made-usa/).
The CSCRP provides low-cost financing to support the development of new
U.S. factories so that a larger share of the planned U.S. renewables
build-out is U.S.-made.

***Expanding supply of trusted and secure hardware:*** A promising
early-stage 5G equipment start-up seeks to scale up manufacturing for 5G
network infrastructure equipment. However, it has had trouble securing
the late-stage funding to commercialize its technology, which has been
[a longstanding problem that has pushed many U.S. manufacturers
offshore](https://americanaffairsjournal.org/2019/05/financing-advanced-manufacturing-why-vcs-arent-the-answer/).
The company is being courted by a contract manufacturer to move its
production to Asia. To address this issue, CSCRP provides a direct loan,
for one portion of its scale up need, and a loan guarantee for the rest.

The federal government must be better equipped to get ahead of possible
disruptions and have tools at its disposal to limit their impact on the
U.S. economy, workers, and consumers. When supply chain shocks cascade,
the spillover effects can impact the global economy in ways that no one
firm or sector can anticipate or adequately resolve on their own. By
taking a holistic view of the industrial base and supply chains critical
to US economic and national security, the federal government can
monitor, anticipate, and respond to economic, geopolitical, and
climate-related shocks. The CHIPS Act and the CSCRP are two important
steps towards our goal of strengthening our nation’s longer term
economic competitiveness, our national security, and advancing the
President’s [21<sup>st</sup> century industrial
strategy](https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/commentary/transcript/brian-deese-on-bidens-vision-for-a-twenty-first-century-american-industrial-strategy/).
The key to resolving the next global supply chain crisis is preventing
it from happening in the first place.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[1\]
https://slate.com/business/2020/04/yeast-shortage-supermarkets-coronavirus.html

\[2\] [Why the Pandemic Has Disrupted Supply Chains | The White
House](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/blog/2021/06/17/why-the-pandemic-has-disrupted-supply-chains/)

\[3\] Spencer Hill, Goldman Sachs, US Daily: A Semi-Troubling Shortage
(Apr. 24, 2021).
