---
tags: blog
date: '2021-09-08'
modified_time: 2021-12-15 17:29:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/09/08/addressing-concentration-in-the-meat-processing-industry-to-lower-food-prices-for-american-families/
published_time: 2021-09-08 12:00:00-04:00
title: "Addressing Concentration in the Meat-Processing Industry to Lower Food Prices\
  \ for American\_Families"
---
 
*By Brian Deese, Sameera Fazili, and Bharat Ramamurti*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President understands that families have been facing higher prices
at the grocery store recently. Half of those recent increases are from
meat prices—specifically, beef, pork, and poultry. While factors like
increased consumer demand have played a role, the price increases are
also driven by a lack of competition at a key bottleneck point in the
meat supply chain: meat-processing. Just four large conglomerates
control the majority of the market for each of these three products, and
the data show that these companies have been raising prices while
generating record profits during the pandemic. That’s why the
Biden-Harris Administration is taking bold action to enforce the
antitrust laws, boost competition in meat-processing, and push back on
pandemic profiteering that is hurting consumers, farmers, and ranchers
across the country.

***Meat constitutes half of food at home price increases.*** Large price
increases for beef, pork, and poultry are driving the recent price
increases consumers are seeing at the grocery store (a measure commonly
known as “food at home”). Together, these three items account for a full
half of the price increase for food at home since December 2020. Since
that time, prices for beef have risen by 14.0%, pork by 12.1%, and
poultry by 6.6%.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/food-at-home-inflation-by-product-accumulated-price-change.jpg"
class="wp-image-38283" loading="lazy" width="415" height="305" />
</figure>

***Four large conglomerates overwhelmingly control meat supply chains,
driving down earnings for farmers while driving up prices for
consumers.*** The meatpacking industry buys cattle, hogs, and chickens
from farmers and ranchers, processes it, and then sells beef, pork, and
poultry on to retailers like grocery stores. The industry is highly
consolidated, and serves as a key choke point in the supply chain (see
figure below).

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/us-beef-pork-and-broiler-supply-chains.jpg"
class="wp-image-38285" loading="lazy" width="521" height="270" />
</figure>

Today, just four firms control approximately 55-85% of the market for
these three products, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data.
That reflects dramatic consolidation of the industry [over the last five
decades](https://www.openmarketsinstitute.org/publications/food-power-addressing-monopolization-americas-food-system),
as the large conglomerates have absorbed more and more smaller
processors. In 1977, the largest four beef-packing firms controlled just
25% of the market, compared to 82% today. In poultry, the top four
processing firms controlled 35% of the market in 1986, compared to 54%
today. And in pork, the top four hog-processing firms controlled 33% of
the market in 1976, compared to 66% today.

That consolidation gives these middlemen the power to squeeze both
consumers and farmers and ranchers. There’s a long history of these
giant meat processors making more and more, while families pay more at
the grocery store and farmers and ranchers earn less for their products.
Absent this corporate consolidation, prices would be lower for consumers
and fairer for farmers and ranchers.

***The meat-processors are generating record profits during the
pandemic, at the expense of consumers, farmers, and ranchers.*** The
dynamic of a hyper-consolidated pinch point in the supply chain raises
real questions about pandemic profiteering. During the pandemic,
wholesale prices for beef rose much faster than input prices for cattle.
That means that the prices the processors pay to ranchers aren’t
increasing, but the prices collected by processors from retailers are
going up.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/cattle-input-prices-vs-wholesale-beef-prices.jpg"
class="wp-image-38289" loading="lazy" width="323" height="239" />
</figure>

At the same time, we have seen some of the top firms in this industry
generate record gross profits and their highest gross margins in years.
Gross profits for some of the leading beef, poultry, and pork processors
are at their highest levels in history, and Q1 2021 and Q2 2021 were the
most profitable quarters in history for some of these processors. Net
income for many of these companies is on pace to reach historic highs as
well. (Other top processors simply don’t report publicly on their
profits, margins, or income.)

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/leading-meet-processors-profitability.jpg"
class="wp-image-38291" loading="lazy" width="434" height="252" />
</figure>

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/leading-processors-aggregate-net-income.jpg"
class="wp-image-38293" loading="lazy" width="483" height="222" />
</figure>

***\*2021 numbers are projected using the quarterly numbers reported
this year.***

These record profits, income, and margins underscore the role that
meat-processors’ dominant market position and power play in increasing
meat prices. While factors like consumer demand and input costs are
affecting the market, it is the lack of competition that enables meat
processors to hike prices for meat while increasing their own
profitability. That is, if they faced meaningful competition, the
processors would simply be able to extract fewer profits if their costs
had gone up unexpectedly while keeping prices lower to earn retailers’
business.

Some of these companies have also been rewarding their shareholders with
large dividends and buybacks during this period. For instance, the large
processor JBS provided $2.3 billion in dividends and share buybacks in
2020. It has proposed record high dividend payments for 2021, increasing
payouts to shareholders by nearly 75% over 2020. Similarly, Tyson
recently raised dividends by 6% for fiscal year 2021, spending $477
million on dividends in the nine months ending July 2021. It also
repurchased $200 million of shares between September 2020 and July 2021.

These record profits and dividend payments come at a time when consumers
are paying more to put food on the table, workers are risking their
health and safety to keep America fed, and farmers and ranchers are also
facing unprecedented droughts, wildfires, and other extreme weather
events that put their herds and farms at risk. Meanwhile, taxpayers have
made historic investments to help businesses keep their doors open and
families cope with the economic impacts of this pandemic. These taxpayer
investments have kept per capita demand for meat steady, unlike the
collapse in demand the meat industry experienced in the Great Recession.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/per-capita-consumption-of-red-meat-and-poultry.jpg"
class="wp-image-38295" loading="lazy" width="480" height="288" />
</figure>

As we restart the world’s largest economy and make great strides in the
economic recovery, the Biden-Harris Administration is committed to
restarting right for the American people—consumers and producers
alike—by transforming the food system. This is a pivotal moment of
opportunity to build back a better food system that is fair,
competitive, distributed, and resilient.

The Biden-Harris Administration and USDA are taking on these issues by: 

-   **Taking strong actions to crack down on illegal price fixing,
    enforce antitrust laws, and bring more transparency to the
    meat-processing industry**. USDA is conducting an ongoing joint
    investigation with the Department of Justice into price-fixing in
    the chicken-processing industry, which has already yielded a $107
    million guilty plea by Pilgrim’s Pride and
    [numerous](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/broiler-chicken-producer-indicted-price-fixing-and-bid-rigging)
    [other](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/four-executives-and-company-charged-price-fixing-ongoing-investigation-broiler-chicken)
    indictments. USDA has also announced a more robust Packers and
    Stockyards Act [enforcement
    policy](https://www.ams.usda.gov/press-release/usda-celebrates-landmark-agricultural-legislation%E2%80%99s-century-service-committing)
    and new efforts to strengthen Packers and Stockyards Act
    [rules](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/06/11/usda-begin-work-strengthen-enforcement-packers-and-stockyards-act),
    so that meat-processors can’t use their market dominance to abuse
    farmers and ranchers. And USDA is creating more transparency, with
    [new market
    reports](https://www.ams.usda.gov/press-release/new-usda-market-news-reports-enhance-price-transparency-cattle-markets)
    on what beef-processors pay, as well as [new
    rules](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/07/01/usda-announces-efforts-promote-transparency-product-usa-labeling)
    designed to ensure consumers get what they pay for when meat is
    labeled “Product of USA.”  
-   **Providing relief to small businesses and workers hurt by COVID,
    and creating a more competitive food supply chain.** USDA will
    invest $1.4 billion in pandemic assistance to provide relief to
    small producers, processors, distributors, farmers markets, seafood
    processors, and food and farm workers impacted by COVID-19. This
    includes [$700 million to reach small
    operations](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/09/09/usda-invests-700-million-provide-relief-small-producers-processors)
    who have not received previous rounds of federal pandemic aid. USDA
    will also provide [$700
    million](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/09/07/usda-invests-700-million-grants-provide-relief-farm-and-food)
    to states, tribes, and nonprofit organizations to distribute up to
    $600 per worker in relief payments directly to frontline farmworkers
    and meatpacking workers who incurred expenses preparing for,
    preventing exposure to, and responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
    USDA will also [invest $500
    million](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/07/09/usda-announces-500-million-expanded-meat-poultry-processing)
    in American Rescue Plan Act funds to support new competitive
    entrants to expand local and regional meat and poultry processing
    capacity. USDA will provide grants, loans, and technical assistance
    to create new meat and poultry processing capacity that will compete
    with the big guys, forcing them to lower prices and actually earn
    their business, and provide farmers and ranchers access to better
    choices and fairer prices in local and regional food systems.

<!-- -->

-   **Getting ahead of climate change related disruptions by supporting
    farmers and ranchers from the effects of extreme weather.**
    Unprecedented drought and extreme weather events have brought new
    challenges for farmers, ranchers, and agricultural workers, on top
    of the historic challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. To
    respond to the drought affecting farmers and ranchers across the
    West and Midwest, USDA [will expand its Emergency Assistance for
    Livestock](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/09/08/usda-expands-assistance-cover-feed-transportation-costs-drought),
    Honeybees and Farm-Raised Fish Program (ELAP) to include the cost of
    transporting feed, delivering much-needed relief to affected
    livestock producers.  
-   **Working with Congress to make cattle markets more transparent and
    fairer.** Right now, meatpackers have outsized power in setting the
    prices for beef, which are often set in opaque contracts that lock
    independent livestock producers into prices that aren’t the product
    of free and fair negotiation. The Administration is encouraged to
    see bipartisan legislation by Senators Tester, Fischer, Grassley,
    Wyden, and others that seek to improve price discovery in the cattle
    markets—and facilitate actual negotiation of prices between
    livestock producers and packers. We look forward to working with
    Congress on these important issues, and we hope that they will also
    look for ways to ensure farmers and ranchers have fair access to
    meat-processing capacity.

All together, these actions will help build a food system that works for
the American people above all else. They will support families, farmers,
and workers while preventing bad actors in the supply chain from lining
their pockets and getting further ahead without accountability. This
will make the food system fairer and more equitable, more competitive
and transparent, and more distributed and resilient against shocks. In
turn, it will increase farmers’ and ranchers’ earnings, deliver greater
value to workers, and offer consumers affordable, healthy food produced
closer to home.  
