---
date: '2023-12-07'
modified_time: 2023-12-07 08:57:51-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-07 09:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/07/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-addressing-the-challenge-of-housing-affordability-at-the-national-housing-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard Addressing the Challenge\
  \ of Housing Affordability At the National Housing\_Conference"
---
 
*AS DELIVERED*

Good morning. It’s great to be here to kick off today’s conference and
speak to one of the most important issues in the President’s economic
agenda – lowering costs and increasing access to housing for Americans.

President Biden knows that too many Americans feel the path to the
middle class is out of reach. He is fighting to lower costs on
everything from prescription drugs to a gallon of gas.  

For many Americans, housing expenses are the biggest of their monthly
costs, which is why housing affordability is at the center of having a
little breathing room at the end of each month.

Housing that is affordable provides a vital foundation to achieve other
goals, such as securing a good job, engaging in training and education,
providing for children, and building a financial cushion.

Our agenda has been guided by the goal of lowering housing costs. During
the pandemic, that meant ensuring Americans could afford to remain in
their housing despite the disruption to incomes. Since the recovery, our
agenda has focused on increasing the availability of housing that
Americans can afford, lowering costs for homebuyers, and lowering costs
and promoting competition and fairness for renters. I will discuss each
in turn.

**<u>Ensuring Americans Could Afford to Remain in Their Housing During a
Global Pandemic</u>**

During the lengthy course of the COVID-19 pandemic, businesses laid off
tens of millions of workers and millions of Americans could have faced
the possibility of eviction or foreclosure. President Biden came to
office committed to preventing that from happening. Working with many in
this room, the Administration and state and local governments delivered
more than 10 million emergency rental or utility assistance payments,
provided financial assistance to nearly 400,000 homeowners at risk of
foreclosures, and worked to provide unified and consistent mortgage
modification options for millions of borrowers. As a result of these
actions, today, foreclosures and evictions remain below or at
pre-pandemic levels, and the Black homeownership rate has actually
increased above pre-pandemic levels.

**<u>Increasing the Availability of Housing Americans Can Afford</u>**

While job opportunities are much brighter, and many things have gotten
more affordable in recent months, we know that affording a quality place
to live is still a challenge for too many Americans. Ever since the
subprime crisis, there has been a shortfall in affordable housing
construction and preservation. That accumulated shortfall, combined with
the disruptions around the pandemic, means that the average renter pays
30% of their income on rent every month and around half of renter
households are considered rent burdened.

Our first major priority is increasing the supply of affordably priced
homes in order to lower housing costs. We are using every lever at our
disposal – legislative proposals, our administrative authorities, our
convening power, and our bully pulpit – to do so.

Achieving the greatest improvement in supply will require Congress to
act.  The President’s Budget proposed housing tax credits that increase
the number of households that have access to affordable rents by 1.2
million over the next decade. That means rents set at less than 24% of
area median income, with rent increases tied to area income gains. These
provisions are also in the Affordable Housing Credit Improvement Act.

On top of this, the Neighborhood Homes Investment Act proposal in the
President’s Budget would promote homeownership for an additional 500,000
households while increasing neighborhood revitalization investments.

225 bipartisan members of Congress have sponsored these bills. We should
get them done.

But we cannot wait for Congress to act. Through our Housing Supply
Action Plan, we are reducing barriers to housing and offering new and
improved financing for affordable housing development.

We are promoting local zoning reforms that will mean more quality,
affordable housing near good jobs and transportation hubs. Communities
across the country –
from [Minneapolis](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2023-08-09/minneapolis-controls-us-inflation-with-affordable-housing-renting) and
Massachusetts to our neighbors in Alexandria and Arlington – have
enacted zoning reforms that will encourage denser housing, make certain
funds contingent on building more affordable housing, and promote
housing development near public transportation.

These programs work, so we are standing up a first of its kind PRO
Housing Grant Program to support communities in identifying and removing
barriers to housing production. We’ve already embedded incentives to
reduce barriers to affordable housing into about $10 billion in
transportation funding. And our Department of Transportation is making
billions of dollars in low-cost loans available for developing housing
near transportation.

Given the shift to greater teleworking and high office vacancy rates in
some downtowns, we are also supporting conversions as a win-win solution
to promote affordable housing and downtown revitalization. That is why
we recently announced actions to encourage the conversion of
underutilized commercial buildings to housing.

In the months ahead, we will be examining other forms of federal
financing in order to ensure they are being maximally utilized to
increase the supply of affordable housing – from HUD’s HOME program to
the Federal Home Loan Bank Affordable Housing Programs.

The banking agencies’ first rewrite of the Community Reinvestment Act
rule in 25 years will also provide a critical boost to the supply of
affordable housing. The new CRA rule will increase investment in
communities that are currently underserved, specifically low- and
moderate-income communities and communities of color. The new rule will
encourage increased investments in affordable housing and, according to
independent analysis, encourage banks to make more LIHTC equity
investments in underserved rural areas and small cities. And the new
evaluation framework, increased transparency about qualifying
investments, and inclusion of special purpose credit programs will help
address persistent racial homeownership and wealth gaps, and bring much
needed capital, including mortgage credit, to credit deserts.

**<u>Addressing Barriers to Homeownership and Helping First Time
Homebuyers</u>**

Our second major priority is to lower costs for homebuyers and promote
access to homeownership, including for communities that have faced
persistent barriers to it. The recent increase in interest rates has
intensified the challenges facing these aspiring homeowners. 

President Biden understands that we must do more to support families who
want to become homeowners but face affordability challenges. And he also
understands that for some communities, barriers to homeownership are
longstanding. 

Our Administration has acted to lower housing costs for first-time
homebuyers who disproportionally rely on the Federal Housing
Administration program. For example, earlier this year, FHA lowered
their mortgage insurance premiums by 0.3 percentage points, which will
mean savings of around $1,200 per year for a homebuyer buying a median
home.

But there is more to do across the federal government, state, and local
governments, and industry to lower costs associated with homebuying. For
example, a number of key homebuying costs allow for little consumer
choice but can add up in a significant manner. That’s why federal
agencies are currently examining whether there are actions that can be
taken to lower costs, promote competition, and encourage homeownership.

We also must take action to promote homeownership for those who have
faced persistent barriers. The President’s Budget includes a first
generation down payment assistance program to help make homeownership a
reality for families who do not have the advantage of previous
generational wealth building from homeownership. Passing this
legislation could begin to close the stubborn racial gap in
homeownership.

Addressing this persistent gap – in addition to other instances of
housing discrimination – is central to all of our housing efforts. HUD
is currently working to finalize an Affirmatively Furthering Fair
Housing rule that reflects the principle that communities that receive
federal housing aid must take meaningful, affirmative steps to overcome
patterns of exclusion.

**<u>Promoting a Fair and Affordable Rental Market</u>**

Finally, I’d like to discuss what we are doing to promote fairness in
the rental market and access to affordable rents for the lowest-income
Americans. The President recognizes that for many low-income families,
rental affordability is a longstanding challenge.

Our Administration has secured rental assistance for an additional
100,000 low-income households – guaranteeing rents at 30% of those
families’ incomes. The President’s Budget proposes expanding rental
assistance to more than 200,000 additional households, including a
first-of-its kind rental assistance guarantee for low-income veterans
and former foster youth.

But our commitment to fairness and competition in the rental market goes
beyond vouchers. Through our Blueprint for a Renters Bill of Rights, the
Administration has acted to ensure renters can address inaccuracies in
tenant screening reports and has enhanced eviction prevention efforts.
We are going after rental junk fees, from repeated rental application
fees to surprise “convenience fees,” which raise rental costs for
millions of families and prevent comparison shopping.

And we working to ensure that renter protections evolve with changing
market dynamics among housing providers. For example, the Department of
Justice has identified “algorithmic price-fixing” as the “new frontier”
and explained that “given the amount of information an algorithm can
access and digest, this new frontier poses an even greater
anticompetitive threat” than ones in the past.

**<u>Closing</u>**

In closing, we must do more – at all levels of government and with
partners across the housing landscape – to lower housing costs and
ensure all Americans have access to affordable and quality housing.
Congress should act. Our Administration will continue using all
available authorities, in addition to the bully pulpit. And as always,
state and local governments, the non-profit sector, and industry have an
outsized role in housing. We’re pleased to work in partnership with so
many of you to meet this shared goal and look forward to continuing our
efforts together.

\###
