---
date: '2023-12-12'
modified_time: 2023-12-12 15:37:12-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-12 15:37:11-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/12/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-reception-9/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign\_Reception"
---
 
*The St. Regis Washington, D.C.  
Washington, D.C.*

11:20 A.M. EST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hey.  Good after- — good morning.  Morning.  Good
morning.  Good morning.  Please have a seat, everyone.   
  
Thank you, Sheldon.  I think we’re going to get into a conversation
later about why, in addition to it being — and making good business
sense — that the work that we are doing together is truly about our
children and the future of our country in so many ways.  So, thank you
for — for your introduction and your leadership.  
  
I want to thank Abby.  I want to thank — thank Tom for all that you all
have been doing.  I was talking briefly with them before I came out.   
  
And this organization and what you are doing, in terms of the Solar
Energy Industries Association — and thank you — it really is a very
important, if you will, Venn diagram in understanding that we cannot
afford to just exist in silos that are about the industry or about
policy or about elections and politics — that there is a profound
intersection between the three if we’re actually to see this good work
through.   
  
And so, I appreciate all the leaders who are here who understand the
connections between them and the importance of then focusing on all of
them if we are to actually make real the vision that we have for the
future of our country.   
  
Before I get too detailed on the topic, I do want to address another
issue, which is what has been happening in Texas with a young woman by
the name of Kate Cox.  So, she is a mother of two.  She and her husband
have two children, and she is pregnant.  And she has been diagnosed by
her physician with having a pregnancy that could result in harm to
herself and to the fetus.   
  
And she has unfortunately been living in a state that has criminalized
access to healthcare for women and criminalized it in such a way that
they literally provide for prison time for life for physicians and
punish women who should have the right to make a decision about their
own bodies.   
  
And so, she has had to travel to a state that is not her home state to
receive the healthcare that she needs and has actually been prescribed
by a physician.   
  
And I think it is important that when we are talking about foundational
freedoms in our country, that we speak out when such an injustice is
happening that would deny an individual to be able to make such
important decisions about her own body and her life.   
  
And so, the stakes could not be higher on that issue.  And, therefore, I
think we should all feel compelled to talk about it and think about it
in terms of how it affects real people every day.   
  
And with that, I will get to the subject at hand, which is the issue and
the importance of the work that we are all doing together to build the
clean energy economy and a future which will be about the most important
and fundamental priorities for us as a species, which is the need to
have clean water and clean air and to protect this beautiful planet upon
which we live.  
  
And — and with that, I want to thank all of the leaders who are here,
because this is truly a room of innovators and those who have the
ability to see what can be, unburdened by what has been.   
  
And I will tell you: Yes, I am so excited about this work.  
  
Back from the time that I was actually district attorney of San
Francisco — I was elected in 2003, started my term in 2004 — I created
one of the first environmental justice units of any prosecutor’s office
in the country.   
  
And then, later, I would serve for two terms as attorney general of
California, where we did a lot of work that was about thinking about
what we must do in terms of regulation.  
  
But in terms of creating incentives for good behaviors that are about
understanding, again, the connection between the policies, which are
about a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; the policies which should
be about paying attention to poor air quality and how it is created; and
then doing the work of aspiring to do better and create incentives to do
better.   
  
And we fast forward almost 20 years now, and I think about — back to
2004 and where we are next year and where we have come as a country and
as a society on these issues.  Those days, we were really battling some
folks who just were confirmed and sure that it was not an issue — the
climate deniers.  Thank God we don’t have to deal with that as much —
not completely — (laughter) — but as much anymore.   
  
What we have to deal with now is those who would attempt to delay what
we know is possible and can be done.  We have to deal with the
greenwashing.  We have to deal with those who, in some sectors, are
obstructionist around what makes for smart and good policy with a sense
of urgency, which we must all have.   
  
In fact, I just got back from Dubai a couple of weeks ago at COP28.  And
when we think about who we are as Americans, who the United States is on
this issue: We have self-appointed and, I think, have earned a standing
globally, which is that we are a leader on so many of these issues.   
  
And our leadership on these issues, then, is not only about what we are
doing to invest in research and development and innovation in a way it
can be used by our allies and partners and even adversaries around the
world, but what we are doing to also role model what governments and
leaders in whichever sector must take on with priority and a sense of
urgency.   
  
We are earning the right to look at our friends around the world,
literally, and challenge them.  And where they have not had the ability
to perhaps imagine what is possible, the work this industry is doing is
demonstrating it.  Sometimes we have to just show people what we know is
possible.   
  
And, thankfully, in the cycle of this movement, we are now at that stage
where we are shovels in ground, where the work is actually happening.   
  
Dalton, Georgia, where are you?  There you are.  I was so happy to come
and visit, and what you guys are doing at Qcells, and — and to show
people this is what it looks like.  And this is what it looks like in
terms of a physical structure, but, hey, this is what it also looks like
in terms of investing in the skills of an important workforce.   
  
This is what IBEW apprenticeship programs look like, which are four-year
apprenticeship programs where the students are paid while they’re going
to school because everyone needs to be able to actually have the ability
to pay rent and study a new profession.   
  
And we’re showing how — the intersection between investing in workforce,
investing in a new economy, and investing in what we must do for our
children for generations to come.   
  
It’s a very exciting time.  And the work your industry is doing is
pivotal and is a real model for those who may be policy leaders, those
who may be industry leaders, those who are global leaders.  And dare I
say that it also is a demonstration, then, of the fact that this
approach works.  It works.  And it actually makes a difference.

We’re not just testing out a hypothesis.  We’re actually proving the
premise.   
  
And in that way, then, your industry is so important.  And on this
point, then, and back to my point about — I love Venn diagrams.  This is
where the geek in me just comes out.  (Laughter.) 

So — but on the point about the Venn diagram and, most importantly, the
point about the intersection, that is where also your leadership, as a
group of leaders and an industry, is important in recognizing the
connection between policy, between growing our economy — because it is
about a pro-growth economy approach — and the intersection between that
and elections.  Elections matter.   
  
When we were running for office, Joe Biden was very clear: We’re going
to put America back on the map — globally, in terms of reentering the
Paris Agreement.  And we’re going to put America on the map as being a
global leader in investing in our economy in many ways, including this
one.   
  
And it is because of the support that you all gave in 2020 — to believe
that that was possible — that we were able to make an historic
investment of over $1 trillion in this economy — putting the resources
over the next 10 years — by my equation, over the next 10 years into the
jobs, into the industry, into R&D.   
  
We’ve already seen over $600 billion of private sector investment that
has been spurred because of the investment that we are making based on
what we know to be good policy and good practice.  Elections matter.   
  
I’ll remind you, sadly, not one Republican in Congress voted for the
Inflation Reduction Act — although in Dalton, Georgia, that member of
Congress, I believe, is taking a lot of credit for the work that’s
happening — (laughter) — despite voting against it.  So, maybe that
should be further evidence of the fact that it makes for good politics
and good policy.  (Laughter.)  
  
But there is a connection.  And as many of you know — and we have to be
clear-eyed about the challenges in this upcoming election cycle — there
have been those who have said if they are elected, they will get rid of
the IRA.  So, it’s no small matter.  It’s no small matter.   
  
And I will also acknowledge that you, as leaders — it is not only about
leaders in business, leaders in innovation, and leaders in industry, you
also have a lot of courage to put your money where your mouth is. 

You guys are investing your resources into this.  You are encouraging
investment in your ideas and your plans.  You are having meetings with
folks to say, “Believe in this, and I’m going to show you how it can be
done.  And, actually, you’ll get a return on the investment.” 

That takes a lot of courage to believe in it and then do the details
that actually make it work.   
  
And so, all of that to say, there’s more that can be done, but who sits
in the White House matters on this. 

You know, there’s so many issues that, right now in our world, are so
complex, but where the environment is — the only appetite in the
environment is for binary, when in fact these issues are anything but.  
  
However, November ‘24: binary.  Binary for so many reasons and in — on
this issue.   
  
So, with that, again, I say thank you to all of you for your leadership,
for your — just your vision for the future of our country, and for
making it real every day.   
  
And with that, I’ll take some questions. 

Okay.  Thank you all.  (Applause.)  
  
                        END                11:32 A.M. EST
