---
date: '2023-12-20'
modified_time: 2023-12-20 08:26:21-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-20 05:45:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/20/press-call-by-vice-president-harris-on-the-biden-harris-administrations-commitment-to-environmental-justice/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Press Call by Vice President Harris on the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019\
  s Commitment to Environmental\_Justice"
---
 
*Via Teleconference *

3:34 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Administrator Regan.  And I have to tell
you, it is my honor to serve with you in the President’s
administration.  The work that you have been doing has been bold,
courageous, and transformative.  So, thank you, Administrator Regan, for
the introduction.  
  
And, to everyone, greetings.  And — and, Dr. Bullard, thank you as well
because you have been a true giant of the environmental justice
movement.  And so, to everyone, thank you all for joining us today.  
  
In the United States of America, I think we all know every person should
have the right to drink clean water, breathe clean air, and live in a
community that is healthy and safe.  Yet, today, millions of people in
our nation are denied that right.   
  
For generations, low-income communities, immigrant communities, Native
communities, and communities of color have endured disproportionate
levels of air, water, and soil pollution.  These communities are also
often hardest hit by the climate-driven extreme weather: hurricanes,
floods, wildfires, and extreme heat.  
  
As Administrator Regan mentioned — as Administrator Regan mentioned, I
have fought my entire career to address these inequities and advance
environmental justice, including here in the White House.  President Joe
Biden and I have put equity at the center of all of our climate
investments.   
  
And today, to continue our work, I am proud to announce we are providing
$600 million to 11 organizations with close community ties to fund
thousands of local environmental justice projects.  For example, these
grants could help a nonprofit in, say, Atlanta monitor air pollution
levels or help a middle school in Indian Country create a summer program
to teach young leaders about environmental science.  
  
And this investment is important not only because of the projects it
will fund, but because of its innovative structure.  For a long time,
we’ve heard from leaders in the environmental justice movement that a
significant hurdle to funding their work is the federal grant-making
process itself.  Applications can take years to be approved.  And, in
general, the process favors larger national organizations over smaller
local organizations.   
  
To address these challenges, instead of this investment being
administered at the federal level, we have selected 11 well-trusted and
well-established community organizations to lead the grant-making
process.   
  
And here are two big reasons why this matters.   
  
First, speed.  These organizations will be able to review and approve
grant applications faster — not with all the bureaucracy; not in years,
but in months.  This means our investment will hit the streets more
quickly.  
  
Second, impact.  These organizations are run by people who live and work
in the communities they serve, leaders who understand intuitively the
needs and the incredible capacity of the place in which they live and,
therefore, are uniquely well positioned to ensure these grants make a
real impact.  
  
And to be clear, the $600 million investment is a down payment. 
President Biden and I will continue to fight to make sure all
communities have the resources they need to advance environmental
justice and to make sure all people can breathe clean air, drink clean
water, and live in a healthy community.  
  
And with that, again, I thank everyone.  And I will now turn it back to
Administrator Regan.   
  
And, again, thank you for your leadership.   
  
And, to everyone, please take care.  
  
END                     3:37 P.M. EST
