---
date: '2023-12-06'
published_time: 2023-12-06 17:36:17-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/06/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-white-house-tribal-nations-summit-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the White\_House Tribal Nations\_Summit"
---
 
Department of the Interior  
Washington, D.C.

2:11 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT: Hello, hello, hello.

Thank you, Assistant Secretary Newland, for that introduction.

Please be seated. (Laughter.)

And thanks for — thanks for all the Tribal leaders here. I want to say
how much I appreciate your efforts for being here. You know, we’re
grateful that you made the journey to have — we have an important
conversation to have about things that matter most to — to your people.

That’s why we’re here. It’s a simple proposition.

When I became President, I promised my administration would prioritize
respect for Tribal sovereignty and self-determination, otherwise Danny
Inouye would come down from Heaven and beat me up. (Laughter.) I was
raised by Danny Inouye. You think I’m joking.

I remember once I said, “All those Indian na- …” He said, “No. Nations,
Joe. Nations, nations.” And that was 50 years ago.

You know that we usher in a new era of relationship between our
government and nation-to-nation relationships.

We’ve made progress, but we know Indigenous communities  
still live in the shadows of the failed policies of the past. That’s why
— that’s why I committed to working with you to write a new and better
chapter in American history for Indian nations.

To honor the solemn promise the United States made to Tribal nations, to
fulfill our federal trust and treaty obligations, and to work together
to rebuild Tribal economies and institutions.

To make this new era — (applause). You should be clapping. This is the
first time this has happened. Come on, guys. (Applause.) You may not be
proud of all this, but I’m really proud of it.

Make this new era of self-determination a reality.

On my watch, the federal government has made record investments in
Tribal nations. There’s more to do.

The American Rescue Plan, the largest direct federal investment in
Tribal nations ever. We helped vaccinate Tribal communities. We got the
economy going again.

And the Bipartisan Infrastructure — the single biggest investment in
Tribal roads, bridges, water, high-speed Internet, electricity,
integration \[irrigation\], environmental cleanup, and so much more.
Because you deserve it, and it’s long overdue.

The Inflation Reduction Act, the biggest investment  
in fighting climate change ever, anywhere — (applause) — anywhere in the
history of the world.

And helping Tribal communities to lead in the transition to clean energy
and ease the impact of droughts and wildfires and rising sea levels that
threaten Na- — Native lives and precious homelands.

You know, at the same time, my administration last year secured the
first-ever advanced funding for Indian Health Services — (applause) —
$5.1 billion locked in before budget negotiations so hospitals could
plan ahead, order supplies, hire doctors, knowing the money would be
there. (Applause.)

And we’re going to keep fighting to make that funding is mandatory part
of the federal budget so that Tribes can count on it year in and year
out. (Applause.)

Folks, these are transformational — these transformational investments
are going to help Tribes, but they help all Americans — all Americans.
We know the federal dollars are vital to your communities in order to be
able to thrive.

We know you know how to — you know best how to invest them, not us. You
know. You know what your communities need. And that’s what
self-determination means.

But today, there are still too many hoops to jump through,  
too many — too many strings attached, and too many inefficiencies in the
process.

For example, a small Tribe may qualify for federal funding but they
can’t afford to hire an extra staff needed to compete \[complete\] the —
all the paperwork.

Or a Tribal council may secure a grant but can’t collect it without —
without raising enough cash to meet the federal matching requirements.

Or a remote Alaskan village may receive funds — without roads or
Internet and has to cha- — has to charter a plane or — every — every
quarter just to be able to — required to be in compliance with the
report.

Folks, we can do a hell of a lot better than that — a hell of a lot
better than that. (Applause.) And we’re going to.

That’s why, today, I’m signing an executive order to reform the federal
funding system for Tribes, cutting that red tape  
so you can deliver for your communities faster and better. (Applause.)

And here’s what that order does.

It requires federal agencies to streamline grant applications, to
co-manage federal programs, to eliminate heavy-handed reporting
requirements. It gives Tribes more autonomy to make your own decisions.
Not to mention, it’s more efficient.

We know this approach works because we’re — because we’re doing it, and
some programs already. And we’ve been doing it for some programs for
nearly 50 years.

Take the Indian Health Service. More than half its budget now goes
directly to Tribes to run their own clinics and hospitals rather than
relying on federal facilities. That’s a source of local pride to deliver
quality care tailored directly for each community, because communities
are different.

Today’s executive order also creates an online clearinghouse, a
one-stop-shop where Tribal governments can more easily search for grants
and all in one place. And the — but that — that to me, by the way, not
only Tribes, but every state is asking for the same thing. (Laughter.)

And the order also tasks the official — the Office of Management and
Budget and my Domestic Policy Council with identifying areas where our
funding falls short and ways to meet these needs going forward.

Folks, separately, we’re also streamlining \[strengthening\] the Buy
Indian Act, so federal agencies get more goals and services — goods and
services from Native-owned businesses. Native-owned businesses.
(Applause.)

This year, for example, the Indian Affairs Bureau awarded 75 percent of
its budget to Native-owned enterprises, up from about half that in 2021.

Together, these steps are going to help grow Tribal economies and reduce
the hoops they have to jump through to get the funding they deserve.

It’s all a part of my vision for a new era of respect. Respect for you
as leaders, respect for Tribal sovereignty, respect for the Nations’
fundamental right to build a future and own — on your own terms, not
anyone else’s terms, not anyone else’s terms.

From day one, I’ve worked to include Indigenous voices at the table in
all we do. I’ve appointed Native Americans to lead across the federal
government.

Not only Secretary Haaland, America’s first Indigenous Cabinet Secretary
— (applause) — and I can say without exaggeration, she is doing one hell
of a job — one hell of a job — (applause) — but scores — scores of other
Native Americans in key — key roles across the administration.

I’ve been proud to re-establish the White House Council on Native
American Affairs to help coordinate that policy as well. (Applause.)

And I’m proud — I’m proud to relaunch this annual summit after years of
neglect by my predecessors.

I was proud — (applause) — I was proud to take historic steps to improve
consultation process between federal agencies and Tribal Nations.

Working together, we also reauthorized the Violence Against Women Act,
which I wrote as a U.S. senator, expanding Tribes’ sovereign
jurisdiction — your sovereign jurisdiction.

And I directed federal agencies to work with you to address the missing
and murdered Indigenous people.

At the same time, preserving important and ancestral Tribal lands. I
restored protections from my predecessor — gutted by my predecessor at
three national monuments: Grand Staircase and Beers Ear- — Bears Ears.

And, by the way, you know how that happened? I was in a plane, and a
little girl came up to me. She said, “Mr. Pwesident” — (laughter) — “can
you take care of Beaws Ears?” (Laughter.) And I said — I said, “Can I…”
I thought she said can I take care of her ears. (Laughter.) And I said,
“What, honey?” And she said, “Beaws Ears. It’s really important!” And
guess what? She was dead right. And we did take care of it.

And Northeast — (applause) — the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts off the
coast of New England.

I used to have my — I used my authority under the Antiquities Act to
designate new national monuments as well, including Castner Range in
Texas, Camp Hale in Colorado, Spirit Mountain in Nevada, Ancestral
Footprints of the Grand Canyon — which, by the way, I was really like —
I enjoyed doing that at the last — anyway. (Laughter.) It got some
attention from people who didn’t agree with me.

But at any rate — (laughter) — meanwhile, my Department of Agriculture
and Interior have signed more than 200 agreements to strengthen
co-stewardship of federal lands recognizing the value of Tribal
knowledge. (Applause.)

And today, we’re publishing the best practices guide to help federal
agencies work with Tribes to protect sacred sites in all those areas.

Folks, at the same time, we’re helping to preserve cultural heritage
like Tribal languages and sports. Sports like lacrosse.

Joining us today are members of the Six Nations Confederacy who — which
in- — by the way, where are you guys? Stand up. (Applause.) Come on.

Which invented lacrosse nearly a thousand years ago. The game brought
Tribes together, a force for peace, friendship, and healing. The Six
Nations players are still among the very best in the world.

And as a point of personal privilege, I know about this because I went
to Syracuse University, long the home of a powerhouse lacrosse program.

And I might add, my daughter was a first-rate lacrosse player in high
school, and my niece was an All-American lacrosse player at Harvard \[in
high school\], so we have a little knowledge of lacrosse in our
family.  
I wanted to play lacrosse, but you had to choose between lacrosse and
football. You couldn’t play both in the same season. And since I was a
powerful six-foot, 158-pound — (laughter) — flanker back — I was the
runner-up at state scoring championship. Don’t laugh, man. (Laughter.)

As they say in football, I got soft hands. (Laughter.) Can catch a lot.

This fall, it was announced that lacrosse will once again be an official
Olympic sport. (Applause.) And the Six Nations team asked to compete
under its own Tribal flag. (Applause.) And today, I’m announcing my
support for that request. (Applause.)

Their ancestors invented the game. They perfected it for a millennia.
Their circumstances are unique, and they should be granted an exception
to field their own team at the Olympics. (Applause.)

Let me close with this. It’s hard work to heal the wrongs of the past
and change the course and move forward. But the actions we’re taking
today are key steps into that new era of Tribal sovereignty and
self-determination — a new era, grounded in dignity and respect, that
recognizes your fundamental right to govern and grow on your own terms.

That’s what this summit is all about. Excuse me. That’s what this summit
is all about.

So, I want to thank you all for being here, allowing me to be with you.
And I look forward to continuing our work together.

Now, it’s my honor to sign the executive order to do all the things I
just said.

So, thank you, thank you, thank you. (Applause.)

The tradition is, when you sign an executive order, you give one of
these pens to the person responsible for it. You’re all going to get a
pen. I only have one. (Laughter.) But I promise, you’re all going to get
one.

The Executive Order Reforming Federal Funding and Support for Tribal
Nations to Better Embrace Our Trust Responsibilities \[and\] Promote the
ex- – era — the Next Era of Tribal Self-Determination.

(The executive order is signed.)

There you go. (Applause.)

2:25 P.M. EST
