---
date: '2023-12-20'
modified_time: 2023-12-20 16:14:57-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-20 16:14:56-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/20/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-wisconsin-black-chamber-of-commerce/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Wisconsin Black Chamber of\_Commerce"
---
 
The Wisconsin Black Chamber of Commerce  
Milwaukee, Wisconsin

12:45 P.M. CST

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, Milwaukee!  (Applause.)  It’s great to be
back.

You know, the press has heard me say this — the ones that follow me —
that my dad had an expression —

If you have a seat, take one.  If you don’t, I understand.  Come up with
me.  (Laughter.)  Sit on the stage with me.

My dad used to have an expression.  He’d say, “Joey, a job…” — I mean
this sincerely — “… is about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about
your dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about being able to look your
kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay.’”

That’s what we’re all about.  That’s what we all want to do. 

And, Rashawn, thank you for that introduction.  And thank you for doing
what my dad always worried about: whether we’d be able to have those
jobs with a little bit of dignity.

And I want to thank my colleague, Governor Evers.  You — where are you,
Gov?  One of the best governors in the country.  (Applause.) 

He’s sitting next to Con- — he’s sitting next to Congresswoman Moore. 
Stand up, Congresswoman.  (Applause.)  As she can tell you: Whatever she
tells me, I do.  (Laughter.)  It’s great to see you, kiddo.

And also, I want to — Mayor Johnson, thanks for the passport into the
city.  I appreciate it very much.  (Applause.)

And County Executive Crowley is here.  (Applause.)

And I want to thank Senator — a good friend of mine — Tammy Baldwin, who
couldn’t be here today.  (Applause.)

And I want to thank everyone here at Milwaukee’s Black Chamber of
Commerce for your partnership across the board on everything we’ve been
working on.  I come from a state that has the eighth-largest Black
population in the country, and as they say — the saying goes where I
come — “You brung me to the dance” early on.

You’re proof that Black small businesses with the talent, integrity, and
ingenuity are the engines and the glue that hold communities together. 
And I mean that sincerely, you hold communities together.

You’re the ones that sponsor the Little League teams.  You’re the one
that spon- — involved in the church events.  You’re the ones that hold
the community together, and you keep it going.  You keep it moving.

And every new business opening is a — is a vote for hope — just hope. 
Hope.  You know, you’re making the American economy stronger and our
nation more competitive.

I’m here today to talk about something that doesn’t get enough
attention.  I’m here to celebrate the progress we’re making to support
Black small businesses here and around the country.  (Applause.)

Because when Black small businesses grow, everything benefits.  The
community benefits.  Everyone benefits.  Not a joke.  And it gives hope
and prospects for people.

Since Kamala and I entered office, America has filed a record number of
— in less than 3 years, 15 million new job app- — new applications to
start new businesses — 15 million.  (Applause.)

It’s led to the fastest growth in Black business ownership in over 30
years.  Across the country, wages for workers are up.  Black wealth is a
record — up a record 60 percent since the pandemic.

So many of you — (applause) — look, by the way, we just — I mean this
sincere- — from the bottom of my heart, we’re just getting started. 
We’re just getting st- —

So many of you had the vision and took the risk to open businesses, and
you bet on yourself.  Together, we’re transforming the economy by
investing in all of America and all Americans.

When — I said when I ran, if I was elected, I’d represent everyone:
blue, red, no matter what color the state was.  Wherever it was, we’d
recommend. 

Because think — think about it.  Think of all the businesses that you
know about throughout the Midwest and back my way as well that closed
down because you had corporations deciding they’d get cheaper labor
across the sea; they could move somewhere else.  So, they sent the jobs
overseas and brought the product back home. 

And we changed that su- — supply chain.  We’re sending — we’re having
the jobs here and sending product overseas.  (Applause.)

And from the time I got involved in public life — I’ve only been around
a few years.  (Laughter.)  Oh, bless me, Father.  Anyway.  (Laughter.)

We’re doing it by building an economy from the middle out and the bottom
up, not the top down.  Not a whole lot trickled down on my dad’s kitchen
table with a top-down economy.

But when you <s>muild from the biddle</s> \[build from the middle\],
when you increase the middle class, the poor have a shot and the wealthy
still do very well, the middle class does well, and we all do well.

That’s what we call Bidenomics.  (Applause.)

This — and, by the way, so far, we’ve created 14 million new jobs, more
jobs in three years than any president has created in four years in
history.  (Applause.)

This is a fundamental break from trickle-down economics, economics that
supercharged my — my — well, was supercharged by my predecessor — the
guy who thinks we’re polluting the blood of America these days. 

He cut taxes for the wealthy and big corporations, shipped good-paying
jobs overseas, shrank public investment in infrastructure and
education.   
  
We used to have the number one infrastructure in the world.  Now we’re
number 16 or 17.  We’re changing that.  We hollowed out communities,
leaving too many Americans behind.

It’s a cycle folks on 30th Street Corridor here in Milwaukee know well. 
It’s an area where it says — it became the backbone of Milwaukee’s
industrial ri- — might.

Ten thousand Black people migrated — tens of thousands migrated from the
South to the middle of the country, to Milwaukee, for good-paying
manufacturing jobs.  Then decades of discrimination and trickle-down
economics left communities like this one behind.

But today, we’re making sure Milwaukee is coming back — and all of
Milwaukee coming back.  (Applause.)  Mark my word.

In Milwaukee, business applications are up 70 percent compared to before
the pandemic.  The share of Black people employed in Milwaukee in 2022
was the highest in more than a decade.

But the investments aren’t just about jobs.  The investments we’re
making offer opportunity, hope to communities to fully participate in
the economy.

I vowed that we would invest in all of America, and that’s what we’re
doing.  We’re leaving no one behind.  No one need be left behind.

Let me give you a clear example.  We all know, as my introducer told me
— told you guys, we all know exposure to lead water pipes is hazardous
to our health, especially to children’s health.  It can damage their
brains and kidneys.  For real.

Lead exposure disproportionately affects low-income communities and
disproportionately affects people of color.

This is the United States of America, for God’s sake.  Everyone should
be able to turn on a faucet and know whatever they’re drinking was clean
and pure and not have to worry about it.  (Applause.)

Through the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, my administration is
investing $15 billion — (applause) — to replace every lead pipe in every
community in this country.  And our goal — our goal was to do that.  And
I want to thank Kamala — I want to thank Kamala for leading this
effort. 

But, you know, your United States senator, Ron Johnson, voted against
this law.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I tell you what: With your help, the great
governor and congresswoman in this state, they already received $130
million to do this work so far.  (Applause.)

Before I came to <s>Milwaukee</s> \[office\], Milwaukee was slated to
take over 60 years to replace the lead pipes.  But last month, we
proposed a new rule that’s going to require the water systems in
Milwaukee to re- — fully replace with — every one of them within 10
years — (applause) — 10 years instead of 60.

Think of the lives saved.  Think of the jobs and opportunity if you’re
small-business owners like Rashawn, replacing lead pipes in homes and
daycare centers, in schools.

We’re just getting started.  And so, we are today announcing Milwaukee
will be one of 22 communities in the country competing for tens of
millions of dollars in federal grants to grow small businesses, create
good-paying jobs, and build factories of the future.

It matters.

I’m also increasing the share of federal contract dollars going to
small, disadvantaged businesses from what was roughly 10 percent when I
came to office to 25 per- — to 15 percent.  (Applause.) 

Here — here’s how it works.  Back in the ‘30s, it wasn’t just that
Roosevelt talked about unions being supported.  They also had a rule in
the past that very few presidents, including Democrats, paid much
attention to: that every dollar a president gets to spend — for example,
the Appropriation Committee and the Congress passes redoing decks of
aircraft carriers — the president gets to pick who does that job — who
does that job, all those federal programs.

Well, guess what?  The vast majority — and it’s supposed to be all
American — it’s supposed to be all American products.  And guess what? 
Hardly anybody paid attention.  But I’m paying attention.  (Applause.) 
It’s got — we’re investing in America and American workers. 

In 2022 alone, we awarded nearly $70 billion to small, disadvantaged
businesses because of that law.

Through the American Rescue Plan — another law that your distinguished
senator voted against — we invested nearly $80 million in Wisconsin for
the State Small Business Cr- — Credit Initiative, helping countless
small businesses grow.

Through the Small Business Administration, we’ve delivered $50 billion
in capital this past year to small businesses across the country,
doubling the number and the value of \[loans to\] Black-owned businesses
since 2020.  (Applause.)

I know that’s a lot, and I’m talking to the Black Chamber of Commerce
for — thanking them for helping small-business owners learn how to
benefit from these transformative investments.

I used to have a friend named Pete McLaughlin who was a great ball
player at Providence College.  And he used to say, “You got to know how
to know.”  “You got to know how to know.” 

And that’s why I want to thank the chamber here for teaching people how
to know what’s available to them. 

All this groundbreaking work is producing groundbreaking results: record
job creation, historic economic growth.  We have among the lowest
inflation rates of any major economy in the — on this Earth. 

And we’re fighting to lower costs to give folks just a little bit more
breathing room, as my dad used to say.

But let’s be clear, Republicans are against so many critical actions
that help working- and middle-class people, especially Black Americans.

Just remember how the pandemic hit Black businesses especially hard. 
How my predecessor — on his watch, women- and minority-owned small
businesses found themselves last in line to access emergency relief
through programs like the Paycheck Protection Program.

On my watch, energy and emergency relief went to minority-owned
businesses first, not last.  (Applause.)

We also, when I came to office, we cut Black child poverty in half
because of the Child Tax Credit.  (Applause.)

As I tried to extend it, every single Republican Congress — in Congress
voted against continuing the program, but I’m not giving up until we get
it back.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, all the data shows it saves the economy money.  The
spending on child poverty saves money in healthcare, educ- — a whole
range of things.  This is not a — down the drain.  It generates growth. 

We drafted and I signed into law that — a law that will lower
prescription drug costs significantly for all Americans.

You know, I was at a town meeting in Northern Virginia, and I was
holding a meeting — this is two years ago; I’ve been fighting Big Pharma
for a long time.  You know, if you buy — if you go to whoever your —
your — your provider of — any drug you have to take — any prescription
drug and you decide you’re going to buy it here in Milwaukee or you’re
going to go buy it in Toronto, Canada, or Paris, France, or Budapest,
guess what?  You’re going to pay two to three times as much for the
prescription — same company, same American manufacturer, same thing —
because Medicare pays for it for mo- — in most cases. 

And guess what?  We’re not a — we’re just — if you’re at the VA and you
get the prescription drug, they negotiate the price with the — with the
pharmaceutical company. 

Well, they passed laws that earlier (inaudible) — I’ve been fighting it
for over 35 years — to say, you can’t negotiate — Medicare can’t
negotiate their drug prices for — for — and, by the way, that’s how they
make an — enormous amounts of money.

And, by the way, that’s how they make enormous amounts of money.  And,
by the way, every one of my Republican colleagues voted against this
one.  And now they’re trying to cut Medicare, trying to cut Medicaid and
Social Security.  
  
Your own Senator Johnson called Social Security a, quote, “Ponzi
scheme.”  Are you kidding me? 

You know, from the time you get your first paycheck, you pay into Social
Security, your whole life.   
  
These are the same Republicans who enacted tax cuts that overwhelmingly
benefit the wealthy to the tune of $2 trillion additional deficit.   
  
There are also something else that’s happening.  There are some in this
country who are waging a full-on attack on Black economic opportunity.

They’re denying economic opportunity when it comes to higher education,
starting a business, keeping businesses open.

That’s what th- — that’s how you generate economic opportunity.  You
educate people.  
  
And, folks, by the way, I — I went to the Supreme Court my — to
eliminate student debt that was out there.  And guess what? 
(Applause.)  The Supreme Court ruled against it.  But I still got 136
million people’s debt relieved.  (Applause.)  
  
Because guess what?  The interest they’re paying on that debt is
something that prevents them from buying a home, starting a busi- — all
those things.  
  
You know, that’s on top of easing \[sic\] Black history and banning
books — erasing Black history and banning books.  
  
Did you ever think you’d live in a country — no, all kidding aside —
growing up where we’re banning books?  Book banning in grade schools and
high schools?  I think it’s unconscionable.   
  
These attacks hurt all Americans because investing in Black economic
prosperity lifts everybody up. 

You know, we always believed diversity is our strength as a nation.   
  
Well, I don’t believe, as the President — former President said again
yesterday, that immigrants are polluting — polluting our blood.

The economy and our nation are stronger when we’re tapped into the full
— full range of talents in this nation.

My administration is going to continue to fight for these — fight these
attacks because everyone deserves a fair shot.  Just a shot.

Let me close with this.  You know, for all we’ve done, the real heroes
of this story are you, the American people.  Not a joke.  Not a joke.   
  
Hardworking people like Rashawn of Hero Plumbing here in Milwaukee.   
  
In the thousands of towns all across America, we see thousands of
stories of revival and renewal, hope and optimism because people aren’t
giving up.

Pride in your work, in your family, in your town.  Pride in this
nation.  That’s what I see, no matter where I go in this country. 

That’s why — I mean this from the bottom of my heart — I’ve never been
more optimistic about America’s prospects and America’s future than I am
today.

We just have to remember who we are.  We are the United States of
America.  (Applause.)  And there is nothing — there is nothing beyond
our capacity if we work together — if we work together.  
  
That’s — and, by the way, as I said, we’re the only country in the world
that out of every crisis, we’ve come out stronger than we went in.  
  
Remember.  Remember who we are.

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  
  
Thank you.  (Applause.) 

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
1:02 P.M. CST
