---
date: '2023-12-02'
modified_time: 2023-12-03 11:02:45-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-02 23:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/02/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-the-conflict-between-israel-and-hamas/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on the Conflict Between Israel and\_Hamas"
---
 
Dubai, United Arab Emirates

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Today, I had productive meetings with the leaders
of the United Arab Emirates, Jordan, and Egypt.  And I spoke to the Amir
of Qatar to discuss developments in Gaza and to accelerate planning for
the day after the fighting.   
  
I will get to those conversations in a moment.  But first, let’s take a
step back.   
  
On October 7th, Hamas terrorists launched a terrorist attack that killed
1,200 innocent people in Israel, including 35 Americans.  It was a
brutal and horrific massacre.  Babies and Holocaust survivors were
killed.  Young people who were simply attending a concert were shot
dead.  Two hundred and forty hostages were taken from their homes.   
  
And over, then, the past eight weeks, President Biden and I have been
clear: Israel has a right to defend itself.  And we will remain
steadfast in that conviction.   
  
We are working with Israel and our partners in the region to secure the
release of all the hostages, which includes Americans.   
  
The recent pause in the fighting proved effective.  More than 100
hostages were reunited with their families during this time, including
two more Americans, and humanitarian aid surged into Gaza.   
  
As I told the families of American hostages when I met with them, we
will not waver in our commitment to bring them home.   
  
Let me be also very clear, as I’ve said before: We cannot conflate Hamas
with the Palestinian people.  Hamas is a brutal terrorist organization. 
Hamas has vowed to repeat October 7 until Israel is annihilated.   
  
No nation could possibly live with such danger, which is why we support
Israel’s legitimate military objectives to eliminate the threat of
Hamas.   
  
President Biden and I have also been clear with the Israeli government
in public and in private many times: As Israel defends itself, it
matters how.

The United States is unequivocal: International humanitarian law must be
respected.  Too many innocent Palestinians have been killed.  Frankly,
the scale of civilian suffering and the images and videos coming from
Gaza are devastating.   
  
I have spoken with members of the Palestinian, Arab, and Muslim
communities of America, including those who have lost loved ones in Gaza
and American citizens who were injured and evacuated from Gaza.  It is
truly heartbreaking.   
  
As Israel pursues its military objectives in Gaza, we believe Israel
must do more to protect innocent civilians.   
  
So, we all want this conflict to end as soon as possible.  And to ensure
Israel’s security and ensure security for the Palestinian people, we
must accelerate efforts to build an enduring peace.  And that begins
with planning for what happens the day after the fighting ends.   
  
Shortly after October 7th, President Biden and I began discussions with
our national security team about post-conflict Gaza.  We have begun to
engage partners in the region and around the world in these
conversations, and this has been a key priority over the last eight
weeks.   
  
Five principles guide our approach for post-conflict Ga- — Gaza: no
forcible displacement, no reoccupation, no siege or blockade, no
reduction in territory, and no use of Gaza as a platform for
terrorism.   
  
We want to see a unified Gaza and West Bank under the Palestinian
Authority, and Palestinian voices and aspirations must be at the center
of this work.   
  
At a certain point, the intense fighting and the phase of fighting will
end and we will begin implementing our plans for the day after.  To
develop these plans then, we will continue to work with both Israelis
and Palestinians.   
  
But there must also be regional consensus and support.  To that end,
I’ve had a number of in-depth conversations with Arab leaders here in
Dubai.  Specifically, I proposed three areas of focus:  
  
One, reconstruction.  The international community must dedicate
significant resources to support short- and long-term recovery in Gaza —
for example, rebuilding hospitals and housing, restoring electricity and
clean water, and ensuring that bakeries can reopen and be restocked.   
  
Second, security.  The Palestinian Authority Security Forces must be
strengthened to eventually assume security responsibilities in Gaza. 
Until then, there must be security arrangements that are acceptable to
Israel, the people of Gaza, the Palestinian Authority, and the
international partners.  And to reiterate — and this is very important —
terrorists will not be permitted to continue to threaten Israel.   
  
Third, governance.  The Palestinian Authority must be revitalized,
driven by the will of the Palestinian people, which will allow them to
benefit from the rule of law and a transparent, responsive
government.   
  
Eventually, this revitalized PA must have the capacity to govern Gaza,
as well as the West Bank.  We believe progress on these three areas —
reconstruction, security, and governance — will improve the lives and
livelihoods of the Palestinian people.   
  
Further, we have been clear, the Palestinians have a right to dignity
and self-determination.  And Israelis and Palestinians must enjoy equal
measures of prosperity and freedom.  They also deserve — all deserve a
sense of safety and security.  And a two-state solution, then, remains
the best path, we believe, toward a durable peace.  The President and I
are committed to that goal.   
  
In conclusion, when this conflict ends, Hamas cannot control Gaza, and
Israel must be secure.  Palestinians need a hopeful political horizon,
economic opportunity, and freedom.  And the region, more broadly, must
be integrated and prosperous.  And we must — we must work toward that
vision.   
  
So, with that, I’ll take your questions.  
  
AIDE:  Priscilla. 

Q    Madam Vice President, how did Qatar describe the state of hostage
negotiations during your call today?  And did they provide any
reassurance of a truce in the next few days for the release of
additional hostages?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I’m not going to reveal the details of the
conversation, but I did speak with the Amir.  And the work and their
commitment to this work is ongoing, as is ours.  And our work is ongoing
to support some ability to re-open the pause and to have a deal going
forward where there will be a pause so that we can get hostages out and
get aid in.  
  
AIDE:  Nandita.  
  
Q    Thank you for doing this.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Of course.  
  
Q    You laid out your conversations with the regional leaders.  You
laid out your — the expectations that you put forward.  What
specifically, in terms of commitments, were you able to get from them
when it comes to post-conflict planning for Gaza?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, let me just say that the conversations that
we had were very productive.  And there is, I believe, a mutual desire
to figure out how we are going to approach and think about the day after
in a way that brings stabal- — stability and peace to this region and
reinforces, as I said earlier, Israel’s security, the sense of security
and safety for both the Palestinians and Israelis, doing what is
necessary to ensure there are equal measures of prosperity and freedom
and security for the Palestinian people and for Israel.   
  
Q    To that point, Israel has suggested building a buffer in Gaza, and
they’ve been having some conversations about that today and for the past
few days.  What is the U.S. position on it?  
  
And one more, if I may.  You mentioned, you know, sort of bolstering the
Palestinian Authority so that they can, you know, rule both the — both
Gaza and the West Bank.  What, according to you, should happen to get
the Palestinian Authority to that point where they can govern both Gaza
and the West Bank?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, as I said, we have to revitalize the
Palestinian Authority, which means giving the support that is necessary
for good governance, understanding that on the issues that must be
resolved, as we think of a plan for the day after, it is about good
governance, which will bring transparency and accountability to the
people of Gaza and the West Bank.   
  
It’s also about what we need to do to recognize there must be some plan
for security for the region.  And I suspect as a —  as a plan develops,
it will take into account interim and then longer term.   
  
And finally, what we must do in terms of rebuilding Gaza and a
commitment to that.  
  
AIDE:  Deepa.  
  
Q    And thoughts on the buffer zone?  
  
AIDE:  Hold on.  Deepa.  
  
Q    The buffer zone.  You didn’t answer her question on that.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  What is the question exactly?  
  
Q    Israel has been suggesting a buffer zone in Gaza, Madam Vice
President.  What is the U.S. view on that?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We have not weighed in on that.  
  
Q    Thanks, Madam Vice President.  I wanted to ask: What evidence do
you have that Israel won’t just be receptive to conversations and asks
the U.S. has made in terms of protecting civilian life, minimizing harm
to civilian life in Gaza — not just receptive to those asks but actually
following through and really acting on them.  Do you have any evidence
that Israel will listen?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I do believe that they have listened, and I can
assure you: From the beginning, the President has been very direct and
clear about our perspective, for example, that humanitarian laws, the
rules of war must be followed, which includes what must happen in terms
of giving humanitarian aid, no intentional targeting of civilians.   
  
And we have been very clear also that, one, Israel has a right to defend
itself, but we also must take into account that far too many Palestinian
civilians — innocent people — have been killed and Israel must do more
to protect innocent civilians.  
  
Q    To that point, in the first day after this temporary truce had —
had ended, Israel killed 200 Palestinians, according to the Gaza Health
Ministry.  Is that minimizing harm to civilian life?  Is that
acceptable?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I don’t have the details to tell you exactly who
was killed.  And — but I will say this, we have been very clear about
where we stand on this, which is innocent civilian lives should not be
intentionally targeted and that Israel must do more to protect innocent
life in Gaza and innocent civilians in Gaza.   
  
And we’ve been very clear about that.  And we continue to make that
point, not only privately but publicly as well, as you see.   
  
AIDE:  Thank you, guys.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay, thank you.
