---
date: '2023-12-13'
modified_time: 2023-12-13 13:33:24-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-13 13:33:23-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/13/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-convening-of-state-legislators-on-advancing-efforts-on-gun-violence-prevention/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Convening of State Legislators on Advancing\
  \ Efforts on Gun Violence\_Prevention"
---
 
*Eisenhower Executive Office Building*

11:41 A.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Have a seat, everyone.  Good morning.  Madam
Speaker, thank you so very much.   
  
And, yeah, Josh Seal — you know, well, first of all, we always know we
need to speak the names.  Because we are talking about people who were
loved, who loved.  
  
Josh, I — he signed for me all over the world, actually.  And I talked
to his family, his wife and his children.  And they’re a family that’s
actually very committed to public service.  His wife runs an
organization that is about reaching out to and empowering people who —
who need assistance with sign language.  So, it’s important we speak
those names.   
  
And so, I say welcome.  Let me say that, first of all.  Welcome to all
of you.  And thank you for what you do.  
  
As the Speaker said, I have held local, state, and federal office.  And
so, I have a very good sense of what your lives are like and what you do
every day.  I know that you are the public face of so much that is
happening in your communities.  I know that people come up to you at the
gas station or the grocery store, talking about these issues in terms of
how it impacts real lives.  
  
I know that many of you have held the hands and have hugged and tried to
comfort community members and your constituents and people you know who
have suffered because of gun violence.   
  
And I therefore know that when we have this conversation and address
this crisis that, for everyone here, it is personal.  You are
individuals who have answered a call to serve.  And that requires a lot
of personal sacrifice — because you care.  And when you care and you
have clear eyes, you see a lot.  And it can be heavy and hard.   
  
And so, I first and foremost, say again: Thank you for not only being
here but for choosing to serve — and choosing, on this subject, to have
an extraordinary amount of courage to speak openly and with strength
about the need for reasonable gun safety laws.   
  
And that is what we are doing.  We are fighting just for what is
reasonable and, of course, what is right.   
  
And I think it’s very important that we not, then, in this movement for
better policy, for better practice — that we not be deterred.  Because
we have seen progress.   
  
And, you know, I — let me just, as an aside, share with you — starting
last September, this past September, I decided to do a college tour.  We
named it the “Fight for Our Freedoms” tour.   
  
And I’ll tell you, for a number of reasons that include the fact — I
will confess, I love Gen Z.  (Laughter.)  I love Gen Z.  It will be a
humbling moment for some of us to realize that anyone who is 18 now was
born in 2005.  (Laughter.)  
  
But what that means then, for that generation, as an example of all who
care about these issues — for them, these issues are lived
experience.   
  
And so, at each college — and it was actually for college-age young
people.  So we’re — universities, colleges, community colleges, and also
trade schools.   
  
And at each location, I would ask them, “Please raise your hand if you
at any point from kindergarten to 12th grade had to endure an active
shooter drill.”  The hair on the back of your head would have gone up. 
The vast majority of the hands go up.  
  
And I would say every time — there’d be press in the room; there’d be
older adults in the room — and I’d say, “Please look at this and
understand.”  Because I do believe that a lot of people who have
opinions about these matters do not understand what our children, our
young people have been going through.  
  
One student — an elementary school student that I was talking to,
literally, on this subject shared with me when we were talking about it,
and said to me, “Yeah, I don’t like going to fifth period.”  I said,
“Why, sweetheart?”  “Well, because in that classroom, there’s no
closet.”  
  
AUDIENCE:  Ooh —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  To hide in, right?   
  
Think about it.  Our young people, with all their God-given capacity,
are sitting in a classroom, where they should — they should be full of
wonder about all of the beauty and excitement about the world and their
future.  And some part of their brain is sitting there in fear that
there might be a shooter breaking into the classroom.  
  
By the way, I do believe that when that generation starts voting in
their numbers, we’re going to see an abrupt change in terms of how we’re
dealing with issue.  (Applause.)  I’m certain of it.  I’m certain of
it.   
  
So, until then, it is our responsibility — our chosen responsibility;
dare I say, our duty — to do the work of laying the path to get where we
need to go.   
  
And so, the work that you all have been doing this morning of
collaboration and convening, of also just simply reminding yourself that
when you’re in the state where you come from — and I know some of the
states you come from — (laughter) — reminding yourself, hopefully today
and this morning, that you’re not alone and you’re not in it alone.   
  
And there are best practices to be shared, including not only what you
will write in terms of proposing legislation but how you will think
about organizing, how you will think about messaging, how you will think
about empowering and uplifting.  Hopefully, that is part of what you
will come away from this session having a better sense of — and just
reaffirming your own work in that regard.   
  
And we plan on having — I think that folks might have said — Stef and
others might have said that we have some homework for you, which is:
Before our next convening — which we plan to have at the end of January,
I believe; I think it’s going to be virtual — and we’d like to ask you
to do a few things that are in furtherance of some of the discussions
that you’ve had today.   
  
And so, in particular, to strategize and share with each other and then
to bring back to us some of your best ideas and your state-specific
strategies for dealing with community violence prevention, secure
storage, and, for those who do not have it, a state assa- — assault
weapons ban.  
  
And on those points, I think we all know, the chal- — we’re up against
real challenges.  We’re up against some who would suggest a false
choice, that is that you are either in favor of the Second Amendment or
you want to take everyone’s guns away.  
  
When I — I’ll speak for myself.  I am absolutely in favor of the Second
Amendment.  And I am also in favor of an assault weapons ban, universal
background checks, red flag laws.  (Applause.)  
  
It’s just reasonable that you might want to know  
before someone can buy a lethal weapon if they’ve been found by a court
to be a danger to themselves or others.  You just might want to know. 
It’s just reasonable — an assault weapons ban.   
  
Because as we all know, it is a weapon that was designed to kill a lot
of human beings quickly.  It’s a weapon of war.  It has no place on the
streets of a civil society.   
  
So, the work that I would ask that we do, as a follow-up to this
convening, is to continue to strategize and refine, where that is
appropriate, how we are thinking about these issues in a way that moves
the needle toward progress.   
  
And I’ll end with a couple points.  
  
You know, I — I fear that something has been taking hold in our country
in the last many years, which is actually, I think, a very perverse
perspective on what strength in a leader looks like: the suggestion that
the measure of strength is based on who you beat down instead of who you
lift up.  
  
We all know.  The true meas- — I — sometimes I talk with young people,
and I say, “Hold up your hand.  Let me see that muscle.  You know how
strong you are?  Lift up somebody else.  You’ll see how strong you
are.”   
  
The true measure of strength — the true measure of the strength of
character of a leader being to have some level of curiosity, concern,
and care for the suffering of other people.  And then having as one’s
personal feeling of, yes, duty and responsibility to alleviate that
suffering — to address it and alleviate it.  
  
And I end with that to then say: The work that you are each doing is
proof of the strength of the character of your leadership.  It is proof
of the measure of your strength.  Because our collective desire to end
the fact that gun violence is the number one killer of children in
America, to end the fact that one in five Americans has a family member
that was killed by gun violence — that quest is truly about the strength
of who you are as leaders.   
  
And so, keep it up.  Keep it going.  I’ll see you in your state sometime
soon, I’m sure.  (Laughter.)   
  
And have the rest of a good day and — and a holiday season.  And please
get some rest, because we got a lot of work to do in the new year.   
  
Thank you, all.  (Applause.)  
  
END                11:52 A.M. EST
