---
date: '2023-12-09'
modified_time: 2023-12-10 18:16:24-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-09 22:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/09/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-pacific-palisades-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Pacific Palisades,\_\
  CA"
---
 
Private Residence  
Pacific Palisades, California

5:47 P.M. PST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m Jill’s husband, Joe.  (Laughter.)  
  
You know, like a lot of you, I’m really fortunate.  I want to thank Jill
because she’s my partner, she is my political advisor, she’s my
confidant.  And she’s doing a fantastic job as First Lady. 
(Applause.)  
  
And I want to thank your great friend and friend of mine, Senator
Padilla.  Alex, you’ve been a st- — I don’t know where Al- — I can’t see
Alex.  There you are.   
  
Thank you, Alex, for all you’ve done and your loyalty and your
friendship.  I appreciate it very much.   
  
And while she’s back in Washington, there’s another Californian that I
want to thank: Kamala Harris.  Kamala has been a great — (applause) —
Vice President.   
  
To our hosts, José and Kwanza, thank you for welcoming me to your
incredible home.  Whoa.  (Applause.)   
  
I hope you won’t be offended if we don’t leave.  (Laughter.)  This is —
this is a magnificent home.  When I walked in, I saw that Christmas
tree, and it looked like walking into the White House.  (Laughter.)  Oh,
y’all think I’m kidding.  I’m not.  (Laughter.)   
  
Well, thank you for your support, all of you.  And I really mean it. 
And thank a- — other California native in — in our White House, and now
my campaign manager, Julie Rodriguez, granddaughter — (applause) —
granddaughter of the great Chavar Chaze- — Cesar Chavez.  (Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, I told her before, I have a bust of him in my office,
because Nixon won my state when I ran the first time as a U.S. senator. 
I was 29 years old running.  And he got — I think Nixon got 64, 65
percent of the vote.  I won by 3,100 votes.  And it’s all Chavez’s par-
— problem.  You know why?  I supported him when he was trying to
organize the farmworkers in Delaware.  It cost me big, and I was really
proud.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
You’ve heard me say this before, kiddo.  If my father — he’d say, “Kid,
you got good blood.”  (Laughter.)  “You got good blood.”   
  
Let me begin by thanking all of you. 

In 2020, you are the reason why we got 81 million votes — more votes
than any — any candidate for president has ever gotten in history.  And
the reason why Donald Trump is not only a former president but a
defeated former president — (laughter) — is the reason — you’re the
reason.  You’re the reason why we’re going to do it again in 2024, God
willing.  
  
Look, when we started with the pandemic raging and the economy reeling,
because of you, look at what we’ve achieved.  Job creation is at record
economic growth, historic low unemployment for Black and Latinos,
historic — in all of American history, it’s never been this low.   
  
Latino entrepreneurs are starting new businesses — new — at the fastest
rate in over a decade.   
  
(Baby cries.)  That’s okay, man.  In my house — (laughter).  He’s ready
to start his own business.  (Laughter.)  And don’t worry about it, kid —
in our house, kids rule.  (Laughter.)  
  
Black bu- — Black business ownership is growing at the fastest rate it
has in 30 years, the lowest inflation rate of any major economy on
Earth, and we’ve rebuilt our alliances around the world. 

Because — because of the great help of Senator Durkin of Illinois — Dur-
— excuse me, Durbin of Illinois and — the chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, we’ve confirmed federal judges at a historic pace.  Two
thirds are people of color — most — most diverse slate ever in American
history.   
  
They include the first — (applause) — they include the first Black woman
ever appointed to the Supreme Court, and she’s smarter than all the
rest.  (Applause.)  More Black women on the federal circuit courts than
all previous presidents combined in American history.  (Applause.)  
  
And we kept our promise to having an administration that looks like
America.  We have the most diverse administration in American
history.   
  
Trump and the MAGA Republicans want to get rid of the Affordable Care
Act, for example.  On our watch, the Affordable Care Act is even
stronger.  Black and Latino Americans have now more access to affordable
healthcare than any time in history.   
  
We’ve made the biggest investment — (applause) — we’ve made the biggest
investment in the history of the world in climate change.  That includes
historic investments in frontline and fenceline communities.   
  
I grew up in a place called Claymont, Delaware, after we moved from
Scranton.  It’s right there on the Pennsylvania border where all the
major refineries are. 

I grew up in a neighborhood that later became public housing.  But at
the time, it was — it was — it was private housing and an apartment
complex.  And it was amazing.  I look back on it, and almost all my
friends, including me, had asthma.  All — all the — everything blew
southeast.   
  
And so, folks, look, I promise that of all the — we save, in terms of
dealing with the fenceline communities, 80 percent of it’s going to go
back into those communities most affected by it.  And they’re minority
communities and poor communities.  (Applause.)   
  
We’re going to replace — we’re going to replace every single solitary
lead pipe in this country so every family can turn on the faucet and
drink clean water and not have to worry about any impact on their
kids.   
  
I signed the first gun safety law in nearly 30 years.  The largest
investment in HBCUs and Hispanic-serving institutions.  Despite actions
from the Supreme Court and the MAGA Republicans, I relieved the debt of
3.6 million students — 3.6 million.  (Applause.)  
  
When the Supreme Court turned down my right to forgive all student debt,
they — we were still able to find a way to do 3.6 million.  
  
Look, and that — it’s changing people’s lives.  They’re able to buy a
home, they’re able to invest in a business, they’re able to begin to
live their lives.  And some of them have been paying these debts until —
for 20, 25 years.   
  
We’re making historic commitments to rebuild America.  Just yesterday, I
announced the first historic step forward: a high-speed rail through the
Central Valley. 

Guess what?  Y’all are going to be able to move through Central Valley
of California at 220 miles an hour.  Oh, you — not — not a joke. 
(Applause.)  
  
And we also just announced we’re going to build a high-speed rail
averaging 190 miles an hour from L.A. to Las Vegas.  Why you want to go
to Las Vegas, I’m not sure.  (Laughter.)  Except maybe to make a lot of
money.  I don’t know.  (Laughter.)   
  
But look, for all we’ve done, the real heroes of the story are the
American people.  That’s not a joke.  Thousands of towns across America,
thousands of stories of revival and renewal, hope and optimism.   
  
For the longest time, my friends on the other team talked about finding
the cheapest job — the cheapest employers in the — employees in the
world, sent jobs overseas, and imported products.  Not anymore.  We are
exporting product made by Americans here in the United States of
America.   
  
And it’s creating — we’ve created 800,000 new manufacturing jobs.  And
pride is returning — pride is returning to communities all over the
country. 

Nothing like — you know, how many times have you heard, “You know, my
dad worked at that factory for 25 years or 30 years.  It closed, and now
I can’t stay where I want to stay.  There’s no place to work.”  Well,
they’re coming back. 

Pride in your work, in your family, in your town.  Pride in this
nation. 

And, you know, there’s no more to — there’s much more to do in terms of
child care and elder care, making sure the wealthy and big corporations
begin to start paying their fair share.   
  
By the way, we did all what I just said and more and still cut the
federal deficit by $7 billion — $7 billion.  (Applause.)

And you know why we did that?  You may remember my ragging about the
fact that there were 50 American corporations — the Fortune 500
companies — 50 of them who made $40 billion — $40 billion in profit and
didn’t pay a single penny in taxes. 

Well, I was able to get at least a 15 percent tax on them — and that’s
less than you all pay — 15 percent, and it paid for every — all of these
programs.   
  
And we know all that progress is at stake next election.  But tonight, I
want to talk about what’s most at stake — stake in this next election. 
I’m not going to keep you a long time.   
  
I truly believe the future of American democracy is at stake.  Not a
joke. 

Let me be clear — let me be clear.  Donald Trump poses many threats to
this country: from the right to choose, to civil rights, to voting
rights, to America’s standing in the world. 

I’ve been dealing with world leaders my entire career because of my
nature of my job as a foreign relations chairman and as vice president
under Barack.  
  
But the greatest threat of all that Trump — that Trump poses is to our
democracy.  Because if you lose that, we lose everything.   
  
You know, when I first ran for president, I said democracy — democracy
was at stake in America, and a lot of people thought it was — I was
exaggerating.  A lot of people thought it was not accurate.  Some of the
press thought, “What’s he talking about?”  
  
You may remember, on January the 6th, Trump sitting in his private
dining room off the Oval Office for hours watching it all unfold on TV —
of a mob attacking the Capitol police, killing a couple, desecrating the
Capitol. 

The mob threatened the life of his own vice president because the Vice
President refused to violate his oath of office and not certify the
election.  
  
That same mob went looking for Nancy Pelosi and — spun up by the same
lies that inspired the assault on Paul Pelosi with a hammer to his
head.   
  
Ladies and gentlemen, months later — months later, that happened, but
it’s despicable.  
  
Trump became the first losing presidential candidate in history to
refuse to accept the will of the people.  It never happened before in
American history.  
  
He didn’t show up for my inauguration.  I can’t say I was disappointed. 
(Laughter.)  
  
My guess is he won’t show up for the next inauguration, either. 
(Laughter and applause.)  
  
Folks, look — but, you know, this guy means what he’s saying.  Listen to
his words today.  He says he’s running not to serve the American people
but, quote, to get “revenge” and “retribution.”  That’s not me; these
are his words.  That’s what he’s saying repeatedly.  
  
The other day, he said to a very conservative commentator from Fox News
that he was going to be a dictator only on “day one.”  Well, thank God
for that.  (The President makes the sign of the cross.)  Only —
(laughter) — just one day.   
  
He called those who oppose him “vermin,” language that echoes the — out
heard in the fields in Germany in the ‘30s.  He talks about, quote, the
“blood of our country” being poisoned.  He’s talking about — you know
what he’s talking about.  And he’s threatened to use the American
military to — on the streets of America to go after political opponents,
the Insurrection Act.  
  
He embraces political violence instead of <s>rejection</s> \[rejecting
it\].  We can’t let that happen.  No president has done that since the
Civil War.   
  
All of us have to understand what freedom means.  We know what it
means.  It means to tell the truth.  It means to have courage.  It means
to hold a mirror up to ourselves and our nation and say, “Is this who we
are?  Can we do better?”  
  
Unlike Trump, we don’t believe America is dark and negative and driven
by anger, fear, and revenge.  Trump spoke at his Inaugural, and guess
what he — do you remember what he spoke up about?  He spoke about the
carnage of America — the carnage in America.  
  
In my Inaugural Address, I spoke about American possibilities — American
possibilities.   
  
We believe we’re a hopeful and optimistic people, driven by a simple
proposition that everybody — everybody deserves a shot — everyone. 

We’re the only nation in the world built on something other than race,
ethnicity, religion, or geography.  We’re the only country built on an
idea — literally, the only country in the world — the idea — the idea
that we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men and women are
created equal.  
  
We’ve never fully lived up to it, but we’ve never walked away from it. 
We’ve never walked away from it.  But Trump wants us to. 

We’re not going to walk away now.  Not if I have anything to do with
it.  
  
So, let me close with this.  In three years, we’re going to commemorate
the 250th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence
— in three years. 

It’ll be a moment not only about our past but celebrating all we’ve
done.  It will also be about the future and all we can do.  
  
I do not believe we — will not believe that after all this nation has
been through, that we can’t do whatever we need to do — from
independence to the Civil War to the World Wars.  We’re blessed with
leaders like Washington and Lincoln and Roosevelt and Dr. King.  
  
After having stood as a beacon of freedom and equality for the entire
world, I don’t believe the 250th anniversary of this nation will turn to
Donald Trump.  
  
Folks, imagine that moment and ask, “What do we want to be?  What do we
want to be as a nation?” 

If we do our job in 2024, we’ll have something few generations can say
they’ve done.  We’ll be able to say we saved American democracy.  Not a
— that’s not hyperbole.  A fact.  
  
I know we can do this.  I’ve never been more optimistic about our
country’s future than I am today.  I give you my word to that, as a
Biden.  I give you my word.  
  
I’m optimistic.  
  
We just have to remember who in the hell we are.  We’re the United
States of America.  There’s nothing — nothing has been beyond our
capacity ever in our history. 

We’re the only nation in the world that’s come out of every crisis
stronger than we went in, if we work together.  
  
So, all we have to do is stand up again — stand up again and make our
voices heard, because the American people are ready for a change — a
change that makes permanent what we’ve begun.  So much to do.   
  
God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
6:02 P.M. PST
