---
date: '2023-12-08'
published_time: 2023-12-08 19:24:42-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/08/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-womens-health-research-event-at-cedars-sinai-medical-center/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Women\u2019\
  s Health Research Event at Cedars-Sinai Medical\_Center"
---
 
Los Angeles, CA

\*\*\*

Thank you, Dr. Bairey Merz. And thank you and Mr. Priselac for your warm
welcome here to Cedars-Sinai, and for your work to advance women’s
health.

Representative Lieu, Betty, thank you for taking the time to be a part
of this effort.

If you ask any woman in America about her health care, she likely has a
story to tell. You know her.

She’s the woman who gets debilitating migraines, but doesn’t know why,
and can’t find treatment options that work for her.

She’s the woman whose heart disease isn’t recognized because her
symptoms don’t look like a man’s heart attack, even as heart disease is
the leading cause of death among women.

She’s the woman going through menopause, who visits with her doctor and
leaves with more questions than answers, even though half the country
will go through menopause at some point in their lives.

Earlier this year, Maria Shriver, on behalf of all of these women,
approached me about the need for an effort, inside and outside
government, to close the research gaps in women’s health that have
persisted for far too long. This resonated with me.

In 1993, when four of my friends were diagnosed with breast cancer, I
created the Biden Breast Health Initiative, to raise awareness about
women’s health at a time when the subject was still sometimes considered
taboo. We’ve come a long way since then, but we haven’t made enough
progress.

Maria – thank you for your tireless advocacy for this initiative, and
for all that you do to make our nation stronger and healthier.

Research on women’s health has been underfunded for decades, and many
conditions that mostly or only affect women, or affect women
differently, have received limited attention – like those debilitating
migraines and those undiagnosed heart attacks.

Because of these gaps, we understand far too little about these
conditions, and how to help the millions of women who struggle with
them.

And these gaps are even greater for communities that have historically
been excluded from research – including women of color and women with
disabilities.

When I talked to Joe about this issue a few months ago, he listened. And
then he took action. This is what Joe does – he learns about a problem,
and then he gets to work tackling it.

That’s why, last month, we launched the White House Initiative on
Women’s Health Research.

This initiative is designed to fundamentally change how our nation
conducts and funds research on women’s health.

Joe issued a presidential memorandum asking federal agencies to look at
their programs – at how they’re thinking of women and their health. And
he gave them a deadline.

On December 28th, the White House will review their recommendations on
how to make the policy changes necessary to advance women’s health
research.

President Biden named a world-renowned women’s health researcher, Dr.
Carolyn Mazure, to lead this groundbreaking effort. Dr. Mazure has
joined us from the Yale University School of Medicine.

Like many of you in this room, she has heard that research may cost more
to include women, that it can be harder to recruit women for research
studies, or that studying women may not apply to my work.

But the researchers and doctors here at Cedars-Sinai show us what it
looks like to invest in women’s health – to build a medical world that
meets the needs of everyone.

Earlier, we toured labs where researchers are finding new ways to help
women with heart disease – a condition that is often thought of as a
man’s disease, even though it affects men and women in roughly equal
numbers. And we heard about the amazing progress that can happen when we
focus on women. And you told me that in some ways, the work has only
just begun. There’s so much more we can do – so much more to discover.

That’s why we have to start now – because women deserve better, today.

And through this new White House initiative, we will help women’s health
research catch up to where it should have been all along. We will write
new stories about women’s health care. Ones where women leave doctors’
offices with more answers than questions. Ones where no woman or girl
has to hear that “it’s all in your head,” “it’s just stress,” or “it’s
just menopause.”

Now, I’d like to bring up someone who can tell you more about what the
Administration is doing as part of this first step of the initiative.

Please help me welcome an amazing partner in this work, Secretary
Becerra.

\###
