---
date: '2023-12-06'
modified_time: 2023-12-08 19:39:56-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-06 19:38:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/06/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-white-house-tribal-nations-summit-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the White\_House Tribal Nations\_Summit"
---
 
*Department of the Interior  
Washington, D.C.*  

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Please have a seat. 
Good afternoon.   
  
Thank you, Chairwoman Picard, for the introduction and for your
leadership.  You are part of a new generation of Native leaders.  And I
am so excited for all the work we are all going to do together and
continue to do together.  
  
So, it is good to be with everyone here.  And I thank all of the leaders
who are here today and for traveling to be here to have this
conversation with us and each other.   
  
And I also want to thank everyone for the partnership.  Your commitment
to building — and our commitment together to building a strong
nation-to-nation relationship is so very important.   
  
And, as you know — you’ve heard from President Biden — we take it very
seriously.  And it is based on a longstanding commitment, personally,
that I and he have had to building and strengthening these
relationships.   
  
So, I thank all the leaders who are here today for the partnership.  
  
As you know, Secretary Deb Haaland wanted to be here today, and I am
pleased that she has been able to join virtually.  
  
As Vice President, it has been my privilege to work closely with the
Secretary.  And I don’t need to tell everyone here she is an incredible
leader, a courageous fighter, and a dear friend.  
  
President — (applause) — yes, thank you.  
  
So, President Joe Biden and I believe that the bond between our nations
is sacred.  And we believe that we have a duty to safeguard and
strengthen these bonds, to honor Tribal sovereignty, to ensure Tribal
self-determination, to uphold our trust and treaty obligations, and
build a future where every Native person can realize their aspirations
and every Native community be a place of opportunity.   
  
And in building that brighter future, we must also speak truth about the
full history of the relationship between the federal government and
Native Tribes — a history that includes broken treaties, harmful
assimilation policies, displacement, dispossession, and violence.  
  
For too long, our country did not fully acknowledge or reckon with this
history, and that was particularly true on the issue of Native boarding
schools.  
  
For generations, Native children were torn from their families and their
communities, forced to change their names and cut their hair, forbidden
to speak their language or practice their religion.  
  
In boarding schools, many Native children endured horrific physical,
emotional, and sexual abuse.  These acts were not only a violation of
basic human rights but also an attack on the very existence of Tribal
Nations, a systematic attempt to erase Native culture and Native
identity.  
  
President Biden and I are committed to speaking truth about these
horrors and to work on healing intergenerational trauma.  
  
Under the leadership of Secretary Haaland, we have created the first
official list of boarding schools that received federal support; we have
identified dozens of marked and unmarked graves associated with those
schools; and launched an oral history project to collect the stories of
the survivors, many of whom are now the elders, to create a permanent
record of these abuses so they can never be denied.   
  
In addition, President Biden and I continue to defend the Indian Child
Welfare Act, ICWA, in- — (applause) — including in the United States
Supreme Court.   
  
And we all remember June 15th.  In fact, that day, I happened to hosting
a collection of United States congressmembers at my home.  And the
reception happened to be just hours after the Supreme Court agreed with
our administration to preserve the protections of ICWA.  
  
And I will never forget that day because in attendance was Congresswoman
Mary Peltola and — (applause) — yeah.  And she and I went off to the
side and — and shared a very special moment that day of — of relief,
frankly, as well as celebration.    
  
And many here know, from the work we have done together for years, I
have firsthand experience with the importance of ICWA. 

As head of the San Francisco City Attorney’s division on children and
families, I worked on many ICWA cases.  And as Attorney General of
California, I partnered with Tribal leaders to enforce ICWA.  
  
I personally know why ICWA matters.  And we will always fight to
safeguard ICWA, understanding its significance to real people and its
significance to acknowledging the truth about history in this country. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, in our work to build a better and a brighter future, President Biden
and I are also committed to bridging the deep disparities that still
hold so many Native communities back, including disparities in
education, economic opportunity, and healthcare.  
  
One of the ways we are doing this is through our investment in
high-speed Internet.  Because, as we all know, in the 21st century,
high-speed Internet is not a luxury; it is a necessity.   And yet,
today, one in three Americans who live on Tribal lands and in rural
areas do not have access to high-speed Internet.    
  
Across Indian Cou- — Country, students have to sit in the parking lot of
a fast-food restaurant and Tribal libraries to submit their homework
though Wi-Fi, which, of course, increases disparities in education. 

Young Native entrepreneurs are not able to use the Internet to find new
customers, which, of course, increases disparities in economic
opportunity.   
  
And across Indian Country, elders have to drive often very long
distances to the healthcare center because, without Internet access,
they cannot take advantage of telemedicine appointments in their own
home.  And, of course, that increases disparities in healthcare.  
  
So, to bridge these divides, we have committed to connecting every
person in Indian Country with high-speed Internet.  And so far, we have
invested more than $1.8 billion to build Internet infrastructure with
more than 225 Tribes.  
  
And to make sure that high-speed Internet is affordable, we created a
program to allow anyone who lives on Tribal lands to get a $75 discount
on their monthly Internet bill.  So far, more than 300,000 Native
families have signed up.   
  
But here’s my request of the leaders here: Help us sign up more.  We’ve
got to get the information out.  It — (applause) —  the program is
called the Affordable Connectivity Program.  And I’d ask everyone to
help more people sign up, because what we know is that a lot of the
folks who actually have taken advantage of it end up having a
zero-dollar bill every month.  And it really does make a difference.  
  
And then, finally, one of the most existential threats facing Native
communities and all communities is, of course, the climate crisis.  
  
Earlier this year, I made a visit to the Gila River Indian Community in
Arizona.  
  
Hi, Chairman.  (Laughter.)  It’s good to see you.  
  
It was a wonderful visit.  And — and I spoke with — we convened — you
convened a group of young leaders who are doing extraordinary work and
they’re leading on climate.  And they were brilliant.  They were
brilliant.   
  
And we had conversations that, in fact, were similar to conversations
that I just had this last weekend when I was in the United Arab Emirates
for the COP28 global summit on — on climate and — where I represented
the United States.  
  
And what the young leaders were saying is exactly what these global
leaders are talking about, which is, in the face of this crisis, we must
all be clear: We cannot continue to allow large corporations and
short-sighted leaders to deny climate science, to delay climate justice,
and to greenwash climate inaction.  
  
Lands — and, in particular, Native community lands — have long called
home are increasingly threatened by wildfire, drought, and sea level
rise.  So, we must meet this moment with more action and, frankly, more
ambition.   
  
And to do so, we need your help and we need your partnership.  Your
Tribes have served for millennia as the responsible stewards of our
environment and natural resources.  
  
Our country needs your knowledge and your expertise and traditions.  
  
And at a moment in time where we are finally, on a global level, taking
this seriously, we must rely on your knowledge and partnership to help
us be effective and smart in the way we address this crisis.   
  
So, guided by our commitment to Tribal sovereignty, President Biden and
I have invested billions of dollars in Native-led climate projects to
make sure Native communities then have the resources to create renewable
energy, to clean up pollution, and fund resilience and adaptation.  
  
For example, at Gila River, the Tribe is using the funds we provided to
build a new water pipeline that will deliver clean water to thousands of
people and reduce reliance on the Colorado River.  
  
So, these are some of the examples of the work that we have done and
have yet to do together.   
  
And I’ll end, then, with a quick story.  So, I just concluded a national
college tour.  We named it the “Fight for Our Freedoms Tour.”  And
during that tour, I met with more than 15,000 college-aged Americans at
four-year colleges and universities and also at trade schools and
community colleges, including Northern Arizona University.  
  
And at NAU — at NAU, I met young leaders from their Council of
Indigenous Ambassadors, which represents Native students on campus.  And
it truly was a moment I will cherish.  
  
In the faces of these young leaders, I saw our future.  And I will tell
you, as we all know, our future is bright.  Our future is bright.   
  
So, together, then, I say, in the midst of all that we see as the crises
facing the world, together, let us have faith.  Let us have faith in our
young leaders and their future and, therefore, our collective future. 
And let us continue, then, to fight for this generation and for seven
generations to come.  
  
Thank you all.  May God bless you.  And may God bless America. 
(Applause.)  
  
Thank you.  Thank you.   
  
                         END
