---
date: '2023-12-03'
published_time: 2023-12-03 19:33:19-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/03/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-2023-kennedy-center-honorees-reception/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the 2023 Kennedy Center Honorees\_Reception"
---
 
East Room

4:29 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello!  (Applause.)  Good evening,
everyone.  Please have a seat.   
  
Jill and I are honored — truly honored — to host you at one of our
favorite events.   
  
A special thanks, by the way, to David Rubenstein.  David, you’re
chairman of the board of the Kennedy Center.  But you’re a great friend,
but you always step up and support the arts and the history of the
nation.  You’re always there.  I call him the “Washington Monument.” 
Remember when I got (inaudible)?  (Inaudible.)  (Laughter.)  Anyway.  
  
And to you, Deborah Rutter, the — where’s Deborah? Deborah.  Madam
President, I should say — President of the Kennedy Center.  Thank you
for all you do.  
  
And to all of you and supporters of the arts and the family and friends
of this year’s honorees.  And my sister.  (Laughter.)  
  
It’s wonderful — (applause) — it’s wonderful — it’s a wonderful
tradition at the White House to recognize the President and Mrs.
Kennedy’s love of the arts and the culture in America — love that
endures 60 years after his death, tragically.  The anniversary was
marked last month.   
  
The anniversary just came as we said goodbye to someone who I admired
greatly, the First Lady Rosalynn Carter, who was also a champion of the
performing arts.  
  
It’s simple as it is profound.  The performing arts are more than just
sound and scene.  They reflect who we are as Americans and as human
beings.   
  
That’s especially true for more than 200 Kennedy Center honorees over
the past 46 years who have helped shape how we see ourselves, how we see
each other, and how we see our world.  Honors not just based on the
length of the career or the scope of work or the height of fame but
because of their unique place in the conscience and the very soul of our
dynamic and diverse nation.  You’re an incredible group.  You really
are.  This year’s — this year’s class continues that legacy.  
  
In New York City, you can walk a few blocks and you can circle the Earth
in just a few blocks.  Eight million people of every background in most
— in the most alive city, probably, in America.  And that’s just one guy
who makes everyone stop and laugh, Billy Crystal.  (Applause.)  
  
Now, Billy grew up sweeping the floor of his family’s music shop on 42nd
Street, and he became America’s most celebrated comedians, actor, and
writer on screen and on stage.  And he played — he played every form —
in everyone’s form.  
  
The miracle man — (laughs) — and the princess — for “The Princess
Bride.”  Oh, I tell you.  (Laughter.)  The one that really fascinated me
was the therapist for a mobster.  And city slicker, which I told him I
just looked at again today.  A guy who met Sally.   
  
Nine-time Oscars, most — second only to Bob Hope and previous Kennedy
Center Honorees.  And six Emmy Awards.  Tony winner.  Best-selling
author.   
  
And by — what I admire most about him is his heart — his heart that
reminds us to love and care for one another — raising awareness and
funds to end cancer, fighting homelessness, help a city rebuild after
9/11 and Superstorm Sandy, and so much more.   
  
Maybe the most helpful of all, helping people find the light of laughter
and purpose from the kindness and the darkness that occurs as a
consequence of loss and pain.   
  
Billy’s award-winning Broadway show is about the 700 Sundays he had with
his dad before his dad passed away when Billy was only 15 years old.  It
captured the love they shared at the time and the time they had together
— and the love of his mother, his brother, his uncle, and other pieces
of his soul gone too soon.   
  
By sharing that love so openly, Billy has helped countless people hold
onto to the loves of their own lives.  That’s Billy Crystal, the
American showman with a heart of gold, Billy.  (Applause.)  
  
And he promised me he’s not going to primary me.  (Laughter.)  He could
win.  
  
The holiday season has arrived, and we hear our favorite holiday songs. 
Tonight — tonight, we celebrate someone who brings joy to the world with
her extraordinary voice: Renée Fleming, one of greatest opera sopranos
of all time.  (Applause.)  
  
Descriptions of her voice verge on the — verge on the mystical. 
Characterized as “pure gold,” “jewels floating like butterflies.”  
  
With her heavenly voice, Renée has risen from humble roots in Upstate
New York to the heights of the opera world and well, well beyond,
performing more than 50 of the greatest soprano roles on the world’s
most prestigious world stages.   
  
She sings in six languages.  Over 2 million records sold.  Five
Grammys.   
  
And takes opera outside the grand halls of the world.  The first opera
singer to perform at a Super Bowl.  (Laughter.)  Her voice was heard in
the “Lord of the Rings” movies.  And she sang on “The Late Show” with
David Letterman and with the cast of “Sesame Street,” both fellow
Kennedy Honorees.   
  
More personally, her rendition of “Danny Boy” at the funeral of my
friend, John McCain, moved us deeply.   
  
On a cold January day in 2009, she performed as Barack and I were first
inaugurated.  I’ll never forget it.   
  
And on another cold day in January 2021, before another inauguration,
she performed a pri- — in a private mass for Jill and me and Kamala and
Doug and our families.  We sat in awed silence, listening to her
rendition of “America the Beautiful.”  It felt like a choir of angels
singing.   
  
That’s Renée Fleming.  Renée, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
As a child in Australia and England, Barry Gibb — finally made it to the
United States, thank God — (laughter).  And he and his brothers set
their sights on one thing: to make it big.  To make it big.  
  
Kids being kids, they made guitars out of cheese boxes, lip-synced their
favorite songs, and performed on street corners.  Not even 10 years old
when he first performed on stage together, they discovered early on the
natural gift — the natural gift of singing in three-part harmony.   
  
It was the start of what was to become one of the longest-running,
top-selling musical acts in history: the Bee Gees.  And I re- — I’m a
fan.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
From their soulful hits in the ‘60s — and I was a mere child —
(laughter) — to fueling the explosion of disco in the 1970s, the Bee
Gees defied genres and left an enduring mark upon pop music.   
  
Over the course of four decades, their trademark falsettos and prolific
songwriting have sold over 220 million albums and created 100 — excuse
me — created 1,000 songs, including songs for another superstar’s
performance.   
  
The Bee Gees earned nine Number 1 hits.  Nearly 30 Top 40 Hits.  Five
Grammy’s, nine nominations.   
  
And while I know when you think of the Bee Gees, it’s the infectious
beat and the — that you hear in your own mind.  But I think it’s
universal.  It’s simple.  Simple human truths that their lyrics contain
so often capture and grip our hearts.   
  
Lyrics like “there’s a certain kind of light that never shone on me”
from those hopelessly in love.  Or “I’ve \[been\] kicked around since I
was born” about the Bay <s>Bridge</s> \[Ridge\] 19-year-old struck by a
dead-end job who’s trying to stay alive.  The list goes on.   
  
The brothers’ <s>bound</s> \[bond\] made it all seem effortless and
almost magical.  They described it as, quote, “we’ll be walking down the
street together and we’ll simultaneously begin to sing the same song in
the same key.”  God love you, <s>Billy</s> \[Barry\].  That — that’s
incredible.  
  
Proof — proof that all — of all they may have accomplished as Bee Gees,
looked at the world like so many of us do: in a simple straight way. 
How have I affected by it?  
  
Family is the beginning, the middle, and end.  So, while honor goes to
Barry and — we know he accepts it in harmony with Robin, Maurice, Andy,
and the brothers Gibbs.  You know, Barry, I think you made it big.  No
question.  (Applause.)  
  
Fifty years ago, August of ’73, the Bronx.  A new artform was born,
inspired by spirituals sang as prayers of freedom, gospel music heard in
churches, jazz played at speakeasies, funk music in nightclubs. 
Continuing a long tradition of Black performers using their art to break
down barriers and to give voice to the promise of America for all
Americans — for all Americans.  
  
And over the past 50 years, hip-hop has become an unstoppable force in
America, and around — and not just America but around the world.  
  
Before <s>I</s> \[it\] traveled from the Bronx to change the culture
forever — before they did, it caught the ear of a child from Newark, New
Jersey.  She — she’d grow up practicing with friends at school and then
learning from legends in nightclubs.   
  
It didn’t take long for — (laughs) — Dana Owens to know — become known
as “Queen Latifah.”  Queen Latifah.  (Applause.)  
  
A natural storyteller — a natural storyteller, she released her first
album at age 19.  In the studio, she rapped about everything from the
pain of losing her brother to the abuse of power, respect for Black
women to — the respect that Black women deserve, and how infinite love
is the only hope for unity.   
  
Grammy winner.  Two million albums sold.  Two million albums sold.   
  
She’s also a skillful storyteller onscreen.  The first woman in hip-hop
to earn an Oscar nomination, which she did for her role in “Chicago.” 
(Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, with other movies and — movies, she’s earned a Golden
Globe and a Primetime enemy — enemy.  (Laughter.)  That’s me. 
(Laughter.)  A Primetime Emmy.  
  
She’s also the first hip-hop artist with a star on the Hollywood Walk of
Fame.   
  
That’s a full trophy case, if I say.   
  
But as a point of privilege — personal privilege, I’d like to thank —
there’s a second place for an honorary degree she received in 2011 from
Delaware State University, my HBCU.  (Laughter and applause.)  Kamala
and I have an ongoing, running debate about whether it’s Howard or
Delaware State, the best HBCU in the nation.  (Laughter.)  
  
From serving as a mentor for young women of color to building housing in
her hometown of Newark, she displays how storytelling and service go
hand in hand.   
  
Tonight, Queen Latifah, you know, you become the first female hip-hop
artist to receive a Kennedy Honor, lifting — and fitting because it’s
tribute to the 50th anniversary of hip-hop.  Providing — proving that
anything is possible when we discover our own voice, write our own
story, and share it with the world.  And that’s what you’ve done. 
(Applause.)  
  
Scripture tells us God gives each of us gifts.  And thank the Lord God
gave the gift to us of Dionne Warwick.  A few nights ago — (applause) —
she performed at the lighting of the National Christmas Tree just
outside the White House.  As expected, she was incredible, just as she’s
been from the very beginning.  
  
A six-year-old — as a six-year-old, she climbed to the top of a stack of
books in the pulpit of her grandfather’s church in New Jersey.  She sang
for the congregation, finding her gift and her calling that now spans
seven decades — iconic melodies, verses, and albums, love songs and
anthems.  
  
It includes “I Say a Little Prayer,” “Do You Know the Way to Jo- — San
Jose.”  (Laughter.)  
  
Five Grammys, fourteen nominations.  The Grammy Hall of Fame, R&B Music
Hall of Fame.  Over 100 million sold — 100 million records sold and
counting.  (Applause.)  
  
But what makes her truly exceptional, in my view, is how her friend and
great humanitarian, the incomparable artist, the previous Kennedy Center
Honoree, Stevie Wonder, described her.  He said, quote, “You cannot
separate the voice from the heart.” “You cannot separate the voice from
the heart.”  
  
For example, as the HIV/AIDS epidemic raged in the ‘80s, she asked
fellow artists to create music to help save lives and break stigmas. 
That group included Stevie, Elton John, and Gladys Knight — also a
previous house center — Kennedy Center Honorees.  
  
That legend recorded — they’re just incredible, what they’ve done.  And
what they did, they recorded “That’s What Friends Are For.”  And they
were surely a good bunch of friends.  A song that reached the top of the
charts and raised millions of dollars to fight that deadly epidemic.   
  
Her voice and heart make us feel something deep within ourselves. 
That’s <s>Dianne</s> \[Dionne\] Warwick.  Truly a gift to all of us,
<s>Dianne</s> \[Dionne\].  (Applause.)  
And that’s all been introduced by a guy who couldn’t carry a tune in a
wheelbarrow.  (Laughter.)  
  
Ladies and gentlemen, congratulations to the 2023 Kennedy Center
Honorees.  Congratulations to your families and friends.  And thank you
all for supporting the performing arts that shape our conscience and the
very soul of the nation.   
  
So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you,
thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
4:46 P.M. EST  
