---
date: '2023-12-20'
published_time: 2023-12-20 15:51:55-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/20/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-meeting-of-the-u-s-national-space-council/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Meeting of the U.S. National Space\_\
  Council"
---
 
*Andrew Mellon Auditorium  
Washington, D.C.*

2:09 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.  
  
And I want to thank Colonel Hansen for the introduction and also for his
work.  Colonel, it was a pleasure to visit with you and — and the other
Artemis 2 astronauts, along with your families, last week in my office
in the White House.  
  
And through your courage, Colonel and all of the astronauts, and your
determination and incredible skill, you and all the Artemis astronauts
are helping to lead our nation and the world back to the Moon.  
  
And today, on the fourth anniversary of the establishment of the United
States Space Force, I will recognize the Guardians — (applause) — who
are with us.  I’d like you to stand, please, so we can applaud you. 
(Applause.) 

Oh, look, there we are.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  
  
Thank you each and all of you collectively for the work that you do. 
You make our nation so proud.  And thank you for your service.  
  
So, with that, welcome, everyone, to the third convening of our National
Space Council, including the members of our administration, the
private-sector leaders who are here, and, of course, our international
partners.   
  
The mission of the National Space Council is to preserve and advance
America’s leadership in space.  For generations, our nation has led the
world in the exploration and use of space.  
  
And in the coming years, one of the primary ways we will continue to
extend that leadership is by strengthening our international
partnerships, combining our resources, scientific capacity, and
technical skill with that of our allies and partners around the world,
all in furtherance of our collective vision.  
  
Here today are representatives from 33 nations, longstanding and new
partners all committed to work together in pursuit of shared
priorities.  
  
And today, then, I will discuss three of those priorities for space:
tackling the climate crisis, establishing new international rules and
norms, and advancing human space exploration.  
  
On the issue of the climate crisis, earlier this month, I was with many
of you where I represented the United States at COP28.  There, I
declared nations must work together with more ambition and urgency to
protect our world from climate disaster and to advance climate action.  
  
Here, I will add that, to that end, we must also work together in
space.  
  
Today, citizens, scientists, and policymakers around the world rely on
images and data collected in space to help fight against the climate
crisis, to track deforestation, to predict the path of hurricanes and
wildfires, to measure greenhouse gas emissions, and to help reduce
pollution.  
  
As part of this work, earlier this year, I received a briefing at NASA
Goddard on the innovative partnership we have with South Korea and the
European Union to use satellites to track global air quality.  
  
However, in that briefing, I noticed a gap during the presentation: the
Southern Hemisphere.  It wasn’t covered.  The result, of course, being
that policymakers and public health officials across South America and
the continent of Africa may not have access, then, to important data to
issue, for example, air quality warnings, to draft clean air laws, to
hold polluters accountable.  
  
So, to fix this problem, we worked with our partners at the Italian
Space Agency.  And next year, we will launch a satellite to collect air
pollution data across the Southern Hemisphere, data that invariably will
help hundreds of millions of people.  
  
Global collaboration to take on global challenges.  
  
My second area of focus today is the need to establish and strengthen
international rules and norms for the peaceful and responsible use of
space — common understandings of what is permissible and what is not.  
  
President Biden and I are deeply committed to preserve and strengthen
the longstanding rules and norms that promote global stability:
principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity, and freedom of
navigation.  
  
We are also committed to establish new standards to meet the challenges
of the 21st century — in particular, in areas such as AI, cybersecurity,
and, of course, space — to promote stability, sustainability,
prosperity, and peace.  
  
Last year, I issued a global challenge for all nations to join our
commitment not to conduct destructive, direct-ascent anti-satellite
missile testing.  Since then, 36 other nations have joined us, and I
continue to urge more nations to do the same.  
  
Together, with our international partners, the United States also led
the development of the Artemis Accords to establish clear norms for
civil space exploration.  
  
Since the last meeting of our council, 12 more nations have signed on,
bringing the total number to 33, all of whom are represented here
today.  
  
Finally, last year, I announced that the United States would develop the
first regulatory framework for novel commercial space activities.  And
today, then, we release that framework which consists of both executive
action and legislation that we recently sent to the United States
Congress.  
  
This, I believe, is one of the most significant steps we have taken to
shape the future of the commercial space industry.  
  
President Biden and I are committed to establishing rules for commercial
space activities that are strong enough to promote the safe and
predictable use of space but flexible enough to ensure that we do not
stifle innovation.  We intend that these domestic rules will serve as a
model for global action.  
  
Finally, regarding the importance of international collaboration on
human space exploration: The Artemis program is the most ambitious space
exploration effort in generations.  For the first time in more than half
a century, the United States will return astronauts to the lunar
surface.  We will establish the first lunar base camp and the first
station in lunar orbit — all of this in collaboration with our allies
and partners.  
  
For example, the service module that will help carry Artemis astronauts
to the Moon was built by the European Space Agency.  And Europe, Japan,
and Canada will make significant contributions to the lunar space
station.  
  
Today, in recognition of the essential role that our allies and partners
play in the Artemis program, I am proud, then, to announce that
alongside American astronauts, we intend to land an international
astronaut on the surface of the Moon by the end of the decade.  
  
This announcement and this meeting of our National Space Council is
further demonstration of our belief in the critical importance of
international partnership.  
  
So, now, before I turn to my National Security Advisor, Dr. Phil Gordon,
to moderate this meeting, I will conclude with this.   
  
I believe we are all here together because we agree space is a place of
extraordinary opportunity.  So, our task, dare I say our duty, as
nations must be to work together to make that opportunity real and to
preserve it for future generations.  
  
May God bless you all.  And may God bless the United States of America. 
Thank you.  (Applause.)      
  
                               END                 2:19 P.M. EST
