---
date: '2023-02-28'
published_time: 2023-02-28 14:21:55-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/28/a-proclamation-on-womens-history-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Women\u2019s History Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During Women’s History Month, we celebrate the countless women who
have fought tirelessly and courageously for equality, justice, and
opportunity in our Nation.  We also reaffirm our commitment to advancing
rights and opportunities for women and girls in the United States and
around the world.  We are mindful that we are building on the legacy of
both recognized trailblazers and unsung heroines who have guided the
course of American history and continue to shape its future.

     The full participation of women is a foundational tenet of
democracy.  Women — often women of color — have been on the frontlines,
fighting for and securing equal rights and opportunity throughout our
country’s history as abolitionists, civil rights leaders, suffragists,
and labor activists.  Women continue to lead as advocates for
reproductive rights, champions of racial justice, and LGBTQI+ equality. 
Throughout history, these women have opened the doors of opportunity for
subsequent generations of dreamers and doers.  As community leaders,
educators, doctors, scientists, child care providers, and more, women
power our economy and lead our Nation.  As first responders and service
members, they stand watch over our lives and liberties.  As innovators,
entrepreneurs, and essential workers in every industry, they represent
the very best of America.

     But despite significant progress, women and girls continue to face
systemic barriers to full and equal participation in our economy and
society.  Last year, the Supreme Court overturned *Roe v. Wade,*
stripping away a constitutional right from the American people and the
ability of millions of women to make decisions about their own bodies,
putting their health and lives at risk.  Disparities persist in economic
security, health care, and caregiving responsibilities, especially for
women and girls of color.  Those who perform critical work, including
those who care for our children and our families, are too often
overlooked, underpaid, and undervalued.  

     Ours is the only Nation in the world established upon a profound
but simple idea — that all people are created equal.  My Administration
is committed to upholding that idea and to making its promise real for
every American.  That is why I created the Gender Policy Council to
advance gender equity and equality across the Federal Government.  It is
why I released the first-ever national gender strategy to promote the
rights and opportunities of women at home and abroad, which outlines
my Administration’s commitment to equal access to education, economic
security for women and families, health care, and freedom from
gender-based violence.  As we implement the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act, we are
working to reduce barriers so that women can access new jobs in sectors
where they have been historically underrepresented.  I have signed
historic legislation to ensure equal protection for pregnant women and
nursing mothers in the workplace.  And I strengthened and reauthorized
the Violence Against Women Act, a major milestone in our ongoing efforts
to ensure all people can live free from violence.  Finally, in December
2022, I was proud to sign the Respect for Marriage Act and defend the
rights of LGBTQI+ and interracial couples.

     My Administration will continue to defend reproductive freedom to
ensure that all Americans — regardless of their gender, race, ethnicity,
sexual orientation, gender identity, or income — have the ability to
make the choices that are right for themselves and their families.  I
have taken executive action to safeguard access to reproductive care,
including medication abortion, help ensure women can receive emergency
medical care, protect patients’ privacy and access to accurate
information about their reproductive rights, and combat discrimination
in the health care system.  I continue to call on the Congress to pass a
Federal law restoring the protections of *Roe v. Wade* so all women in
every State have the right to choose.  And my Administration released
the first Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis to save
lives and address systemic discrimination that many women face every day
in our health care system, including women of color, women in rural
communities, and women with disabilities.

     Leading our efforts is the most diverse group of women at the
highest levels of Government in United States history, including Vice
President Kamala Harris and a record number of female cabinet
secretaries.  Together with the most diverse set of judges ever
nominated to the Federal bench — including Supreme Court Justice Ketanji
Brown Jackson — women are seated at every table where decisions are
being made.

     This month, as we continue our work to advance gender equity and
equality, let us celebrate the contributions of women throughout our
history and honor the stories that have too often gone untold.  Let us
recognize that fundamental freedoms are interconnected:  when
opportunities for women are withheld, we all suffer; and when women’s
lives are improved, we all gain.  Let us strive to create a Nation where
every woman and girl knows that her possibilities know no bounds in
America.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
2023 as Women’s History Month.  I call upon all Americans to observe
this month and to celebrate International Women’s Day on March 8, 2023,
with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.  I also invite
all Americans to visit WomensHistoryMonth.gov to learn more about the
vital contribution of women to our Nation’s history.  

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-eighth day of February, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
