---
date: '2023-02-24'
published_time: 2023-02-24 09:53:23-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/24/a-proclamation-on-national-eating-disorders-awareness-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Eating Disorders Awareness Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Nearly 1 in 10 Americans are expected to develop an eating disorder
in their lifetime.  When left untreated, eating disorders can have
devastating effects on a person’s health.  Each of us has the power to
help people who are struggling to receive the support and treatment they
need and to promote a culture that treats everyone with dignity and
respect.  During National Eating Disorders Awareness Week, we call
attention to this serious health condition and reaffirm that, with early
access to treatment and support, a full recovery is possible.

     My Administration is taking action to address eating disorders.
 Through the National Institute of Mental Health, we are working to
develop better therapies and interventions.  Through the Substance Abuse
and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) and funding for the
National Center of Excellence for Eating Disorders, we are also helping
health care providers, families, caregivers, and community members
access new tools and trainings to help detect and treat eating
disorders.

     I made tackling the mental health crisis a key pillar of
my Administration’s Unity Agenda, and since coming into office, I have
invested billions of dollars to improve access to mental health
services.  For example, we are expanding Certified Community Behavioral
Health Clinics, which deliver 24/7 mental health care to millions of
Americans, regardless of their ability to pay.  We are also shaping
brighter futures for the next generation by helping schools hire more
counselors, social workers, and nurses; expanding training for health
care professionals; integrating mental health into primary care;
strengthening enforcement of mental health parity laws; and addressing
the harms of bullying and social media platforms that fuel eating
disorders, depression, and self-harm.

     This week, let us acknowledge the families of those struggling with
eating disorders as they care for their loved ones.  Let us recommit to
celebrating and supporting our fellow Americans who are on their road to
recovery.  And let us spread the word that help is just a phone call
away:  The SAMHSA National Helpline at 1-800-662-4357 is a confidential,
free, 24-hours-a-day, 365-days-a-year information and referral service. 
For anyone experiencing a crisis, immediate and confidential help is
also available by calling or texting 988, the National Suicide and
Crisis Lifeline.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
February 26 through March 4, 2023, as National Eating Disorders
Awareness Week.  I encourage citizens, government agencies, private
businesses, nonprofit organizations, and other interested groups to join
in activities that will increase awareness of what Americans can do to
prevent eating disorders and that will improve access to care and other
support services for those currently living with an eating disorder.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth
day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
