---
date: '2023-02-24'
modified_time: 2023-02-24 08:51:19-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-24 09:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/24/a-proclamation-on-increasing-duties-on-certain-articles-from-the-russian-federation/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Increasing Duties on Certain Articles from the Russian\_\
  Federation"
---
 
     1.  On April 8, 2022, I signed the Suspending Normal Trade
Relations with Russia and Belarus Act (19 U.S.C. 2434 note) (Suspending
NTR Act).  Section 3(a) of the Suspending NTR Act suspended
nondiscriminatory tariff treatment for products of the Russian
Federation and of the Republic of Belarus, and imposed the rates of duty
set forth in column 2 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United
States (HTSUS) on all products of the Russian Federation and of the
Republic of Belarus, effective as of April 9, 2022.  Section 3(b)(1) of
the Suspending NTR Act provides that the President may proclaim
increases in the column 2 rates of duty applicable to products of the
Russian Federation and of the Republic of Belarus.

     2.  On April 8, 2022, I signed the Ending Importation of Russian
Oil Act (22 U.S.C. 8923 note).  Section 2 of the Ending Importation of
Russian Oil Act prohibits imports of all products of the Russian
Federation classified under chapter 27 of the HTSUS, in a manner
consistent with any implementation actions issued under Executive Order
14066 of March 8, 2022.

     3.  In Executive Order 14066 of March 8, 2022, I prohibited, inter
alia, the importation into the United States of the following products
of Russian Federation origin:  crude oil; petroleum; petroleum fuels,
oils, and products of their distillation; liquefied natural gas; coal;
and coal products.

     4.  In Executive Order 14068 of March 11, 2022, I prohibited, inter
alia, the importation into the United States of the following products
of Russian Federation origin:  fish, seafood, and preparations thereof;
alcoholic beverages; and non‑industrial diamonds.

     5.  In Proclamation 10420 of June 27, 2022, I stated that I had
determined that increasing the column 2 rates of duty to 35 percent ad
valorem on certain products of the Russian Federation was warranted and
consistent with the foreign policy interests of the United States.  I
also stated that the United States will monitor the implementation of
the increased duties, and that I may revisit this determination,
as appropriate.

     6.  In accordance with section 3(b)(1) of the Suspending NTR Act, I
have determined that increasing the column 2 rates of duty to 35 percent
ad valorem on certain additional products of the Russian Federation and
to 70 percent ad valorem on certain other additional products of the
Russian Federation, the importation of which has not already been
prohibited, is warranted and consistent with the foreign policy
interests of the United States.  In addition, I have determined that
increasing the column 2 rates of duty from 35 percent ad valorem to 70
percent ad valorem on certain products covered by Proclamation 10420 of
June 27, 2022, the importation of which has not already been prohibited,
is warranted and consistent with the foreign policy interests of the
United States.  These products are listed in the Annex to this
proclamation.  The United States will monitor the implementation of the
increased duties, and I may revisit this determination, as appropriate.

     7.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C.
2483), authorizes the President to embody in the HTSUS the substance of
statutes affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including
the removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of
duty or other import restriction.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, including section 3 of the
Suspending Normal Trade Relations with Russia and Belarus Act; section
301 of title 3, United States Code; and section 604 of the Trade Act of
1974, as amended, do hereby proclaim as follows:

     (1)  To increase the column 2 rates of duty on imports of certain
articles of the Russian Federation as set forth in paragraph 6 of this
proclamation, subdivision (b) to U.S. Note 30 to subchapter III of
chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified and new HTSUS heading 9903.90.09 and
new subdivisions (c) and (d) to U.S. Note 30 to subchapter III of
chapter 99 of the HTSUS are established, as provided for in the Annex to
this proclamation.

     (2)  The modifications to the HTSUS made by clause 1 of this
proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 1, 2023, and shall continue in
effect, unless such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or
terminated.

     (3)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders
that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth
day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
