---
date: '2023-02-28'
published_time: 2023-02-28 14:33:57-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/28/a-proclamation-on-national-colorectal-cancer-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, we call
attention to the second leading cause of cancer deaths in America — by
sharing information about risk factors, promoting life-saving early
screenings, and improving access to affordable treatment.  In
remembrance of every life cut short by this devastating disease, my
Administration is determined to end cancer as we know it.

     When a loved one is diagnosed with cancer, every minute counts. 
But patients can be overwhelmed by a flood of medical information, and
they too often struggle to afford life-saving care.  Our country needs
to do more to help patients and families navigate the cancer care
system.  We need to learn from patients’ experiences, and we need to
share data and knowledge to help prevent other families from
encountering the same obstacles to prevention and care.  When it comes
to colorectal cancer, we must also focus our efforts on those most
likely to develop this disease, including Americans over the age of 45;
Black Americans; people with a family history of colorectal cancer; and
people who smoke, consume alcohol, or are obese.

     Because early detection drastically improves survival rates, the
independent United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends
regular screenings for all Americans who are older than 45 or have other
risk factors.  People should consult a doctor if they experience
symptoms including blood in their stool, a change in bowel habits,
stomach pain, bloating, persistent cramps, or unexplained weight loss.
 Vital screenings like colonoscopies can detect cancer early and remove
precancerous growths, preventing the disease before it starts.

     My Administration is working around the clock to develop new
treatments that can turn this and other kinds of cancer from
life-threatening diseases into chronic ones that people can live with
and that can even cure certain forms of cancer.  The First Lady and I
reignited the Cancer Moonshot initiative that I began as Vice President,
setting a new goal of cutting the Nation’s cancer death rate in half in
the next 25 years while better supporting patients and caregivers.  To
develop bold breakthroughs in preventing, diagnosing, and treating
cancer and other deadly diseases, I established the Advanced Research
Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H), securing $2.5 billion in funding
with bipartisan support from the Congress.  And last fall, I signed an
Executive Order to help ensure that biotechnology invented in America is
made in America, growing our economy and strengthening our supply chains
for vital medications.

     At the same time, we are continuing to make existing cancer care
more affordable.  The American Rescue Plan expanded the Affordable Care
Act, which requires insurers to pay for cancer screenings and primary
care visits and to cover cancer survivors and others who have
preexisting conditions.  Last year, I signed the Inflation Reduction
Act, which will cap costs for prescription drugs — including life-saving
cancer medicines — for seniors on Medicare at $2,000 per year.  My
Administration has worked with the private sector to bring cancer
screenings to more communities; develop and test new treatments; and
share data, which can accelerate research and save lives.  My
Administration is also promoting cancer prevention and healthy diets,
which can reduce the risk of colorectal cancer.  As part of our national
strategy to end hunger and reduce diet-related diseases, we are working
to provide healthy, free meals to millions more school kids; boost
Medicaid and Medicare coverage for services like nutrition and obesity
counseling; and make fruits and vegetables more affordable for
low-income families.

     The task ahead is great, but I am optimistic.  Many thousands of
families have shared their cancer stories with me over the years; each
time, I am reminded how personal this pain is and how universal the
dream of a cure continues to be.  This common cause can unite this
Nation and the world to join together and marshal the resources,
brightest minds, and most dedicated advocates to finally end cancer once
and for all.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
2023 as National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage all
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, non-profit
organizations, and other groups to join in activities that will increase
awareness and prevention of colorectal cancer.  I also encourage
Americans to visit HealthCare.gov and learn more about signing up for
health coverage under the Affordable Care Act.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-eighth day of February, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
