---
date: '2023-02-24'
modified_time: 2023-02-24 08:44:46-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-24 09:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/24/a-proclamation-on-adjusting-imports-of-aluminum-into-the-united-states-4/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United\_States"
---
 
1.  On January 19, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to the President a report on the Secretary’s investigation
into the effect of imports of aluminum articles on the national security
of the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of
1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).  The Secretary found and advised the
President of his opinion that aluminum articles are being imported into
the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to
threaten to impair the national security of the United States.

     2.  In Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of
Aluminum Into the United States), the President concurred in the
Secretary’s finding that aluminum articles are being imported into the
United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to
threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and
decided to adjust the imports of aluminum articles by imposing a 10
percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported from most
countries.   

     3.  In Proclamation 9704, the President also directed the Secretary
to monitor imports of aluminum articles and inform the President of any
circumstances that in the Secretary’s opinion might indicate the need
for further action under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962,
as amended, with respect to such imports.  

     4.  The Secretary has informed me that the capacity utilization in
the domestic aluminum industry remains well below the target capacity
utilization level recommended in the January 2018 report.  The Secretary
has also informed me that two of the five remaining aluminum smelters in
the United States are in danger of closing as a result of continued high
levels of aluminum imports and high energy prices. 

     5.  In the Secretary’s January 2018 report, the Secretary
recommended that the President consider applying a higher tariff to a
list of specific countries should the President determine that all
countries should not be subject to the same tariff.  One of the
countries on that list was the Russian Federation (Russia).  As the
Secretary explained in that report, Russia is among the major exporters
of aluminum to the United States for domestic consumption.  While
aluminum imports from Russia have declined from the volume in the
Secretary’s 2018 report, Russia remains the fifth largest source of
imported aluminum in the United States, and the imports of aluminum from
Russia have increased in both 2021 and 2022.  Distortions that result
from overcapacity threaten market-oriented aluminum industries and
Russia’s aluminum industry in particular is extremely export oriented,
with Russia being the largest exporter of unwrought aluminum in 2021 and
Russian domestic consumption accounting for just 22 percent of Russian
production across 2021 and 2022.  United States imports of Russian
aluminum increased by 53 percent between March and July 2022. 

     6.  Russia continues its unjustified, unprovoked, unyielding, and
unconscionable war against Ukraine.  The Russian aluminum industry is a
key part of Russia’s defense industrial base and has played a major role
in supplying Russia with weapons and ammunition used in the war.  In
addition, Russia’s war against Ukraine has caused global energy prices
to rise, causing direct harm to the United States aluminum industry. 

     7.  To further reduce imports of aluminum articles and increase
domestic capacity utilization, I have determined that it is necessary
and appropriate to impose:

     (a)  beginning on March 10, 2023, a 200 percent ad valorem tariff
on aluminum articles that are the product of Russia and derivative
aluminum articles that are the product of Russia; and

     (b)  beginning on April 10, 2023, a 200 percent ad valorem tariff
on aluminum articles where any amount of primary aluminum used in the
manufacture of the aluminum articles is smelted in Russia, or the
aluminum articles are cast in Russia, and derivative aluminum articles
where any amount of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the
derivative aluminum articles is smelted in Russia, or the derivative
aluminum articles are cast in Russia.  

     (c)  “Primary aluminum” is defined as new aluminum metal that is
produced from alumina (or aluminum oxide) by the electrolytic
Hall-Heroult process.

     8.  The Secretary has advised me that the tariff adjustment
described in paragraph 7 of this proclamation will be a significant step
toward ensuring the viability of the domestic aluminum industry. 

     9.  In adopting the tariff adjustment described in paragraph 7 of
this proclamation, I recognize that concerns about aluminum imports from
Russia and their impact on our national security are shared by other
countries, and that we need to work together with our partners to ensure
that the global market distortions caused by Russian aluminum articles
do not distort our markets and threaten our national security.  Any
country that imposes a tariff of 200 percent or more on its imports of
aluminum articles that are products of Russia may be exempt from the
tariff imposed by this proclamation.  

     10.  Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an article and its
derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such
quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security.

     11.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C.
2483), authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff
Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes
affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including the
removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or
other import restriction.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the
United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including
section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301
of title 3, United States Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of
1974, as amended, do hereby proclaim as follows:

     (1)  In order to establish increases in the duty rate on imports of
aluminum articles that are the product of Russia, or where any amount of
primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the aluminum articles is
smelted in Russia, or the aluminum articles are cast in Russia,
subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified as provided in the
Annex to this proclamation.  In order to establish increases in the duty
rate on imports of derivative aluminum articles that are the product of
Russia, or where any amount of primary aluminum used in the manufacture
of the derivative aluminum articles is smelted in Russia, or the
derivative aluminum articles are cast in Russia, subchapter III of
chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified as provided in the Annex to this
proclamation.

     (2)  Clause 2 of Proclamation 9704, as amended, is further amended
in the second sentence by deleting “and” before “(i)” and inserting
before the period at the end:  “, and (j) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
standard time on March 10, 2023, from all countries except Argentina,
Australia, Canada, Mexico, and from the member countries of the European
Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2023,
from the United Kingdom, for aluminum articles covered by headings
9903.85.25 through 9903.85.44, inclusive, and from Russia.  Further,
except as otherwise provided in notices published pursuant to clause 3
of this proclamation, aluminum articles imports covered by clause 1 of
this proclamation that are products of Russia shall be subject to a 200
percent ad valorem rate of duty with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on March 10, 2023; and aluminum
articles imports covered by clause 1 of this proclamation where any
amount of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the aluminum
articles is smelted in Russia, or the aluminum articles are cast in
Russia, shall be subject to a 200 percent ad valorem rate of duty with
respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April
10, 2023.”  Clause 2 of Proclamation 9704, as amended, is further
amended by deleting the last sentence and inserting in lieu thereof:
 “These rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees,
exactions, and charges applicable to such imported aluminum articles,
shall apply to imports of aluminum articles from each country as
specified in the preceding two sentences.”

     (3)  The first two sentences of clause 1 of Proclamation 9980 of
January 24, 2020 (Adjusting Imports of Derivative Aluminum Articles and
Derivative Steel Articles Into the United States), are revised to read
as follows:

     “In order to establish increases in the duty rate on imports of
certain derivative articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS
is modified as provided in the Annex to this proclamation.  Except as
otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports of derivative
aluminum articles specified in the Annex to this proclamation shall be
subject to an additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty, and all
imports of derivative steel articles specified in the Annex to this
proclamation shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad valorem
rate of duty, with respect to goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows:  (i) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on February 8, 2020, these rates of
duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and
charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or
steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles
described in the Annex to this proclamation from all countries except
Argentina, the Commonwealth of Australia (Australia), Canada, and the
United Mexican States (Mexico) and to imports of derivative steel
articles described in the Annex to this proclamation from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea;
(ii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1, 2022,
these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees,
exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum
articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative
aluminum articles described in the Annex to this proclamation from all
countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of
the European Union, and Mexico and to imports of derivative steel
articles described in the Annex to this proclamation from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the
European Union, Mexico, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on April 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are
in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable
to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall
apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in the Annex
to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia,
Canada, the member countries of the European Union, and Mexico and to
imports of derivative steel articles described in the Annex to this
proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, and
South Korea; (iv) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June
1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties,
fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative
aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of
derivative aluminum articles described in the Annex to this proclamation
from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member
countries of the European Union, and Mexico, and to imports of
derivative steel articles described in the Annex to this proclamation
from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the
member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, and South Korea,
and except from Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on June
1, 2023; (v) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 1,
2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties,
fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative
aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of
derivative aluminum articles described in the Annex to this proclamation
from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member
countries of the European Union, Mexico, and the UK, and to imports of
derivative steel articles described in the Annex to this proclamation
from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the
member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and
the UK, and except from Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time
on June 1, 2023; and (vi) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time
on March 10, 2023, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any
other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported
derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports
of derivative aluminum articles described in the Annex to this
proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the
member countries of the European Union, Mexico, the UK, and Russia, and
to imports of derivative steel articles described in the Annex to this
proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, South
Korea, and the UK, and except from Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern
daylight time on June 1, 2023.  Further, except as otherwise provided in
this proclamation, all imports of derivative aluminum articles specified
in the Annex to this proclamation that are the product of Russia shall
be subject to a 200 percent ad valorem rate of duty with respect to
goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for
consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on March 10,
2023; and all imports of derivative aluminum articles specified in the
Annex to this proclamation where any amount of primary aluminum used in
the manufacture of the derivative aluminum articles is smelted in
Russia, or the derivative aluminum articles are cast in Russia, shall be
subject to a 200 percent ad valorem rate of duty with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 10, 2023.  Primary
aluminum is defined as new aluminum metal that is produced from alumina
(or aluminum oxide) by the electrolytic Hall-Heroult process.”

     (4)  For purposes of implementing the duty increases in this
proclamation, importers shall provide to U.S. Customs and Border
Protection (CBP) information necessary to identify the countries where
the primary aluminum used in the manufacture of aluminum articles
imports, covered by clause 1 of Proclamation 9704, and derivative
aluminum articles, specified in Annex I of Proclamation 9980, are
smelted and information necessary to identify the countries where such
aluminum articles imports and derivative aluminum articles are cast. 
CBP shall implement the smelt and cast information requirements as soon
as practicable.

     (5)  The modifications to the HTSUS made by the Annex to this
proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on March 10, 2023, and shall continue
in effect, unless such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or
terminated.  

     (6)  Any imports of aluminum articles that are the product of
Russia shall not be eligible for any General Approved Exclusions as set
forth in supplement number 3 to part 705 of title 15 of the Code of
Federal Regulations if entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time
on March 10, 2023, and any imports of aluminum articles where any amount
of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the aluminum articles is
smelted in Russia, or the aluminum articles are cast in Russia, shall
not be eligible for any General Approved Exclusions as set forth in
supplement number 3 to part 705 of title 15 of the Code of Federal
Regulations if entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for
consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 10,
2023.  Any imports of derivative aluminum articles that are the product
of Russia shall not be eligible for any General Approved Exclusions as
set forth in supplement number 3 to part 705 of title 15 of the Code of
Federal Regulations if entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time
on March 10, 2023, and any imports of derivative aluminum articles where
any amount of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the derivative
aluminum articles is smelted in Russia, or the derivative aluminum
articles are cast in Russia shall not be eligible for any General
Approved Exclusions as set forth in supplement number 3 to part 705 of
title 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations if entered for consumption,
or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on April 10, 2023.

     (7)  Any imports of aluminum articles that are the product of
Russia shall not be eligible for in-quota treatment for any quota or
tariff-rate quota maintained under the authority of section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, if entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
standard time on March 10, 2023, and any imports of aluminum articles
where any amount of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the
aluminum articles is smelted in Russia, or the aluminum articles are
cast in Russia shall not be eligible for in-quota treatment for any
quota or tariff-rate quota maintained under the authority of section 232
of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, if entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 10, 2023. 

     (8)  Any imports of aluminum articles or derivative aluminum
articles that are the product of Russia, where any amount of primary
aluminum used in the manufacture of the aluminum articles or derivative
aluminum articles is smelted in Russia, or the aluminum articles or
derivative aluminum articles are cast in Russia, that were admitted into
a U.S. foreign trade zone under “privileged foreign status” as defined
in 19 CFR 146.41, shall be subject upon entry for consumption made on or
after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on March 10, 2023, to the
provisions of the tariff in effect at the time of the entry for
consumption.

     (9)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders
that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth
day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
