---
date: '2023-02-16'
modified_time: 2023-02-16 09:24:10-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-16 09:21:24-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/16/executive-order-on-further-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Further Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved\
  \ Communities Through The Federal\_Government"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:   
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>.  On my first day in
office, I signed Executive Order 13985 of January 20, 2021 (Advancing
Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the
Federal Government), which charged the Federal Government with advancing
equity for all, including communities that have long been underserved,
and addressing systemic racism in our Nation’s policies and programs.By
advancing equity, the Federal Government can support and empower all
Americans, including the many communities in America that have been
underserved, discriminated against, and adversely affected by persistent
poverty and inequality.  We can also deliver resources and benefits
equitably to the people of the United States and rebuild trust in
Government.  
  
     Over the past 2 years, through landmark legislation — including the
American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117‑2); the bipartisan
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58) (Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law); division A of Public Law 117-167, known as the
Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) Act of
2022; Public Law 117-169, commonly referred to as the Inflation
Reduction Act of 2022; and the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act (Public
Law 117-159) — as well as executive action, my Administration has
vigorously championed racial equity and has advanced equal opportunity
for underserved communities.  Executive departments and agencies
(agencies) have engaged in historic work assessing how their policies
and programs perpetuate barriers for underserved communities and
developing strategies for removing those barriers.  They have made
important progress incorporating an evidence-based approach to equitable
policymaking and implementation, and they have crafted new action plans
to advance equity.  In short, my Administration has embedded a focus on
equity into the fabric of Federal policymaking and service delivery.
 Our work to transform the way the Federal Government serves the
American people has been complemented by Executive Order 14035 of June
25, 2021 (Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility in the Federal
Workforce), which continues to help ensure that my Administration — the
most diverse in our Nation’s history — reflects the growing diversity of
the communities we serve.  
  
     My Administration’s commitment to equity has produced better
decision-making and more equitable outcomes.  We have delivered the most
equitable economic recovery in memory, and, driven by the expanded Child
Tax Credit, we cut child poverty to its lowest rate on record in 2021,
including record low Black, Latino, Native American, and rural child
poverty.  Under my Administration, the economy has created nearly 11
million jobs, and we have brought down unemployment nationwide — in
particular for Black and Latino workers, for whom unemployment rates are
near 50-year lows.  My Administration has provided emergency rental
assistance to help millions of families stay in their homes, and we have
prohibited Federal contractors from paying people with disabilities
subminimum wages.  We are rebuilding roads and bridges, replacing the
Nation’s lead pipes to provide clean drinking water for all, delivering
access to affordable high-speed internet to Americans in both rural and
urban communities, investing in public transit, and reconnecting
communities previously cut off from economic opportunity by highways,
rail lines, or disinvestment.  My Administration has provided funding to
improve accessibility for passengers with disabilities on rail systems
and in airports, expanded health coverage for millions of Americans, and
expanded home- and community-based services so more people with
disabilities and older adults can live independently.  We have secured
billions of dollars in direct new investments for Tribal Nations and
Native American communities and have directed an increase in the share
of Federal Government contract spending awarded to small disadvantaged
businesses.  My Administration has taken action to strengthen public
safety, advance criminal justice reform, correct our country’s failed
approach to marijuana, protect civil rights, and stand up against rising
extremism and hate-fueled violence that threaten the fabric of our
democracy.  We have taken historic steps to advance full equality for
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex (LGBTQI+)
Americans, including by ending the ban on transgender service members in
our military; prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation,
gender identity, and sex characteristics across Federal programs; and
signing into law the Respect for Marriage Act (Public Law 117-228) to
preserve protections for the rights of same-sex and interracial couples.
 My Administration is also implementing the first-ever National Strategy
on Gender Equity and Equality to ensure that all people, regardless of
gender, have the opportunity to realize their full potential.  
  
     These transformative achievements have advanced the work
of building a more equitable Nation.  Yet, members of underserved
communities — many of whom have endured generations of discrimination
and disinvestment — still confront significant barriers to realizing the
full promise of our great Nation, and the Federal Government has a
responsibility to remove these barriers.  It is imperative to reject the
narrow, cramped view of American opportunity as a zero-sum game.  When
any person or community is denied freedom, dignity, and prosperity, our
entire Nation is held back.  But when we lift each other up, we are all
lifted up.  Therefore, my Administration must take additional action
across the Federal Government — in collaboration with civil society, the
private sector, and State and local government — to continue the work
begun with Executive Order 13985 to combat discrimination and advance
equal opportunity, including by redressing unfair disparities and
removing barriers to Government programs and services.  Achieving racial
equity and support for underserved communities is not a one-time
project.  It must be a multi-generational commitment, and it must remain
the responsibility of agencies across the Federal Government.  It
therefore continues to be the policy of my Administration to advance an
ambitious, whole-of-government approach to racial equity and support for
underserved communities and to continuously embed equity into all
aspects of Federal decision-making.  
  
     This order builds upon my previous equity-related Executive Orders
by extending and strengthening equity-advancing requirements for
agencies, and it positions agencies to deliver better outcomes for the
American people.  In doing so, the Federal Government shall continue to
pursue ambitious goals to build a strong, fair, and inclusive workforce
and economy; invest in communities where Federal policies
have historically impeded equal opportunity — both rural and urban — in
ways that mitigate economic displacement, expand access to capital,
preserve housing and neighborhood affordability, root out discrimination
in the housing market, and build community wealth; advance equity in
health, including mental and behavioral health and well-being; deliver
an equitable response to the COVID-19 pandemic; deliver environmental
justice and implement the Justice40 Initiative; build prosperity in
rural communities; ensure equitable procurement practices, including
through small disadvantaged businesses contracting and the Buy Indian
Act (25 U.S.C. 47); pursue educational equity so that our Nation’s
schools put every student on a path to success; improve our Nation’s
criminal justice system to end unjust disparities, strengthen public
safety, and ensure equal justice under law; promote equity in science
and root out bias in the design and use of new technologies, such as
artificial intelligence; protect the right to vote and realize the
promise of our Nation’s civil rights laws; and promote equity and human
rights around the world through our foreign policy and foreign
assistance.  By redoubling our efforts, the Federal Government can help
bridge the gap between the world we see and the future we seek.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Establishing Equity-Focused
Leadership Across the Federal Government</span>.  (a)  Establishment of
Agency Equity Teams.  The Secretary of State, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary
of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of
Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary
of Transportation, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Education,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, the Commissioner
of Social Security, the Administrator of General Services, the
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development,
the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the
Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the
Director of the National Science Foundation, and the Director of the
Office of Personnel Management (agency heads) shall, within 30 days of
the date of this order, ensure that they have in place an Agency Equity
Team within their respective agencies to coordinate the implementation
of equity initiatives and ensure that their respective agencies are
delivering equitable outcomes for the American people. 

    (i)    Each Agency Equity Team shall be led by a designated senior
official (senior designee) charged with implementing my Administration’s
equity initiatives, and shall include senior officials from the office
of the agency head and the agency’s program, policy, civil rights,
regulatory, science, technology, service delivery, financial assistance
and grants, data, budget, procurement, public engagement, legal, and
evaluation offices, as well as the agency’s Chief Diversity Officer, to
the extent applicable.  Agency Equity Teams shall include a combination
of competitive service employees, as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2102(a), and
appointees, as defined in Executive Order 13989 of January 20, 2021
(Ethics Commitments by Executive Branch Personnel), and, to the extent
practicable, shall build upon and coordinate with the agency’s existing
structures and processes, including with the agency’s environmental
justice officer designated pursuant to Executive Order 14008 of January
27, 2021 (Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad), and with the
senior agency official designated to coordinate with the Gender Policy
Council pursuant to Executive Order 14020 of March 8, 2021
(Establishment of the White House Gender Policy Council). 

    (ii)   The senior designee at each agency shall be responsible for
delivering equitable outcomes, to the extent consistent with applicable
law, and shall report to the agency head. 

    (iii)  Each Agency Equity Team shall support continued equity
training and equity leadership development for staff across all levels
of the agency’s workforce. 

    (iv)   Each agency’s senior designee shall coordinate with the
agency head, agency budget officials, and the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) to ensure that the Agency Equity Team has sufficient
resources, including staffing and data collection capacity, to advance
the agency’s equity goals.  Agency heads shall ensure that their
respective Agency Equity Teams serve in an advisory and coordination
role on priority agency actions. 

\(b\)  Establishment of the White House Steering Committee on Equity.
 There is hereby established a White House Steering Committee on Equity
(Steering Committee), which shall be chaired by the Assistant to the
President for Domestic Policy.  The Steering Committee shall include
senior officials representing policy councils and offices within the
Executive Office of the President, as appropriate.  The Steering
Committee shall:

    (i)    coordinate Government-wide efforts to advance equity; 

    (ii)   coordinate an annual process to consult with agency heads on
their respective agencies’ Equity Action Plans, established in section
3(a) of this order;

    (iii)  coordinate with the leadership of the White House Initiatives
created by Executive Order 14031 of May 28, 2021 (Advancing Equity,
Justice, and Opportunity for Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and
Pacific Islanders); Executive Order 14041 of September 3, 2021 (White
House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and
Economic Opportunity Through Historically Black Colleges and
Universities); Executive Order 14045 of September 13, 2021 (White House
Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic
Opportunity for Hispanics); Executive Order 14049 of October 11, 2021
(White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and
Economic Opportunity for Native Americans and Strengthening Tribal
Colleges and Universities); and Executive Order 14050 of October 19,
2021 (White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity,
Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for Black Americans); 

    (iv)   coordinate with the White House Environmental Justice
Interagency Council to ensure that equity and environmental justice
efforts are consistent and mutually reinforcing;

    (v)    coordinate with the White House Gender Policy Council to
align efforts to advance gender equity with broader equity efforts; and

    (vi)   monitor agencies’ activities and promote accountability to
ensure that agencies undertake ambitious and measurable steps to deliver
equitable outcomes for the American people.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Delivering Equitable Outcomes Through
Government Policies, Programs, and Activities</span>.  Each agency head
shall support ongoing implementation of a comprehensive equity strategy
that uses the agency’s policy, budgetary, programmatic,
service-delivery, procurement, data-collection processes, grantmaking,
public engagement, research and evaluation, and regulatory functions to
enable the agency’s mission and service delivery to yield equitable
outcomes for all Americans, including underserved communities. 

    (a)  In September 2023, and on an annual basis thereafter,
concurrent with the agencies’ submission to OMB for the President’s
Budget, agency heads shall submit an Equity Action Plan to the Steering
Committee.  The Equity Action Plan shall include actions to advance
equity, including under Executive Order 13985, Executive Order 13988 of
January 20, 2021 (Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis
of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation), Executive Order 14008, and
Executive Order 14020.    
    (b)  Each Equity Action Plan, which shall be made public, shall
include: 

        (i)    an update on the progress made by the agency on the
actions, performance measures, and milestones highlighted in the
preceding year’s Equity Action Plan, as well as the agency’s performance
on the annual Environmental Justice Scorecard established pursuant to
section 223 of Executive Order 14008, as applicable;

        (ii)   potential barriers that underserved communities may face
in accessing and benefitting from the agency’s policies, programs, and
activities, including procurement, contracting, and grant
opportunities; 

        (iii)  strategies, including new or revised policies and
programs, to address the barriers described in subsection (b)(ii) of
this section and to ensure equitable access and opportunity for
underserved communities; and

        (iv)   a description of how the agency intends to meaningfully
engage with underserved communities, including through accessible,
culturally and linguistically appropriate outreach, and the
incorporation of the perspectives of those with lived experiences into
agency policies, programs, and activities.

    (c)  Starting with formulation of the Fiscal Year 2025 Budget and
for each subsequent year, the Director of OMB shall consider how the
President’s Budget can support the Equity Action Plans described in
subsection (a) of this section in order to reinforce agency efforts to
meaningfully engage with and invest in underserved communities and
advance equitable outcomes.

    (d)  To ensure effective implementation of Equity Action Plans, and
to strengthen the Federal Government’s equitable delivery of resources
and benefits to all, agency heads shall:

        (i)    prioritize and incorporate strategies to advance equity —
including by pursuing evidence-based approaches, reducing administrative
burdens, increasing access to technical assistance, and implementing
equitable data practices, consistent with applicable law, into their
respective:

            (A)  agency strategic plans developed pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
306(a);

            (B)  agency performance plans developed pursuant to 31
U.S.C. 1115 and 1116;

            (C)  portions of performance plans relating to human and
capital resource requirements to achieve performance goals pursuant to
31 U.S.C. 1115(b)(5)(A);

            (D)  agency priority goals developed pursuant to 31 U.S.C.
1120;

            (E)  evaluation and evidence-building activities pursuant to
the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of 2018 (Public Law
115-435) and section 5 of the Presidential Memorandum of January 27,
2021 (Restoring Trust in Government Through Scientific Integrity and
Evidence-Based Policymaking);

            (F)  customer experience capacity assessments and action
plans pursuant to section 280 of OMB Circular A-11 and Executive Order
14058 of December 13, 2021 (Transforming Federal Customer Experience and
Service Delivery to Rebuild Trust in Government);

            (G)  selection of items for their respective regulatory
agendas and plans pursuant to sections 4(b) and (c) of Executive Order
12866 of September 30, 1993 (Regulatory Planning and Review), as
amended;

            (H)  individual performance plans for senior executives
consistent with 5 U.S.C. 4312, and for other senior employees consistent
with 5 U.S.C. 4302; and

            (I)  as permitted by law, activities, acquisitions, and
strategies that the Director of OMB determines to be appropriate to
further the implementation of this order;

        (ii)   identify opportunities, as appropriate and consistent
with applicable law, to incorporate into new regulations and to modify
their respective agencies’ regulations, internal- and public-facing
guidance, and other policies to include advancing equity as part of
their respective agencies’ missions; and 

        (iii)  promote coordination within and among their respective
agencies concerning the elements of their respective Equity Action Plans
and the recommendations of the Interagency Working Group on Equitable
Data established in Executive Order 13985.    

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Embedding Equity into Government-wide
Processes</span>.      (a)  The Director of OMB shall consider
opportunities to review and update internal processes, directives, and
Government-wide guidance (such as OMB Circulars and Memoranda) to
support equitable decision-making, promote equitable deployment of
financial and technical assistance, and assist agencies in advancing
equity, as appropriate and wherever possible.

    (b)  When designing, developing, acquiring, and using artificial
intelligence and automated systems in the Federal Government, agencies
shall do so, consistent with applicable law, in a manner that advances
equity.

    <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Delivering Equitable Outcomes in
Partnership with Underserved Communities</span>.  Underserved
communities often face significant barriers and legacy exclusions in
engaging with agencies and providing input on Federal policies and
programs that affect them.  Agencies must increase engagement with
underserved communities by identifying and applying innovative
approaches to improve the quality, frequency, and accessibility of
engagement.  Agencies shall, consistent with applicable law:

    (a)  conduct proactive engagement, as appropriate, with members of
underserved communities — for example, through culturally and
linguistically appropriate listening sessions, outreach events, or
requests for information — during development and implementation of
agencies’ respective annual Equity Action Plans, annual budget
submissions, grants and funding opportunities, and other actions,
including those outlined in section 3(d) of this order; 

    (b)  collaborate with OMB, as appropriate, to identify and develop
tools and methods for engagement with underserved communities, including
those related to agency budget development and rulemaking;

    (c)  create more flexibilities, incentives, and guidelines for
recipients of Federal funding and permits to proactively engage with
underserved communities as projects are designed and implemented; 

    (d)  identify funding opportunities for community- and faith-based
organizations working in and with underserved communities to improve
access to benefits and services for members of underserved communities;
and  

    (e)  identify and address barriers for individuals with
disabilities, as well as older adults, to participate in the engagement
process, including barriers to the accessibility of physical spaces,
virtual platforms, presentations, systems, training, and documents.

    <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Creating Economic Opportunity in
Rural America and Advancing Urban Equitable Development</span>.  (a)
 Agencies shall undertake efforts, to the extent consistent with
applicable law, to help rural communities identify and access Federal
resources in order to create equitable economic opportunity and advance
projects that build community wealth, including by providing or
supporting technical assistance; incentivizing the creation of good,
high-paying union jobs in rural areas; conducting outreach to and
soliciting input from rural community leaders; and contributing new
resources and support to interagency programs such as the Rural Partners
Network.

    (b)  Agencies shall undertake efforts, to the extent consistent with
applicable law, to strengthen urban equitable development policies and
practices, such as advancing community wealth building projects;
preventing physical and economic displacement as the result of Federal
investments; facilitating equitable flows of private capital, including
to underserved communities; and incorporating outcome-based metrics
focused on urban equitable development in the design and deployment of
Federal programs and policies.  To support these efforts, the Assistant
to the President for Domestic Policy shall issue a policy memorandum on
actions agencies can take to advance urban equitable development. 

    (c)  Executive Order 13946 of August 24, 2020 (Targeting Opportunity
Zones and Other Distressed Communities for Federal Site Locations),
including the amendments it made to Executive Order 12072 of August 16,
1978 (Federal Space Management), and to Executive Order 13006 of May 21,
1996 (Locating Federal Facilities on Historic Properties in Our Nation’s
Central Cities), is revoked.  Executive Orders 12072 and 13006 are
reinstated as they were prior to issuance of Executive Order 13946.
 Executive Order 13853 of December 12, 2018 (Establishing the White
House Opportunity and Revitalization Council), is also revoked.  All
agencies shall, consistent with applicable law, including the
Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551 et seq.), consider taking
prompt action to revoke any rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies
implementing these Presidential actions that are inconsistent with the
provisions of this order.  Further, agencies shall ensure that planning
for new Federal facilities or new leases includes consideration of
neighborhoods and locations that are near existing employment centers
and are accessible to a broad range of the region’s workforce and
population by public transit (where it exists), consistent with
Executive Order 12072.  Agencies shall identify displacement risks
associated with Federal facility siting and development and shall engage
with any community that may be affected, along with appropriate regional
and local officials, to mitigate those displacement risks.

  <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">7</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Advancing Equitable
Procurement</span>.  (a)  The Government-wide goal for Federal
procurement dollars awarded to small business concerns owned and
controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals (SDBs)
shall be 15 percent in Fiscal Year 2025.  In furtherance of this goal,
OMB shall set a Government-wide SDB goal for Fiscal Year 2024.  The
Small Business Administration shall, on an annual basis, work with each
agency to establish an agency-specific goal that, in aggregate, supports
the Government-wide goal.  Further, agencies shall undertake efforts to
increase contracting opportunities for all other small business concerns
as described in the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. ch. 14A).

    (b)  Agencies shall expand procurement opportunities for SDBs
through Federal financial assistance, consistent with applicable law,
under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Inflation Reduction Act of
2022, and other Federal financial assistance programs.

   <span style="text-decoration: underline"> Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">8. </span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Affirmatively Advancing Civil
Rights</span>.  Agencies shall comprehensively use their respective
civil rights authorities and offices to prevent and address
discrimination and advance equity for all, including to increase the
effects of civil rights enforcement and to increase public awareness of
civil rights principles, consistent with applicable law.  Agencies shall
consider opportunities to:   
    (a)  further elevate their respective civil rights offices,
including by directing that their most senior civil rights officer
report to the agency head; 

    (b)  ensure that their respective civil rights offices are consulted
on decisions regarding the design, development, acquisition, and use of
artificial intelligence and automated systems; 

    (c)  increase coordination, communication, and engagement with
community-based organizations and civil rights organizations; 

    (d)  increase the capacity, including staffing capacity, of their
respective civil rights offices, in coordination with OMB; 

    (e)  improve accessibility for people with disabilities and improve
language access services to ensure that all communities can engage with
agencies’ respective civil rights offices, including by fully
implementing Executive Order 13166 of August 11, 2000 (Improving Access
to Services for Persons with Limited English Proficiency); and

    (f)  prevent and remedy discrimination, including by protecting the
public from algorithmic discrimination.    

    <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">9</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Further Advancing Equitable Data
Practices</span>.  The Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)
National Science and Technology Council Subcommittee on Equitable Data
shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law, coordinate the
implementation of relevant recommendations of the Interagency Working
Group on Equitable Data established in Executive Order 13985.  The
Director of OSTP shall provide a report on the Subcommittee’s progress
to the Steering Committee every January and July. 

    <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">10</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Definitions</span>.  For purposes of
this order:  

    (a)  The term “equity” means the consistent and systematic treatment
of all individuals in a fair, just, and impartial manner, including
individuals who belong to communities that often have been denied such
treatment, such as Black, Latino, Indigenous and Native American, Asian
American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander persons and other
persons of color; members of religious minorities; women and girls;
LGBTQI+ persons; persons with disabilities; persons who live in rural
areas; persons who live in United States Territories; persons otherwise
adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality; and individuals
who belong to multiple such communities.  

    (b)  The term “underserved communities” refers to those populations
as well as geographic communities that have been systematically denied
the opportunity to participate fully in aspects of economic, social, and
civic life, as defined in Executive Orders 13985 and 14020. 

    (c)  The term “equitable development” refers to a positive
development approach that employs processes, policies, and programs that
aim to meet the needs of all communities and community members, with a
particular focus on underserved communities and populations.

    (d)  The term “community wealth building” refers to an approach to
economic development that strengthens the capacities of underserved
communities by ensuring institutions and local economies have ownership
models with greater community participation and control.  This results
in upgrading skills, growing entrepreneurs, increasing incomes,
expanding net asset ownership, and fostering social well-being.

    (e)  The term “equitable data” refers to data that allow for
rigorous assessment of the extent to which Government programs and
policies yield consistently fair, just, and impartial treatment of all
individuals.

    (f)  The term “algorithmic discrimination” refers to instances when
automated systems contribute to unjustified different treatment or
impacts disfavoring people based on their actual or perceived race,
color, ethnicity, sex (including based on pregnancy, childbirth, and
related conditions; gender identity; intersex status; and sexual
orientation), religion, age, national origin, limited English
proficiency, disability, veteran status, genetic information, or any
other classification protected by law.

    <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">11</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.  (a)
 Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect: 

            (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive
department or agency, or the head thereof; or   
            (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

    (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

    (c)  Agencies not covered by section 2(a) of this order, including
independent agencies, are strongly encouraged to comply with the
provisions of this order.

    (d)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
   February 16, 2023.
