---
date: '2023-02-02'
published_time: 2023-02-02 09:27:03-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/02/memorandum-on-supporting-access-to-leave-for-federal-employees/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Supporting Access to Leave for Federal\_Employees"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES  
  
SUBJECT:       Supporting Access to Leave for Federal Employee  
  
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and in order to strengthen the
Federal Government as a model employer, it is hereby ordered as
follows:  
  
     Section 1.  Policy.  Workers must have access to paid leave when
they face a medical or caregiving need that affects their ability to
work.  Yet, the United States is one of the few countries in the world
that does not guarantee paid leave — and 92 percent of the Nation’s
lowest wage workers, who are disproportionately women and workers of
color, lack access to paid family leave through their employer.  Lack of
access to paid family and medical leave can risk the health, well-being,
and economic security of workers and their families.  Paid leave
policies benefit both employees and employers and will strengthen our
economy as a whole.  That is why my Administration supports a national,
comprehensive paid family and medical leave program that will ensure
that workers have access to paid leave to bond with a new child; care
for a seriously ill loved one; deal with a loved one’s military
deployment; heal from the worker’s own serious illness; grieve the death
of a loved one; or seek safety and recover from domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.  In addition to
recognizing the importance of access to paid leave, my Administration
acknowledges that unpaid leave can serve as a critical stopgap, allowing
individuals to maintain their employment while attending to family or
medical needs.  
  
     As the Nation’s largest employer, the Federal Government must be a
model for providing leave policies, both paid and unpaid, that allow
employees time away from work to care for themselves or a loved one.
 Being a model employer includes updating our workplace policies and
practices to reflect the emerging needs of our workforce today and
tomorrow.  It also requires recognizing an employee’s important
caregiving relationships with family members, including extended family
and other individuals with equivalent relationships.  In addition,
Federal employees need access to extended family and medical leave,
particularly during their first year of Federal service when they may
not have accrued sufficient leave and are not yet eligible for leave
under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.  By supporting Federal
employees’ access to leave throughout their service, the Federal
Government will strengthen its ability to recruit, hire, develop,
promote, and retain our Nation’s talent and address barriers to equal
opportunity, especially with respect to women’s participation in the
Federal workforce.  
  
     Sec. 2.  Supporting Federal Employees’ Access to Leave Without
Pay.  (a)  In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1 of this
memorandum, the heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies)
are encouraged to consider providing leave without pay for Federal
employees, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, including
in the following circumstances:  
  
        (i)   to bond with a new child, to care for a family member with
a serious health condition, to address an employee’s own serious health
condition, or to help manage family affairs when a family member is
called to active duty, including during an employee’s first year of
service; and

        (ii)  bereavement after the death of a family member, including
during an employee’s first year of service.

      (b)  The Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, through the Deputy
Director for Management, shall support agencies in carrying out
subsection (a) of this section.

      (c)  Agency heads, or their designees, shall inform the President,
through the Assistant to the President and Director of the White House
Gender Policy Council, on progress towards implementation of this
memorandum within 1 year of its issuance.   
  
     Sec. 3.  Supporting Federal Employees’ Access to Paid and Unpaid
Leave to Seek Safety and Recover from Domestic Violence, Dating
Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking.  Consistent with applicable law,
the Director of OPM shall provide recommendations to the President,
through the Assistant to the President and Director of the White House
Gender Policy Council, within 180 days of the date of this memorandum,
regarding actions OPM and agencies may take to support Federal
employees’ access to paid leave, such as sick leave, or leave without
pay, for purposes related to seeking safety and recovering from domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking — including, for
example, obtaining medical treatment (inclusive of mental health
treatment), pursuing assistance from organizations that provide services
to survivors, seeking relocation, or taking related legal action, as
well as assisting a family member in engaging in any of these
activities.  
  
     Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall
be construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

      (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

      (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

      (d)  The Director of OPM is authorized and directed to publish
this memorandum in the Federal Register.  
  
                                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
