---
date: '2023-02-03'
published_time: 2023-02-03 13:40:39-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/03/letters-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-of-representatives-and-the-president-of-the-senate-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-widespread-humanitarian-crisis-in-afghanistan-a/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letters to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of\
  \ the Senate on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to the Widespread\
  \ Humanitarian Crisis in Afghanistan and the Potential for a Deepening Economic\
  \ Collapse in\_Afghanistan"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)  
  
Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d))
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless,
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the
President publishes in the *Federal Register* and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect
beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have
sent to the *Federal Register* for publication the enclosed notice
stating that the national emergency with respect to the widespread
humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan and the potential for a deepening
economic collapse in Afghanistan declared in Executive Order 14064 of
February 11, 2022, is to continue in effect beyond February 11, 2023.  
  
The widespread humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan — including the urgent
needs of the people of Afghanistan for food security, livelihoods
support, water, sanitation, health, hygiene, shelter and settlement
assistance, and COVID-19-related assistance, among other basic human
needs — and the potential for a deepening economic collapse in
Afghanistan continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the
national security and foreign policy of the United States.  In addition,
the preservation of certain property of Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) held
in the United States by United States financial institutions is of the
utmost importance to addressing this national emergency and the welfare
of the people of Afghanistan.  Various parties, including
representatives of victims of terrorism, have asserted legal claims
against certain property of DAB or indicated in public court filings an
intent to make such claims.  This property is blocked under Executive
Order 14064.  
  
Therefore, I have determined that it is necessary to continue the
national emergency declared in Executive Order 14064 with respect to the
widespread humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan and the potential for a
deepening economic collapse in Afghanistan.

        Sincerely,  
  
                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
