---
date: '2023-02-28'
published_time: 2023-02-28 14:26:04-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/28/a-proclamation-on-american-red-cross-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on American Red Cross Month,\_2023"
---
 
   In the aftermath of the Civil War, Clara Barton founded the American
Red Cross.  Its national headquarters, just a few blocks from the White
House, was built as a memorial to the women of the Civil War.  For
nearly 142 years, the employees, volunteers, and supporters of the
American Red Cross have met loss and disaster with compassion and care.
 They remind us that we must leave no one behind.  This month, we
celebrate the ordinary citizens who perform extraordinary acts of
service, and we honor the Red Cross for its commitment to making our
country and world a better place.

     Across America, I have seen the work of the Red Cross firsthand. 
When hurricanes make landfall and floodwaters rise, the Red Cross is
ready to provide food, shelter, and emergency supplies.  When wildfires
spread and tornadoes uproot communities, volunteers arrive from around
the country to help survivors heal, recover, and rebuild.  We have also
turned to the American Red Cross to respond to crises overseas in the
wake of natural disasters and in preparation for emergencies before they
happen.  The old saying is still true today:  The Red Cross is always
there.

     During American Red Cross Month, I encourage Americans to learn
more about the steps involved in donating blood by visiting
redcross.org.  If you can give blood, I hope you will.  I also encourage
Americans to learn or teach first aid and to participate in Sound the
Alarm events to prevent home fires.  It is in our Nation’s DNA to lift
each other up, especially on the frontlines of emergencies and
disasters.  I know that Americans will always answer the call — doing
whatever it takes for as long as it takes to help out those in need.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America and Honorary Chair of the American Red Cross, by
virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of
the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2023 as American Red Cross
Month.  I encourage all Americans to observe this month with relevant
programs, ceremonies, and activities, and to support the work of service
and relief organizations.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth
day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
