---
date: '2023-02-28'
published_time: 2023-02-28 14:36:01-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/28/a-proclamation-on-irish-american-heritage-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Irish-American Heritage Month,\_2023"
---
 
During Irish-American Heritage Month, I think of my great-great
grandparents — the Blewitts of County Mayo and the Finnegans of County
Louth.  Like so many other Irish immigrants who sought a new beginning
in the United States, they arrived on our shores with hearts full of
hope and dreams of the future.  With grit and determination, they worked
hard.  And as they built their lives, they helped build America — never
forgetting where they came from, always remembering the courage and
pride they brought with them from the old country, and passing these
traits down to each new generation. 

That pride lives on today in the hearts of Irish Americans across our
Nation.  It lives on in business owners, scientists, and labor leaders
who hold dear the Irish belief that everyone deserves to be treated with
dignity.  And it runs deep in so many first responders, public servants,
and brave service members who defend our lives and liberties — the same
liberties that so many Irish immigrants and Irish Americans helped
preserve and protect.

President John F. Kennedy once said, “Our two nations, divided by
distance, have been united by history.”  Today, the Republic of Ireland
and the United States are also bound in our hope for the future — a
future that is equal, just, and prosperous for all of our people.
 Together, our nations have stepped up to address COVID-19 and the
climate crisis.  We have spoken out for human rights around the world
and supported the people of Ukraine as they defend themselves against
Russia’s brutal war.  And this year, we commemorate the 25th anniversary
of the Good Friday Agreement that helped create a more peaceful and
prosperous future for the people of Northern Ireland.

Ireland and the United States are forever bound together by our people
and our passion.  Everything between us runs deep.  In the years ahead,
I look forward to strengthening the partnership between our countries
and the friendship between our people even further.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2023 as
Irish-American Heritage Month.  I call upon all Americans to celebrate
the achievements and contributions of Irish Americans to our Nation with
appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day
of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.
