---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-13'
modified_time: 2021-12-13 16:00:31-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/13/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-2/
published_time: 2021-12-13 16:00:00-05:00
title: President Biden Announces Key Nominees
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Erik K. Raven, Nominee for Under Secretary of the Navy, Department
    of Defense
-   Kristyn E. Jones, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
    for Financial Management and Comptroller, Department of Defense
-   Ventris C. Gibson, Nominee for Director of the Mint, Department of
    the Treasury

**<u>Erik K. Raven, Nominee for Under Secretary of the Navy, Department
of Defense</u>**

Erik K. Raven is the Majority Clerk of the Senate Defense Appropriations
Subcommittee, where he oversees more than $700 billion of annual
spending by the Department of Defense and the intelligence community.
Prior to joining the Appropriations Committee in 2007, he served as
national security adviser and legislative director to Senator Robert C.
Byrd, fellow to Senator Ted Kennedy, in several positions for Senator
Dianne Feinstein, and as an English teacher in China. Raven holds
Associate of Arts degrees from the College of Marin, a Bachelor of Arts
with honors and distinction in International Relations from Connecticut
College, and a Master of Science with merit in International History
from the London School of Economics and Political Science. He resides
with his family in Washington, D.C.

**<u>Kristyn E. Jones, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
for Financial Management and Comptroller, Department of Defense</u>**

Kristyn E. Jones is a Managing Director in KPMG’s Federal Advisory
practice, where she supports the Department of Defense (DoD), Department
of Veterans Affairs, Department of Health and Human Services, and other
federal agencies on financial management, business management, and
technology projects. Prior to her current role, she served as the Deputy
Assistant Secretary of the Army for Financial Information Management.
Previously, Jones held a variety of positions in DoD and in industry.
From June 2007 to 2008, Jones was Special Assistant to the Assistant
Secretary of the Army (Financial Management and Comptroller) for Cost
Management Transformation. Prior to this role, Jones was the Director of
Enterprise Transition Planning at the DoD Business Transformation Agency
(BTA) and served as a Financial Manager at the Office of Naval Research.

Earlier in her career, Jones held management positions at two Fortune
500 companies, Capital One and Advanced Micro Devices. Jones also served
as a Military Intelligence Officer in the U.S. Army, where she held a
variety of leadership positions. She is a Certified Defense Financial
Manager, Project Management Professional, and Certified Technology
Business Management Executive. Jones has received numerous government
and industry awards, including the Government Technology Research
Alliance (GTRA) Women in Technology Award and was a recipient of a “Fed
100” award. She earned a Master’s in Business Administration from George
Mason University and is also a graduate of the United States Military
Academy at West Point.  

**<u>Ventris C. Gibson, Nominee for Director of the Mint, Department of
the Treasury</u>**

Ventris C. Gibson is the Deputy Director of the United States Mint and
is also serving as the Acting Director. If confirmed, she will be the
first African-American to lead the U.S. Mint. A U.S. Navy veteran with
decades of senior leadership experience in the federal government,
Gibson joined the Mint from District of Columbia government, where she
served as the Director of Human Resources. In this role, Gibson provided
executive oversight and execution of human capital programs and services
for nearly 37,000 employees. Prior to that, Gibson served as an
Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary in the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services. She was responsible for the development,
articulation, and delivery of Department-wide human resources policies,
plans, and programs affecting nearly 92,000 employees. Gibson’s career
with the federal government includes significant leadership roles in the
Federal Aviation Administration and the Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA). Gibson is the recipient of numerous awards and commendations
including the VA’s Exceptional and Meritorious Service Awards, FAA
Manager Association’s Leadership Award, National Hispanic Coalition’s
President’s Award, and the Northern New Jersey Metropolitan Area’s
prestigious “Woman of the Year” award. Gibson has three children, four
grandchildren, and two golden retrievers.
