---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-01'
modified_time: 2021-12-01 10:51:05-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/01/fact-sheet-the-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-marks-world-aids-day-2021-with-renewed-commitments-to-ending-the-hiv-aids-epidemic-by-2030/
published_time: 2021-12-01 05:00:00-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Marks World AIDS Day 2021\
  \ With Renewed Commitments to Ending the HIV/AIDS Epidemic by\_2030"
---
 
Today, President Biden
[commemorated](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/30/a-proclamation-on-world-aids-day-2021/)
World AIDS Day and renewed the U.S. government’s bipartisan and
decades-long commitment to ending the HIV epidemic at home and around
the world. In the face of the COVID-19 pandemic that has impacted every
aspect of the HIV/AIDS response, from prevention to treatment to
research, the United States is redoubling efforts to confront the
HIV/AIDS epidemic and achieve equitable access to HIV prevention, care,
and treatment in every community—particularly for communities of color,
adolescent girls and young women, and the LGBTQI+ community.  
  
Forty years since the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
officially reported the first cases of what later became known as AIDS,
we mourn the loss of more than 36 million people—including 700,000 in
the United States—who have died from AIDS-related illness. We honor the
nearly 38 million people living with HIV, including 1.2 million in the
United States. And we celebrate the remarkable gains we have made
together in battling this disease.    
  
Recognizing the urgency of this battle, the Biden-Harris Administration
has worked to build on the progress of past years and promote American
global health leadership while advancing strategies and policies to
improve access to health services, address stigma and discrimination,
achieve equity, support human rights, strengthen public health
infrastructure, and ensure that the voices of those with HIV are central
to our efforts. As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
then-Senator Biden proudly led the reauthorization of the President’s
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), which has already saved more
than 21 million lives, prevented millions of HIV infections, and
supported at least 20 countries around the world to reach their HIV
targets. President Biden remains deeply committed to maintaining
American leadership as the world’s largest bilateral donor in global
health.  
  
Today the Biden-Harris Administration is taking several key steps to
accelerate the fight against HIV/AIDS at home and abroad:  
  
**Releasing the National HIV/AIDS Strategy.** During the campaign,
President Biden pledged to update and implement the nation’s
comprehensive HIV/AIDS strategy to “aggressively reduce new HIV cases,
while increasing access to treatment and eliminating inequitable access
to medical and support services.” Today, President Biden is honoring
that commitment by releasing a new [National HIV/AIDS
Strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/National-HIV-AIDS-Strategy.pdf)
to provide the framework and direction for the Administration’s
policies, research, programs, and planning through 2025 and lead us
toward ending the HIV epidemic in the United States by 2030. The new
National HIV/AIDS Strategy:

-   Incorporates the latest data on HIV incidence, prevalence and
    trends;  
-   Expands the focus on addressing the social determinants of health
    that influence an individual’s HIV risk or outcomes;  
-   Encourages reform of state HIV criminalization laws;  
-   Adds a new focus on opportunities to engage the private sector in
    novel and important ways in the nation’s work to end the HIV
    epidemic.

**Hosting the Global Fund’s Seventh Replenishment Conference.** Today,
President Biden underscored his commitment, in partnership with several
key countries and institutions, to the United States hosting the Global
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Replenishment Conference
in 2022. In November 2021, the Biden Administration endorsed the Global
Fund’s new five-year strategy, *Fighting Pandemics and Building a
Healthier and More Equitable World,* which places HIV/AIDS at the center
of global efforts to strengthen health systems and respond to future
health shocks. As a founding member of the Global Fund, the United
States will ensure that twentieth anniversary of the establishment of
the Global Fund and the replenishment serve to accelerate progress to
end the HIV/AIDS epidemic by 2030.  
  
These announcements build on existing action the Administration has
taken since taking office:  
  
**Reinstated the White House Office of National AIDS Policy.** In his
first six months in office, President Biden reestablished the White
House Office of National AIDS Policy to coordinate efforts to reduce the
number of HIV infections across our nation. This new office has brought
an increased focus on efforts to end the HIV epidemic and fostered new
partnerships across the federal government and with the private
sector.  
  
**Awarded Significant Funding to Help Americans Access HIV Care and
Support.** In October, the Department of Health and Human Services
announced $2.21 billion in Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program funding to HIV
primary medical care, medication, and essential support services. The
Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program provides care and treatment services to
low-income people with HIV, serving approximately half of all Americans
with diagnosed HIV.  
  
**Requested Unprecedented Investments to End HIV Epidemic
Domestically. **The President’s FY22 budget requested $670 million to
support the Ending the HIV Epidemic in the U.S. initiative—an all-in
effort between the White House and federal agencies to reduce HIV
diagnoses and AIDS-related deaths. Appreciating that access to stable
housing helps individuals stay in medical care and remain adherent to
medical treatment, the President’s budget also requested $450 million to
provide housing assistance and supportive services for low income people
with HIV—a $20 million increase over last year’s—for the Housing
Opportunities for People with AIDS Program.  
  
**Diversified the Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS.** President
Biden added new members to the Presidential Advisory Council on
HIV/AIDS, representing racial, ethnic, gender, and sexual minorities
with the knowledge and expertise to help further inform our nation’s HIV
response.  
  
**Invested American Rescue Plan Funds to Support PEPFAR.** The
Administration committed $250 million in American Rescue Plan funding to
support PEPFAR in FY21, allowing the program to serve as the backbone of
many global COVID-19 response efforts without sacrificing ongoing
commitments to the HIV/AIDS response. This additional funding is helping
local health systems deliver life-saving services and support for those
most in need and is contributing to greater global health security.  
**   
Committed to Release a New Five-Year Strategy for PEPFAR in 2022 and
Advance Efforts through Country Operational Plans.** In keeping with our
commitment to achieve the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal
target of ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030, in early 2022,
the U.S. will release a new five-year strategy for PEPFAR, laying out a
bold vision for achieving sustained epidemic control of HIV by
supporting equitable health services and solutions. In 2022, PEPFAR will
continue to advance progress toward these goals through an emphasis on
several core program and policy priorities, including accelerating the
impact of HIV primary prevention; optimizing data-driven HIV testing
strategies; improving care and treatment for those living with HIV;
deepening efforts to support children, adolescent girls, and key
populations; advancing gender equity and equality; and promoting and
protecting sexual and reproductive health and rights—all key to
advancing HIV efforts.  
  
**Announced Global HIV/AIDS Coordinator Nominee.** In September,
President Biden announced his nomination for Dr. John N. Nkengasong as
Ambassador-at-Large and Coordinator of United States Government
Activities to Combat HIV/AIDS Globally at the Department of State,
overseeing PEPFAR. If confirmed, Dr. Nkengasong would be the first
person of African origin to hold the position.

\###
