---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-15'
modified_time: 2021-12-15 14:30:10-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/15/fact-sheet-the-biden-administration-launches-new-efforts-to-counter-transnational-criminal-organizations-and-illicit-drugs/
published_time: 2021-12-15 14:00:00-05:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: The Biden Administration Launches New Efforts to Counter Transnational
  Criminal Organizations and Illicit Drugs'
---
 
Transnational organized crime is a billion-dollar business that
transcends geographical boundaries and threatens global stability. 
Every year, millions of lives are affected by transnational criminal
organizations, including through drug overdose and use, violence,
firearm deaths, and human trafficking and smuggling.  Addressing the
core causes and sources of transnational criminal activities is an
urgent priority for our country and the Biden Administration.  Today,
President Biden is taking decisive action to detect, disrupt, and reduce
the power of transnational criminal organizations and protect the
American people with two executive orders (E.O.s) on transnational
organized crime and illicit drugs.   
  
Transnational criminal organizations are trafficking opioids into U.S.
neighborhoods and communities, fueling both the drug overdose epidemic
and drug-related violence.  Transnational criminal organizations
trafficking synthetic opioids, most notably fentanyl, have fueled drug
overdoses across the United States, taking one American life
approximately every five minutes.  Tragically, more than [100,000
Americans](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nvss/vsrr/drug-overdose-data.htm) have
died from drug overdoses in the 12 months leading up to April 2021,
representing a 28% increase over the same period last year.  
  
The two executive orders,* *[*Establishing the U.S. Council on
Transnational Organized
Crime* ](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/15/executive-order-on-establishing-the-united-states-council-on-transnational-organized-crime/)and *[Imposing
Sanctions on Foreign Persons Involved in the Global Illicit Drug
Trade ](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/15/executive-order-on-imposing-sanctions-on-foreign-persons-involved-in-the-global-illicit-drug-trade/)*will
help to counter the threat posed by transnational criminal organizations
to American communities. The Administration is formally establishing the
U.S. Council on Transnational Organized Crime, bringing together six key
departments and agencies involved in counter-transnational organized
crime efforts to ensure that the U.S. Government effectively leverages
all appropriate tools to counter the threats posed by transnational
criminal organizations.  And, because the structure and tactics of drug
trafficking organizations have changed, the Administration is
modernizing and expanding the U.S. Government’s ability to target these
organizations, their enablers, and financial facilitators through
sanctions and other related actions through a new executive order. 
Pursuant to this new authority, the Department of the Treasury will
designate 25 targets, including 10 individuals and 15 entities, across
the globe that have been involved in activities or transactions
contributing to the international proliferation of illicit drugs. 
Complementary actions by the Department of State through its Narcotics
Rewards Program will assist in identifying and bringing to justice major
violators of U.S. narcotics laws responsible for bringing illicit drugs
into the United States.  
  
**The U.S. Council on Transnational Organized Crime (USCTOC)**: 
Combatting transnational organized crime requires the broad skills and
expertise of the entire Federal government be brought to bear.  The new
USCTOC includes Cabinet-level representation from the Department of
Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of the
Treasury, the Department of State, the Department of Defense, and the
Office of the Director of National Intelligence.  It will coordinate
government-wide lines of effort to counter transnational organized
crime, and restructure and enhance the U.S. Government’s Threat
Mitigation Working Group (TMWG), which was previously tasked with
supporting counter-transnational organized crime efforts under Executive
Order (E.O.) 13773 of February 9, 2017 (*Enforcing Federal Law with
Respect to Transnational Criminal Organizations and Preventing
International Trafficking*).    
  
The Strategic Division, the operational arm of the USCTOC, is charged
with developing whole-of-government plans to address the top
transnational organized crime threats.  The Strategic Division will draw
on law enforcement and Intelligence Community information to develop
comprehensive strategic plans to drive operations, initiatives, and
actions across the government.  This integrated approach is especially
critical in today’s operating environment, where transnational criminal
organizations have become more geographically diverse and
organizationally diffuse, utilizing a wide range of illicit means to
accomplish their goals.  
  
Additionally, this E.O. directs the U.S. Government to enhance efforts
to counter transnational organized crime by:

-   Employing authorized intelligence and operational capabilities in an
    integrated manner to target, disrupt, and degrade criminal networks
    that pose the greatest threat to U.S. national security interests;
-   Fostering collaboration with private entities and international,
    multilateral, and bilateral organizations to combat transnational
    organized crime, while also strengthening cooperation and advancing
    efforts to build capacity in partner nations to reduce transnational
    criminal activity;
-   Improving information sharing between law enforcement and the
    Intelligence Community to enhance strategic analysis of, and efforts
    to combat, transnational criminal networks and their activities,
    while also preserving the ability to hold transnational criminal
    actors accountable;
-   Expanding tools and capabilities to combat illicit finance, which
    underpins transnational organized criminal activities; and
-   Developing and deploying new technologies to identify and disrupt
    existing and newly emerging transnational organized criminal
    threats.

**Modernizing and expanding the U.S. Government’s ability to target drug
trafficking organizations, their enablers, and financial facilitators
through sanctions**:  Drug trafficking organizations are among the most
significant and well-resourced transnational criminal threats facing the
United States as well as key allies and partners.  These organizations
often operate like international conglomerates, with their growing
infiltration of commercial and economic activity fundamentally
threatening free markets and financial systems critical to the stability
and efficiency of the global economy.  Their activities include
large-scale corruption and violence, which undermine the rule of law and
imperil democratic government.  While in the past these organizations
generally had more hierarchical kingpin-style structures, with clearly
identified leaders and chains of command, they have become increasingly
diffuse and decentralized.  Financial facilitators and enablers who
advance the malign aims of drug traffickers often no longer have even
informal associations with the leadership of drug trafficking
networks.  
  
As the landscape of illicit drug trafficking evolves, the U.S.
Government must evolve in its approach to address the wide-range of
actors furthering this dynamic threat.  To counter this threat to
communities across America, the United States is expanding and
modernizing its capabilities to use every suitable tool to protect the
American people from threats posed by the global illicit drug trade. 
The new Executive Order, *Imposing Sanctions on Foreign Persons Involved
in the Global Illicit Drug Trade*, expands the U.S. Government’s
capabilities to target the wide range of actors involved in the illicit
drug trade through sanctions and other related actions.  This E.O.
builds on two decades of deliberate and impactful sanctions imposed
pursuant to the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act and also
implements, in part, the Fentanyl Sanctions Act, a provision of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.   
  
With this new E.O., the U.S. Government will be better poised to disrupt
the global supply chain and financial networks that enable synthetic
opioids and precursors chemicals to reach U.S. markets and harm American
communities.  This new authority will allow the United States to better
target and disrupt those across the drug ecosystem and to safeguard the
U.S. financial system from use and abuse by those involved in the
illicit drug trade.  President Biden
has [prioritized](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/National-Drug-Control-Budget-FY-2022-Funding-Highlights.pdf) addressing
the overdose epidemic and substance use disorders, and, in April 2021
the Office of National Drug Control Policy released the
Administration’s [First Year Drug Policy
Priorities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/BidenHarris-Statement-of-Drug-Policy-Priorities-April-1.pdf),
which focuses on reducing the supply of illicit substances, while
building a stronger, evidence-based infrastructure to meet public health
needs.  
  
Taken together, the creation of the USCTOC and the strengthened ability
to target those facilitating the flow of and proceeds from illicit drugs
under the new sanctions authority described here will enhance the U.S.
Government’s ability to detect, disrupt, and reduce the power of
transnational criminal organizations and to protect the American people.

\###
