---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-22'
modified_time: 2021-12-22 16:32:50-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/22/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-mobilizes-resources-to-connect-tribal-nations-to-reliable-high-speed-internet/
published_time: 2021-12-22 16:45:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden- \u2060 Harris Administration Mobilizes Resources to Connect\
  \ Tribal Nations to Reliable, High-Speed Internet"
---
 
*Commerce, Treasury, and USDA Award Broadband Funding to Tribes Ahead of
Historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Investments*

  
President Biden has set a clear goal of ensuring all Americans have
access to reliable, affordable, and high-speed internet to learn, work,
and participate in the 21<sup>st</sup> century economy. This includes
Native Americans, many of whom lack sufficient access to the internet
and the educational and economic opportunities that the internet
provides. By one estimate, more than 30 million Americans – many of whom
live on Tribal lands or in other rural areas – do not have access to
broadband infrastructure that delivers even minimally sufficient speeds.
President Biden, Vice President Harris, and the entire Administration
are committed to changing this through implementation of the broadband
provisions of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and tapping into
existing resources to ensure that high-speed internet is available
throughout our nation.  
  
**Today, the White House is announcing nearly $10 million in funding
awards from the Departments of Commerce, Treasury, and Agriculture that
will be leveraged to expand access to affordable, reliable, and
high-speed internet services to Tribal Nations.** The Biden-Harris
Administration is committed to strengthening the resilience and
prosperity of Tribal Nations and knows that expanding access to
high-speed internet will further that commitment. These resources will
help facilitate connections between Tribal communities, deliver laptops
and tablets to Tribal members, support capital broadband projects,
foster economic growth, and more.  
  
Today’s announcements include:

-   The **Commerce Department’s** **Economic Development Administration
    (EDA) awarding $3.2 million** to connect a Tribe in Colorado to the
    internet, providing additional economic and entrepreneurial growth
    across the reservation and region.
-   The **Commerce Department’s** **National Telecommunications and
    Information Administration (NTIA) awarding more than $942,000** to
    Tribes in Arizona and Wisconsin to improve internet speed and
    connectivity.
-   The **Treasury Department announcing the first set of Capital
    Projects Fund** awards in Alaska, California, and Oklahoma,
    providing Tribal members with laptops and tablets as well as
    upgrading and constructing community centers to meet internet
    connectivity needs. 
-   The** U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded more than
    $4.6 million through its Community Connect Program** to provide high
    speed internet connections to Tribal lands in Alaska, Arizona, Iowa,
    and New Mexico.

These resources are helping close the digital divide and laying the
groundwork for an internet revolution in Tribal communities and beyond.
In addition to the funding the Biden-Harris Administration is mobilizing
under existing broadband programs, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
provides a total $65 billion to deploy broadband where it is needed
across the country, including $2 billion directly for Tribal
communities. The law includes a requirement for companies that accept
funding to provide at least one low-cost broadband option, funds
broadband subsidies for low-income consumers, provides support for
states to adopt and implement digital equity and inclusion plan, and
directs the Federal Communications Commission to adopt rules that make
it easier for consumers to understand and compare broadband plans
offered by different providers. In so doing, the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law will help ensure that everyone can connect to
reliable, affordable, high-speed internet services.  
  
**<u>CONNECTING TRIBES TO PROMOTE ECONOMIC RESILIENCE AND
PROSPERITY</u>**  
  
The [Economic Development
Agency](https://eda.gov/arpa/indigenous/) (EDA) at the Department of
Commerce is [awarding $3.2
million](https://eda.gov/news/press-releases/2021/12/22/ute-mountain-ute-tribe-towaoc-co.htm) to
the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe, Towaoc, Colorado, to construct broadband
infrastructure that will connect the Ute Mountain Ute Indian Reservation
and the City of Towaoc to the City of Cortez, increasing access to
distance learning and telemedicine, supporting public safety, and
allowing for business and entrepreneurial growth across the reservation
and region. This EDA investment is expected to create 33 jobs and
generate $550,000 in private investment.  
  
**<u>IMPROVING CONNECTIVITY ON TRIBAL LANDS</u>**  
  
The National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) at
the Department of Commerce is making a second set of awards totaling
more than $942,000 under its Tribal Broadband Connectivity Program.
Those awards will go to the Yavapai-Apache Nation in Camp Verde, Arizona
and the Lac Courte Oreilles Band of Lake Superior Chippewa Indians in
Stone Lake, Wisconsin.  
  
The awards will be for feasibility and planning studies to determine the
best way to provide broadband services to reach 2,500 members of the
Yavapai-Apache Nation and the approximately 40% of Lac Courte Oreilles
Band of Lake Superior Chippewa Indians with no internet service
available to them.  
  
NTIA is continuing to review the more than 280 remaining applications
received for the $980 million Tribal Broadband Connectivity Program and
will announce additional awards on a rolling basis in the coming weeks
and months. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides an additional $2
billion in funding for the Tribal Broadband Connectivity Program.  Early
next year, NTIA will conduct tribal consultations in order to determine
how best to solicit applications for the additional funding.  
  
**<u>BUILDING TRIBAL BROADBAND INFRASTRUCTURE</u>**  
  
The Treasury Department is announcing its first set of awards from the
$10 Billion Capital Projects Fund which funds projects designed to
jointly and directly enable work, education, and health monitoring and
specifically allows for investment in high-quality broadband
infrastructure as well as other connectivity infrastructure, devices,
and equipment. Tribal governments may each receive up to $167,504 for
eligible projects from the Capital Projects Fund.  
  
The Peoria Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma, the Kashia Band of Pomo Indians
of the Stewarts Point Rancheria, California, and the Rampart Village of
Alaska will each be receiving $167,504 awards. The first two awards will
be used to purchase laptops or tablets for use by Tribal members, and to
outfit community rooms where members can access the internet.  
  
The award to Rampart Village in Alaska will be used to help fund
construction of a multi-purpose building that will be used for
education, training for work, and health activities. It will provide
space for job skills training and other adult education. The project
will also include space for community internet access, a service that
does not currently exist in the area.  
  
The Treasury Department is continuing to review applications for the $10
Billion Capital Projects Fund and will announce additional awards on a
rolling basis. Applications are still being accepted for the Capital
Projects Fund, [more information is available on the Department of
Treasury’s
website](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/coronavirus/assistance-for-state-local-and-tribal-governments/capital-projects-fund/cpf-fund-for-tribal-governments).   
  
**<u>PROVIDING HIGH-SPEED INTERNET IN RURAL TRIBAL COMMUNITIES</u>**  
  
The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded more than $4.6
million, as part of its Community Connect program, to fund broadband
infrastructure on Tribal lands. The awards are being made to a tribe in
Iowa, a tribal utility authority operating in Arizona and New Mexico,
and to serve a tribal community in Alaska:

-   The Sac and Fox Tribe of the Mississippi in Iowa to [provide
    fiber-to-the-home internet
    access](https://www.rd.usda.gov/newsroom/news-release/usda-invests-331-million-build-and-improve-critical-infrastructure-rural-iowa) to
    the residents of the Meskwaki Settlement, Tama County, Iowa.
-   Navajo Tribal Utility Authority (NTUA) Wireless to [provide a
    combination of wireless and fiber-based broadband
    service](https://www.rd.usda.gov/newsroom/news-release/usda-invests-rural-georgia-build-and-improve-critical-rural-infrastructure) to
    the Teec Noc Pos community and surrounding area of the Navajo
    Reservation in Apache County, Arizona and San Juan County, New
    Mexico.
-   The Interior Telephone Company to [provide fiber-to-the-home
    internet
    access](https://www.rd.usda.gov/newsroom/news-release/usda-invests-5-million-build-and-improve-critical-infrastructure-alaska) in
    Port Lions, Kodiak Island Borough, Alaska.

In addition to deploying new broadband infrastructure, each award
recipient will provide two years of free internet access at a local
community center. 

\###
