---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-22'
modified_time: 2021-12-21 20:53:14-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/22/statement-by-president-biden-on-4-6-million-americans-gaining-health-insurance-this-year/
published_time: 2021-12-22 07:00:00-05:00
title: Statement by President Biden on 4.6 Million Americans Gaining Health Insurance
  This Year
---
 
I made a promise to do everything in my power to ensure that all
Americans have access to quality, affordable health care — because I
believe that health care is a right, not a privilege.  
  
As 2021 draws to a close, I am proud to say that more than 4.6 million
Americans have gained health coverage through the Affordable Care Act
since I took office. From November 1<sup>st</sup> to December
15<sup>th</sup> alone, more than 13.6 million Americans signed up for
coverage through HealthCare.gov and the state-based marketplaces — an
all-time high. That includes 1.8 million new enrollees, a significant
accomplishment that builds on the success of our earlier Special
Enrollment Period. Americans who haven’t yet renewed their coverage or
shopped for a plan can still visit HealthCare.gov through January
15<sup>th</sup> to sign up.  
  
This record enrollment is a product not only of expanded access, but of
the actions my Administration has taken to lower the cost of health
coverage. Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, we’ve made quality
coverage through the ACA more affordable than ever — with families
saving an average of $2,400 on their annual premiums, and four out of
five consumers finding quality coverage for under $10 a month.  
  
But as long as there are Americans who still lie awake at night,
wondering how they’re going to make it if an accident or illness hits
home, we know we still have work to do. As we keep up our fight against
the pandemic, it is more important than ever that we continue to expand
coverage and lower costs. My Build Back Better Act would do just that —
reducing premiums for more than nine million Americans, covering four
million Americans in states that have failed to expand Medicaid,
expanding Medicare to include hearing coverage, lowering prescription
drug costs, and bringing down the price of insulin to no more than $35
for a month’s supply.  
  
My Build Back Better Act represents the single most consequential
expansion of affordable health care since the Affordable Care Act a
decade ago. We will press forward on passing Build Back Better, work to
cut health care costs, and deliver greater peace of mind to American
families in the new year.

\###
