---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-16'
modified_time: 2021-12-15 19:39:55-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/16/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-lead-pipe-and-paint-action-plan/
published_time: 2021-12-16 05:00:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden- \u2060 Harris Lead Pipe and Paint Action Plan"
---
 
*Vice President Kamala Harris to Announce Action Plan that Accelerates
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Investments to Replace All Lead Pipes in
Next Decade*

All Americans deserve to drink clean water, breathe clean air, and live
in healthy homes. However, lead in drinking water pipes, faucets, paint,
and walls threatens the health and well-being of American families and
children across the country. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and countless experts
agree that there is no known safe level of lead in a child’s blood.  
  
Yet, up to 10 million American households connect to water through lead
pipes and service lines. Children, toddlers, and teenagers in 400,000
schools and child care facilities are at risk of exposure to lead in
their water. And 24 million housing units have significant lead-based
paint hazards. Because of inequitable infrastructure development and
disinvestment, low-income communities and communities of color are
disproportionately exposed to these risks. President Biden and Vice
President Harris believe this is unacceptable and must change. No child,
no family, no teacher, no American should drink water with lead or be
exposed to lead paint in their homes.  
  
That is why the President and Vice President made replacing lead pipes a
centerpiece of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law – to deliver clean
drinking water to families and children across America. These
game-changing investments will put American plumbers and pipefitters to
work replacing all of the America’s lead pipes and service lines and
making other critical upgrades. All families, children, and Americans
should be able to turn on the faucet at home or school and drink clean
water — including in low-income communities and communities of color
that have been disproportionally affected by dangerous lead pipes –
while we also create good paying jobs remediating lead paint in homes.  
  
**Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is releasing its Lead Pipe and
Paint Action Plan. The plan represents a historic effort of
unprecedented ambition that will deploy catalytic resources from the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law while leveraging every tool across
federal, state, and local government to deliver clean drinking water,
replace lead pipes, and remediate lead paint. The plan includes over 15
new actions from more than 10 federal agencies that ensure the federal
government is marshalling every resource to make rapid progress towards
replacing all lead pipes in the next decade.  
**  
Specifically, the Administration is signaling to local, state, and
federal partners it stands ready to work together to accelerate the
replacement of lead pipes in the next decade, building back better where
kids are – in their homes, schools, child care centers, playgrounds, and
more – while focusing on the disadvantaged and often overlooked
communities. And, the Administration is continuing its work with
Congress to provide resources through the Build Back Better Act to
provide local communities additional support for clean drinking water
and lead paint removal.  
  
The Biden-Harris Lead Pipe and Paint Action Plan takes a bold step
forward to protect our families by ensuring America’s drinking water and
homes are safe and healthy more than 15 new actions, including:

-   Collaborating with local, state, and federal partners to accelerate
    the replacement of lead pipes over the next decade;  
-   EPA allocating $3 billion in Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding
    to states, Tribes, and Territories for lead service line replacement
    in 2022, and calling on states to prioritize underserved
    communities;  
-   EPA launching a new regulatory process to protect communities from
    lead in drinking water;  
-   Treasury clarifying that the $350 billion State and Local Fiscal
    Recovery Fund provided in the American Rescue Plan can be used for
    lead service line and lead faucet and fixture replacements;

<!-- -->

-   EPA and DOL establishing regional technical assistance hubs to fast
    track lead service line removal projects in partnership with labor
    unions and local water agencies;  
-   HUD awarding grants to remove lead paint and other home health
    hazards in low-income communities to protect children and
    families;  
-   CDC closing gaps in childhood lead testing through the Childhood
    Lead Poisoning Prevention Program;  
-   HUD, USDA, and DOI committing to remove lead service lines and paint
    hazards in federally-assisted housing, including Tribal housing;
    and  
-   Establishing a new Cabinet Level Partnership for Lead Remediation in
    Schools and Child Care Centers.

This funding builds on $350 billion provided in the American Rescue Plan
that states, localities, and Tribes are able to utilize for lead pipes
and the replacement of faucets and fixtures inside schools and child
care facilities. In addition to activating these investments, the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law delivers the central funding to achieve
the President’s bold vision as the Administration will accelerate its
efforts leveraging new and existing funds, proposing ambitious
regulations, removing obstacles to lead line replacements, and creating
targeted efforts to remove lead lines from federally assisted housing
and schools and child care centers.  
  
*Read the full action plan below.  
*  
**<u>THE BIDEN-HARRIS LEAD PIPE AND PAINT ACTION PLAN</u>**  
Lead exposure is a critical public health issue. It can cause damage to
the brain and kidneys and can interfere with the production of red blood
cells that carry oxygen to all parts of the body. Even low-level lead
exposure is of particular concern to developing the fetus, infants, and
children. According to the CDC, more than half of children in the U.S.
are at risk of lead exposure – often in their own home. The CDC recently
updated its blood lead reference value to better identify children with
higher levels of lead in their blood.   
  
Up to 10 million American households and 400,000 schools and child care
centers are served by a lead service line or pipes and other fixtures.
Approximately 24 million housing units have significant lead-based paint
hazards, of which 4 million of these are home to young children.  
  
The impacts of lead pipes and paint are not evenly distributed.
Low-income people and communities of color are disproportionately
exposed to the risks of lead-contaminated drinking water. Non-Hispanic
Black people are more than twice as likely as non-Hispanic white people
to live in moderately or severely substandard housing, which are more
likely to present risks from deteriorating lead-based paint.  
  
At the same time, EPA’s 2021 Economic Analysis of the benefits of lead
service line replacement show significant increases in lifetime
earnings, associated with avoided intelligence quotient (IQ) loss in
children, as well as reduced risks of cardiovascular disease, kidney
disease, and other adverse effects.  
  
**The Biden-Harris Administration will correct these wrongs and use
every tool at its disposal to eliminate all lead service lines and
remediate lead paint. **The President’s agenda invests:

-   $15 billion of direct funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    for lead service line replacements at EPA through the Drinking Water
    State Revolving Fund (SRF), and an additional $11.7 billion in SRF
    funding for which lead pipes replacement is eligible;  
-   $9 billion in the Build Back Better Act for lead remediation grants
    to disadvantaged communities through the Water Infrastructure
    Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN) program, including for
    schools and childcare centers at EPA;

<!-- -->

-   $1 billion in the Build Back Better Act for rural water utilities to
    remove lead pipes at the United States Department of Agriculture
    (USDA);  
-   $5 billion in the Build Back Better Act for the mitigation and
    removal of lead-based paint, lead faucets and fixtures, and other
    housing-related health hazards in low-income households, by the
    Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD); and  
-   $65 billion of Build Back Better Act funding for public housing
    agencies and $5 billion for other federally-assisted housing
    preservation and rehabilitation, which public housing agencies and
    owners can use to improve housing quality; this can include
    replacing lead pipes and privately-owned service lines.

This funding builds on $350 billion provided in the American Rescue Plan
that states, localities, and Tribes will be able to utilize for lead
pipes and the replacement of faucets and fixtures inside schools and
child care facilities.  
  
In addition to activating these investments, the Administration will
mobilize existing resources and programs, technical assistance,
rulemaking and policy standards, and other tools to accelerate progress
towards the President’s goals. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
delivers the central funding to achieve this bold vision as the
Administration will accelerate its efforts leveraging new and existing
funds, proposing effective regulations, removing obstacles to lead line
replacements, and creating targeted efforts to remove lead lines from
federally assisted housing and schools and child care centers.  
  
The action plan will:  
  
**1. GET RESOURCES TO COMMUNITES  
**  
**Announcing $2.9 billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for
Lead Pipe Replacement to States, Tribes, and Territories**: [EPA is
announcing that it will allocate $2.9 billion in Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law funding to states, Tribes, and territories for lead
service line replacement in
2022](https://www.epa.gov/infrastructure/water-infrastructure-investments).
The 2022 allocation is the first of five years of nearly $15 billion in
dedicated EPA funding for lead service lines that states will receive
through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. EPA will encourage states to
use these funds to advance proactive lead line replacement programs with
a particular focus on disadvantaged communities. Moving forward, EPA
will prioritize communities with the highest lead levels and those with
environmental justice concerns. EPA will also partner with states to
provide technical assistance to help disadvantaged communities overcome
barriers to funding through the SRFs. The 2022 allocation is the first
of five years of nearly $15 billion in dedicated EPA funding for lead
serve lines that states will receive through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.  
  
**Committing to Issue National Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Water
Investments Guidance to States:** In the first quarter of 2022, EPA’s
Office of Water will issue national program guidance to states on water
infrastructure funding through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. The
guidance will be informed by robust stakeholder engagement, and will
cover key implementation issues such as eligibilities, application and
award requirements, compliance with Civil Rights Act Title VI, Made in
America provisions, and more. The guidance will also include direction
on the $15 billion in dedicated lead service line funding, including the
importance of rapid progress on inventories, prioritizing disadvantaged
communities in project selection, and related issues to support the
efficient and equitable use of funding from the law.  
  
**Clarifying State, local, and Tribal governments can use Fiscal
Recovery Funds – the $350 billion aid provided under the American Rescue
Plan– for replacing lead service lines and protecting communities
against lead in water:** The Administration encourages state and local
governments to use funds to replace lead service lines in their
communities, an investment with long-term, transformational impacts for
public health and family well-being. The Treasury Department will also
take steps to ensure that funds can be used for a broad spectrum of
services to address lead in water, including not only service line
replacement but also replacement of internal plumbing and faucets and
fixtures in schools and daycare centers, expanded water testing,
projects to inventory lead lines, and outreach and education efforts to
reach affected communities.  
  
**Establishing Regional Technical Assistance Hubs to Fast Track Lead
Service Line Removal Projects:**There are currently more than 148,000
public water systems in the United States. As part of the implementation
of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the EPA will establish Technical
Assistance Hubs in select regions with a large concentration of lead
service lines. The Hubs will be designed to support local water agencies
to more rapidly remove lead service lines through regional
collaborations. The Hubs will support local communities in developing
lead service line inventories, creating model contracts for lead service
line removal projects, and leveraging union expertise. The EPA and the
Department of Labor will collaborate with labor unions to accelerate the
replacement of lead pipes, including the potential to leverage existing
union training centers to host state training seminars on lead service
line replacement technologies and to create good paying union jobs.  
  
**Awarding Grants to Protect Children and Families from Lead Paint and
Home Health Hazards:** The Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) today awarded nearly $13.2 million to state and local government
agencies through its Lead Based Paint Hazard Reduction (LBPHR) program.
LBPHR identifies and cleans up dangerous lead in low-income households,
in addition to other health and safety hazards in homes. The initial set
of grants are targeted to city governments in Long Beach, California,
Cleveland, Ohio, and Clarksville, Tennessee that will enable them to
help low-income households in their communities to live in healthier
homes free of lead paint and other hazards.   
  
**Leveraging Existing USDA Funding to Replace Lead Service Lines:** USDA
is committing to leverage existing funding to accelerate the replacement
of lead pipes. That is why, today, Secretary Vilsack is announcing a
$27.6 million investment in loans and grants to the City of Bloomer, WI,
for a water and sewer upgrade and replacement of 20,000 feet of
lead-jointed water mains. The removal of all lead components from the
drinking system will bring drinking water back into compliance for 3,539
people.  
  
**Directing Federal Agencies to Leverage Existing Funding**: OMB will
issue guidance to agencies directing them to ensure existing funding is
leveraged and prioritized to achieve the President’s lead remediation
goal, while directing 40 percent of the benefits to disadvantaged
communities and ensuring the replacement of entire lead service line. In
addition, OMB will include a new lead pipes inventory of existing
funding in our annual budget that tracks Administration wide investments
in lead pipes.

**2. UPDATE RULES AND STRENGTHEN ENFORCMMENT  
  
Announcing the Development of a New Regulation to Protect Communities
from Lead in Drinking Water**: Today, EPA is announcing it will
immediately begin to develop a [proposed National Primary Drinking Water
Regulation: Lead and Copper Rule Improvements
(LCRI)](https://www.epa.gov/ground-water-and-drinking-water/review-national-primary-drinking-water-regulation-lead-and-copper)
to strengthen key provisions of the National Primary Drinking Water
Regulations: Lead and Copper Rule Revisions (LCRR). In addition, EPA is
also committing to advance the following non-regulatory actions to
support the replacement of 100 percent of lead pipes:

-   Developing and partnering on plans to ensure the equitable
    distribution of funds for reducing lead in drinking water;  
-   Committing to oversight and technical assistance for communities
    impacted by high lead levels;  
-   Improving risk communication through additional EPA guidance and
    tool development; and,  
-   Encouraging full lead service line replacement and strongly
    discouraging partial lead service line replacement.

**Committing to Publish New Guidance on Lead Service Lines**: Today, EPA
is announcing that it will issue new guidance on implementation of the
existing Lead and Copper Rule that will go into effect in December,
2021. The guidance will outline the critical steps local water systems
should take to achieve 100% lead service line replacement. EPA also will
publish guidance for developing lead service line inventories, including
best practices, case studies, and templates. EPA is also updating the
Safe Drinking Water Information System to support state and tribal data
management needs for inventories. EPA also will pursue research to use
data analytics and other methods to make it quicker and less expensive
to identify and map lead service lines.  
  
3. **REDUCE EXPOSURE IN DISADVANGATED COMMUNITIES, SCHOOLS, DAYCARE
CENTERS, AND PUBLIC HOUSING **  
**  
Closing Gaps in Childhood Lead Testing**: Today, CDC is announcing that
they will identify and close gaps in childhood blood level lead testing
through the Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program, which includes
62 funded jurisdictions across the U.S.  The program conducts
surveillance of blood lead levels, provides education and outreach to
communities, and can respond to concerns in schools and daycare
facilities with support for increased blood lead testing. Blood lead
level surveillance data is used to track trends and identify risk hot
spots, helping ensure federal investments reach areas with the highest
levels of exposure. As service line replacement occurs, it is important
to minimize unintended consequences by continuing to test the water
supply and ensure that children are screened for blood-lead levels in
high risk areas. CDC-funded public health programs will work closely
with other state agencies to monitor and track the impact on blood lead
levels.  
  
**Tracking the Benefits of Lead Pipe and Paint Investments in line with
Justice40**: To meet the President’s commitment to target 40 percent of
the benefits of climate and clean energy investments to disadvantaged
communities, OMB and CEQ are committing to track and make publicly
available lead pipe and paint investments to disadvantaged
communities.  
  
**Committing to Remove Lead Service Lines and Paint Hazards in
Housing:** HUD, USDA, and the Department of the Interior (DOI) are
committed to eliminating lead hazards in federally-assisted housing,
including tribal housing. HUD and DOI will achieve this commitment by
replacing lead water service lines whenever water main feeder lines are
being replaced and eliminating or mitigating lead-based paint hazards
when rehabilitating housing. USDA further commits to replace lead water
service lines to all homes connected to a USDA funded lead remediation
project when easements exist and eliminating or mitigating lead-based
paint hazards when rehabilitating housing. The agencies pledge to focus
on these critical issues wherever possible.  
  
**Releasing an Updated Strategy to Reduce Lead Exposure:** Today, the
EPA released *Strategy to Reduce Lead Exposures and Disparities in U.S.
Communities* that identifies actions that EPA and other agencies are
taking to: reduce community exposures to lead sources, identify
communities with high lead exposures and improve their health outcomes,
communicate more effectively with stakeholders, and support and conduct
critical research to inform efforts to reduce lead exposures and related
health risks. This strategy looks broadly at lead exposure pathways,
including through drinking water and in homes and child-occupied
facilities with lead-based paint hazards.  
  
**Establishing a New Cabinet Level Partnership for Lead Remediation in
Schools and Daycare Centers:** To begin to achieve the President’s
commitment to reduce lead exposure in 400,000 schools and childcare
facilities, the Action Plan calls for the development of a *Cabinet
Level Partnership for Lead Remediation in Schools and Childcare
Centers*. This partnership between the Environmental Protection Agency,
the U.S. Department of Education, the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, and U.S. Department of Agriculture will commit to make
rapid progress on lead remediation in schools and child care
centers—safeguarding the health and well-being of a generation of young
people. The agencies will initiate the partnership by convening joint
stakeholder discussions to gather input from those on the frontlines of
lead contamination in schools and childcare centers. The engagements
will identify priority areas for coordination across the agencies;
opportunities to align funds; address data gaps on lead contamination at
schools and child care centers; and development of coordinated guidance
to reduce the risk of lead exposure in the nation’s schools and
childcare facilities. This Interagency Partnership will build on several
foundational actions currently underway at the agencies, including:

-   **Environmental Protection Agency (EPA):** EPA will allocate funding
    through the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN)
    Act, including $25 million in 2022 to improve drinking water quality
    in small, underserved, and disadvantaged communities. EPA will also
    continue its 3Ts (Training, Testing, and Taking Action) program for
    Reducing Lead in Drinking Water in Schools and Child Care
    Facilities. The program develops and disseminates tools and
    educational resources for states, schools, and childcare facilities
    on implementing a sustainable lead remediation programs, conducting
    lead tests, taking action to reduce lead exposure, and communicating
    results and action quickly and effectively to the parents, staff,
    and others who might be affected.  
-   **Department of Education (ED):** ED is working with federal
    partners to support schools in using the American Rescue Plan’s
    Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief and State and Local
    Relief funds to reduce lead exposure and provide clean drinking
    water in schools. ED will also continue to advance healthy school
    environments through the U.S. Department of Education Green Ribbon
    Schools (ED-GRS) recognition award with the benefit of input from
    engaged stakeholders and federal partners. ED will also use its
    leadership and public engagement, technical assistance, and
    research, to address a variety of environmental matters in schools,
    such as lead in water. ED has recently stood up a Core Environment,
    Sustainability, and Infrastructure Team (CESIT) and will determine
    how it can best address these issues and provide appropriate and
    useful guidance to education stakeholders. ED is developing a
    proactive plan of action to advance school sustainability, health,
    and environment with input and participation from the federal
    family. ED expects to spotlight actions to address ventilation and
    lead in water, among other topics.  
     
-   **Health and Human Services (HHS):** HHS will pursue actions through
    the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). CDC’s nation-wide network of
    Childhood Lead Prevention Program (CLPPP) Grantees and Pediatric
    Environmental Health Specialty Units (PEHSU) will continue to
    support lead poisoning prevention activities across the country. CDC
    currently funds 56 CLPPPs including support for 48 state programs,
    DC, and Puerto Rico. CLPPP recipients ensure a connection with
    schools and child care facilities to identify children with elevated
    blood lead levels and provide care services to children that are
    at-risk. CDC’s grants will educate child care providers and school
    staff about lead poisoning and the importance of early lead
    screening, establish partnerships with local and state agencies to
    conduct water testing for lead to assure childcare facilities are
    lead-safe or lead-free, and create outreach material to prevent lead
    exposure through drinking water. CDC also will continue to support
    the PESHUs, which are regional centers of excellence for support to
    clinicians dealing with patient concerns associated with
    environmental hazards, such as lead. Both the CLPPPs and the PEHSUs
    support lead elimination activities in schools and early education
    centers by providing technical assistance, education, and outreach.
    HHS will also pursue actions through the Office of Head Start and
    Office of Child Care.    
-   **U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA):** USDA will pursue actions
    through its Rural Development Mission Area, including efforts to
    prevent lead poisoning within Community Facilities and Business
    Programs. In addition to complying with requirements for renovation
    and repair work on child occupied facilities, the Community
    Facilities Program will continue to fund eligible projects for
    installation of water filter stations in schools and childcare
    facilities. Schools and childcare facilities may also seek funds for
    eligible projects to replace lead service lines through Water and
    Environmental Programs.

 ###
