---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-29'
modified_time: 2021-12-29 09:02:47-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/29/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-hud-and-sba/
published_time: 2021-12-29 16:00:00-05:00
title: President Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for USDA, HUD, and SBA
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD), and the Small Business Administration (SBA):

-   Dean Schamore, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Kentucky
-   Joe Aull, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Missouri
-   John Berge, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Nebraska
-   Kathleen Williams, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Montana
-   Sarah Waring, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Vermont and
    New Hampshire
-   Jason Pu, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 9
-   Edward “Ted” James, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 6

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of America and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**

The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.

USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.

**<u>Dean Schamore, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Kentucky</u>**

Dean Schamore resides in Hardinsburg, KY and is a three-term former
State Representative in the Kentucky General Assembly. Dean is a Veteran
of the U.S. Navy and a Gulf War Veteran. He is the President of Digital
Connections Plus, an IT company he started in 1993. Additionally, Dean
is currently Chairman of the Lincoln Trail Workforce Investment Board
and has served as President of the Breckinridge County Chamber of
Commerce. While in the General Assembly, Dean served on the Agricultural
Committee, Tobacco Settlement Committee, Appropriations and Revenue
Committee, Veterans Committee, and Banking and Insurance Committee.

**<u>Joe Aull, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Missouri</u>**

Joe Aull has lived in Missouri his whole life, and he has been in the
field of public service for his entire career. Joe was an educator in
four different public school districts in Missouri for a total of 34
years, serving as a teacher, a coach, a middle school principal, a high
school principal, and a school superintendent. Most recently he was the
Superintendent of the Lexington and the Marshall School Districts. In
1992, Joe received the Pearce Award as the outstanding school
superintendent in the State of Missouri.

After retiring from public education, Joe ran and was elected to the
Missouri House of Representatives, where he served for a total of eight
years. During his time in the House, he was the Ranking Member of the
Elementary and Secondary Education Committee, and he served all eight
years as a member of the House Agriculture Policy Committee. Joe and his
wife of 27 years, Candee, live in Lexington, where he is currently the
Mayor. They are the proud parents of four, and they also have four
grandkids.

**<u>John Berge, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Nebraska</u>**

A western Nebraska native who grew up on a corn and wheat farm north of
Lisco, Nebraska, John Berge has served as the General Manager of the
North Platte Natural Resources District (NPNRD) in Scottsbluff, Nebraska
since 2013. In 2009, Berge was appointed White House Liaison to the
Department of Agriculture by President Obama where he was the principal
liaison between the Executive Office of the President and the Office of
the Secretary of Agriculture. Subsequently, Berge was appointed the
Deputy and Acting Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations where
he managed all operations of that office. He was a member of the
Sub-Cabinet and Senior Policy Group, and coordinated all interactions
with members of Congress and other elected officials and USDA officials.
Mr. Berge also served as the Deputy Administrator for Field Operations
at the USDA Farm Service Agency, and as the Executive Director of the
National Food and Agriculture Council at USDA.

Earlier in his career, Berge served as the Executive Director of the
Western Nebraska Community College Foundation in Scottsbluff, Nebraska.
Additionally, he served on the staffs of U.S. Senators Jim Exon, Bob
Kerrey, and Ben Nelson. He is a graduate of the University of
Nebraska-Omaha, holds a Certificate in Climate Change and Energy from
the Harvard Kennedy School, and is completing a Master of Applied
Science program in Environmental Studies at the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln. He, his wife Kerri, son Theodore, and daughter Bridget
live in Gering, Nebraska.

**<u>Kathleen Williams, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Montana</u>**

Kathleen Williams has enjoyed a 38-year career in economics and natural
resource planning and policy spanning the public, private, and
non-profit sectors. She is deeply rooted in Montana, having served as
lead legislative staff for water, mining, and recreation policy, run a
statewide water resources program, and helped various organizations with
program review and strategic planning. As a state legislator, she served
as Vice Chair of the Agriculture Committee and passed legislation to
improve health care and infrastructure, grow and diversify Montana’s
economy, and advance local food production systems. 

Williams has worked, hunted, and campaigned statewide, helped build an
organization of farmers and ranchers across the North American West, and
has a special love for, and commitment to, rural issues and economies,
including Montana’s diverse indigenous communities. Her recent run for
Montana’s lone congressional seat allowed her to broadly discuss
solutions to rural issues across many kitchen tables, town mayor’s
desks, and tribal halls, while traveling over 100,000 miles in the
process. Kathleen has two adult stepsons and an energetic German
wirehaired pointer.

**<u>Sarah Waring, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Vermont and
New Hampshire</u>**

Sarah Waring is a native of Vermont, and her career has been focused on
rural community development and natural resource management, using
collaborative and whole systems approaches. In her most recent role as
Vice President for Grants and Community Investments at the Vermont
Community Foundation, she was responsible for leading the funding for
communities, organizations, and initiatives that addressed economic and
social disparities and helped to close the opportunity gap for Vermont’s
most vulnerable. She has worked on the ground in Vermont, and in the
Rocky Mountain West, at the Vermont Council on Rural Development, Farm
and Wilderness Foundation, and the Sonoran Institute, focusing on land
use planning, community development, and agricultural and working lands
development. Additionally, Sarah has been the Executive Director at the
Center for an Agricultural Economy, an innovative nonprofit focused on
building a just and regenerative local food system.

Sarah served on the Governor’s Task Force for Economic Mitigation and
Recovery in 2020, where she supported the development of a toolkit for
Municipal Engagement for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. Sarah is an
advocate for rural communities and currently lives in central Vermont
with her husband Paul and her children, Orion and Aurora.

**<u>DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)</u>**

Regional Administrators lead HUD’s 10 Regional Offices that directly
serve state and local organizations. Regional Administrators oversee
field offices across each state in their region and ensure the
Department directly serves local communities. Regional Administrators
play a key role in leading assignments of housing assistance funds
within the region and coordinating those assignments with HUD
headquarters.

**<u>Jason Pu, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 9</u>**

Jason Pu is a member of the City Council and two-time Mayor of the City
of San Gabriel in Los Angeles County, California. He also serves as
Chair of the Transportation Committee of the San Gabriel Valley Council
of Governments and President of the API Caucus of the League of
California Cities. Mr. Pu has been a leader in the city and the region
in managing multiple crises, combatting COVID-19, addressing regional
housing and homelessness issues, fixing the city’s infrastructure, and
stimulating local economic development efforts. His efforts have led to
a fully-vaccinated rate of over 90% among those eligible in the city,
the initiation of the city’s first and only affordable housing project,
an improvement in pavement condition index from 48 to 82, the
construction of new playgrounds and parks, state and federal resources
in the region to complete major logistics, transportation, and housing
projects, and the construction of several major economic development
projects that will include hundreds of new housing units and over
250,000 square feet of new commercial space for new jobs and businesses.
Previously, Mr. Pu was a business attorney specializing in finance, real
estate, and corporate in Silicon Valley and Los Angeles. Mr. Pu is a
graduate of Stanford University and the UCLA School of Law.

Region 9 serves Arizona, California, Hawaii, and Nevada.

**<u>SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (SBA)</u>**

The 10 SBA Regional Offices, led by Regional Administrators, oversee the
SBA’s 68 district offices and ensure the goals and objectives of the
Agency are met by each district office and field operations staff. The
district offices are the point of delivery for most SBA programs and
services, providing quality service to the local small business
community. They work with SBA resource partners and intermediaries to
accomplish the SBA mission of assisting America’s small businesses.

**<u>Edward “Ted” James, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 6</u>**

Louisiana State Representative Edward “Ted” James’ passion for
leadership is driven by a deeply held desire to impact the lives of
others while transforming his community. The Baton Rouge native was
taught at an early age the value of service, the strength of community,
the importance of a quality education, and the principles of social
justice. State Representative James earned a Bachelor of Science degree
in Accounting from Southern University A & M College and went on to
obtain his Juris Doctorate with honors from the Southern University Law
Center. In November 2011, James was elected to serve as Louisiana State
Representative. He currently serves as Chairman of the Administration of
Criminal Justice Committee and Chairman of the Louisiana Legislative
Black Caucus. Outside of the Legislature, James is an attorney and
director of the Baton Rouge office of the Urban League of Louisiana.
Most importantly, he is the proud father of his daughter, Harper Ryan
James.

Region 6 serves Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.

\###
