---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-17'
modified_time: 2021-12-17 14:07:06-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/17/readout-of-aukus-joint-steering-group-meetings/
published_time: 2021-12-17 14:00:00-05:00
title: "Readout of AUKUS Joint Steering Group\_Meetings"
---
 
Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States of America recently
held the inaugural meetings of the AUKUS Trilateral Joint Steering
Groups, which were established as part of the governance structure of
AUKUS in September 2021. The Joint Steering Group for Advanced
Capabilities met on December 9 and the Joint Steering Group for
Australia’s Nuclear-Powered Submarine Program met on December 14. Both
meetings were held at the Pentagon.

The delegations reaffirmed the Leaders’ vision that was laid out in
September 2021 and discussed the intensive work underway across the
governments and the significant progress made in the three months since
the announcement of AUKUS. 

The meetings were productive and the participants outlined next steps to
continue the positive trajectory in implementation.

During the Joint Steering Group meeting on Advanced Capabilities,
participants identified opportunities for collaboration on a range of
critical capabilities and technologies.  They committed to significantly
deepen cooperation and enhance interoperability, and in so doing
strengthen security and stability in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond.
In particular, participants committed to finalizing a program of work in
relation to advanced capabilities by early 2022. Beyond the four initial
areas of focus outlined in the Joint Leaders’ Statement on AUKUS—cyber
capabilities, artificial intelligence, quantum technologies, and
additional undersea capabilities—participants also discussed other
additional capabilities and agreed to identify potential opportunities
for collaboration in those areas.

During the Joint Steering Group meeting on Australia’s Nuclear-Powered
Submarine Program, the participants reaffirmed the trilateral commitment
to bring the Australian capability into service at the earliest possible
date. The delegations agreed on the next steps over the 18-month
consultation period to define the optimal pathway for Australia to
acquire nuclear-powered submarines, and for the Working Groups to
examine in detail the critical actions necessary to establish an
enduring program in Australia. The participants reviewed achievements
since September, including the signing of the Exchange of Naval Nuclear
Propulsion Information Agreement and the path forward to bring that into
force, which will enable full and effective consultation between the
governments over the 18-month period. 

The participants also discussed how they will work to ensure that the
submarine program upholds their longstanding leadership in global
non-proliferation, including through continued close consultation with
the International Atomic Energy Agency. The participants underscored
that the three countries remain steadfast in support of the nuclear
non-proliferation regime and its cornerstone, the Nuclear
Nonproliferation Treaty. They reaffirmed that the three governments will
comply with their respective non-proliferation obligations and
commitments and that they intend to implement the strongest possible
non-proliferation standards.

Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States look forward to
continuing to build on this momentum as they work together to deliver
advanced defense and technology capabilities, including an Australian
nuclear-powered submarine capability.

\###
