---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-23'
modified_time: 2021-12-23 10:11:06-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/23/summit-for-democracy-summary-of-proceedings/
published_time: 2021-12-23 10:11:05-05:00
title: "Summit for Democracy Summary of\_Proceedings"
---
 
Calling the defense of democracy “the defining challenge of our time,”
on December 9-10, 2021, President Biden convened world leaders in the
first-ever Summit for Democracy, a gathering that spurred dialogue and
initiated concrete action toward global democratic renewal.

The Summit brought together more than 275 participants, representing
governments, multilateral institutions, activists, journalists,
parliamentarians, human rights defenders, mayors, business and labor
leaders, and other actors essential to accountable, inclusive, and
transparent governance and the rule of law. Culminating in three days of
diverse thematic sessions attended by Heads of State or Government
(schedule, participants, and video available
[here](https://www.state.gov/schedule-the-summit-for-democracy/)), the
Summit process also included official supporting events (schedule,
participants, and video available
[here](https://www.state.gov/host-sponsored-events-the-summit-for-democracy/))
that explored issues central to the Summit’s themes.  

Through their [official
interventions](https://www.state.gov/official-interventions-the-summit-for-democracy/),
leaders from 100 governments announced a wide range of commitments and
pledges in support of democratic renewal centered on the Summit’s three
themes of: (1) strengthening democracy and defending against
authoritarianism; (2) fighting corruption; and (3) promoting respect for
human rights. These included commitments to counter efforts to combat
disinformation; strengthen electoral integrity; better promote the human
rights of activists, women and girls, youth, LGBTQI+ persons, persons
with disabilities, and marginalized populations; address drivers of
inequality and inequity; strengthen enforcement of financial disclosures
and close other vulnerabilities in the financial system that are
exploited by corrupt actors; and invest in the development, use, and
governance of technology that advances democracy and human rights.
Non-governmental participants – among them leading activists and
dissidents – echoed calls for new commitments in these areas, and
implored participating governments to stand up to authoritarianism,
kleptocracy, and repression.

Additional details on participating governments’ Summit commitments will
be made available in January 2022.

As part of the U.S. Government’s commitment to advance the Summit’s
goals, President Biden announced the establishment of the [Presidential
Initiative for Democratic
Renewal](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/09/fact-sheet-announcing-the-presidential-initiative-for-democratic-renewal/),
a landmark set of new policy initiatives and foreign assistance programs
that build upon the U.S. government’s ongoing work to bolster democracy,
fight corruption, and defend human rights worldwide. Working with
Congress, and subject to the availability of appropriations, the United
States will commit up to $424 million toward the Presidential Initiative
in the coming year, a significant, targeted expansion of U.S. government
efforts to defend, sustain, and strengthen democracy around the world.
In line with the Summit’s themes, these efforts will center on five
areas of work:

1)  Supporting a free and independent media;

2)  Fighting corruption;

3\)  Bolstering democratic reformers;

4)  Advancing technology for democracy; and

5)  Defending free and fair elections and political processes.

President Biden was joined at the Summit for Democracy by Vice President
Kamala Harris, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Secretary of the
Treasury Janet Yellen, Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo, U.S. Trade
Representative Katherine Tai, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations
Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Director of the White House Office of Science
and Technology Policy Dr. Eric Lander, and USAID Administrator Samantha
Power.  Governor Phil Scott of Vermont and Governor Janet Mills of Maine
also delivered remarks.

\*          \*          \*

DAY ONE

[**In remarks launching the Summit for
Democracy**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/12/09/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-summit-for-democracy-opening-session/),
**President Biden** urged collective action from attendees in the face
of “sustained and alarming challenges to democracy \[and\] universal
human rights.”  Calling democracy “an ongoing struggle to live up to our
higher ideals,” President Biden recognized that to advance democracy,
“we have to renew it with each generation,” because democracy is “the
best way to unleash human potential and defend human dignity and solve
big problems.”  Additionally, President Biden noted progress made by his
Administration on, and continued challenges to, strengthening American
democracy ([Fact
Sheet](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/08/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-is-taking-action-to-restore-and-strengthen-american-democracy/)),
and urged the passage of several key bills to protect Americans’ right
to vote and support continued sustainable and inclusive economic
growth.  Internationally, he announced the Presidential Initiative on
Democratic Renewal (detailed above), a targeted expansion of U.S.
support for democracy around the world. In closing, President Biden
called on Summit participants not to “allow the backward slide of rights
and democracy to continue unchecked” and instead urged them to work
together “to once more lead the march of human progress and human
freedom forward.

President Biden, along with **President of the European Commission
Ursula von der Leyen**, then chaired closed-door **<u>plenary meetings
with attending heads of state and government</u>**.  In these sessions,
assembled national leaders discussed their respective visions for
rights-respecting democratic governance that delivers for citizens;
committed to action to reinvigorate democracy at home and abroad; and
identified ongoing challenges to strengthening democracy and promoting
human rights, including authoritarian encroachment, radicalism and
extremism, economic inequality, the climate crisis, and information
integrity.

The Summit’s first open thematic session focused on [**bolstering
democratic resilience and building back better together from
COVID-19**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xgyanQm81aU&t=954s)**. **
**New Zealand Prime Minister** **Jacinda Ardern** opened the session
with remarks focused on democracy, pluralism, and partnership; discussed
the impact of COVID-19 on democratic resilience in the age of the
Internet; and urged attention to lessons learned in different
democracies on how representative governance can deliver in times of
crisis. **Mary Kay Henry**, International President of the Service
Employees International Union, then emphasized the link between strong
unions and a vibrant democracy, the role of trade unions in increasing
political and economic power of individuals in democracies, and the
importance of organized labor to helping address the interrelated crises
of economic inequality, poverty, racial injustice, and climate change.
**U.S.** **Secretary of State Antony Blinken** noted how democracies are
uniquely well-suited to fight COVID-19 and build back better after the
pandemic, and announced the establishment of a new State Department
Coordinator on Global Anticorruption Issues, as well as an additional
$10 million in financial support for the Global Anti-Corruption
Consortium. 

Opening [**the panel discussion on democratic
resilience**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xgyanQm81aU&t=2001),
**Ghanaian President** **Nana Akufo-Addo** cited Ghana’s commitment to
respecting democratic norms while responding to COVID-19, maintaining
the population’s trust and confidence by operating transparently, and
keeping the public informed at every step.  **Yvonne Aki-Sawyer,** **the
mayor of Freetown, Sierra Leone,** emphasized how trust established
between citizens and local governments can enable effective responses to
crises like the COVID-19 pandemic.  **Silvia Hernández Sanchez**,
**President of the Costa Rican Legislative Assembly**, called
communication between the executive and legislative branches of
government critical to resilience during the COVID-19 pandemic response,
noted legislatures were vital to help ensure accountability, and
expressed concern about ongoing deficits of trust in government across
her region. **Violeta Bermudez**, former Prime Minister of Peru, raised
concerns about worsening inequality during the pandemic, noting that
women are poorer now than they were before COVID-19; she urged media and
the private sector to help bring women into decision-making roles. 
**Douglas Rutzen**, President of the International Center for
Not-for-Profit Law, called on governments to prioritize democratic
principles in planning future pandemic responses, recommending a
tripartite response framework of: (1) prevention; (2) promotion of
democratic values; and (3) preparedness.  **Secretary Blinken** closed
by reiterating that the international community must fight COVID-19
while defending democracy, and that government transparency and
accountability are critical to both efforts.

[**In remarks between
sessions**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xgyanQm81aU&t=4458s),
Venezuela’s Interim President **Juan Guaidó** decried the crisis caused
by the authoritarian state in Venezuela, which has resulted in the
displacement of millions of people and greatly exacerbated poverty.
Guaidó nonetheless expressed hope, given the Venezuelan people’s support
for democracy, and said that Venezuela needed to develop democratic
mechanisms for protecting activists and human rights defenders, while
committing to inclusive democratic solutions.

Day One’s second set of thematic sessions focused on [**combating**
**and preventing
corruption**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xgyanQm81aU&t=5634s).  In
opening remarks, **President of Moldova** **Maia Sandu** highlighted the
detrimental impacts that corruption has had on the economic and social
development of Moldova, and outlined how the Moldovan government has
fought corruption as a core tenet of a pro-democracy reform agenda.
 President Sandu also emphasized the importance of governments working
together to address transnational corruption, noting that more
cross-national investigations and the return of stolen assets would
bolster global democracy. **Mo Ibrahim**, Chairman of the Mo Ibrahim
Foundation, discussed the ways in which corruption undermines democratic
institutions, the rule of law, and economic development, recommending
cooperation between governments and the private sector to reduce global
corruption. 

In her remarks opening the day’s [**anti-corruption
panel**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xgyanQm81aU&t=6896s)**,**
**U.S.** **Secretary of the Treasury** **Janet Yellen** emphasized the
need to eliminate opportunities for money laundering in the United
States, and highlighted bold new steps the United States is taking to
combat corruption and illicit finance, including through regulations,
implementing legislation, imposing sanctions, and establishing new USAID
and State Department programs.  **President of Botswana Mokgweetsi
Masisi** discussed his government’s efforts to address corruption,
including by creating anti-corruption units in each ministry, and
emphasized that governments must provide resources for anti-corruption
efforts and create global partnerships to address cross-border
corruption.  **Zuzana Čaputová, President of Slovakia**, highlighted her
country’s progress in countering corruption, including through new legal
mechanisms like a freedom of information act, public reporting of
government contracts, and specialized prosecutors and courts to handle
corruption cases.  **Paul** **Radu**, co-founder of the Organized Crime
and Corruption Reporting Project, discussed the difficulty of combating
what he described as entrenched criminal infrastructures, even with
appropriate anti-corruption frameworks, and noted how journalists can
help track government actions and hold corrupt actors accountable. 
**Reuben Lifuka**, Vice Chair of Transparency International, identified
several proposals to limit corruption globally, including beneficial
ownership registries, an international data exchange treaty, and
improved cross-border enforcement.  **Ecuador’s Attorney General**
**Diana Salazar Méndez** championed positive momentum against corruption
in Ecuador, highlighting the need for improved international
coordination and greater transparency, and for public-private
partnership in anti-corruption efforts.  **Daria Kaleniuk**, Executive
Director of the Anti-Corruption Action Centre in Ukraine, emphasized the
need for coordinated global action to fight corruption—applauding a
number of U.S tools and authorities, including Global Magnitsky
sanctions actions, other related tools and  regimes, and proposed
rule-making on real estate transparency—and called on other nations to
adopt similar measures. 

Remarks by [**U.S.
governors**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xgyanQm81aU&t=10257s) of
both major political parties highlighted the importance of democratic
renewal at home.  Governor **Phil Scott** of Vermont, a Republican,
called for citizens to come together, listen more, and avoid personal
attacks to ensure the values of democracy prevail.  Governor **Janet
Mills** of Maine, a Democrat, spoke about the importance of
consensus-building and discussion across political divides, highlighting
the passage of bipartisan legislation on voting rights reform, health
care, high speed internet, and climate change.

In [**closing remarks for day
one**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xgyanQm81aU&t=10980s), **Vice
President Kamala Harris** emphasized that democracy is the best hope for
an ever-evolving world, as democratic systems are uniquely able to
protect human rights, promote human dignity, and uphold the rule of law.
She highlighted that democracies require constant work and maintenance,
and that it is incumbent upon all leaders to forge more inclusive and
open societies, including in the United States, where “we know that we
have work to do.”

\*          \*          \*

DAY TWO

The **<u>second day of the Summit for Democracy</u>** began with
[**opening remarks**](https://youtu.be/Nw2bfsjTXhA?t=1964) by **United
Nations Secretary-General António Guterres**, who noted from personal
experience the pain of living under constant fear of arbitrary arrest,
torture, censorship, and other human rights abuses. Calling
Enlightenment values the bedrock of modern democracies,
Secretary-General Guterres registered his deep worry over threats to
those values around the world, including populism, nationalism, various
forms of racism, extremism, polarization, and attacks on rationality and
science. He called for a reaffirmation of the universality of human
rights, and for world leaders to summon the best in all people by
honoring human dignity.

The first portion of Day Two of the Summit focused on the [**need for
democracies to promote respect for human
rights**](https://youtu.be/Nw2bfsjTXhA?t=2394).  In opening remarks on
the topic, **Swedish Prime Minister** **Magdalena Andersson** reminded
attendees that democracy is a constant work in progress, and that
democratic governance goes hand in hand with the protection of human
rights and the rule of law.  She warned of governments that had taken
advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic to curtail human rights, and of
worrying numbers of human rights defenders and journalists who had been
targeted and called for an inclusive approach to democratic governance. 
**Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein**, president of the International Peace
Institute and former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, reminded
attendees that all countries “remain works in progress,” and that
democracies must guard against individuals and groups that would
undermine democracy from within.  He also urged democracies to call out
authoritarian governments when they commit human rights abuses, restrict
civil society, and undermine independent media. 

In introducing the ensuing panel discussion, **USAID Administrator**
**Samantha Power** emphasized that democracies must do more to[**promote
human rights, expand civic space, and empower human rights defenders and
independent journalists**](https://youtu.be/Nw2bfsjTXhA?t=3543).  She
warned that civil society is under attack in far too many countries, and
highlighted several efforts within the U.S. Presidential Initiative for
Democratic Renewal intended to push back on these trends.  These include
a major push to assist countries experiencing democratic openings, the
“Powered by the People” initiative to support peaceful mass movements,
and the “Media Viability Accelerator,” which is intended to increase the
business aptitude of independent media outlets.  In his remarks,
**Dominican Republic President** **Luis Rodolfo Abinader Corona**
highlighted that open civic space is best advanced by the free flow of
information.  **President Lazarus Chakwera of Malawi** declared that
“freedom is non-negotiable,” and called upon democracies to view civil
society as a full partner in the effort to deliver for citizens.
**Sherrilyn Ifill**, President of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, squarely
addressed the past and present shortcomings of U.S. democracy, and
emphasized the need for civil society from across diverse sectors to
“lock arms” against increasing threats to democracy.  She added that
activists and citizens cannot push for reforms on their own, and that
elected leaders must demonstrate the same conviction today in fighting
for human rights as they did during the U.S. civil rights movement a
half-century ago.  **Irene Khan**, UN Special Rapporteur on the
Promotion and Protection of Freedom of Opinion and Expression,
highlighted that “media freedom is the oxygen of democracy,” and that
civic space is undermined by rising attacks and intimidation against
journalists.  Burmese journalist **Swe Win**, Editor-in-Chief of Myanmar
Now, stated that democracy is not just a political system, but a means
to achieve peace, equality, and justice for all. Egyptian human rights
defender **Mohamed Zaree**, Director of the Egypt Program at the Cairo
Institute for Human Rights Studies, described the challenges of
“eliminated space” for civil society across the Middle East and North
Africa and urged the international community to revisit approaches to
undemocratic states centered on a concept of stability, insisting that
genuine stability in the Middle East and beyond required accountable
governance and respect for human rights.  In closing, **Administrator
Power** announced ways that the U.S. Government will help partner
countries get the most out of their Summit commitments during the
forthcoming “Year of Action” leading up to the second Summit.  These
include bringing together “Democracy Cohorts” – groups of countries that
make similar pledges on a topic, e.g, fighting corruption, advancing
rights-respecting technology, or promoting labor rights – and may be
willing to work alongside outside funders and top technical experts to
bring their desired reforms to fruition.    

[**In remarks bridging the day’s
sessions**](https://youtu.be/Nw2bfsjTXhA?t=7976) on protecting human
rights and defending against authoritarianism, Hong Kong democracy
activist and former legislator **Nathan Law** implored the Summit’s
assembled leaders to redouble their efforts to oppose democratic
backsliding and authoritarian encroachment. Detailing the struggle of
Hong Kong’s democracy movement against the People’s Republic of China’s
(PRC) efforts to undermine representative government and quash dissent,
Law asserted that “the free world” has not shown enough determination to
push back against the PRC’s efforts to undermine the rules-based
international order. In conclusion, Law urged much stronger support for
human rights, fundamental freedoms, and democratic values that are
increasingly under assault by authoritarian regimes, noting “we must
change.”

The Summit’s next session focused on [**strengthening democracy and
defending against
authoritarianism**](https://youtu.be/Nw2bfsjTXhA?t=8224)**. ** This
session featured opening remarks by **President of Lithuania Gitanas
Nausėda** and democratic opposition leader **Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya**
of Belarus. President Nausėda noted that although democracy is built on
competition, it also excels at preventing conflict, and that no other
system of government can provide the same protection for human dignity
and support for economic and social growth. Tsikhanouskaya implored
democratic governments around the world to stand up to the government of
Belarus and other authoritarian regimes, urging solidarity and more
forceful action because “the fight for our freedom is the fight for
\[democratic states’\] own freedom too.” 

In a subsequent panel discussion on[**protecting democratic
institutions**](https://youtu.be/Nw2bfsjTXhA?t=8643), including
elections, the rule of law, and a resilient information space, **U.S.**
**Representative** **to the United Nations, Ambassador** **Linda
Thomas-Greenfield,** opened by noting that democracies should not stand
idly by while the institutions that underpin accountable governance are
undermined, and called for greater cooperation among democracies to
bolster election integrity and fight disinformation.  **Estonian Prime
Minister Kaja Kallas** shared how her country had embraced digital
democracy and a “paper-free government” to increase transparency, reduce
corruption, and expand democratic participation, emphasizing that a key
test of democracies moving forward will be their ability to adapt to new
and emerging technology.  **Zambian** **President Hakainde Hichilema**
underscoredhis administration’s work to build a strong and inclusive
democracy in the wake of democratic backsliding under Zambia’s previous
government. President Hichilema further highlighted the need for
democratic governments to work in partnership with civil society, and
for democracies to embrace decentralization as a means to better
allocate resources according to need. **Hina Jilani**, member of The
Elders, added that unless democratic institutions (including
legislatures, judiciaries, and election commissions) work together to
combat threats to democracy, support for democratic government will
wane.  **Jessikka Aro**, an award-winning investigative journalist at
the Finnish Broadcasting Service, noted that, because journalists are
often the first to draw attention to threats to democracy, they often
encounter significant threats from authoritarian regimes. Aro also noted
the essential role that independent judiciaries play in holding leaders
accountable for attacks on journalists. **Nicholas Opiyo**, Executive
Director and Lead Attorney at Chapter Four Uganda, expressed concern
over the number of ostensible elections that occurred without respect
for basic principles of democracy, and added that protecting elections
requires constant action, not just on election day. In her closing
remarks, **Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield** noted the unique perspectives
presented, and reaffirmed that democracy is strengthened when we are
pushed to think in new ways that help us ensure we are delivering for
our people.

Offering remarks on [**making technology work for
democracy**](https://youtu.be/Nw2bfsjTXhA?t=13469), **Danish Prime
Minister** **Mette Frederiksen** highlighted how technology both gives
rise to new opportunities and has been used to increase pressure on
civil society and restrict the exercise of human rights, with
authoritarian regimes using repression and censorship to silence
democratic voices.  She highlighted Denmark’s “Tech for Democracy”
platform, which brings together governments and civil society and
enhances democratic participation.  She emphasized that democracies must
not, in the twenty-first century, compromise ideals that they fought for
during much of the twentieth century.  **Brad Smith**, President and
Vice Chair of Microsoft Corporation, added that technology and democracy
have always been intertwined, and noted that the creation and use of
technology depends on the freedom to think, learn, fail, and start
over.  Contrasting models of government based on trust with those based
on force, Smith emphasized that democracies cannot sustain trust unless
they sustain truth and called on the private sector to take
responsibility for information on their platforms that is misused to
undermine truth.  He called for a new generation of laws, regulations,
and international cooperation that would enable technology to work for
democracy.

Opening the next session, a panel discussion focused on [**countering
digital authoritarianism and affirming democratic
values**](https://youtu.be/Nw2bfsjTXhA?t=14393), **USAID Administrator**
**Samantha Power** called for the infusion of democratic
principles—including transparency, accountability, privacy, and
equity—across all digital technologies, and noted that the Summit
provided an opportunity to build global consensus on a positive vision
of “digital democracy.”  Administrator Power also announced new
international technology initiatives that the United States intends to
undertake during the Year of Action and beyond, including a multilateral
export controls and human rights initiative announced in partnership
with Denmark, Norway, and Australia; International Grand Challenges on
Democracy-Affirming Technologies to drive global innovation on
technologies that embed democratic values and principles; the creation
of a new multilateral fund to allow likeminded countries to support
anti-censorship technologies together for the first time; a multilateral
initiative to develop rules of the road on the use and misuse of
surveillance technology, announced in partnership with Canada and
Denmark; an intention to expand the membership of multi-stakeholder
internet governance fora; and an expansion of USAID’s digital democracy
programming.  In the ensuing conversation, panelists noted both the
threats and the opportunities that technology poses to accountable
governance and human rights.  **Latvian President Egils Levits**
highlighted ways that his country had dealt with digital threats and
advanced digital innovations, and recommended governments support
accountability on global Internet platforms and invest in public media. 
**Audrey Tang**, **Taiwan’s Digital Minister**, highlighted how Taiwan
has leveraged technology to build trust with its people, allowing for
measures like effective and privacy-respecting COVID-19 digital contact
tracing and digital public polling.  Amb. (ret) **Eileen Donahoe**,
Executive Director of the Global Digital Policy Incubator at the
Stanford University Cyber Policy Center, emphasized the need to counter
digital authoritarianism and to make technology work for democracy,
recommending democracies invest in digital infrastructure.  **Samir
Saran**, President of the Observer Research Foundation, described how
technology can be important to democratically-focused civic action, and
called on technology companies to adapt to the cultures and norms of
different countries.  **Nanjira Sambuli**, Ford Global Fellow and
Technology and International Affairs Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, highlighted the successes of civil society
organizations in countering digital authoritarianism, as they pushed
governments to support civil society more meaningfully at both the
global and local levels.  **Manuel** **Muñiz**, Provost of IE
University, outlined two threats technology poses to democracy, namely
the altering of the space for public debate and the growing capacity of
data and surveillance systems, but nevertheless asserted that
democracies are operating from a position of strength and have
significant capacity to shape how technology is developed and deployed. 
**Administrator Power** closed the session by calling on democratic
actors to use the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as
a guide to hold governments and companies accountable when technology
has been misused in ways that violate human rights. She also suggested
that tech engineers be encouraged to commit to a ‘code of ethics’, and
that governments and companies undertake human rights impact assessments
when buying technologies that could be used for repression. Finally, she
urged democracies to continue to work toward a coordinated, affirmative
vision of digital democracy.  

Following the conclusion of the panel discussions, **U.S. Ambassador to
the U.N. Linda Thomas-Greenfield** hosted a [**virtual town hall with
about 60 young leaders**](https://youtu.be/Nw2bfsjTXhA?t=24361) from
around the world. Participants asked questions on topics including the
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on governance and human rights;
strategies to encourage political participation and inclusive
representation; ideas for how the U.S. government can better support and
encourage peaceful protestors abroad; actions democracies can take to
safeguard and champion human rights defenders in their own countries and
across the world; how youth can exert influence beyond what are
considered “youth issues,” such as fighting corruption and promoting
human rights; the role of Historically Black Colleges and Universities
in the United States; and how the United States will partner with
African nations to tap into the potential of young people on the
continent as one key to democratic reform.  During her exchanges,
**Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield** noted the importance of youth having a
seat at the table in discussions about democracy, and urged all
attendees to make their perspectives and voices heard.

Finally, in [**closing remarks**](https://youtu.be/Nw2bfsjTXhA?t=30135),
**President Biden** applauded how the Summit for Democracy had fostered
conversations highlighting not only the common challenges that
democracies face, but also the many opportunities that exist for
democracies to deliver for people around the world.  Underscoring the
United States’ commitment to strengthening democracy at home and
supporting democracies and human rights worldwide, President Biden
reminded participants that democracy “knows no borders, and speaks every
language,” and that “autocracies can never extinguish the ember of
liberty that burns in the hearts of people around the world.”
Referencing the “coming Year of Action,” President Biden then closed the
Summit by lauding commitments made to date, and urging participants to
rise up together in democracy’s defense.

\*          \*          \*

OFFICIAL SUPPORTING EVENTS HELD ON DECEMBER 8

On December 8, 2021, the U.S. Government and its partners hosted a full
slate of sessions with governments, representatives from civil society,
and members of the private sector to discuss a range of issues relating
to the Summit for Democracy’s three pillars. These official events were
designed to highlight priority, cross-cutting issues that “set the
scene” for Days One and Two.

To kick off the sessions, **U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken** and
**Dutch Minister of Foreign Affairs Ben Knapen** co-hosted a panel on
[**media freedom and
sustainability**](https://youtu.be/JcR8_YyiqWY?t=1415), which featured
seven non-governmental participants including 2021 Nobel Peace Prize
Laureates Dmitry Muratov and Maria Ressa.  Participants emphasized that
independent media is both vital to democracy and under threat worldwide,
that governments must work proactively to protect journalists’ safety,
and that foundational concepts such as facts and truth are up for debate
in increasingly toxic information environments. Among other
announcements, Secretary Blinken previewed new U.S. funding and programs
to support independent media, including a significant contribution to
the recently launched International Fund for Public Interest Media, and
the launch of the Media Viability Accelerator.

Secretary Blinken next moderated a conversation about [**youth and
democracy**](https://youtu.be/JcR8_YyiqWY?t=5142) with young leaders
from Ukraine, the Philippines, Zambia, and Chile.  Participants
discussed the decline in societal trust that is exacerbating
polarization and undermining faith in democratic institutions and urged
government action to strengthen civic education and promote digital
literacy among young people. 

Stressing the importance of the [**private** **sector’s
role**](https://youtu.be/JcR8_YyiqWY?t=11166) in defending and
supporting democracy, **U.S. Secretary of Commerce** **Gina**
**Raimondo** then delivered a keynote address and hosted a “fireside
chat” with leaders from the Center for International Private Enterprise
and leading technology companies. In the ensuing conversation,
participants discussed the role of businesses in countering the cooption
of technology for authoritarian ends. Moderated panels then discussed
the role of responsible investment, beneficial ownership transparency,
and open and resilient digital spaces. These conversations focused on
what businesses, and particularly technology enterprises, can do to
advance and support democracy, with leaders stressing the need for
private sector, government, and civil society actors to work together.

**Swedish Prime Minister** **Magdalena Andersson** and **U.S. Trade
Representative** **Katherine Tai** co-hosted the next  event, which
focused on [**gender** **equality and women’s political
empowerment**](https://youtu.be/JcR8_YyiqWY?t=19431) as the basis for
democratic progress. In opening remarks, Ambassador Tai announced
several new U.S. programs focused on gender equality and democracy,
including the $33.5 million Advancing Women’s and Girls’ Civic and
Political Leadership Initiative (pending availability of appropriations)
and the Global Partnership for Action on Gender-Based Online Harassment
and Abuse, which will be launched in partnership with the Government of
Denmark. Panelists highlighted the underrepresentation of women and
girls in civic and political life, the need for concrete policy changes
(e.g., paid family leave) to advance gender equality, the chilling
effect of gender-based violence, including online threats and
harassment, on women’s political and civil participation, and the
importance of men being actively engaged as allies who advance women’s
rights and challenge gender norms.

**Dr. Eric Lander**, **Director of the White House Office of Science and
Technology Policy**, next hosted a discussion on [**democracy-affirming
technologies**](https://youtu.be/JcR8_YyiqWY?t=19431) with innovative
product developers, civil society leaders, and foreign government
officials. Interspersing dialogue with demonstrations of technologies
built to support democratic principles, panelists suggested developing
ground rules for future technologies, and discussed how to respond to
government misuse of such technologies for repression. During his
remarks, Dr. Lander announced a series of International Grand Challenges
on Democracy-Affirming Technologies, a set of prize competitions to
incentivize innovation in technologies that asymmetrically advantage
democratic values and governance.

In a panel discussion on the[**future of the
Internet**](https://youtu.be/JcR8_YyiqWY?t=31098), Wikimedia Foundation
Vice President **Rebecca MacKinnon** spoke with governmental and
non-governmental stakeholders on the need for new approaches to ensure
an open, interoperable, reliable, and secure Internet.  Speakers
highlighted the need to hold governments to account to protect this
vision of the Internet and human rights online, as well as the
importance of individuals learning about Internet governance and making
clear to governments and telecommunications companies their views on an
open and accessible Internet. 

To close the day, **Secretary of State Blinken** and **Lithuanian
Foreign Minister** **Gabrielius Landsbergis** co-hosted a roundtable
discussion highlighting the plight of [**political
prisoners**](https://youtu.be/JcR8_YyiqWY?t=33846).  Panelists—who
included a former political prisoner from South Sudan and family members
of three people arbitrarily detained in Belarus, China, and
Nicaragua—shared personal stories of political persecution, and called
for greater cooperation among democratic governments to pursue the
release of those unjustly imprisoned. Moderator **Uzra Zeya, U.S. Under
Secretary of State for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights**,
closed the discussion by calling for increased governmental action to
secure the release of the million-plus political prisoners worldwide.
