---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-10'
modified_time: 2021-12-10 14:33:03-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/10/president-joseph-r-biden-jr-to-award-medal-of-honor/
published_time: 2021-12-10 14:33:02-05:00
title: "President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. to Award Medal of\_Honor"
---
 
On December 16, 2021, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., will award the
Medal of Honor to Sergeant First Class Alwyn C. Cashe, United States
Army, Sergeant First Class Christopher A. Celiz, United States Army, and
Master Sergeant Earl D. Plumlee, United States Army, for conspicuous
gallantry.     
  
Sergeant First Class Alwyn C. Cashe will receive the Medal of Honor
posthumously for his acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond
the call of duty, while serving as a Platoon Sergeant with Company A,
1st Battalion, 15th Infantry Regiment, 3d Brigade, 3d Infantry Division
in Salah Ad Din Province, Iraq on 17 October 2005, in support of
Operation Iraqi Freedom.   
  
While on a night-time mounted patrol near an enemy laden village, the
Bradley Fighting Vehicle which Sergeant First Class Cashe was
commanding, was attacked by enemy small arms fire and an improvised
explosive device which disabled the vehicle and caused it to become
engulfed in flames.  After extracting himself he set about extracting
the driver who was trapped in the vehicle.  After opening the driver’s
hatch, Sergeant First Class Cashe and a fellow Soldier extracted the
driver, extinguished the flames on him, and moved him to a position of
relative safety.  During the course of extinguishing the flames on the
driver and extracting him from the vehicle, Sergeant First Class Cashe’s
fuel soaked uniform ignited causing severe burns to his body.  He then
moved to the rear of the vehicle to continue in aiding his peers who
were trapped in the troop compartment.  At this time, the enemy noted
his movements and began to direct their fire on his position.  When
another element of the company engaged the enemy, Sergeant First Class
Cashe seized the opportunity and moved into the open troop door and
aided four of his peers in escaping the burning vehicle.  Having
extracted the four Soldiers, he noticed two other Soldiers had not been
accounted for and he again entered the burning vehicle to retrieve
them.  Despite the severe second and third degree burns covering the
majority of his body, Sergeant First Class Cashe persevered through the
pain to encourage his fellow Soldiers and ensure they received needed
medical care.  When medical evacuation helicopters began to arrive, he
selflessly refused evacuation until all of the other wounded Soldiers
were first evacuated.  Sergeant First Class Cashe’s heroic actions, at
the cost of his life, saved the lives of his teammates.  
  
Born on July 13, 1970, Sergeant First Class Alwyn C. Cashe grew up in
Oviedo, Florida, and enlisted in the U.S. Army on July 18, 1989 after
graduating from Oviedo High School. He initially served two years in
Korea, followed by nearly three years at Fort Lewis, Washington. He
deployed in support of the Gulf War in 1991.  In 1993, he became an
infantryman and served another year-long tour in Korea.  Sergeant First
Class Cashe then served as a squad leader for two years at Fort Hood,
Texas, and for two years in Germany. He graduated from Drill Sergeant
School in 1998, and served two and a half years as a Drill Sergeant at
Fort Benning, Georgia. He returned to Europe in February, 2001, as an
operations noncommissioned officer for the 19th Battlefield Coordination
Detachment, then served in Germany for two years as a squad leader in
the 1st Battalion, 18th Infantry Regiment. In April, 2004, Sergeant
First Class Cashe served as a platoon sergeant in the 3rd Brigade, 3rd
Infantry Division at Fort Benning, Georgia. He deployed in 2005 in
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.  
  
Sergeant First Class Christopher A. Celiz will receive the Medal of
Honor posthumously for his acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and
beyond the call of duty while serving as the leader of a special
operations unit comprised of partnered forces and members of the 1st
Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment, on July 12, 2018, in support of
Operation Freedom’s Sentinel in Afghanistan.  
  
While deployed to Afghanistan, Sergeant First Class Celiz led an
operation to clear an area of enemy forces and thereby disrupt future
attacks against Afghan and allied forces.  When a large enemy force
attacked, Sergeant First Class Celiz voluntarily exposed himself to
intense enemy machine gun and small arms fire to retrieve and employ a
heavy weapon system, thereby allowing U.S. and partnered forces to
regain the initiative, maneuver to a secure location and begin treatment
of a critically wounded partnered force member. As the medical
evacuation helicopter arrived, it was immediately engaged by accurate
and sustained enemy fire.  Knowing how critical it was to quickly load
the casualty, Sergeant First Class Celiz willingly exposed himself to
heavy and effective enemy fire to direct and lead the evacuation. 
Sergeant First Class Celiz made a conscious effort to ensure his body
acted as a physical shield to his team carrying the casualty and the
crew of the aircraft.  As the casualty was loaded and Sergeant First
Class Celiz’ team returned to cover, he alone remained at the aircraft,
returning a high volume of fire and constantly repositioning himself to
act as a physical shield to the aircraft and its crew.  Sergeant First
Class Celiz then placed himself directly between the cockpit and the
enemy, ensuring the aircraft was able to depart.  As the helicopter
lifted off, Sergeant First Class Celiz was hit by enemy fire.  Fully
aware of his own injury, but understanding the peril to the aircraft
from the intense enemy machine gun fire, Sergeant First Class Celiz
motioned to the aircraft to depart rather than remain to load him.  His
selfless actions saved the life of the evacuated partnered force member
and almost certainly prevented further casualties among other members of
his team and the aircrew.  Sergeant First Class Celiz died of wounds he
received in combat on July 12, 2018 in Paktia Province, Afghanistan.   
  
Sergeant First Class Christopher A. Celiz was born on January 12, 1986
in South Carolina.  He graduated high school on May 23, 2004 and
enlisted in the U.S. Army on September 9, 2006, where he was first
assigned to Company E, 2nd Battalion, 7th Calvary Regiment, 1st Calvary
Division, Fort Hood, Texas.  In 2013, Sergeant First Class Celiz was
assigned to Headquarters Company, 1st Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment
and deployed to Afghanistan on several occasions with his unit.  
  
Master Sergeant Earl D. Plumlee will receive the Medal of Honor for his
acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty on
August 28th, 2013, while serving as a Weapons Sergeant, C Company, 4th
Battalion, 1st Special Forces Group (Airborne), in support of Operation
Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan.      
  
While deployed to Afghanistan, then-Staff Sergeant Plumlee instantly
responded to a complex enemy attack that began with a massive explosion
that tore a sixty-foot breach in the base’s perimeter wall.  Ten
insurgents wearing Afghan National Army uniforms and suicide vests
poured through the breach.  Staff Sergeant Plumlee and five Special
Operations members, intent upon defending the base, mounted two vehicles
and raced toward the site of the detonation.  The vehicles, now no
longer under cover, came under effective enemy fire from the front and
right.  Using his body to shield the driver from enemy fire, he
instinctively reacted, exiting the vehicle while simultaneously drawing
his pistol and engaging an insurgent to the vehicle’s right.  Without
cover and with complete disregard for his own safety, he advanced on the
superior enemy force engaging multiple insurgents with only his pistol. 
Upon reaching cover, he killed two insurgents, one with a well-placed
grenade and the other by detonating the insurgent’s suicide vest using
precision sniper fire.  Again disregarding his own safety, he left cover
and advanced alone against the superior enemy force engaging several
combatants at close range, including an insurgent whose suicide vest
exploded a mere seven meters from his position.  Undeterred and
resolute, he joined a small group of American and Polish Soldiers, who
moved from cover to counter-attack the infiltrators.  As the force
advanced, he engaged an insurgent to his front left.  The wounded
insurgent threw a grenade before detonating his suicide vest.  Staff
Sergeant Plumlee then swung around and engaged another insurgent who
charged the group from the rear.  The insurgent detonated his suicide
vest, mortally wounding a U.S. Soldier.  Staff Sergeant Plumlee, with
complete disregard for his own safety, ran to the wounded Soldier,
carried him to safety, and rendered first aid.  He then organized three
Polish Soldiers for defense, methodically cleared the area, remained in
a security posture, and continued to scan for any remaining threats.   
  
Master Sergeant Plumlee enlisted in the Oklahoma Army National Guard in
October 1998.  Following his high school graduation in May 2000, he was
released from the Oklahoma Army National Guard to join the U.S. Marine
Corps.  He served in the Marine Corps and Marine Corps Reserve from May
2000 to December 2008.  Following his separation from the Marine Corps
Reserve, Master Sergeant Plumlee enlisted in the U.S. Army on February
5th 2009.  He has numerous overseas deployments to include Iraq and
Afghanistan and is currently serving as a Senior Weapons Sergeant with
Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 1st Special Forces Group at Fort
Lewis, Washington.   
  
**ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  
**  
**THE MEDAL OF HONOR**:

The Medal of Honor is awarded to members of the Armed Forces who
distinguish themselves conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the
risk of their own lives above and beyond the call of duty while:

-   engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States;
-   engaged in military operations involving conflict with an opposing
    foreign force; or
-   serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in an armed conflict
    against an opposing armed force in which the United States is not a
    belligerent party.

The meritorious conduct must involve great personal bravery or
self-sacrifice so conspicuous as to clearly distinguish the individual
above his or her comrades and must have involved risk of life.  There
must be incontestable proof of the performance of the meritorious
conduct, and each recommendation for the award must be considered on the
standard of extraordinary merit.

\###
