---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-09'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/09/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-unemployment-insurance-claims-3/
published_time: 2021-12-09 10:37:45-05:00
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Unemployment Insurance\_Claims"
---
 
Our economic recovery has two key components: getting America back to
work, and getting prices and supply chains back to normal. Simply put,
it is about jobs and prices.  
  
Today, we received further evidence that our jobs recovery is one of the
strongest ever. The number of Americans filing for unemployment last
week was the smallest since 1969. The four-week average is now near the
average for my predecessor even before the pandemic hit. This follows
last week’s news that the unemployment rate has dropped to 4.2%, the
fastest year-to-date decline in unemployment on record. We’ve added
nearly six million jobs this year – the most of any first year President
in history. And the number of people receiving unemployment benefits –
which was over 18 million when I took office — is now at about 2
million. It is the fastest movement of people from relying on government
support to earning a weekly paycheck in history. Thanks to the American
Rescue Plan, and our successful vaccination program, Americans are back
at work at a record-setting pace. And families have more money in their
pockets: Americans on average have about $100 more in their pockets each
month than they did last year, after accounting for inflation.  
  
But even as we’ve built this incredible jobs and economic recovery, we
have struggled – like virtually every other developed economy dealing
with the pandemic – with rising prices and supply chain woes. I have
taken strong, aggressive measures to combat these challenges –with a
port action plan, the largest release from our strategic petroleum
reserve ever, and actions to combat anti-competitive price gouging,
including in industries that affect food prices. And, I am pleased that
yesterday the House passed on a bipartisan basis the Ocean Shipping
Reform Act, which includes good first steps on the type of reform that
will lower costs for American companies and consumers, and strengthen
America’s global competitiveness.  
  
Tomorrow, we will get a report on consumer prices that experts expect to
be elevated again, driven in part by energy prices and used car prices.
Fortunately, in the weeks since the data for tomorrow’s inflation report
was collected, energy prices have dropped. The price of gas at the pump
has already begun to fall nationally, and real pump prices in 20 states
are now lower than the 20 year average. This week, natural gas prices
are down more than 25% from their November average. In recent weeks, we
are also beginning to see a decline in used car prices on the wholesale
market which should translate into lower prices for Americans in the
months ahead. The information being released tomorrow on energy in
November does not reflect today’s reality, and it does not reflect the
expected price decreases in the weeks and months ahead, such as in the
auto market. We need to focus on concrete actions we can take to address
elevated prices and to lower costs for American families – including by
lowering prescription drug costs, health care costs, childcare costs and
housing costs with my Build Back Better plan.

\###
