---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-14'
modified_time: 2021-12-14 13:44:37-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/14/fact-sheet-highlights-from-the-biden-administrations-historic-efforts-to-reduce-gun-violence/
published_time: 2021-12-14 12:26:13-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Highlights From The Biden Administration\u2019s Historic Efforts\
  \ To Reduce Gun\_Violence"
---
 
During President Biden’s first year in office, the Biden-Harris
Administration has made more progress on executive actions to reduce gun
violence than any other Administration has in its first year. The
President is using the tools at his disposal to address the epidemic of
gun violence that our country has faced for far too long – including
stepped up law enforcement efforts, cracking down on ghost guns, and
directing historic levels of funding to put more cops on the beat for
community-oriented policing and expanding community violence
interventions (CVI) – neighborhood-based programs proven to combat gun
violence. While the President is using his existing authority to deliver
meaningful action on gun violence, he continues to insist that Congress
must act, and for Republicans in the Senate to stop blocking commonsense
legislation to keep guns out of the hands of criminals and weapons of
war off our streets.  
  
Since taking office, President Biden has announced three packages of
executive actions – [an initial set of
actions](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-initial-actions-to-address-the-gun-violence-public-health-epidemic/) during
a Rose Garden address in April, [a comprehensive gun crime reduction
strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-comprehensive-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-gun-crime-and-ensure-public-safety/),
and [steps to promote safe storage of
firearms](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/02/fact-sheet-biden-administration-takes-steps-to-prevent-suicide-including-by-promoting-safe-storage-of-firearms/).
These executive actions represent a whole-of-government approach,
mobilizing the Departments of Justice, Veterans Affairs, Defense,
Transportation, Health and Human Services, Labor, Homeland Security,
Education, and Housing and Urban Development toward the shared goal of
reducing gun violence. Highlights of these actions include three
significant Justice Department rulemakings, agency guidance encouraging
the use of hundreds of billions of American Rescue Plan dollars for gun
violence reduction, and historic progress to advance community violence
interventions. The Justice Department also launched a [comprehensive
violent crime reduction
strategy](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-merrick-b-garland-announces-new-effort-reduce-violent-crime) in
May of this year, and federal prosecutors in all 94 federal judicial
districts are working with law enforcement to deploy effective
enforcement strategies to address the most significant drivers of crime
in their districts, while also increasing engagement with communities to
support prevention and intervention strategies and improve trust in law
enforcement.  
  
In addition, the President’s Build Back Better Act includes a
transformational $5 billion for community violence interventions –
evidence-based strategies to reduce community gun violence
disproportionately impacting Black and brown individuals.  
  
Survivors of gun violence – including individuals with physical and
emotional wounds from surviving a shooting, and family members of
victims and survivors – have inspired and been key advisors in
developing the Biden Administration’s first year gun violence reduction
initiatives. The President was honored to invite survivors to his April
Rose Garden address. When he hosted two roundtable discussions about
reducing gun crime this summer, the President included individuals
directly impacted by gun violence.  Additionally, senior White House
staff and Cabinet officials have regularly met with survivors, including
hosting listening sessions with survivors of the Pulse Nightclub,
Parkland, and El Paso mass shootings and survivors of community
violence.  
  
In the year ahead, the Biden Administration will continue to engage
directly with survivors, use its existing authority to reduce gun
violence, and press Congress to pass long-overdue, commonsense gun
legislation. Progress to-date includes:

**KEEPING ESPECIALLY DANGEROUS WEAPONS OFF OUR STREETS**  
  
**Reining in the proliferation of ghost guns. **On May 21, the Justice
Department’s Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
(ATF) [issued a proposed
rule](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/05/21/2021-10058/definition-of-frame-or-receiver-and-identification-of-firearms) to
help stop the proliferation of “ghost guns,” which are unserialized,
privately made firearms that are increasingly being recovered at crime
scenes and have been identified by law enforcement officials as a
serious threat to public safety. Today, criminals are buying kits
containing nearly all of the components and directions for finishing a
firearm within as little as 30 minutes and using these firearms to
commit crimes. When these firearms turn up at crime scenes, they often
cannot be traced by law enforcement due to the lack of a serial number –
making it harder to catch the criminals behind shootings. ATF is
reviewing public comments in response to the proposed rule, the next
step in the regulatory process.  
  
**Better regulating devices marketed as stabilizing braces. **On June
10, ATF [issued a proposed
rule](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/06/10/2021-12176/factoring-criteria-for-firearms-with-attached-stabilizing-braces) to
better regulate when devices marketed as firearm stabilizing braces
effectively turn pistols into short-barreled rifles subject to the
National Firearms Act. These braces can make a firearm more stable and
accurate while still being concealable. ATF is reviewing public comments
in response to the proposed rule, the next step in the regulatory
process.  
  
**KEEPING GUNS OUT OF THE WRONG HANDS**  
  
**Helping states enact model extreme risk protection order (“red flag”)
legislation. **On June 7, the Justice Department [published model
extreme risk protection order
legislation](https://www.justice.gov/doj/reducing-gun-violence/commentary-extreme-risk-protection-order-model-legislation) to
make it easier for states that want to adopt these red flag laws to do
so. These laws allow family members or law enforcement to petition for a
court order temporarily barring people in crisis from accessing firearms
if they present a danger to themselves or others.   
  
**Making progress on a report to give policymakers the information they
need to help address firearms trafficking. **In April 2021, the Justice
Department announced that it will issue a new, comprehensive report on
firearms commerce and trafficking and annual updates necessary to give
policymakers the information they need to help address firearms
trafficking today. To ensure the report is rigorous and helpful for
policymakers, ATF has assembled a group of accomplished researchers and
law enforcement subject matter experts. The academic team is currently
undertaking such work as an independent analysis of ATF firearms
commerce data to ensure accurate research that informs key policy
findings and recommendations, and an analysis of technological
developments over the past twenty years, including the use of polymers
for the modular manufacture of firearms, the evolution of 3D printing of
firearm components, and the pervasive availability of kits on the
commercial market, facilitating the assembly of privately made
firearms.  
  
**Established zero tolerance for rogue gun dealers that willfully
violate the law. **In June, the Justice Department announced a new
policy to underscore zero tolerance for willful violations of the law by
federally licensed firearms dealers that put public safety at risk.
Absent extraordinary circumstances that would need to be justified to
the Director, ATF will seek to revoke the licenses of dealers the first
time that they violate federal law by willfully 1) transferring a
firearm to a prohibited person, 2) failing to run a required background
check, 3) falsifying records, such as a firearms transaction form, 4)
failing to respond to an ATF tracing request, or 5) refusing to permit
ATF to conduct an inspection in violation of the law.  
  
**Launched multijurisdictional firearms trafficking strike forces. **In
July, the Justice Department launched five new law enforcement strike
forces focused on addressing significant firearms trafficking corridors
that have diverted guns to New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, the Bay Area,
and Washington, D.C. Those strike forces have already opened more than
350 investigations and taken custody of almost 2,000 crime guns.  
  
**Launched a public education campaign to encourage firearm safe
storage**. In September, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)
launched a new paid media campaign featuring a series of public service
announcements to reinforce the key message that a simple gun lock can
save lives. These PSAs appeared across multiple platforms, including TV,
social media, and streaming services. The campaign also targeted
specific venues and events and involved a diverse array of channels,
yielding more than 1.8 billion impressions across all platforms in less
than 3 months. Viewers were directed to KeepItSecure.net for additional
resources. This campaign will continue through 2022.  
  
**Launched an unprecedented focus on improving lethal means safety in
the Military and Veteran Suicide Prevention Strategy.** In November, the
Departments of Defense (DOD), Health and Human Services (HHS), Homeland
Security (DHS), Justice (DOJ), and Veterans Affairs (VA), as well as the
Office of Emergency Medical Services within the Department of
Transportation (DOT), announced that they will jointly create a plan for
addressing lethal means safety awareness, education, training, and
program evaluation. This coordinated campaign will build upon the VA
launch in September and encourage safer storage practices, safety
planning, and time and space behavioral measures for crisis response.  
  
**Making it easier for customers to obtain secure gun storage or safety
devices. **In 2016, ATF proposed a rule clarifying firearms dealers’
statutory obligations to make available for purchase compatible secure
gun storage or safety devices. The Department of Justice is finalizing a
rule on this topic, including responding to public comments.
Additionally, ATF will issue a best practices guide to all federal
firearms dealers to reiterate the important steps they are legally
required to take, and additional steps they are encouraged to take, to
keep their customers and communities safe. The guide includes materials
for Federal Firearms Licensees (FFLs) to distribute to customers to help
them better understand their legal obligations as firearms owners, as
well as practical steps they can take to facilitate the safe storage of
firearms and keep firearms out of the hands of people prohibited from
possessing firearms.  
  
**MAKING ADDITIONAL PROGRESS TO REDUCE COMMUNITY VIOLENCE**  
  
Many actions listed above will directly reduce community violence
disproportionately affecting Black and brown communities. The
Administration has also taken a number of steps focused solely on
advancing community violence interventions, proven strategies for
reducing gun violence in urban communities. As part of his Build Back
Better agenda, President Biden proposed $5 billion in funding for the
Department of Justice and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC) to invest in community violence interventions, evidence-based
programs that are shown to help reduce violent crime. The House-passed
Build Back Better Act includes this $5 billion and the Administration is
calling on the Senate to pass the law, too. When enacted, this funding
will provide unprecedented resources to establish and scale up
evidence-based CVI programs across the country.  
  
But this Administration isn’t waiting on Congress to act; we have
already invested in and expanded community violence interventions. These
actions include:  
  
**Investing historic levels of existing federal funding in community
violence interventions, including American Rescue Plan funding. **The
Biden Administration made certain American Rescue Plan (ARP) funding –
$350 billion in state and local funding, and $122 billion in K-12
funding – available as unprecedented resources for CVI. Senior White
House advisors also issued a memo to state and local officials outlining
how these elected leaders not only can – but should – use ARP funds for
CVI. Cities across the country, such as Seattle, Washington; Buffalo,
New York; and Atlanta, Georgia – have responded to this call by
committing and deploying ARP funds for CVI. In addition,[ five federal
agencies made changes to 26 different
programs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/07/fact-sheet-more-details-on-the-biden-harris-administrations-investments-in-community-violence-interventions/) to
direct vital support to community violence intervention programs as
quickly as possible. For example, the National Institutes of Health
announced funding through its Firearm Injury and Mortality Prevention
Research grants for four community violence programs – including a
place-based strategy involving repurposing vacant lots in Detroit, an
evaluation of READI Chicago, a burnout prevention program for violence
interrupters in Chicago, and a hospital-based violence intervention
program focused on youth in Virginia. The Justice Department announced
$187 million for states and $85 million for localities through the Byrne
JAG Program to support coordinated violence prevention and intervention;
the Department explicitly encouraged the use of these funds for CVI. In
September, the Department of Housing and Urban Development published a
guide explaining to localities how Community Development Block Grants–a
$3.4 billion annual funding stream–can be used to fund CVI strategies.
The Department of Education released a letter to state school
associations on how 21<sup>st</sup> Century Learning Centers funds and
Student Support and Academic enrichment programs – both billion-dollar
formula grant funding streams – can be used to fund CVI strategies in
schools.  
  
**Making progress on state legislation to allow Medicaid to support
community violence interventions. **The U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services hosted a webinar and published information to educate
states on how they can use Medicaid to reimburse certain community
violence intervention programs, like Hospital-Based Violence
Interventions. This year, Connecticut and Illinois enacted legislation
that allows Medicaid to reimburse providers for hospital-based violence
prevention services – the first two states in the country to pursue this
approach. According to reporting by [USA
Today](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2021/09/17/medicaid-funds-tapped-combat-rise-crime-gun-debate-stalls/8326102002/?gnt-cfr=1),
“\[t\]he idea has been in the works for years, advocates say, but not
until the Biden administration signaled that states could – and should –
use Medicaid dollars to support these violence prevention programs have
state lawmakers stepped up.”  
  
**Using the White House’s convening power to support community violence
interventions. **In July, senior White House
staff [established ](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/16/readout-of-first-meeting-of-white-house-community-violence-intervention-collaborative/)The
White House Community Violence Intervention Collaborative, a
16-jurisdiction cohort of mayors, law enforcement, CVI experts, and
philanthropic leaders committed to using American Rescue Plan funding or
other public funding to increase investment in their community violence
intervention infrastructure. The Collaborative is spending 18 months
strengthening and scaling the jurisdictions’ community violence
intervention infrastructure to reduce gun crime and promote public
safety. National experts and federal agencies are providing training and
technical assistance to help communities assess their existing public
safety ecosystem, identify gaps, and build the capacity to expand
programming that saves lives. White House staff continue to regularly
work with The Collaborative, including a [second
convening](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/07/readout-of-white-house-community-violence-intervention-collaborative-meeting/https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/07/readout-of-white-house-community-violence-intervention-collaborative-meeting/) with
senior staff in October.  
  
**PROVIDING LAW ENFORCEMENT WITH THE TOOLS AND RESOURCES THEY NEED TO
REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE**  
  
**Deploying federal law enforcement to support local communities in
addressing gun violence. **As part of the Justice
Department’s [Comprehensive Strategy for Reducing Violent
Crime](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-merrick-b-garland-announces-new-effort-reduce-violent-crime),
the Justice Department has supported law enforcement in local
communities in addressing gun violence. In particular, the Justice
Department has provided enforcement support from the Federal Bureau of
Investigations (FBI), ATF, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), and
United States Marshals Service (USMS). This year, the USMS has partnered
with over 1,700 state and local agencies through district and regional
task forces, and from Memorial Day to Labor Day, some 600 of those
partners participated in a USMS targeted initiative resulting in the
apprehension of more than 3,700 fugitives, including more than 1,700
wanted for murder, in addition to seizing more than 2,200 illegal
firearms and nearly $10 million connected to illegal activity. ATF has
embedded with homicide and shooting investigation units in police and
sheriff’s departments in more than 60 communities across the country,
and expanded the reach of its National NIBIN Correlation and Training
Center to an additional 35 sites. ATF now provides ballistic matching
services and generates leads for more than 1,400 local police
departments nationwide. FBI has partnered with nearly 2,000 state and
local officers as part of its Violent Crime Task Forces and Safe Streets
Task Forces, which together have confiscated more than 5,000 illegal
firearms this year. Finally, DEA has strong partnerships with state and
local law enforcement – 4,600 of whom serve as DEA task force officers
disrupting the activity of some of the most violent drug trafficking
organizations in the country. So far in 2021, DEA has been involved in
the seizure of over 8,700 crime guns and has opened 912 investigations
with a nexus to violent crime.  
  
**Investing American Rescue Plan funding in community-oriented policing
to reduce gun violence. **The Biden Administration made historic levels
of funding from the American Rescue Plan – $350 billion in state and
local funding – available for law enforcement purposes such as hiring
law enforcement or paying overtime where the funds are directly focused
on advancing community policing strategies in those communities
experiencing an increase in gun violence associated with the pandemic.
Funds were also made available for additional enforcement efforts to
reduce gun violence exacerbated by the pandemic, including prosecuting
gun traffickers, rogue dealers, and other parties contributing to the
supply of crime guns, as well as collaborative federal/state/local
efforts to identify and address gun trafficking channels. Cities across
the country, such as Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Albuquerque, New Mexico;
Syracuse, New York; and Mobile, Alabama, have responded to this call by
committing and deploying ARP funds for advancing community-oriented
policing. In addition, the Department of Justice continues to further
the Administration’s support of community-oriented policing, including
through the announcement last month of $139 million in grants to local
law enforcement that will put over 1,000 police officers on the beat
through the COPS Program. President Biden was instrumental in that
program’s creation and has called for it to be doubled in size in his
FY22 budget request.  
  
**Keeping Guns Out of the Hands of Domestic Abusers. **This year, the
Department of Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women(OVW) expanded
the Domestic Violence Homicide Prevention Firearms Technical Assistance
Project (FTAP) to provide funding directly to those communities that
participated in FTAP in the past, as well as choosing new communities to
receive funding and technical assistance. FTAP helps communities
identify challenges limiting a more robust implementation of domestic
violence firearms laws in their jurisdictions and assists them in
establishing a localized response that is best suited to their
communities’ unique needs and characteristics.  OVW will award an
estimated $6 million for up to 12 sites and $4 million for training and
technical assistance on firearms and domestic violence.  
  
**ADDRESSING THE ROOT CAUSES OF GUN VIOLENCE**  
  
**Investing American Rescue Plan funding in public safety strategies
such as summer jobs for young adults and substance abuse and mental
health services. **The Biden Administration has made historic levels of
funding from the American Rescue Plan  – $350 billion in state and local
funding and $122 billion in school funding  – available for purposes
such as hiring nurses, counselors, and social workers; providing court
personnel and operations costs to return to pre-pandemic operation
levels; providing and expanding employment services, including summer
jobs for young people and programs that provide training and work
experience for formerly incarcerated persons and other individuals who
live in communities most impacted by high levels of violence; providing
and expanding summer education and enrichment programs, including summer
camp; and scaling up wraparound services, such as housing, medical and
mental health care, trauma-informed care, substance use disorder
treatment, food assistance, and job placement services, for victims of
crime, young people, formerly incarcerated persons, and individuals and
households facing economic insecurity due to the pandemic. Cities and
counties across the country, including St. Louis, Missouri; Tucson,
Arizona; and Los Angeles County, California, have responded to this call
by committing and deploying ARP funds for these purposes.  
  
**Providing meaningful work, education, or enrichment to keep young
people safe and give them a path to success. **For example, on June 10,
the Department of Labor awarded $89 million through its YouthBuild
program to provide pre-apprenticeship opportunities for young people
ages 16-24. The Department of Labor also awarded $20 million through its
Workforce Pathways for Youth program to expand workforce development
activities that serve youth ages 14-21 during “out of school” time
(non-school hours).  
  
**Helping formerly incarcerated individuals successfully reenter their
communities. **Individuals who secure employment after release have much
lower recidivism rates than those who do not. Good, stable jobs for the
formerly incarcerated promote public safety and reduce violence. That is
why the Administration is taking concrete steps to facilitate employment
and associated services, such as housing assistance, for people who are
formerly incarcerated. For example, on June 21 the Department of Labor
awarded $85.5 million to help formerly incarcerated adults and young
people in 28 communities transition out of the criminal justice system
and connect with quality jobs. The Department also awarded $25.5 million
in Young Adult Reentry Partnership grants to organizations that will
help provide education and training services to young adults between
18-24 who were previously involved with the justice system or who left
high school before graduation. In addition, the President’s House-passed
Build Back Better Act includes $1.5 billion for grants to help formerly
incarcerated individuals successfully reenter their communities.  
  
**Supporting Survivors of Domestic Violence:** Research shows that a
male abusers’ access to a firearm increases the risk of intimate partner
femicide
by [1,000%.](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/health/domestic-violence-shelters-are-swamped-experts-worry-surging-gun-sales-could-make-things-worse) The
COVID-19 pandemic and economic crisis have increased the rates and risk
for domestic violence nationwide.  For many women and children who
experience abuse, home is not a safe place and there were increased
barriers to accessing services and support. The U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS), through the Family Violence Prevention
and Services Program awarded nearly $1 billion in American Rescue Plan
(ARP) supplemental funding to support services for survivors of domestic
violence and sexual assault and their children.  
  
**CONTINUED TO DEMAND COMMONSENSE GUN LEGISLATION AND FUNDING NEEDED TO
ADDRESS THE GUN VIOLENCE EPIDEMIC**  
  
The President has repeatedly pressed Congress to pass commonsense gun
legislation, including during his first Joint Address to Congress (which
takes place instead of a State of the Union address during a President’s
first term in office). The President has repeatedly urged the Senate to
enact three House-passed bills: Build Back Better, including its $5
billion for community violence interventions; a bill to help keep guns
out of the hands of more dangerous domestic abusers; and a bill
requiring background checks for all gun sales. In addition, the
President has repeatedly called for Congress to pass legislation
including but not limited to a ban on assault weapons and high capacity
magazines; an appropriate national “red flag” law, as well as
legislation incentivizing states to pass their own versions of these
laws; and repeal of the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, which
gives gun dealers and manufacturers special immunity from certain
liability for their products.  
  
The President also continues to urge Congress to appropriate the funding
we need to reduce gun violence. His Fiscal Year 2022 budget request
includes a $300 million increase for the Community Oriented Policing
Services (COPS) hiring program to advance community policing and give
police the resources they need to keep their communities safe; enough
additional funding to allow ATF to add industry operations inspectors in
every field division around the country; and a doubling of the funding
for funding for firearm violence prevention research at CDC and the
National Institutes of Health.

\###
