---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-21'
modified_time: 2021-12-20 20:48:14-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-protect-americans-and-help-communities-and-hospitals-battle-omicron/
published_time: 2021-12-21 05:00:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces New Actions to Protect Americans and\
  \ Help Communities and Hospitals Battle\_Omicron"
---
 
Today, President Biden will announce new actions to protect Americans
and help communities and hospitals battle Omicron, building on the
robust plan he announced earlier this month to get people maximum
protection ahead of the winter and prepare for rising cases driven by
the new variant.

We know how to protect people from severe illness, we have the tools
needed to do it, and thanks to the President’s Winter Plan, we are
ready: 73% of adult Americans are fully vaccinated—up from less than 1
percent before the President took office—and we are getting about 1
million booster shots in arms each day. Vaccines are free and readily
available at 90,000 convenient locations. There is clear guidance on
masking and other measures that help slow the spread of COVID-19. And,
federal emergency medical teams are ready to respond to surges
nationwide.

Our vaccines are the most powerful tools we have—they work to protect
people from serious illness and death, and boosters provide people
optimal protection. While cases among vaccinated individuals will likely
increase due to the more transmissible Omicron, evidence to date is that
their cases will most likely be mild. In contrast, unvaccinated
individuals are at high risk of getting COVID-19, getting severely ill,
and even dying. Today’s actions will mitigate the impact unvaccinated
individuals have on our health care system, while increasing access to
free testing and getting more shots in arms to keep people safe and our
schools and economy open.

Today, President Biden will announce the following actions:

**Increased Support for Hospitals:** The President will take several
steps to ensure states and health systems across the country have the
personnel, beds, and supplies they need as they battle rising Omicron
hospitalizations, mostly among the unvaccinated. Today’s steps build on
the President’s Winter Plan, which made over 60 Winter COVID-19
emergency response team deployments available to states, and the
COVID-19 Surge Response Teams the Administration mobilized over the
summer and fall to fight the Delta surge.

*Deploying Additional Medical Personnel*

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Mobilizing an Additional
    1,000 Troops to Deploy to COVID-Burdened Hospitals:</span> The
    President is directing Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin to ready an
    additional 1,000 service members—military doctors, nurses,
    paramedics, and other medical personnel—to deploy to hospitals
    during January and February, as needed.

<!-- -->

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Deploying Federal Medical
    Personnel Available to States Immediately:</span> The President is
    announcing that six emergency response teams—with more than 100
    clinical personnel and paramedics—are deploying to six states now:
    Michigan, Indiana, Wisconsin, Arizona, New Hampshire and Vermont.
    This is on top of the 300 federal medical personnel that we have
    deployed since we learned about Omicron.

*Expanding Hospital Capacity*

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Activating FEMA Response
    Teams to Help States and Hospitals Add Capacity Now:</span> The
    President is directing the Federal Emergency Management Agency
    (FEMA) to activate additional staffing and capacity for the National
    Response Coordination Center (NRCC) and FEMA regions, and to
    mobilize planning teams to work with every state and territory to
    assess hospital needs ahead of winter surges, and to start expanding
    hospital bed capacity now—with the federal government paying for all
    of it. The Administration is also pre-positioning the federal
    government’s own supplies and resources to help make more beds
    available.

<!-- -->

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Providing Ongoing Support
    to States to Help Hospitals Create and License More Beds:</span>
    FEMA has already provided states hundreds of millions of dollars to
    expand hospital capacity. This includes two new medical surge
    facilities in Shreveport, Louisiana, added beds for COVID-19
    patients in Baltimore, Maryland, and expanded intensive care units
    and emergency departments in Fresno, California.

<!-- -->

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Deploying Hundreds of
    Ambulances and Emergency Medical Teams to Transport Patients to Open
    Beds:</span> To get ahead of surges, FEMA is ready to deploy
    hundreds of ambulances and emergency medical teams so that if one
    hospital fills up, they can transport patients to open beds in other
    facilities. Just this week, 30 paramedics are heading to New
    Hampshire, 30 to Vermont, and 20 to Arizona, and 30 ambulances are
    headed to New York and 8 to Maine. The Administration is also
    continuing to provide 100 percent federal reimbursement to states
    for all COVID-19 emergency response costs.

*Providing Critical Supplies*

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Pre-Positioning Critical
    Supplies from the Strategic National Stockpile:</span> Thanks to the
    President’s leadership, the U.S. government has hundreds of millions
    of N-95 masks, billions of gloves, tens of millions of gowns, and
    over 100,000 ventilators in the Strategic National Stockpile—all
    ready to ship out if and when states need them. The Administration
    has pre-positioned these supplies in strategic locations across the
    United States so that we can send them to states that need them
    immediately.

<!-- -->

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Deploying Ventilators to
    States:</span> HHS continues to expedite the deployment of
    ventilators to states. Just last week, the Administration sent 330
    ventilators to states like Indiana, Michigan, Maine, and New
    Hampshire, with more planned deliveries on the way to states that
    are facing strains and need them.

**Robust Access to Free Testing:** The President will announce new
actions to ensure Americans have access to free testing, including
convenient, at-home tests. Since January 2021, the Administration has
already taken significant actions to increase testing. As a result,
there are now 20,000 free testing sites across the U.S., four times as
many at-home tests available to Americans than were available this
summer, and at-home tests being made available at key community sites,
such as community health centers and rural clinics. Today’s steps build
on this progress and further increase the availability of free and
convenient testing options.

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Standing up New Federal
    Testing Sites:</span> Today, the President is announcing that new
    federal testing sites will be stood up around the country, helping
    states that need additional testing capacity. The first will be
    stood up in New York City this week.

<!-- -->

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Distributing Free, Rapid
    Tests to Americans:</span> Today, the President is announcing his
    Administration will purchase a half-billion at-home, rapid tests
    this winter to be distributed for free to Americans who want them,
    with the initial delivery starting in January 2022. The
    Administration will stand up a website where Americans can go to get
    at-home tests delivered to their home—for free.

<!-- -->

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Utilizing the Defense
    Production Act to Further Accelerate Production:</span> The
    President is pledging to continue using the Defense Production Act
    (DPA) and other authorities to make sure the U.S. is producing as
    many tests as quickly as possible. Through the President’s
    aggressive actions this summer, including use of the DPA, the
    Administration has already quadrupled the monthly supply of at-home,
    rapid tests in the U.S. The Administration will continue to use the
    DPA to accelerate production; just in the last week, the
    Administration used DPA to ensure that two testing manufacturers
    have the raw materials and equipment they need to produce as many
    tests as they can—enabling one company to double its production of
    lab-based tests, and another to rapidly to scale up production of
    new over-the-counter and point-of-care tests.

**Expanding Capacity to Get Shots in Arms:** President Biden will
announce additional steps to ensure people can get vaccinated and
boosted and get their kids vaccinated easily this winter. Over the fall,
the Administration has added 10,000 more vaccination sites across the
country where Americans can get their shots. There are now 90,000
convenient locations nationwide, with many sites offering walk-in
appointments and vaccinations for the whole family.

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Standing Up New Pop-Up
    Vaccination Clinics:</span> The President will announce that FEMA is
    standing up new pop-up vaccination clinics across the country. This
    includes a new mobile unit in Washington, and four new mobile units
    across New Mexico that are opening today. FEMA will help stand up
    additional sites in areas of high demand over the coming weeks.

<!-- -->

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Deploying Additional
    Vaccinators:</span> To further increase capacity, the Biden
    Administration is deploying hundreds of federal vaccinators across
    12 states, Tribes and territories. Together, these vaccinators will
    help enable thousands of additional appointments over the next few
    weeks.

<!-- -->

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Allowing Flexibility to
    Surge Pharmacy Teams:</span> In response to strong demand for
    vaccinations in communities across the country, the Administration
    will cut red tape to help surge pharmacy teams to places where there
    is higher demand. To do so, HHS will issue an amendment to the PREP
    Act Declaration allowing flexibility for pharmacists and pharmacy
    interns to administer a wider set of vaccinations across state
    lines.

<!-- -->

-   <span style="text-decoration: underline">Continuing to Scale
    Pharmacy Capacity:</span> Nationwide, pharmacies are adding
    appointments and capacity across their network. Pharmacy partners
    have taken steps to surge capacity, including by hiring tens of
    additional clinical and operational staff nationwide. And,
    pharmacies are opening up hundreds of new vaccination sites for kids
    in January.

\###
