---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-17'
modified_time: 2021-12-17 16:06:28-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/17/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-hud-and-fema/
published_time: 2021-12-17 15:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for USDA, HUD, and\_\
  FEMA"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced that he has appointed
the following individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at
the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) at the Department of Homeland Security:

-   David Baker, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Delaware &
    Maryland
-   Betsy Dirksen Londrigan, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
    Illinois
-   Kate Bolz, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Nebraska
-   Brian Murray, USDA State Director, Rural Development, New York
-   Arlisa Armstrong, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Tennessee
-   Doris Washington, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
    Agency, Arkansas
-   Scott Halpin, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Illinois
-   Sherry Hamel, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Maine
-   Benancio Cano Jr., USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
    Agency, Texas
-   Dominique Jackson, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 8
-   Andrea Spillars, FEMA Regional Administrator, Region 7

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of American and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**

The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.

USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.

**<u>David B. Baker, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Delaware
and Maryland</u>**

Mr. Baker previously worked for the Sussex County Delaware government
for over 33 years primarily as Finance Director and County
Administrator. His USDA grantee experience includes financing numerous
new wastewater and community facility projects. One of those projects,
the West Rehoboth Sewer project was the second largest project funded
ever by the USDA at that time. He also has economic development
experience in helping businesses prosper in a rural area.  Since then,
he has served on various non-profit organization Boards and assisted
them with Rural Development funds for their projects in Sussex County.

Mr. Baker’s goal is to ensure that Maryland and Delaware rural
communities are aware of and are able to take full advantage of the many
Rural Development programs that are available. This will improve
economic opportunities as well as enhance the environment and living
conditions which will help these communities prosper. He is a lifelong
Delaware resident. He graduated from the University of Delaware with
Bachelor’s Degrees in Accounting and Sociology and an MBA from
Wilmington College. 

**<u>Betsy Dirksen Londrigan, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Illinois</u>**

Betsy Dirksen Londrigan is a graduate of the University of Illinois
Urbana-Champaign and former Director at the University of Illinois
Springfield. She brings over 20 years of experience in the nonprofit
sector, working with community, regional and state leaders to effect
positive change. She is a lifelong resident of Springfield, Illinois and
is proud that her family members still own and operate the centennial
farm in Central Illinois where her grandmother was raised.  Dirksen
Londrigan is committed to working with rural communities to bring
investments to every corner of Illinois to support local and regional
initiatives to power economic development and grow local economies.

**<u>Kate Bolz, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Nebraska</u>**

A proud 6th generation Nebraskan, Kate Bolz grew up on a family farm in
Otoe County, Nebraska. Bolz brings extensive economic and community
development experience.  Most recently, she served as the Mayoral Aide
for Economic Development for the City of Lincoln, Nebraska where she
focused on workforce training and small business development programs.
Previously, she served as a State Senator, leading efforts to invest in
higher education and economic development as Vice Chair of the
Appropriations Committee and Chair of the Economic Development Task
Force.  

In addition to her legislative work, she served as the Executive
Director of the Nebraska Association of Service Providers (an
association of community-based disability service providers) and as an
adjunct professor at Union College. Kate earned a bachelor’s degree from
Nebraska Wesleyan University and a master’s in social work from the
University of Michigan.

**<u>Brian Murray, USDA State Director, Rural Development, New
York</u>**

Brian Murray has been with USDA Rural Development for the past 19 years.
He started with the agency in 2002 as a Loan Specialist in the Canton,
NY field office. In 2007 he became an Area Director serving New York
from the state’s Southern Tier to the Canadian Border. Brian served on
the USDA RD Community Economic Development task team in Washington D.C.
in 2013/14 and in 2020 became the Associate Enterprise Director for New
York.

Brian is a lifelong New Yorker, originally from rural Peterboro, NY and
currently resides in Lisbon, NY.  He graduated from the State University
of New York at Potsdam and holds a B.A. in Financial Economics. Prior to
coming to USDA RD, Brian worked for a local banking institution as a
commercial lending officer for more than 15 years.  Brian has served on
the St. Lawrence County Planning Board for the past 12 years, recently
as the Chairman.  He is active in his local fire department serving as
an interior firefighter and member of the rescue squad. 

**<u>Arlisa Armstrong, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Tennessee</u>**

Arlisa Armstrong has spent nearly three decades working in rural
development. A native of Haywood County, TN, Arlisa has served in a
variety of USDA Rural Development roles in Tennessee and served as Area
Director for West TN from 2010 to 2021.  In this position, Arlisa served
as a key member of the State Director’s staff and fully participated in
the planning, development, and implementation of rural development and
rural assistance programs. She led rural development initiatives
throughout a 12- county servicing area by formulating objectives and
allocating the necessary resources available to effectively implement
residential, business, commercial and profit/non-profit loan and grant
making authorities for direct and guaranteed lending programs available
from USDA. In 2020 and 2021, Arlisa also served as the USDA Area
Director of the TN Pilot Program, where she provided support to Program
and Area Directors across Tennessee by implementing portfolio management
and servicing for the Community Programs Division, providing updates for
the National Director of Community Facility Portfolio Management, and
more.

Arlisa earned her degree in Business Administration at Middle Tennessee
State University. She is a graduate of the Delta Regional Institute
Leadership Class of 2011, and the Haywood County TN Leadership class of
2006.

**<u>Doris Washington, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
Agency, Arkansas</u>**

Doris Washington previously served as the Acting Deputy Chief for
Management and Strategy for USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service.
Prior to serving as the Acting Deputy Chief, she served as the USDA
Director for the National Water Management Center in Little Rock,
Arkansas. Doris has over 34 years with USDA as an expert in crops and
natural resources science. She has hands on experience serving as a
District Conservationist, Acting State Conservationist and National Team
Leader for Administrative Transformation for NRCS. Doris has obtained
many awards throughout her career including the USDA Honors Award for
change management within the federal agency. She is a United States Army
National Guard Veteran with over 10 years of service as an Officer in
the Arkansas Army National Guard. 

**<u>Scott Halpin, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Illinois</u>**

Scott** **owns and operates Halpin Farms and Halpin Farms Cattle in
conjunction with his parents and brother. The farm is primarily a
row-crop operation in a corn and soybean rotation, but also includes hay
and silage production. In addition to the full-time demands of the farm,
Scott follows a long family tradition of civic engagement, achieving
many leadership positions within local and state level agricultural
organizations. He serves as the Kendall Grundy County Farm Bureau
president after leading the two counties through the complicated process
of merging their memberships. During his ten-year service on the Board
of Directors for the Illinois Farm Bureau (IFB) and Country Financial,
Scott served a term as chairman for the Member Services and Public
Relations committee. Scott earlier served as Chairman of the IFB Young
Leaders and was also a director and later president of the Grundy County
Soil and Water Conservation District. Scott is also a member of Illinois
Corn Growers Association and the Illinois Beef Association.

Scott recently traveled to Kenya and Israel to learn about international
trade issues as a member of the Illinois Agricultural Leadership Program
Class of 2020. He made similar agricultural market study tours to
Vietnam with the Illinois Farm Bureau and to Germany with the German
American Chamber of Commerce. Scott served on Illinois Governor J.B.
Pritzker’s agricultural transition team. He received an Associate’s
Degree in Agriculture Production from Joliet Junior College and was an
adjunct instructor for the college concerning dairy science. Scott and
his wife, Sarah, live in South Wilmington, Ill., with their three
children Ty, Grace, and Cale. 

**<u>Sherry Hamel, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Maine</u>**

Sherry Hamel is a career employee of the USDA, Farm Service Agency (FSA)
with over 29 years of service to the agricultural community in
Maine. Hamel began her career with FSA in 1992 while attending the
University of Maine where she earned a Bachelor of Science
degree. Throughout her career with FSA she has held multiple roles from
Legal Assistant and Farm Loan Specialist to Executive Officer. Hamel was
appointed as the Acting State Executive Director in January 2021. She is
a native of eastern Maine where she currently resides with her family.

**<u>Benancio Cano Jr., USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
Agency, Texas</u>**

Benancio Cano, Jr. is a native of Pharr, Texas in the Rio Grande Valley.
He graduated from Texas A&M University Kingsville in 1994 with a
Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Economics. He began his FSA career
in October of 1994 as a County Operations Trainee, in 1995 he served as
the Starr County CED until 2002 when he became the District Director for
the southern area of Texas overseeing 14 county offices and 2 farm loan
offices.

He and his wife Sonia have three children Sidney Larae, Dennis Benjamin
and Sabrina LaNae and have a Registered Cattle Operation. They enjoy
volunteering in several organizations that help the youth in
agriculture.

**<u>DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)</u>**

Regional Administrators lead HUD’s 10 Regional Offices that directly
serve state and local organizations. Regional Administrators oversee
field offices across each state in their region, and ensure the
Department directly serves local communities. Regional Administrators
play a key role in leading assignments of housing assistance funds
within the region and coordinating those assignments with HUD
headquarters.

**<u>Dominique Jackson, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 8</u>**

State Representative Dominique Jackson was elected to represent House
District 42 in Aurora, Colorado in November of 2016. Representative
Jackson currently serves as Chair of the Transformational Housing Task
Force, which is charged with administering $400 billion dollars in
federal American Rescue Plan Act funds throughout the state. She is also
the former Chair of the Energy & Environment Committee. In addition,
Representative Jackson was appointed to serve on Governor Jared Polis’
Economic Stabilization & Growth Council to help respond to the COVID-19
pandemic. She also serves on the Colorado Workforce Development Council,
as well as several national organizations including: The Executive
Committee of “The Energy Council,” the Executive Committee of the
Council of State Governments, and is the State Lead for the National
Conference of Environmental Legislators.

Representative Jackson also has an extensive history of serving
communities in both Aurora and Denver. She has served as a commissioner
on Aurora’s “Community Housing & Development” Commission, and as a
member of “Aurora Warms the Night,” Denver’s “Commission on
Homelessness” and is a founding member of Denver’s “Sustainability
Advisory Council.” She also served on the Curriculum Advisory Council
for the Department of Technical Communications, Journalism & Digital
Media at Metropolitan State University.

Representative Jackson earned a B.A. In Communications from Denver’s
Metropolitan State University and has completed all coursework towards
her M.A. in International & Intercultural Communications from the
University of Denver. Representative Jackson also spent time working in
the Denver-Metro area as a communications consultant before embarking on
a political career.

Region 8 serves Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and
Wyoming.

**<u>Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)</u>**

Regional Administrators lead FEMA’s 10 Regional offices that oversee
federal emergency readiness and preparedness in several states and
territories. These Regional offices provide key planning and
coordination support to respond to federal emergencies. Regional offices
also handle evaluation of community applications for FEMA funding for
public assistance, hazard mitigation assistance, and preparedness
grants.

**<u>Andrea Spillars, FEMA Regional Administrator, Region 7</u>**

Andrea Spillars has been a career public servant for over 30 years. From
2009 to 2015, she had a lead role in the Missouri state response to
natural disasters as the Deputy Director for the Department of Public
Safety, including the devasting Joplin tornado in 2011, the prolonged
flooding in 2011, drought relief efforts in 2012, and historic ice
storms in 2009. Her work at the Department of Public Safety also
included leading the state’s successful effort to establish an
interoperable public safety communication system. Throughout her career,
she has worked to protect the people of Missouri, especially during
times of disaster.  In 2011, the Joplin Police Department recognized
Spillars for her work leading the successful round-the-clock effort to
account for those reported missing after the Joplin tornado. In 2014,
Spillars received the Patrick Henry Award from the National Guard
Association of the United States, which is presented to those civilians
in a position of responsibility who have distinguished themselves with
outstanding and exceptional service to the U.S. Armed Forces or the
National Guard.

From 2015 to 2017, Spillars served as Senior Advisor and Legal Counsel
in the Missouri Governor’s Office, and ultimately as Counsel to the
Governor.  She began her career as an attorney in the Missouri Attorney
General’s Office, serving from 1989 to 1995 and again from 1997 to
2009.  While at the Attorney General’s Office, she was Chief Counsel and
Director of Public Safety Division from 2004 to 2009, providing legal
representation to the Missouri Department of Public Safety.  She has
also served as assistant prosecuting attorney in Boone County and
General Counsel for the Missouri Department of Health and Senior
Services.  She currently serves as the Executive Director of the
Missouri Board of Law Examiners, overseeing all aspects of the attorney
admissions process. 

She obtained her law degree from the University of Missouri-Kansas City
and her undergraduate degree from the University of Central Missouri.

Region 7 serves Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska.

\###
