---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-17'
modified_time: 2021-12-17 12:21:43-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/17/fact-sheet-the-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administrations-historic-investments-and-support-for-historically-black-colleges-and-universities/
published_time: 2021-12-17 11:58:15-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019s Historic Investments\
  \ and Support for Historically Black Colleges and\_Universities"
---
 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) were founded in the
face of discrimination and have a proud history and legacy of
achievement. HBCUs vary in size and academic focus and serve a range of
diverse students and communities in urban, rural, and suburban settings.
But all of them create pathways to opportunity for Black students and
foster academic excellence throughout our nation.

As the President will note in his remarks at South Carolina State, HBCU
graduates are leaders in every field and include barrier-breaking
doctors, business owners, scientists, artists, lawyers, engineers, and
educators, many of whom are public servants. Several HBCU graduates
serve in senior roles in the Biden-Harris Administration, including Vice
President Kamala Harris – the first HBCU graduate ever to serve as Vice
President of the United States – as well as Director of the White House
Office of Public Engagement Cedric Richmond and Environmental Protection
Agency Administrator Michael Regan.  
  
Despite this record of success, disparities in resources and
opportunities for HBCUs and their students persist, and the COVID-19
pandemic has highlighted new and continuing challenges for HBCUs. The
Biden-Harris Administration is committed to shared prosperity and
advancing equity for all Americans, and a key part of this commitment is
supporting HBCUs.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Historic Investments in
HBCUs**</span>

Since January, the Biden-Harris Administration has delivered a
**historic $5.8 billion cumulative investment in and support for
HBCUs**, including:

-   **American Rescue Plan**. President Biden’s American Rescue Plan and
    other pandemic relief has provided nearly **$3.7 billion** in relief
    funding to HBCUs this year alone. These emergency grants were funded
    directly to HBCUs from the Department of Education and have helped
    HBCUs and their students mitigate the negative impact of the
    pandemic on students’ educational attainment. They have helped
    institutions support students’ ability to meet basic needs; target
    resources to students with the greatest need; support campus
    operations, staffing, teaching, and educational programs; and keep
    campus communities safe by preventing and mitigating the spread of
    COVID-19.

<!-- -->

-   **Debt Relief.** The Department of Education discharged
    approximately **$1.6 billion** of debt from loans provided to HBCUs
    for capital improvements through the Department’s HBCU Capital
    Financing Program. The action resulted in debt relief to 45 HBCUs —
    13 public institutions and 32 private institutions — earlier this
    year. Discharging these debts has enabled these institutions to
    focus resources on supporting students, faculty, and staff while
    recovering from the pandemic.

<!-- -->

-   **Grant Funding**. In July and August 2021, the Department of
    Education awarded more than **$500** million in grant funding to
    HBCUs for academic capacity-building and fiscal stability.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Ensuring Continued Support
for HBCUs through the Build Back Better Act</span>**

President Biden’s Build Back Better Act would ensure sustained
investment in HBCUs and their students. These funds will help HBCUs
address a wide range of needs, including student financial aid,
infrastructure upgrades, and campus services. The Act includes dedicated
funds for HBCUs and the opportunity to compete for billions more:

-   **Financial Support for HBCUs.** Build Back Better provides **$10
    billion** to HBCUs, Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCUs), and
    minority-serving institutions (MSIs).
    -   **Capacity-Building:** This includes a **$6 billion increase in
        funding for existing grants** that help HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs
        strengthen their academic, administrative, and fiscal
        capabilities, including by creating or expanding educational
        programs in high-demand fields (e.g., STEM, computer sciences,
        nursing, and allied health), of which **$2 billion is dedicated
        specifically for HBCUs**. This is a five-fold increase from the
        amounts that HBCUs typically receive annually through these
        funding streams**.**

    <!-- -->

    -   **Research and Development:** Build Back Better includes **$4
        billion** to create new competitive research and development
        programs specifically for HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs at the
        Department of Education and Department of Agriculture. These
        dollars will help HBCUs build their research capacity and
        related infrastructure.

<!-- -->

-   **Pell Grant Increases for HBCU Students.** Pell Grants provide
    need-based grants to more than 6 million low- and moderate-income
    undergraduate students. These grants are especially critical to HBCU
    students, [75% of whom rely on Pell
    Grants](/Users/SOAlcorn/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/TV0SI0A4/What%20does%20the%20Build%20Back%20Better%20Framework%20mean%20for%20BIPOC%20communities%3f%20(brookings.edu))
    (versus 39% of all US undergraduate students). The Build Back Better
    Act would increase the maximum Pell Grant award by $550 for students
    enrolled at public and private non-profit colleges, providing more
    money for HBCU students to pay for college.

<!-- -->

-   **Teacher Quality Funding.** Build Back Better includes $**112
    million** for the Augustus Hawkins Centers of Excellence Program,
    which will invest in strengthening and expanding teacher preparation
    programs at HBCUs and other Minority-Serving Institutions.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Increased Funding in
President Biden’s Fiscal Year 2022 (FY22) Budget Request</span>**

President Biden’s FY22 budget request for the Department of Education
includes a total of **$807 million** in discretionary funding to HBCUs,
**an increase of $72 million** over last year’s funding level, which
will substantially increase key HBCU funding streams to support
research, infrastructure, and student support services, amongst other
programming.

-   President Biden’s FY22 budget request would raise the maximum Pell
    Grant award by another $400, on top of the funding provided by the
    Build Back Better Act, for a total increase of $950 that can be used
    to support education at HBCUs.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Strengthening the White House
Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic
Opportunity through HBCUs</span>**

In September, President Biden signed an [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/03/executive-order-on-white-house-initiative-on-advancing-educational-equity-excellence-and-economic-opportunity-through-historically-black-colleges-and-universities/) to
re-establish the White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity,
Excellence, and Economic Opportunity through HBCUs and issued
a [proclamation](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/03/a-proclamation-on-national-historically-black-colleges-and-universities-week-2021/) recognizing
National HBCU Week. The Executive Order:

-   Calls for a whole of government approach to support HBCUs, including
    by ensuring that HBCUs can respond to and recover from the COVID-19
    pandemic and breaking down barriers and improving access to federal
    funding and other programs, particularly in areas of research and
    development;

<!-- -->

-   Directs senior officials in the Executive Office of the President
    and the Office of the Vice President to consult and collaborate with
    the Initiative on policy priorities for HBCUs; and

<!-- -->

-   Requires federal agencies to submit plans by February 1st of each
    year describing their efforts to increase HBCU access to federal
    programs and initiatives.

During HBCU week in September, President Biden also named Tony Allen,
President of Delaware State University, as Chair of the President’s
Board of Advisors on HBCUs. The Board, originally established by the
Carter Administration, is meant to engage key stakeholders in fields
such as education, business, and philanthropy to advance the goals of
the HBCU Initiative.

\###
