---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-03'
modified_time: 2021-12-03 12:43:44-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/03/statement-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-g7-collaboration-and-build-back-better-world/
published_time: 2021-12-03 12:43:43-05:00
title: "Statement by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on G7 Collaboration and\
  \ Build Back Better\_World"
---
 
In June, President Biden—alongside G7 Leaders—announced Build Back
Better World, a values-driven, high-standard, transparent, and catalytic
infrastructure partnership led by major democracies to meet the enormous
infrastructure need in the developing world. Since then, the United
States and G7 partners have been undertaking efforts individually and
jointly to increase the ambition and impact of our partnership. Today’s
G7 Leaders
[statement](http://www.g7uk.org/g7-leaders-statement-partnership-for-infrastructure-and-investment)
reflects the scope of our collective efforts and coordination since
Leaders met in June and our goals for future infrastructure
collaboration. Our work with G7 and like-minded partners to narrow the
global infrastructure gap will help tackle the climate crisis, drive job
creation, support an inclusive economic recovery, advance gender equity
and equality, and make investments in health and health security to
recover from the current pandemic and prevent future ones.  
  
The G7 statement today comes after the European Commission’s recent
Global Gateway launch and in advance of the United States’ Build Back
Better World formal launch early next year. At the direction of the
President, we are undertaking a whole-of-government effort to assess how
to better use the U.S. Government’s development infrastructure toolkit.
This includes direct financing tools of the DFC, USAID, MCC, and USTDA
as well as other tools within State, Commerce, Treasury, and the
Export-Import Bank, mobilizing private capital, and leveraging
international financial institutions and like-minded partners’
capabilities to advance progress across Build Back Better World’s focal
areas of climate, digital technology, health and gender through
transparent and high-standards infrastructure.

We recognize that robust, meaningful partnerships, long-term focus, and
sustained investment will be critical to ensure that Build Back Better
World, individual efforts by G7 countries and other friends, and our
collective G7 partnership to deliver infrastructure that meets the needs
of middle and lower-income countries. In discussing infrastructure needs
with developing countries across the world, we’ve heard concerns from
government officials, industry, labor and civil society about
infrastructure that is low-quality, feeds corruption, leaves vulnerable
countries trapped in a cycle of debt, or exacerbates environmental
degradation. President Biden believes we can offer a better alternative
through transparent, sustainable financing that responds to low- and
middle-income countries’ needs and upholds high labor and environmental
standards, while allowing societies in low- and middle-income countries
to prosper and ensure American firms and American workers compete
globally on every aspect of infrastructure. In the years ahead, that’s
exactly what Build Back Better World will do.

\###
