---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-16'
modified_time: 2021-12-16 20:39:30-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/16/readout-of-the-roundtable-on-the-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-trucking-action-plan/
published_time: 2021-12-16 20:40:00-05:00
title: "Readout of the Roundtable on the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Trucking\
  \ Action\_Plan"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration convened trucking companies and
industry associations to discuss both near- and long-term challenges the
industry has faced meeting the unprecedented demand for goods as we
recover from the pandemic. Participants noted how the global pandemic
had shown a spotlight on the important role trucking plays getting
essential goods to families and businesses. It also elevated the
pre-existing challenges facing the trucking industry, which suffers from
high turnover rates, an aging workforce, and a rise in unpaid wait time.

Participants welcomed the Administration’s focus on developing a
pipeline of well-trained drivers, noting the benefits this offers to
driving retention and safety. Secretary Walsh announced nearly $10
million in funding the Department of Labor was devoting to registered
apprenticeships, and dedicated resources to support veterans
recruitment. Several participants spoke of the high return on investment
they had seen from creating registered apprenticeships, and the speed at
which the Labor Department had approved new programs for their industry
in recent months. Several participants announced their commitment to use
the new Registered Apprenticeship Accelerator, which can approve new
programs in as few as 48 hours.

Industry participants discussed the steps they were taking to both
recruit and retain a diverse workforce into the industry, from women to
underrepresented minorities to veterans, and to create a safe and
welcoming career paths for these new drivers. Some participants noted
how partnerships with unions improved training, productivity, and
retention at their companies. They welcomed the steps being taken by the
new DOT-DOL joint initiative to support recruitment and retention of a
next generation trucking workforce.

The members of the roundtable praised the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
noting that “infrastructure is our workplace,” and investments in roads
and bridges will support their industry and strengthen our supply
chains. They welcomed the Department of Transportation’s efforts to
providing funding and technical assistance to States to reduce delays
for new drivers seeking commercial driver’s licenses.

\###
