---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-27'
modified_time: 2021-12-27 15:11:02-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/27/statement-by-the-president-on-s-1605-the-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2022/
published_time: 2021-12-27 15:11:01-05:00
title: Statement by the President on S. 1605, the National Defense Authorization Act
  for Fiscal Year 2022
---
 
Today, I have signed into law S. 1605, the “National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022” (the “Act”).  The Act authorizes
fiscal year appropriations principally for the Department of Defense,
for Department of Energy national security programs, and for the
Department of State.  The Act provides vital benefits and enhances
access to justice for military personnel and their families, and
includes critical authorities to support our country’s national
defense. 

Unfortunately, section 1032 of the Act continues to bar the use of funds
to transfer Guantánamo Bay detainees to the custody or effective control
of certain foreign countries, and section 1033 of the Act bars the use
of funds to transfer Guantánamo Bay detainees into the United States
unless certain conditions are met.  It is the longstanding position of
the executive branch that these provisions unduly impair the ability of
the executive branch to determine when and where to prosecute Guantánamo
Bay detainees and where to send them upon release.  In some
circumstances these provisions could make it difficult to comply with
the final judgment of a court that has directed the release of a
detainee on a writ of habeas corpus.  In addition, the limitations in
section 1032 of the Act constrain the flexibility of the executive
branch with respect to its engagement in delicate negotiations with
foreign countries over the potential transfer of detainees and thus may
in some cases make it difficult to effectuate the transfer of detainees
in a manner that does not threaten national security.  I urge the
Congress to eliminate these restrictions as soon as possible.

Moreover, certain provisions of the Act raise constitutional concerns or
questions of construction. 

Some provisions of the Act, including sections 1048, 1213(b), 1217, and
1227(a)(1), will effectively require executive departments and agencies
to submit reports to certain committees that will, in the ordinary
course, include highly sensitive classified information, including
information that could reveal critical intelligence sources or military
operational plans.  The Constitution vests the President with the
authority to prevent the disclosure of such highly sensitive information
in order to discharge his responsibility to protect the national
security.  At the same time, congressional oversight committees have
legitimate needs to perform vital oversight and other legislative
functions with respect to national security and military matters. 
Accordingly, it has been the common practice of the executive branch to
comply with statutory reporting requirements in a way that satisfies
congressional needs pursuant to the traditional accommodation practice
and consistent with due regard for the protection from unauthorized
disclosure of classified information relating to sensitive intelligence
sources and methods or other exceptionally sensitive matters.  I believe
the Congress shares this understanding, and my Administration will
presume that it is incorporated into statutory reporting requirements of
the kind at issue in the Act.

Sections 6103(a) and 6503(b) of the Act would direct the Executive on
how to proceed in discussions with, or votes within, international
organizations.  I recognize that “\[i\]t is not for the President alone
to determine the whole content of the Nation’s foreign policy”
(Zivotofsky v. Kerry) and will make every effort to take action
consistent with these directives.  Indeed, I support the objectives
expressed in these provisions.  Nevertheless, I will not treat them as
limiting my constitutional discretion to articulate the views of the
United States before international organizations and with foreign
governments. 

Section 351 of the Act requires the Secretary of Defense to create a
working group “to integrate efforts to mitigate contested logistics
challenges through the reduction of operational energy demand.”  It
provides that the Service Secretaries shall “nominate” four of the
members of the working group subject to the Senate’s “confirmation.” 
The working group is an executive branch entity charged with making
recommendations and coordinating certain functions within the Department
of Defense.  Because its members would not be “officers” in the
constitutional sense but would have more than an advisory role in the
operations of the executive branch, subjecting them to Senate
confirmation would conflict with the anti-aggrandizement principle of
the separation of powers, by empowering part of the Congress to directly
interfere with the executive branch’s selection of employees.  *See
Bowsher v. Synar*; *The Constitutional Separation of Powers Between the
President and Congress*, 20 Op. O.L.C. 124, 131-32 (1996).  To be sure,
the Congress may create offices under the laws of the United States and
provide for appointment to such offices in a manner consistent with the
Appointments Clause (U.S. Const. art. II,  sec. 2, cl. 2), which may
include appointment by the President by and with the Senate’s advice and
consent.  The Appointments Clause does not, however, give the Senate any
role in appointing non-officers, let alone any authority to “confirm”
nominations by inferior officers such as the Service Secretaries. 
Therefore, although I anticipate that the Service Secretaries will be
able to consult with members of the Senate in deciding whom to appoint
to the working group and will welcome their input, the Service
Secretaries will not submit those working group appointees to the Senate
for confirmation.

Finally, I oppose the use of open-air burn pits, which is prohibited in
contingency operations by Public Law 111-84, section 317 (10 U.S.C. 2701
note).  I request that the Secretary of Defense seek Presidential
approval prior to exercising the exemption authority to this prohibition
added by section 316 of the Act.                          

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.   

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    December 27, 2021.

\###
