---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-20'
modified_time: 2021-12-20 16:22:23-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/20/president-biden-announces-intent-to-appoint-commissioners-to-the-presidents-advisory-commission-on-asian-americans-native-hawaiians-and-pacific-islanders/
published_time: 2021-12-20 16:16:23-05:00
title: "President Biden Announces Intent to Appoint Commissioners to the President\u2019\
  s Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following leaders as commissioners to the President’s Advisory
Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders:

The Commission will advise the President on ways the public, private,
and non-profit sectors can work together to advance equity and
opportunity for every Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific
Islander (AANHPI) community. The Commission is also charged with
advising the President on policies to address anti-Asian xenophobia and
violence, ways to build capacity in AANHPI communities through federal
grantmaking and policies to address the intersectional barriers that
AANHPI women, LGBTQ+ people, and people with disabilities face. The
Commission will include civic leaders from across the country and will
reflect the rich diversity of AANHPI communities across the United
States.

**Amy Agbayani**

Dr. Amefil (Amy) Agbayani is an Emeritus Assistant Vice Chancellor for
student diversity and equity, University of Hawai’i at Manoa. Agbayani
was born in the Philippines and received her education from the
University of the Philippines, East West Center and the University of
Hawai’i.  She is a former chair of the Hawai’i Civil Rights Commission,
conducts research on AANHPI in higher education, member of the Patsy
T.Mink PAC and The Legal Clinic for immigrant justice Hawai’i.

**Teresita Batayola**

Teresita Batayola is the President and Chief Executive Officer of
International Community Health Services, Washington state’s largest
Asian and Pacific Islander non-profit health center providing
comprehensive health care to all those who need affordable care,
especially immigrants and refugees. Batayola is an advocate for health
care access, equity, and addressing social determinants of health. ICHS
has received awards for its high quality of care and Batayola has been
recognized in the Puget Sound Business Journal’s Award for Outstanding
Business & Philanthropic Contributions, Woman of Courage Undaunted from
the University of Washington Women’s Center, and the Filipino Women’s
Network’s Most Influential Filipino Woman in the World.

**Ajay Bhutoria**

Ajay Bhutoria is a Silicon Valley technology executive, community
leader, speaker, and author that has been recognized for his work. He is
a passionate advocate for the South Asian and AAPI communities in the
areas of small businesses, educational opportunities, immigration
issues, and technological advancement. His expertise in the areas of
organizational transformations and change management has supported
critical advancements within the AAPI community, and he is committed to
the creation of a compassionate and empowering environment for all.

**Luisa Blue**

Luisa Blue retired from the Service Employees International Union (SEIU)
in August 2020 after serving as an Executive Vice President for four
years, one of the highest ranking AAPI officials in the labor movement.
During her term was responsible for the SEIU Asian Pacific Islanders
Civic Engagement and Leadership program, a member of the Racial Justice
Task Force, chair of the Environmental and Climate Justice Committee,
and chair of the Ethical Culture Committee. She served on the SEIU
Executive Board prior to her election as Executive Vice President. Luisa
continues to be active in the community and serves on the Asian Health
Services Community Board, a Trustee on Alameda County Health Systems
Board of Trustees, and Vice President of the AAPI Victory Alliance
Board. Luisa is the proud grandmother of seven grandchildren.

**Kimberly Chang**

Kimberly Seu Gin Chang, MD, MPH, born and raised in Honolulu, Hawai\`i
in a six generation kama\`āina family, is a board-certified family
physician in Oakland, California, at Asian Health Services, a federally
qualified community health center. Dr. Chang has dedicated her 20+ year
career to focusing on the health of the underserved AANHPI community,
including people vulnerable to and affected by human trafficking and
exploitation, developing national clinical and health policy
recommendations for this issue. Dr. Chang has received numerous awards,
most recently the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 2020
Emerging Public Health Professional Award and the 2021 UCSF Alumni
Humanitarian Service Award. She received her undergraduate degree from
Columbia College of Columbia University, her medical degree from the
University of Hawai\`i, her MPH from Harvard with the Commonwealth Fund
Minority Health Policy Fellowship, and her residency training at UCSF.
Dr. Chang currently serves as the Vice Speaker of the House for the
National Association of Community Health Centers, and as expert faculty
for Health Partners on Intimate Partner Violence + Exploitation at
Futures Without Violence.

**Emily Chen**

Emily Chen is Chief of Research at Olshan Realty and manages the Private
Wealth Real Estate Services, providing brokerage expertise along with
research and consulting capabilities. She co-founded the Olshan Luxury
Market Report, a weekly real-time snapshot of the Manhattan residential
real estate market, which became the industry standard and
revolutionized how the market is analyzed and evaluated. A former
National Big Sister of the Year, Chen serves on the board of Big
Brothers Big Sisters of America and is on the Executive Committee. Chen
is a graduate of Georgetown University and Co-Founder and Executive
Producer of Stand Up for Georgetown.

**Kerry Doi**

A 4th generation Japanese-American born on a Hawaiian plantation, Mr.
Kerry Doi has spent his life combatting hate and solidifying his
commitment to social and economic justice. For over 46 years, Mr. Doi
has dedicated his work to the cause and the community development space
through his leadership at Pacific Asian Consortium in Employment (PACE)
– one of the nation’s largest Asian-led community development
organizations serving 40,000 minority, low income individuals annually
through workforce, small business, environmental justice, affordable
housing, and early childhood education. He has served on numerous local,
state, and national boards including his current appointments as Chair
of the CA Community Economic Development Association, Vice Chair and
Treasurer of the LA Housing Partnership, and member of the LA County
Small Business Commission.

**Grace Huang**

Grace Huang, J.D., is a Taiwanese-American attorney who has advocated on
behalf of the rights of survivors of domestic and sexual violence for
almost 30 years as a legal services lawyer, attorney in private
practice, and policy advocate. She currently is the Director of Policy
at the Asian Pacific Institute on Gender-Based Violence, where she
focuses on federal policy to address the needs of survivors in Asian
American and Pacific Islander communities. Ms. Huang serves on the
[American Bar Association Commission on Domestic & Sexual
Violence](https://www.americanbar.org/groups/domestic_violence/), on the
[Washington State Women’s Commission](https://www.wswc.wa.gov/). Ms.
Huang also co-chairs the [Alliance for Immigrant
Survivors](http://www.immigrantsurvivors.org/), working to address the
needs of survivors of gender-based violence in the immigration system.

**Victoria Huynh**

Victoria Huynh is currently the Senior Vice President of the Center for
Pan Asian Community Services, Inc. (CPACS), the largest nonprofit in the
Southeast to focus on issues and concerns of AANHPI communities,
especially women, children, and families. For more than a decade, Huynh
has advocated for equitable language access, promoted local civic
engagement, protected immigrant rights, championed cultural competency,
and developed vital social service programs within the immigrant and
refugee communities in Atlanta, Georgia. Mrs. Huynh’s experiences in her
limited English proficient (LEP) Vietnamese Refugee household, fuels her
passion for community building, strategic planning, and policy work
within immigrant and refugee spaces. She is an MBA candidate and
currently serves as consultant, board member, and panelist on various
boards influencing state and local funding, nominations, and programs
that impact communities of color. 

**Mia Ives-Rublee**

Mia Ives-Rublee, MSW, is currently the Director of the Disability
Justice Initiative at the Center for American Progress. She obtained her
Master’s in Social Work at University of North Carolina (UNC) Chapel
Hill. She was also recognized as one of Glamour Women of the Year in
2017, She the People’s 20 Women of Color in Politics to Watch in 2020,
and received the 2019 Distinguished Alumni Award from the UNC School of
Social Work. Ives-Rublee works at the intersection of disability, race,
and gender, helping promote equity and opportunity for marginalized
communities through policy and organizing.

**Kamal Kalsi**

Dr. Kamal Singh Kalsi, LTC, USAR is an emergency medicine physician from
New Jersey that has served in the Army for 20 years and was awarded a
Bronze Star medal for his work taking care of hundreds of combat
casualties on the front lines in Afghanistan. He has transitioned into
the Army reserves, and now serves as a senior advisor for Policy Vets
and a Fellow of the Truman National Security Project’s Defense Council.
He founded the Sikh American Veterans Alliance (SAVA) in order to
promote diversity, religious freedom, and service.

**Michelle Kauhane**

Michelle Kauhane is the Senior Vice President of Community Grants &
Initiatives at Hawaii Community Foundation. Previously, she served as
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Council for Native Hawaiian
Advancement where she engaged in lending and investment services
deploying capital in underserved native Hawaiian communities statewide.
Michelle has a background in non-profit management, organizational
leadership, community based economic development and public policy
advocacy. She has served on numerous local and national boards and
currently sits on the Community Advisory Council at the Federal Reserve
of San Francisco to offer perspectives on the economic and financial
service needs of low- and moderate- income populations in Hawaii. She is
a graduate of Gonzaga University.

**Daniel Dae Kim**

Daniel Dae Kim is an award-winning actor, director and producer. In
addition to his series regular roles on TV’s LOST and THE HOT ZONE:
ANTHRAX, Kim starred as the King of Siam in Lincoln Center’s Broadway
production of the KING AND I. In addition to his numerous credits as an
actor, he is developing both film and television projects as a producer
with his company, 3AD. His current projects include THE GOOD DOCTOR
currently airing on ABC. Recently, he also turned to advocacy, joining
the Asian American Foundation, where he serves a Co-Chair of the
Advisory Council. Mr. Kim can next be seen as an actor in the live
action adaptation of AVATAR: THE LAST AIRBENDER. He currently lives in
Hawaii with his family.

**Kevin Kim**

Kevin D. Kim is a seasoned attorney, entrepreneur, and public servant.
He is a co-founder of *Abakidz*, a mental math program. In public
service, Mr. Kim was the first Korean American to win a NYC primary
election as a 2009 Democratic nominee for a NYC Council seat, then
served as the first Asian American commissioner of the New York State
Liquor Authority (SLA), and now serves as the first Korean American
Member of the Board of Trustees of the City University of New York
(CUNY) where he chairs the Audit Committee. He has served on the boards
of the Asian American Bar Association of New York (AABANY), Korean
American Association of Greater New York (KAAGNY), American Red Cross –
Queens Chapter, Friends of THIRTEEN, International Student Conferences,
Inc. (ISC), Korean American Community Foundation (KACF), and the Fordham
Law School Voting Rights and Democracy Project (Advisory Board).  Mr.
Kim received his B.A. and M.A. from Stanford University and his J.D.
from Columbia Law School, where he was a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar and
a member of the Columbia Law Review.

**Sarah Min**

Sarah Min is an advocate and former media executive. Min promotes the
advancement of mission-driven organizations who are transforming how to
use technology, media and person-to-person outreach to mobilize people
and change perceptions about women and people of color. From 2013-2019,
Min was an independent consultant, working with clients such as HBO,
Penguin Random House and other nonprofits, Previously, she served as
Executive Vice President for, Marketing & Corporate Development for
ScrollMotion, an enterprise software company. Min also was the Managing
Editor of Vibe and Domino magazines, a director at media company
Bertelsmann, as well as President of literary publishing company
McSweeney’s. She serves as a director on nonprofit boards, including
Color of Change and EMILY’s List, and has been engaged in grassroots
organizations, including the Korean American Community Foundation and
the Asian American Power Network. Sarah holds an MBA from Columbia
Business School and a BS in journalism from the University of Illinois
at  Urbana-Champaign.

**Simon Pang**

Emigrated from Singapore in late 1989, Pang has been in banking industry
since 1981. Pang is currently an Executive Vice President and Co-Founder
of Royal Business Bank. He is active in community service and was
appointed to positions in statewide nonprofit organizations, including
California Commission on Asian and Pacific Islander American Affairs,
California Highway Patrol Citizens Advisory Board member, Los Angeles
County Sheriff Youth Foundation Board member, US-Sino Friendship
Association President, US-Sino Aviation Heritage Foundation Honorable
Chairman. He has also served as a National Governing Board Member and
National Diversity Coalition Advisor with the national nonprofit Asian
Pacific Islander American Affairs.

**Ai-jen Poo**

Ai-jen Poo is an award-winning organizer, author, and a leading voice in
the women’s movement. She is the Executive Director of the [National
Domestic Workers Alliance](/www.domesticworkers.org/%3c), Director of
[Caring Across Generations](/caringacross.org/%3c), Co-Founder of
[SuperMajority](/supermajority.com/%3c), Co-Host of Sunstorm podcast and
a Trustee of the Ford Foundation. Ai-jen is a nationally recognized
expert on elder and family care, the future of work, and what’s at stake
for women of color. She is the author of the celebrated book, [The Age
of Dignity: Preparing for the Elder Boom in a Changing
America](/www.amazon.com/Age-Dignity-Preparing-Changing-America/dp/1620972018%3c).

**Naheed Qureshi**

Naheed Qureshi is Head of Policy Partnerships at Instacart. Ms. Qureshi
has had an extensive 20-year career in civil rights, including serving
as a founding board member and later deputy director of Muslim Advocates
and as co-chair of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights
Hate Crimes and Bigotry Task Force. Ms. Qureshi started her career in
the U.S. Department of Justice Attorney General’s Honors Program and has
also worked at the Civil Rights Division in the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security, the City of Los Angeles, and the national legislative
office of the ACLU. Ms. Qureshi received a B.A. in political science
from the University of Wisconsin and J.D. from Georgetown University Law
Center. The daughter of immigrants from Pakistan, she was raised in
Wisconsin and is an avid Packers fan.

**Raynald Samoa**

Dr. Raynald Samoa is an endocrinologist at the City of Hope and his
current research projects include a faith-based community-centered
diabetes prevention program in the San Gabriel Valley investigating a
social-connectedness modified approach. Dr. Samoa served as the Lead for
the National Pacific Islander COVID-19 Response Team and has authored
several manuscripts describing the impact of COVID-19 on Pacific
Islander communities. He has testified to the House of Representative
Ways and Means Committee during a session entitled THE DISPROPORTIONATE
IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON COMMUNITIES OF COLOR. He currently is the
technical assistance lead for the Healing Association of Pacific
Islander Physicians, a professional organization associated with the
National Association of Organization of Pacific Islander Organizations.

**Sonal Shah**

Sonal Shah is a social impact and innovation leader that has launched
and led social impact efforts in academia, government, and the private
and philanthropic sectors for over 25 years. She is the Founding
President of The Asian American Foundation (TAAF), starting the largest
philanthropic effort to serve the Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and
Pacific Islander communities. Prior to TAAF, Shah founded and led
Georgetown University’s Beeck Center for Social Impact and Innovation,
providing students a first-hand opportunity to work on social impact
projects in the public, private, and social sectors. She served as
Deputy Assistant to President Obama and created the White House Office
of Social Innovation and Civic Participation, worked on international
development at the Department of Treasury, and led social impact efforts
at Google and Goldman Sachs. She serves on the boards of TAAF, Oxfam
America, the Century Foundation, and the National Democratic Institute.

**Smita Shah**

Smita N. Shah is an engineer, entrepreneur, and civic leader serving as
President and CEO of Chicago-based SPAAN Tech, Inc, a multi-disciplinary
firm with expertise in public and private infrastructure projects
including transportation, aviation, and facilities. Shah serves in
various roles with the Chicago Plan Commission, M.I.T., the Museum of
Science and Industry, After School Matters, Delhi Chicago Sister Cities
Program, YPO, the Lincoln Academy of Illinois, and the Harris School of
Public Policy at the University of Chicago. She is a member of the board
of MacLean Fogg Company and a member of the Commercial Club of Chicago
and the Economic Club of Chicago. Shah earned her Bachelor of Science
from Northwestern University, her Master of Science in Civil and
Environmental Engineering from M.I.T., and a Post Graduate Certificate
in Management Studies from Oxford University.

**Robert Underwood**

Robert A. Underwood is a former Member of Congress representing Guam for
10 years. He is also President Emeritus of the University of Guam and
has the distinction of being the longest serving President of the
university. He has served the nation as Chair of the Congressional Asian
Pacific American Caucus and the founding Chair of the Asian Pacific
Islander Scholarship Fund. As a scholar and activist, he has served his
region and his people as a passionate advocate for the respect and
maintenance of the Chamoru language and the empowerment of the peoples
of Micronesia.

**KaYing Yang**

For more than three decades, KaYing has been a social justice advocate
who has built and led community organizing, public policy engagement,
and development efforts locally, nationally, and globally. She began her
career as a community organizer and executive manager providing social
services and advocacy for the protection of refugees and immigrants in
Minnesota at the Women’s Association of Hmong and Lao. She then went on
to defend and promote immigrant and human rights by serving in a number
of organizations including the Southeast Asia Resource Action Center,
the International Organization for Migration, the International Finance
Corporation, and the Coalition of Asian American Leaders in Minnesota.
All of her work comes from a deep experience having come to the United
States as a Hmong refugee at the age of seven in 1976 where she
experienced firsthand the struggles faced by communities experiencing
generational trauma and poverty.

\###
