---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-15'
modified_time: 2021-12-15 17:16:59-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/15/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-and-an-appointee-to-board-and-commission-roles/
published_time: 2021-12-15 16:15:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Nominees and an Appointee to Board and Commission\_\
  Roles"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Chris Saunders, Nominee for Federal Co-Chair of the Northern Border
    Regional Commission
-   Corey Wiggins, Nominee for Federal Co-Chair of the Delta Regional
    Authority
-   Summer Mersinger, Nominee for Commissioner of the Commodity Futures
    Trading Commission
-   Caroline Pham, Nominee for Commissioner of the Commodity Futures
    Trading Commission
-   Edward Gabriel, Nominee for Member of the United States Institute of
    Peace Board of Directors
-   Nathalie Rayes, Nominee for Member of the United States Institute of
    Peace Board of Directors
-   Mary Swig, Nominee for Member of the United States Institute of
    Peace Board of Directors

In addition, the President has appointed Glenda Glover as Vice Chair of
the President’s Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and
Universities.

**<u>Chris Saunders, Nominee for Federal Co-Chair of the Northern Border
Regional Commission</u>**

Chris Saunders has served for nearly two decades on the staff of United
States Senator Patrick Leahy. For the past decade, he has been a member
of Senator Leahy’s Vermont office as a Field Representative, where he
has engaged with Vermont communities on community and economic
development, transportation, and telecommunications policy. From 2002 to
2011, Saunders held a variety of legislative roles in the Senator’s
Washington D.C. office, focusing on housing, health care, education, and
domestic appropriations.  An avid hiker, skier, and angler, Saunders was
raised in Middlebury, Vermont, attended Bowdoin College, and currently
resides in Burlington, Vermont with his wife and two children.

**<u>Corey Wiggins, Nominee for Federal Co-Chair of the Delta Regional
Authority</u>**

Growing up in rural Mississippi, Dr. Corey Wiggins is driven by a
mission to serve the community. This mission has served as a guiding
principle as Executive Director of the Mississippi State Conference
NAACP. Over his diverse career, Dr. Wiggins has focused on creating
equitable opportunities. Previously, Dr. Wiggins served as Senior Vice
President of Policy at Hope Enterprise Corporation and Hope Credit
Union. He also served as Director of the Hope Policy Institute, where he
focused on strengthening communities, building assets, and improving
lives in economically distressed parts of the Mid-South. He has served
as a public policy professional as a Barbara Jordan Health Policy Fellow
in the United States Senate, and as a policy analyst for the Mississippi
State Legislature. Dr. Wiggins has also held the rank of Visiting
Assistant Professor of Health Policy and Management at Jackson State
University.

Dr. Wiggins completed his undergraduate studies at Alcorn State
University. He received a Master of Science in Public Health with an
emphasis in Health Policy and a Ph.D. from the University of Alabama at
Birmingham. Additionally, he has a certificate of nonprofit leadership
from Boston College. Dr. Wiggins has also furthered his training through
fellowships with the Kaiser Family Foundation, the W.K. Kellogg
Foundation, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).

**<u>Summer Mersinger, Nominee for Commissioner of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission</u>**

Summer Mersinger has over 17 years of federal government service,
spending the last two years at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
where she served as chief of staff to Commissioner Dawn D. Stump and as
the director of Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs. Prior federal
service included 15 years working on Capitol Hill in the House of
Representatives and the Senate for her home state Congressman and then
Senator, John Thune from South Dakota.

A native of South Dakota who grew up in a farm family where row crops
such as wheat, sunflowers, corn and soybeans are still grown and
harvested by her immediate family members, Mersinger received her
undergraduate degree in political science from the University of
Minnesota-Twin Cities in 1999. An internship with the late Congressman
Jim Ramstad from Minnesota opened the door to her career on Capitol
Hill, where she returned after graduation and started answering phones
for her home state congressman. A few years after the start of her
career, Mersinger decided to pursue a law degree and attended evening
classes at Catholic University’s Columbus School of Law in Washington,
D.C. where she received her law degree in 2007. Mersinger is a member of
the D.C. Bar, a volunteer with Fairfax CASA (Court Appointed Special
Advocates), and a proud mother of four children. She resides in Fairfax
Station, Virginia with her husband, two daughters, and two sons.

**<u>Caroline Pham, Nominee for Commissioner of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission</u>**

Caroline D. Pham is a recognized leader in financial services compliance
and regulatory strategy and policy, focusing on capital markets and
emerging issues such as digital innovation. She is a Managing Director
at Citi where she has held various senior roles, including as a global
head of compliance and deputy head of global regulatory affairs. She is
currently head of market structure for strategic initiatives in Citi’s
Institutional Clients Group and represents Citi on the Executive
Committee of the Chamber of Digital Commerce. Pham has advised on key
global issues such as prudential regulation and systemic risk, financial
markets including currencies and commodities, fintech and digital
assets, and environmental, social and governance (ESG), and has led
initiatives for Dodd-Frank Act implementation and other global financial
regulatory reform.

Pham’s past experience in private and public sector roles includes
serving as Special Counsel and Policy Advisor to former CFTC
Commissioner Scott O’Malia. She was also a Visiting Fellow at the George
Washington University Center for Law, Economics, and Finance and serves
on the Dean’s Advisory Council for the Business and Finance Law Program.
Pham is a Fellow of the American Bar Foundation; member of the Council
of the American Bar Association Business Law Section and the Executive
Committee of its Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Board; Vice Chair of
its Banking Law Committee; and past Co-Chair of the Securities, Capital
Markets, and Derivatives Subcommittee. Pham has a B.A. from UCLA and a
J.D. from the George Washington University Law School. She is from
California’s Central Valley and lives in New York City with her family.

**<u>Edward Gabriel, Nominee for Member of the United States Institute
of Peace Board of Directors</u>**

Ambassador Edward Gabriel has an extensive background in international
affairs, having convened multilateral policy forums involving national
security, trade, and energy issues. He has been involved in matters of
Russian nuclear non-proliferation, and he has been active in advising
the U.S. government on Middle East policy concerns. In 1997, he became
the 16th U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of Morocco. Currently,
Ambassador Gabriel is the volunteer President and CEO of the American
Task Force on Lebanon, a nonprofit organization that seeks to build
greater understanding and cultural ties between the United States and
Lebanon.

Ambassador Gabriel was founding CEO of one of the largest public affairs
companies in Washington D.C., the Madison Public Affairs Group. He was a
senior economic analyst with the Department of Energy, and was the
founding Executive Director of the Council of Energy Resource Tribes, an
association of American Indian tribes that owned energy resources. He
was also Director of the Keystone Policy Center’s Energy Project, which
pioneered electricity sector reform. He serves on the boards of the
American Schools of Tangier and Marrakech, the Keystone Policy Center,
AMIDEAST, and Lebanese American University. He is the recipient of
numerous awards, including the Ellis Island Medal of Honor and ACCESS
Arab American of the Year, among others, and was recognized by the FBI
for his work on bilateral security issues. He is the recipient of
Lebanon’s National Order of the Cedar and Morocco’s Order of the Ouissam
Alaouite. Ambassador Gabriel holds a B.S. degree in business and an
Honorary Doctorate of Laws from Gannon University. Ambassador Gabriel
grew up in Olean, NY, and lives in Washington, D.C. with his wife,
Kathleen Linehan.

**<u>Nathalie Rayes, Nominee for Member of the United States Institute
of Peace Board of Directors</u>**

Nathalie Rayes is the President and CEO of Latino Victory Project, a
national organization dedicated to building Latino political power.
Rayes has devoted her career to advancing and empowering the Latino
community through advocacy and education. Before joining Latino Victory
Project, Rayes was Vice President of Public Affairs for Grupo Salinas in
the United States and Executive Director of Fundación Azteca America.
Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Chief of Staff for Los
Angeles Mayor James K. Hahn, where she created and directed the city’s
first-ever Office of Immigrant Affairs and managed the Mayor’s Office of
Intergovernmental Relations, International Trade, and Protocol.

Rayes currently serves on the Board of Directors of Hispanic Federation
and Planned Parenthood Action Fund, and she is the chair of the
Binational Advisory Group for the Hispanas Organized for Political
Equality (HOPE). She served six years as President Barack Obama’s
appointee to the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars,
chairing the Audit Committee. She was named one of the 25 most powerful
Latinas in the United States by People en Español Magazine and Top 10
Líderes by Hispanic Executive Magazine in 2021. Rayes was recognized in
the Huffington Post “40 Under 40 Latinos in Foreign Policy” in 2015. She
is the recipient of UCLA Masters in Public Policy Alumna of the Year
2014 and Santa Monica College Distinguished Alumna Recognition Award for
Outstanding Professional and Community Service Achievement of 2013.
Rayes has a Bachelor of Arts in Sociology cum laude and a Master’s in
Public Policy with concentrations in International Relations and
Education from UCLA. She is fluent in Spanish and conversational Arabic.

**<u>Mary Swig, Nominee for Member of the United States Institute of
Peace Board of Directors</u>**

Mary Green Swig is an internationally-known fashion designer, who for
many decades has brought her luxurious silk creations to the United
States from East Asia. Her company, Mary Green, has also designed and
imported innovative clothing and other interesting products from Asia,
Middle East, and Africa. She received her B.A. from the University of
California at Berkeley. Active in various not-for-profit organizations,
she serves on the boards of, among others, the Solar Electric Light
Fund, Americans for Cures, as well as the International Advisory Council
of the United States Institute of Peace. She also serves on the Women’s
Leadership Board of the Kennedy School at Harvard University. She also
serves on the Advisory Council of Presidio Graduate School and the
Boards of the Shanghai and Haifa Sister City Committees.  She is the
recipient of the Retinitis Pigmentosa Vision Award Woman of Vision
Leadership. She has also received the Leadership Award of the Leading
Women’s Entrepreneurs of the World. 

**<u>Glenda Glover, Appointee for Vice Chair of the President’s Board of
Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities</u>**

Dr. Glenda Baskin Glover serves as the eighth President of Tennessee
State University (TSU) in Nashville, Tennessee, a position she has held
since January 2013. Under her leadership as the University’s first
female president, TSU has experienced a significant increase in alumni
and corporate giving, research funding and academic offerings. The
University has also received the Carnegie R2 “high research activity”
designation with Dr. Glover at the helm. Dr. Glover’s commitment and
advocacy of HBCUs spans nearly four decades, including the work she has
done as International President and CEO of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority,
Inc (AKA). Dr. Glover has engaged in groundbreaking work to elevate the
stature of HBCUs with historic fundraising efforts and marketing.
Through her work as a college president and as the international
president of AKA, she implemented a fundraising campaign to raise $1
million in one day for HBCUs. This massive fundraising effort resulted
in the establishment of endowments at each of the 96 four-year HBCUs.

Dr. Glover’s educational development began as a student at Tennessee
State University, where she majored in mathematics. After graduating
with honors with a Bachelor of Science degree, she pursued the Master of
Business Administration from Clark Atlanta University. She then
completed her doctorate in business from George Washington University,
and later completed her law degree from Georgetown University. She is
also a certified public accountant, and is one of only three
African-American women to hold the Ph.D-CPA-JD combination in the United
States. Her career also includes serving on boards of publicly traded
corporations Pinnacle Financial Partners, The Lenox Group,
Citigroup-Student Loan Corporation, and First Guaranty Bancshares. Dr.
Glover currently serves as a member of the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Nashville Airport Authority.

\###
