---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-15'
modified_time: 2021-12-15 14:33:06-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/15/president-biden-announces-key-diplomatic-and-agency-nominees/
published_time: 2021-12-15 16:15:00-05:00
title: President Biden Announces Key Diplomatic and Agency Nominees
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Caroline Kennedy, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Commonwealth of Australia
-   Michelle Kwan, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to Belize
-   Robert Wood, Nominee for Alternate Representative of the United
    States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United
    Nations, with the rank of Ambassador
-   Frank Calvelli, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
    Space Acquisition, Department of Defense
-   Franklin Parker, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Navy for
    Manpower and Reserve Affairs, Department of Defense
-   Michael Morgan, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Environmental
    Observation and Prediction, Department of Commerce
-   LaWanda Toney, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for the Office of
    Communications and Outreach, Department of Education
-   Marvin Adams, Nominee for Deputy Director for Defense Programs,
    Department of Energy

**<u>Caroline Kennedy, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Commonwealth of Australia</u>**

Caroline Kennedy served as U.S. Ambassador to Japan from 2013-2017. She
played a critical role in the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of
the end of World War II culminating in the historic visits of President
Obama to Hiroshima and Prime Minister Abe to Pearl Harbor. She advanced
the realignment of U.S. Forces in Okinawa, promoted women’s empowerment
in Japan, and increased student exchange between the U.S and Japan. In
2017, she founded the International Poetry Exchange Project to virtually
connect students in Japan, Korea, the Philippines, and the Bronx through
the power of the spoken word. In November 2021, she was awarded the
Grand Cordon of the Rising Sun, the highest honor for which foreigners
are eligible, for her efforts to strengthen the US-Japan alliance.

Prior to her time in Japan, Kennedy was at the forefront of education
reform efforts in New York City, creating public private partnerships to
promote arts education, school libraries, and performing arts spaces.
She served as the CEO of the Office of Strategic Partnerships at the NYC
Department of Education from 2002-2004, Vice Chair of the Fund for
Public Schools from 2002-2010, and served on the Board of New Visions
for Public Schools.

An attorney and author, Kennedy has published 11 New York Times
best-selling books on law, civics, and poetry and serves as the Honorary
President of the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation. She is a Director
of the Carnegie Corporation and a member of the Board of Advisors of the
International Rescue Committee.

**<u>Michelle Kwan, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Belize</u>**

Michelle Kwan has had a distinguished career in public service,
diplomacy, and sports. She is the most decorated figure skater in U.S.
history, having won 43 championships, including five world
championships, nine national titles, and two Olympic medals. She became
the first Public Diplomacy Envoy in 2006 and for a decade, traveled
extensively on behalf of the U.S. Department of State to engage youth
around the world on social and educational issues. Kwan currently serves
as the Treasurer and Board Member of Special Olympics International.

After she earned a B.A. from the University of Denver with a focus on
international relations and a M.A. from Tufts University’s Fletcher
School of Law and Diplomacy, she became a Senior Advisor at the Bureau
of Educational and Cultural Affairs at the U.S. Department of State. In
addition, she served as an Advisor to the Office of Global Women’s
Issues at the U.S. Department of State, where she assisted with the
U.S.-China Women’s Leadership Exchange and Dialogue. She was also a
member of the President’s Council on Fitness, Sports and Nutrition and
Council on Empowering Women and Girls Through Sports initiative at the
U.S. Department of State.

**<u>Robert Wood, Nominee for Alternate Representative of the United
States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations,
with the rank of Ambassador</u>**

Robert A. Wood served as the U.S. Ambassador to the Conference on
Disarmament, Geneva, Switzerland, from 2014-2021. During that time, he
also served concurrently as the United States Commissioner to the
Bilateral Consultative Commission of the New START Treaty, and as the
United States Special Representative for Biological Weapons Convention
(BWC) issues. Prior to that, he was Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S.
Mission to the European Union in Brussels, Belgium; he also served as
Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Mission to International
Organizations in Vienna, Austria. Wood was the Deputy Spokesperson and
Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Public Affairs in the
Department of State, and an Information Officer at U.S. Embassy in
Berlin, Germany. Earlier in his career, he was Deputy Director of
Communications and Spokesperson at the U.S. Mission to the United
Nations in New York.

Previous assignments include serving as Senior Advisor in the Office of
the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe; Special Assistant in the Office
of the Under Secretary of Public Diplomacy; Executive Assistant in the
Office of the Counselor of the United States Information Agency; Public
Affairs Officer in the Bureau of African Affairs; Desk Officer for
Egypt, Yemen, and Sudan; and Near East Regional Program Officer in the
United States Information Agency. Other overseas postings include
Islamabad, Pakistan, Lagos, Nigeria, and Mexico City, Mexico. Wood
speaks Spanish, German, and French. He earned a B.A. from The City
University of New York.

**<u>Frank Calvelli, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
for Space Acquisition, Department of Defense</u>**

Frank Calvelli is a senior leader in Booz Allen Hamilton’s national
security program, working on space and intelligence initiatives. Prior
to joining Booz Allen Hamilton in 2021, he had a 34-year career with the
Central Intelligence Agency, having spent over 30 years assigned to the
National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) – a joint Intelligence
Community/Department of Defense organization responsible for designing,
building, launching, and maintaining America’s intelligence satellites.
From July 2012 to October 2020, he was the Principal Deputy Director of
the NRO, where he provided overall day-to-day management of the
organization and oversaw a large portfolio of space activities that
included satellite and ground system acquisition, systems engineering,
and satellite mission operations. During his government career, Calvelli
received several awards, including the Presidential Rank Award for
Distinguished Service, the National Intelligence Distinguished Service
Medal, the CIA Distinguished Career Intelligence Medal, and the NRO
Distinguished Performance Medal. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in
computer science from the State University of New York at Potsdam, and
an M.B.A. from Loyola University Maryland. He is married to Melissa
Calvelli and has four children. 

**<u>Franklin Parker, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Navy for
Manpower and Reserve Affairs, Department of Defense</u>**

Franklin R. Parker is currently Senior Counsel, Intelligence Solutions,
for BAE Systems Inc.’s Intelligence & Security Sector, a position he has
held since 2019. From 2017 to 2019, he worked as Director and Senior
Counsel, International Trade and Compliance, for BAE Systems Inc.’s
Platforms & Services Sector. Parker served as Assistant Secretary of the
Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs at the Department of Defense from
2016 to 2017. From 2012 to 2016, he served as Chief Counsel for the
Maritime Administration at the Department of Transportation. From 2009
to 2012, Parker was an Attorney Advisor in the Office of the General
Counsel of the Navy, Department of Defense. Prior to his government
service, Parker worked as an Associate at Winston & Strawn LLP. He began
his career as an Associate at Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro LLP and
Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison, LLP. Parker received a B.A. from Yale
University, a J.D. from Stanford Law School, and an M.P.P. from the John
F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.

**<u>Michael Morgan, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Environmental
Observation and Prediction, Department of Commerce</u>**

Dr. Michael C. Morgan is a professor in the Department of Atmospheric
and Oceanic Sciences at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where he
serves as the associate chair of the department’s undergraduate program.
 He has served as chair of his department and is Associate Chair of his
department’s undergraduate program. Dr. Morgan has served the American
Meteorological Society (AMS) community as a member of the Board on Women
and Minorities, the AMS Scientific and Technological Activities
Commission for Atmospheric and Oceanic Fluid Dynamics, and as an AMS
Councilor. He was elected an AMS Fellow in 2018 and has served on the
World Meteorological Organization World Weather Research Program’s
Science Steering Committee since 2014. Dr. Morgan is completing a second
term on the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research (UCAR) Board
of Trustees and currently serves as a member of the Board of Directors
of the American Institute of Physics.

Dr. Morgan was an AMS/UCAR Congressional Science Fellow working in the
office of U.S. Senator Benjamin Cardin (MD) as a senior legislative
fellow on energy and environment issues in support of the Senator’s
service on the Environment and Public Works Committee. From June 2010
until June 2014, Dr. Morgan served as Division Director for the Division
of Atmospheric and Geospace Sciences at the National Science Foundation.
His research interests include the analysis, diagnosis, prediction, and
predictability of mid-latitude and tropical weather systems. He was born
in Northampton, Massachusetts and grew up in Baltimore, Maryland where
he attended the Baltimore Polytechnic Institute. Dr. Morgan earned his
S.B. in Mathematics and Ph.D. in Meteorology from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.

**<u>LaWanda Toney, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for the Office of
Communications and Outreach, Department of Education</u>**

LaWanda Toney is the Director of Strategic Communications at the
National Parent Teacher Association (National PTA), whose mission is to
empower families and communities to advocate for all children.  She has
served at the association for over 12 years. In her current role, she
manages the National PTA’s communications team in the areas of web,
social media, editorial, creative development, and media relations. Her
work has received several awards from the Association of Media and
Publishing and the Power of “A” Awards with ASAE. Toney is also the
co-host of National PTA’s podcast, Notes from the Backpack.

Prior to working at National PTA, Toney managed marketing programs,
planned special events and created communications campaigns for major
retailers, nonprofits, publishing, and advertising companies. Toney
holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in broadcast journalism from Howard
University and a Master of Arts in strategic communication with an
emphasis in public relations from Trinity University. She is also a
member of American Society of Association Executives (ASAE) and
ColorComm, an organization for women of color in all areas of
communications.

**<u>Marvin Adams, Nominee for Deputy Director for Defense Programs,
Department of Energy</u>**

Dr. Marvin L. Adams is the HTRI Professor of Nuclear Engineering and
Director of National Laboratories Mission Support at the Texas A&M
University System, where he has been on the faculty since 1992. He was a
physicist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) from 1986 to
1992, and has remained extensively engaged with the U.S. national
security laboratories since that time. He currently serves on the
President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST); the
Stockpile Assessment Team of the Strategic Advisory Group for U.S.
Strategic Command; the National Academies Committee on International
Security and Arms Control; and the Predictive Science Panel for LLNL and
Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL). For LANL, he also chairs the
Mission Committee and serves on the Science, Technology, and Engineering
Committee. He has led and contributed to numerous studies for the U.S.
government on matters related to national security. Dr. Adams is a
Fellow of the American Nuclear Society. He received his M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees in nuclear engineering from the University of Michigan and his
B.S. degree in nuclear engineering from Mississippi State University. 

\###
