---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-02'
modified_time: 2021-12-01 18:41:14-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/02/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-reforms-to-increase-equity-and-level-the-playing-field-for-underserved-small-business-owners/
published_time: 2021-12-02 08:00:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Reforms to Increase\
  \ Equity and Level the Playing Field for Underserved Small Business\_Owners"
---
 
The federal government is the largest purchaser of goods and services in
the world, buying everything from software and building construction to
financial and asset management—making its procurement a powerful tool to
advance equity and build wealth in underserved communities. Despite
this, less than 10 percent of federal agencies’ total eligible
contracting dollars typically go to small disadvantaged businesses
(SDB), a category under federal law for which Black-owned, Latino-owned,
and other minority-owned businesses are presumed to qualify. Moreover,
while women own roughly 20 percent of all small businesses economy-wide,
less than 5 percent of federal contracting dollars go to women-owned
small businesses.

Increasing federal spending with underserved businesses not only helps
more Americans realize their entrepreneurial dreams, but also narrows
persistent wealth disparities. According to [new
analysis](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/blog/2021/12/01/the-benefits-of-increased-equity-in-federal-contracting/)
from the White House Council of Economic Advisers, based on data
provided by the Small Business Administration (SBA), differences in
business ownership account for 20 percent of the wealth gap between
average white and Black households.

For this reason, at the June 1 centennial of the Tulsa Race Massacre,
President Biden announced a bold new goal: increasing the share of
contracts going to small disadvantaged businesses by 50 percent by 2025
– an unprecedented target projected to translate to an additional $100
billion to SDBs over 5 years.  The announcement built on the President’s
Day One Executive Order 13985, which directed agencies to work to make
contracting opportunities more readily available to all eligible firms
and to remove barriers faced by underserved individuals and communities.

In addition, on November 18, the Administration launched its
[President’s Management Agenda (PMA)
Vision](https://www.performance.gov/PMA).  The third PMA
priority—*managing the business of government to build back
better*—recognizes that fostering lasting improvements in the Federal
acquisition system can create opportunities for underserved
communities.  The PMA Vision states, “By creating more opportunities for
all types of businesses and underserved entrepreneurs to compete for
Federal contracts, the Federal marketplace can serve as a platform to
create a more equitable economy.”

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing a set of reforms to
the federal procurement process to help meet the President’s ambitious
target of increasing the share of federal contracts to SDBs, advance the
President’s Management Agenda, and increase opportunity for all
underserved businesses. Today’s actions include:

-   **For the first time, asking agencies to increase their goals so
    that governmentwide spending results in 11 percent of contracting
    dollars being awarded to small disadvantaged businesses, up from the
    current statutory goal of 5 percent.** This is the first step
    towards meeting the President’s goal of ensuring that 15% of federal
    contracts go to SDBs by 2025.

<!-- -->

-   **Releasing, for the first time, disaggregated data of federal
    contracting spend by race/ethnicity of business owner, a powerful
    transparency and management tool.**

<!-- -->

-   **Implementing major changes to the federal government’s use of
    “category management” to boost contracting opportunities for
    underserved small businesses.**

<!-- -->

-   **Increasing the number of new entrants to the Federal marketplace
    and reversing declines in the small business supplier base. **

<!-- -->

-   **Adopting key management practices to drive accountability and
    institutionalize achievement of small business contracting goals.**

**For the first time, asking agencies create ambitious goals in order to
exceed the existing statutory goal of 5 percent by spending 11 percent
of Fiscal Year 2022 governmentwide procurement dollars on small
disadvantaged businesses.** Small business contracting goals are a key
element of our federal procurement system, driving priorities for nearly
40,000 federal contracting officers.  Today’s action will put agencies
on a path to meeting the President’s goal of increasing annual SDB spend
from an average of 9.8 percent over the last 5 years to 15 percent by FY
2025. The reforms we are putting in place now will help ramp up the
amount of money going to SDBs in the coming years and keep us on a path
to meet the President’s goal of an additional $100 billion to SDBs over
the next five years.

Over the course of the coming year, the federal government will also
update goals for other “socioeconomic” categories of small businesses,
including women-owned small businesses, service-disabled veteran owned
small businesses, and HUBZone businesses.

**Releasing, for the first time, disaggregated data of federal
contracting spend by race/ethnicity of business owner, a powerful
transparency and management tool.** Today, the Administration is
[releasing](https://www.sba.gov/blog/sba-releases-fy-2020-disaggregated-contracting-data),
for the first time, disaggregated data of federal contracting spend by
business owner race/ethnicity. For years, the federal government has
relied on topline data to benchmark contracting spend to small
businesses and socioeconomic small businesses. This data, while
insightful, offers only a partial illustration of performance in
reaching certain groups. For example, while we typically award roughly
10 percent of federal contracting dollars to SDBs, in FY 2020 just 1.7
percent went to Black-owned small businesses, 1.8 percent went to
Hispanic-owned small businesses, and 2.8 percent went to Asian American
and Pacific Islander-owned small businesses. Similarly, high-level data
obscures inequitable geographic distribution of federal contracts.
Beginning with FY 2020 data, the federal government will publicly
release this disaggregated data on an annual basis so that procurement
officials, business owners, and the American people can use it as a tool
to track equity and progress over time. This data will also allow
agencies to assess their performance across industries and sectors,
helping them better target interventions to areas with the greatest
opportunity for growth.

**Introducing major changes to the federal government’s use of “category
management” to boost contracting opportunities for underserved small
businesses.** In recent years, the federal government has organized its
buying practices for the majority of its contract spending using
stewardship principles of “category management.” This process helps
agencies buy as an organized entity, rather than as thousands of
independent buyers, which allows agencies to make informed buying
decisions and eliminate redundant buying choices. However, an analysis
of category management spending since 2017 reveals that “socioeconomic
firms, a group that includes SDBs, women-owned, service disabled
veteran-owned, and HUBZones, have received a proportionally lower share
of contracts.  To address this unintended consequence and increase
support for these businesses, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
is issuing revised guidance on the use of category management to help
federal agencies conduct more equitable buying practices. This guidance:

-   Gives agencies automatic “credit” under category management for all
    awards made to socioeconomic small businesses, beginning in FY 2022.

<!-- -->

-   Reinforces the importance of small business goal achievement as a
    key to advancing equity in procurement, especially when coupled with
    category management stewardship practices.

<!-- -->

-   Ensures that use of “Best in Class” solutions is balanced with
    decentralized contracts and other strategies that are necessary to
    increase diversity within agency supplier bases.

<!-- -->

-   Strengthens the voice for small business equity considerations in
    category management governance by making the SBA and the Department
    of Commerce (parent agency of the Minority Business Development
    Agency) voting members of the Category Management Leadership
    Council, the interagency governing body for category management
    activities.

**Adopting key management practices to drive accountability and
institutionalize achievement of small business contracting goals.**
Advancing equity for socioeconomic businesses firms requires focused
attention, proactive engagement, and execution by agency senior
leadership. On [November
18,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2021/11/18/office-of-management-and-budget-launches-biden-harris-management-agenda-vision/#:~:text=The%20Office%20of%20Management%20and,that%20delivers%20results%20for%20all.)
the Administration launched the President’s Management Agenda (PMA)
Vision, which recognizes that fostering lasting improvements in the
Federal acquisition system can create opportunities for underserved
communities. Consistent with this vision, the federal government will:

-   **Hold leaders accountable for meeting small business contracting
    goals.** OMB is directing all agencies to include progress towards
    achievement of each of the socioeconomic small business goals as
    evaluation criteria in all performance plans for Senior Executive
    Service (SES) managers that oversee the acquisition workforce or
    agency programs supported by contractors.

<!-- -->

-   **Ensure agency small business contracting offices have direct
    reporting lines to senior leadership.** Federal Offices of Small and
    Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSBDUs) play an important role
    by working with agency acquisition officials to increase contracting
    with small businesses; assisting small businesses in obtaining
    payments from an agency; and providing advice to agency senior
    leadership to expand access to the supplier base. OMB is directing
    all federal agencies to report to SBA and OMB their plans to ensure
    that OSBDUs have direct access to senior leadership.

**Increasing the number of new entrants to the federal marketplace to
reverse the decline in the small business supplier base.** A recent
report found that the number of new small business entrants to federal
procurement decreased by 60 percent over the past decade. This trend is
directly at odds with the Administration’s equity goals and not only
means fewer growth opportunities for small businesses, but weakened
diversity and resilience of the federal supplier base. To reverse this
trend, the Biden-Harris administration is tasking agencies with
benchmarking the inclusion of new entrants in the federal marketplace
and developing strategies for diversifying the small business supplier
base. Agencies will work to increase transparency around future
contracting opportunities to ensure that more small businesses have the
opportunity to compete for them and enter the federal marketplace. 

\###
