---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-09'
modified_time: 2021-12-09 23:45:40-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/09/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-hhs-epa-and-hud/
published_time: 2021-12-09 16:00:00-05:00
title: President Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for USDA, HHS, EPA, and
  HUD
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to appoint
the following individuals to serve in key regional roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Health and Human Services
(HHS), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and Housing and Urban
Development (HUD).

-   Kyle Wilkens, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Missouri
-   Rhiannon Hampson, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Maine
-   Jim Barber, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency, New
    York
-   John Perdue, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    West Virginia
-   Sima Ladjevardian, HHS Regional Director, Region 6
-   Earthea Nance, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 6
-   Meg McCollister, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 7
-   Martha Guzman, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 9
-   Diane Shelley, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 5

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of American and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**

The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.

USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.

**<u>Kyle Wilkens, State Director, Rural Development, Missouri</u>**

Kyle Wilkens is a native of rural west-central Missouri and a committed
public servant. Since 2012, he has served on the congressional staff for
Congressman Emanuel Cleaver of Missouri as his Rural Policy Director,
and from 2002 to 2011, he served on the staff of Congressman Ike
Skelton, also of Missouri. Both Congressmen represented his home
district, keeping with Kyle’s lifelong commitment to Missouri. He has
extensive experience working with elected officials, community leaders,
USDA and agencies at all levels of government on local economic
development and rural development programs. Wilkens holds a Master of
Arts degree from Missouri State University.

**<u>Rhiannon Hampson, State Director, Rural Development, Maine</u>**

Rhiannon Hampson brings decades of advocacy and community engagement
experience to her role at USDA, Rural Development. Raised in some of the
most rural pockets of the state, Rhiannon is a proud graduate of the
University of Maine at Machias where she earned her Bachelor of Arts
degree in Psychology and Community Studies. While serving as (ME-01)
Congresswoman Chellie Pingree’s District Representative for Agricultural
and Environmental issues, Rhiannon had the opportunity to deepen her
knowledge of Maine’s heritage industries, and the ways in which USDA
uplifts rural communities. With her partner Gregg, and their two
children Ruby and Maden, she owns and operates an organic livestock and
dairy farm in Knox County. Rhiannon’s experience as a small business
owner further informs her understanding of, and dedication to advancing
Maine’s sustainable economic development.

**<u>Jim Barber, State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency, New
York</u>**

James Barber is the fifth generation to operate his family’s 500-acre
highly diversified vegetable farm and greenhouse operation. Mr. Barber’s
years of dedication to the agriculture industry include serving on
Cornell University’s College of Agriculture Advisory Board, the New York
Farm Bureau State Board of Directors, and as President of the NY State
Vegetable Growers Association. Jim was a founding member and President
of NY Farms; a forward-thinking organization which brought together
non-traditional partners in the food system to work toward common goals
and created the very first Farm to School program in the country.

During the Obama-Biden Administration, Mr. Barber served as the New York
State Executive Director of the Farm Service Agency (FSA). During his
eight years as head of the New York FSA, Mr. Barber made improvements in
the Farm Loan program with dramatically increased efficiency. He was
proactive in reaching out to minority and underserved communities, from
urban farms in New York City to the sovereign Native American nations
across the state. And he initiated nationally recognized changes in the
scope and delivery of farm programs to expanded opportunities for all
farmers, large and small, rural and urban.

**<u>John Perdue, State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency, West
Virginia</u>**

John Perdue started his public service career with the West Virginia
Department of Agriculture as a pesticide inspector. During his time
there he held several positions, including the title of Assistant
Commissioner. In 1989, he became the Executive Assistant to former West
Virginia Governor Gaston Caperton, and served as a member of his
executive staff for eight years. Mr. Perdue was elected as the 24th
State Treasurer of West Virginia in 1996 and served six terms. As State
Treasurer he established the SMART 529 college savings plan to help West
Virginians pay for college. When he left office, the program had grown
to over three billion dollars with more than 150,000 families invested
in the program. John is a 1972 graduate of West Virginia University with
a Bachelor’s of Science in Agriculture. He grew up on a small family
farm in Boone County where they grew tobacco and small fruits and
vegetables. He was active in 4-H and FFA where he became a 4-H All Star
and earned his state FFA farmers degree. He credits his time in 4-H and
FFA for his love of farming. John and his wife Robin reside in Cross
Lanes, West Virginia and have two adult daughters.

**<u>DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)</u>**

Regional Directors lead HHS’s 10 Regional Offices that directly serve
state and local organizations. Regional Directors ensure the Department
maintains close contact with state, local, and tribal partners and
addresses the needs of communities and individuals served through HHS
programs and policies.

**<u>Sima Ladjevardian, HHS Regional Director, Region 6</u>**

Sima Ladjevardian is a lawyer, a mother of two, a breast cancer
survivor, a community and political activist. She was one of the first
Iranian-American major party nominees for Congress. She ran in TX-2 on
providing affordable access to health care for all. After leaving
political upheaval and revolution, Sima’s family arrived in the United
States and, through her journey as an immigrant, she saw first-hand the
power and promise this country can provide. She has since worked
extensively to ensure that hardworking families have all the
opportunities to strive and be healthy. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in
Business Economics from UCLA and a Juris Doctorate degree from Hastings
College of Law. She has actively served on the Boards of Every Texan,
Museum of Fine Arts Houston, Society of Iranian American Women for
Education, AAPI Victory Alliance and the City of Houston Women’s
Commission.

Region 6 is based in Dallas and serves Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico,
Oklahoma, and Texas, as well as 68 federally recognized tribal nations.

**<u>ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)</u>**

Regional Administrators lead the EPA’s 10 regional offices around the
country, each of which is responsible for the execution of EPA programs
within a set of several states and territories. EPA regional offices
also ensure the views and needs of each region are incorporated into the
formulation of agency and national policy.

**<u>Earthea Nance, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 6</u>**

Dr. Earthea Nance is an associate professor of urban planning and
environmental policy at Texas Southern University in Houston. She was
formerly the director of disaster mitigation and planning for the City
of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, where she developed and
implemented the City’s first approved plans for hazard mitigation,
sustainability, and green energy. For the past 15 years, Dr. Nance has
conducted interdisciplinary research on the impacts of environmental
hazards on vulnerable communities in Texas and Louisiana. Dr. Nance
earned a Ph.D. degree in environmental engineering from Stanford
University, as well as master’s and bachelor degrees from the University
of California-Davis. She has been a registered professional civil
engineer for 25 years and a certified floodplain manager for 12 years.

Region 6 serves Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas, and 66
Tribal Nations.

**<u>Meg McCollister, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 7</u>**

Meg McCollister has a strong advisory and advocacy background with
nearly two decades of experience serving non-profits, candidates for
public office and public policy campaigns. She has focused as an
advisor, manager, and strategic thinker with an expertise in
environmental advocacy, health care access for low-income populations,
and community organizing. Ms. McCollister served for several years as an
advisor to local elected officials in California, where she was
appointed as an ex-officio member of the Sonoma County Democratic Party
and served on the Board of Directors of Sonoma County Conservation
Action. Upon returning to the Midwest, she has continued to advise on a
wide variety of issues including environmental, health and social
improvement initiatives, communication strategies, and community
engagement.

A native Midwesterner, Ms. McCollister was born in Kansas and raised in
Kansas and Missouri. She completed her Bachelors Degree at the
University of Kansas, and then attended the University of Missouri –
Kansas City School of Law, where she earned her Juris Doctorate with an
emphasis in Urban, Land Use and Environmental Law.

Region 7 serves Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, and nine Tribal
Nations.

**<u>Martha Guzman, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 9</u>**

Martha Guzman has served as a Commissioner at the California Public
Utilities Commission for the last 5 years, appointed by Governor Edmund
G. Brown. Her portfolio included issues related to fiscal oversight of
utilities, broadband for all, water affordability, increasing access to
clean energy programs for Disadvantaged Communities and preventing
disconnections of basic utilities. She spearheaded the Interagency Solar
Consumer Protection Taskforce, the Tribal Land Policy, and Covid Arrears
Response.

Prior to joining the CPUC she served as Deputy Legislative Affairs
Secretary in the Office of the Governor where she worked on the passage
for the Human Right to Water, the Sustainable Groundwater Management
Act, re-organized the Safe Drinking Water Program, climate goals related
to short-lived climate pollutants and renewable energy legislation.
Earlier in her career, she was Sustainable Communities program director
for the California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation. She worked for
Swanton Berry Farm on human resource issues, and before that, she was
the legislative coordinator for United Farm Workers.

Region 9 serves Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada, Pacific Islands,
and 148 Tribal Nations.

**<u>DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)</u>**

Regional Administrators lead HUD’s 10 Regional Offices that directly
serve state and local organizations. Regional Administrators oversee
field offices across each state in their region, and ensure the
Department directly serves local communities. Regional Administrators
play a key role in leading assignments of housing assistance funds
within the region and coordinating those assignments with HUD
headquarters.

**<u>Diane Shelley, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 5</u>**

Diane Shelley served fifteen years as an Illinois state court judge,
resolving complex business, construction, housing, and employment
disputes. She was president of the Illinois Judges Association, the
Illinois Judicial Council, and appointed to Illinois Supreme Court
commission for mental health specialty courts and commission on legal
professionalism. Prior to her judicial career she headed litigation at
one of the world’s largest wastewater treatment agencies, Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago, overseeing controversies
regarding the construction of the country’s largest public works
project, the Deep Tunnel.

Region 5 serves Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and
Wisconsin.

\###
