---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-22'
modified_time: 2021-12-22 15:50:10-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/22/readout-from-nsc-spokesperson-emily-horne-on-senior-administration-official-travel-to-israel-and-the-west-bank/
published_time: 2021-12-22 15:50:09-05:00
title: Readout from NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on Senior Administration Official
  Travel to Israel and the West Bank
---
 
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan traveled to Israel and the West
Bank December 21-22, and was joined in his meetings by U.S. Ambassador
to Israel Tom Nides, Deputy Assistant to the President and Middle East
and North Africa Coordinator Brett McGurk, and the State Department’s
Acting Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs Yael Lempert.  In
Jerusalem, Mr. Sullivan met with President Herzog, Prime Minister
Bennett, Foreign Minister and Alternate Prime Minister Lapid, Defense
Minister Gantz, and National Security Advisor Hulata to reaffirm the
strategic partnership between the two countries and discuss the major
regional and bilateral policy issues on their shared agenda.  Mr.
Sullivan and Dr. Hulata also led the fourth meeting of [the U.S.-Israel
Strategic Consultative
Group](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/22/joint-statement-on-meeting-of-the-u-s-israel-strategic-consultative-group/)
to continue the intensive consultations between the two sides on the
challenges and opportunities in the region.   
  
In his meetings with senior Israeli officials, Mr. Sullivan reaffirmed
that the longstanding partnership between the United States and Israel
is built on shared interests and values and highlighted the United
States’ unwavering commitment to Israel’s security.  He re-affirmed
President Biden’s commitment to ensuring Israel has the resources
necessary for its defense, including for the Iron Dome.  The U.S. and
Israeli delegations held detailed consultations on Iran, with Mr.
Sullivan underscoring the U.S. administration’s determination to
confront all aspects of the threat Iran poses to regional and
international peace and security.  He also reaffirmed the firm
commitment of the United States to ensuring Iran never gets a nuclear
weapon.   
  
Mr. Sullivan commended the Israeli government’s achievements in
strengthening relations with partners in the region and highlighted U.S.
support for the Abraham Accords.  The U.S. and Israeli delegations
discussed efforts to deepen and expand peaceful relations between Israel
and countries in the Arab and Muslim world and agreed to cooperate
closely on this common goal.  The two sides also exchanged perspectives
on the current situation in the West Bank and Gaza and discussed steps
to strengthen the Palestinian Authority and improve the lives of the
Palestinians.  Mr. Sullivan stressed the need to avoid steps that can
inflame tensions on the ground and encouraged efforts to promote calm
and advance towards the goal of a two-state solution.   
  
In Ramallah, Mr. Sullivan met with Palestinian Authority President Abbas
to highlight the U.S. administration’s interest in strengthening
engagement with the Palestinian Authority and deepening ties with the
Palestinian people.  They discussed the steps the U.S. administration
has taken this year to benefit the Palestinians, including the
resumption of significant levels of economic and development assistance
and contributions to UNRWA.  Mr. Sullivan reaffirmed President Biden’s
commitment to achieving a two-state solution and discussed the
importance of actions to build trust, enhance stability and security,
and foster a more hopeful vision for the future.  
  
Mr. Sullivan’s trip to Israel and the West Bank represents the
culmination of a year of intensive U.S. engagements with partners across
the region and demonstrates the U.S. administration’s commitment to
building on this strong foundation in the year ahead to advance U.S.
enduring interests in the Middle East.

\###
