---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-10'
modified_time: 2021-12-10 12:31:54-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/10/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-appointment-of-catherine-russell-as-executive-director-of-unicef/
published_time: 2021-12-10 12:31:53-05:00
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Appointment of Catherine Russell\
  \ as Executive Director of\_UNICEF"
---
 
Ambassador Cathy Russell has been a trusted and indispensable advisor to
Jill and me for nearly 30 years. In that time, Jill and I have witnessed
— and benefited countless times from — Cathy’s leadership, experience,
wisdom, and empathy. And it is because of those qualities that I could
not be more proud that the UN Secretary-General has announced his intent
to appoint her as the next Executive Director of UNICEF.

We will miss Cathy. But our loss is UNICEF’s gain, because children
around the world will lead richer, safer, and healthier lives as a
direct result of Cathy’s leadership in this new role. As a first-rate
public servant, policy expert, and manager who has worked tirelessly to
advocate for children and empower women and girls — including as the
United States Ambassador for Global Women’s Issues in the Obama-Biden
Administration — Cathy is exceptionally well-prepared to lead UNICEF’s
critical work on behalf of young people around the world. UNICEF is
lucky to have her.

Under Cathy’s leadership, the White House Office of Presidential
Personnel (PPO) has broken records in both speed and diversity of
hiring, working relentlessly to ensure that our federal government
reflects America and delivers for the American people. I am also pleased
that Gautam Raghavan, who has worked in tandem with Cathy from Day One,
will become PPO’s new Director — a seamless transition that will enable
us to continue building a federal workforce that is efficient,
effective, dependable, and diverse.

**Cathy Russell Bio**

Ambassador Cathy Russell serves as Assistant to the President and
Director of the White House Office of Presidential Personnel. She sat on
the Advisory Board of the Biden-Harris Transition Team and served as
Vice Chair of the Biden-Harris Campaign. 

Before that, Ambassador Russell was a resident fellow at the Institute
of Politics at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
During the Obama-Biden administration, Ambassador Russell served for all
eight years at the White House and the U.S. Department of State,
including as Deputy Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to
Second Lady Dr. Jill Biden and the U.S. Ambassador for Global Women’s
Issues, where she led efforts to integrate women’s issues into US
foreign policy. 

Previously, she served as the senior advisor on international women’s
issues on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, as Associate Deputy
Attorney General at the U.S. Department of Justice, as the Staff
Director of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and as Senior Counsel to
Senator Patrick J. Leahy. 

Ambassador Russell served on multiple boards and advisory committees,
including as board co-chair of the Women’s Foreign Policy Group, as
board member of Women for Women International, as well as a member of
the Sesame Street Global Advisory Group, the Leadership Council for
Women in National Security Steering Committee, the National Security
Action Advisory Council, the Thomson Reuters Trust Women Foundation, and
the U.S.-Afghan Women’s Council. 

A native of Pennsylvania, Ambassador Russell graduated from Boston
College and the George Washington University Law School.

**Gautam Raghavan Bio**

Gautam Raghavan has served as Deputy Assistant to the President and
Deputy Director of the White House Office of Presidential Personnel
since January 20, 2021. Previously, he was the first employee hired by
the Biden-Harris Transition Team where he served as Deputy Head of
Presidential Appointments. 

Raghavan served as Chief of Staff to U.S. Representative Pramila Jayapal
(WA-07), the Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, and advised
organizations focused on advancing civil rights and social justice,
serving as an Advisor to the Biden Foundation and as Vice President of
Policy for the Gill Foundation. 

During the Obama-Biden Administration, Raghavan served in the White
House Office of Public Engagement as liaison to the LGBTQ community as
well as the Asian American & Pacific Islander community, as Acting White
House Liaison for the U.S. Department of Defense, and as Outreach Lead
for the Pentagon’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” Working Group. 

A first-generation immigrant, Raghavan was born in India, raised in
Seattle, and graduated from Stanford University. He is the editor of
“West Wingers: Stories from the Dream Chasers, Change Makers, and Hope
Creators Inside the Obama White House.” He lives with his husband and
their daughter in Washington, D.C.

\###
