---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-07'
modified_time: 2021-12-07 00:19:54-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-plans-for-11-billion-to-end-malnutrition-at-global-nutrition-summit/
published_time: 2021-12-07 09:00:00-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden- \u2060 Harris Administration Announces Plans for $11 Billion\
  \ to End Malnutrition at Global Nutrition Summit"
---
 
*“By investing in locally-designed and led nutrition programs, applying
the evidence of what works, and adapting quickly, we can prevent child
malnutrition, even in the time of COVID, and build a healthier world for
everyone.” *

*  USAID Administrator Samantha Power*  
*2021 Tokyo Nutrition for Growth Summit*

At the [2021 Tokyo Nutrition for Growth
Summit](https://n4g-tokyo2021.jp/en/), U.S. Agency for International
Development’s (USAID) Administrator Samantha Power announced on behalf
of the White House that the United States intends to invest up to **$11
billion** over three years, subject to Congressional appropriations, to
combat global malnutrition, the underlying cause of almost half of
childhood deaths globally.  
  
Ensuring the survival and wellbeing of newborns, children, and women
remains an urgent global challenge that good nutrition can help solve.
This investment will enable the U.S. government to equip partner
countries’ governments and communities with the skills and resources for
improved health, diets, and nutrition by supporting communities in
crisis with critical emergency food and nutrition assistance. The
investments will also help build resilient health systems and
sustainable food systems to overcome setbacks posed by the COVID-19
pandemic, global climate crisis, and recurring conflict—to ultimately
prevent more children from falling into malnutrition.  
  
The 2021 Tokyo Nutrition for Growth Summit, hosted by the Government of
Japan, builds off the global momentum for food security and nutrition
that began at the [United Nations Food Systems Summit in
September](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-commit-to-end-hunger-and-malnutrition-and-build-sustainable-resilient-food-systems/).
These announcements progress America’s commitment to leadership in
ending malnutrition, improving diets, preventing child and maternal
deaths. These investments will place the needs of women and children at
the center of our multi-sectoral response to malnutrition.  
  
During the Summit, USAID Administrator Power shared highlights from the
newly launched [U.S. Government Global Nutrition Coordination Plan
2021-2026](https://www.usaid.gov/global-health/health-areas/nutrition/usgplan),
which will guide the collaborative work of seven U.S. government
agencies engaged in scaling up proven approaches to better nutrition.
For the first time, the highest-level of leadership from USAID, U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA), U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS), U.S. Department of State, U.S. International Development
Finance Corporation (DFC), Millennium Challenge Corporation, and Peace
Corps have joined forces to launch and execute this plan, marking a
major milestone in this whole-of-government approach.  
  
Global and domestic programmatic commitments that demonstrate the
longstanding U.S. dedication to ending malnutrition in all forms
include:  
  
**Policy Action to Advance Nutrition Security in the United States**  
Together HHS, USDA, and other federal agencies are partnering to improve
health and wellness, reduce diet-related chronic diseases, and advance
health equity. This whole-of-government approach is guided by the U.S.’s
Healthy People 2030 goals and Dietary Guidelines for Americans. To
accomplish this, the U.S. will take policy actions aimed to improve
nutrition security, including actions to increase access to and
consumption of healthy foods, and reduce intake of excess sodium and
added sugars. These actions will work synergistically across the U.S.
government to amplify impact.  
  
**Expanding Data Availability and Use**  
Timely and credible nutrition data on coverage, quality, scale, and
nutrition outcomes are paramount for decision-makers to understand the
malnutrition burden and track progress towards key milestones. USAID,
through continued partnership with the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, the U.N. Children’s Fund, and the World Health Organization,
will strengthen national nutrition information systems, sub-national
nutrition data availability and use, and capacity strengthening around
nutrition data to enable donors, practitioners, and governments to
better design, monitor, and evaluate nutrition programs targeting
vulnerable populations.  
  
**Prevention and Treatment of Wasting**  
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) strive to reduce the proportion
of children suffering from wasting to less than five percent by 2025 and
less than three percent by 2030. However, the proportion of children
suffering from wasting is projected to substantially increase because of
COVID-19. Today, an estimated 50 million children under five suffer from
wasting. In response, USAID will strengthen approaches to the prevention
and treatment of wasting—when a child is too thin for his or her height
as a result of recent rapid weight loss or the failure to gain weight.
The commitment builds off USAID’s extensive wasting programming in
emergency contexts to address the significant burden in non-emergency
contexts, consistent with the Global Action Plan for Child Wasting.  
  
**Breastfeeding Promotion and Support**  
Good nutrition during the first 1,000 days — from pregnancy through a
child’s second birthday — is critical to a child’s survival and
longer-term health and development. Breastfeeding is one of the most
effective ways to provide infants with the perfect blend of essential
nutrients and other protective factors during this important growth
period. Yet, nearly two out of three infants are not exclusively
breastfed for the recommended first six months due to barriers like lack
of family support or limited access to skilled breastfeeding counseling.
USAID, together with WHO and UNICEF, will partner over the next five
years to improve nutrition and health outcomes for mothers and newborns
by scaling up quality breastfeeding promotion and support. Through this
partnership, technical assistance to governments and local organizations
will support a country-led, comprehensive approach to increasing access
to skilled breastfeeding counseling and delivering quality services at
baby-friendly healthcare facilities.  
  
**Improving Diets in Older Children**  
To address improved nutrition during the next 7,000 days of childhood,
the United States is reiterating its commitment to join the new School
Meals Coalition: Nutrition, Health and Education for Every Child. The
Coalition, which was an outcome of the U.N. Food Systems Summit, strives
to bring school nutrition coverage rates back to pre-pandemic levels and
to scale it up universally by 2030. Currently, the Coalition has a
growing membership of 61 countries. The United States is a member of the
Coalition Taskforce and will participate in key Coalition initiatives,
including the Financing Taskforce, the Monitoring and Data Initiative
and the Research Consortium. The United States, through USDA’s
McGovern-Dole Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program, is the
world’s largest international school meals program.

\###
