---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-13'
modified_time: 2021-12-14 12:19:50-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/13/vice-president-kamala-harris-announces-new-commitments-as-part-of-the-call-to-action-for-the-private-sector-to-deepen-investment-in-central-america-now-totaling-over-1-2-billion/
published_time: 2021-12-13 06:33:33-05:00
title: "Vice President Kamala\_Harris Announces New Commitments as Part of the Call\
  \ to Action for the Private Sector to Deepen Investment in Central America, Now\
  \ Totaling Over $1.2\_Billion"
---
 
*CARE International, Cargill, Grupo Mariposa, Parkdale Mills, PepsiCo,
JDE Peet’s, and PriceSmart announce commitments to support economic
development in northern Central America, as part of a conference
convened by the State Department, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the
Partnership for Central America to support investment in the region.*

As part of her role addressing the root causes of migration from Central
America, Vice President Kamala Harris announced seven new commitments as
part of the *Call to Action* she launched on May 27 for businesses and
social enterprises to make new, significant commitments to sustainably
address the root causes of migration by promoting economic opportunity.
Commitments announced today include those from: CARE International,
Cargill, Grupo Mariposa, Parkdale Mills, PepsiCo, JDE Peet’s, and
PriceSmart.  
  
In addition, Mastercard, Microsoft, and Nespresso—who announced initial
commitments in May—announced further action in the region. As a result,
businesses and social enterprises have invested more than $1.2 billion
in response to the Vice President’s launch of the *Call to Action*.  
  
The Vice President announced these new commitments during her closing
remarks at a virtual event co-hosted by the State Department and the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, in collaboration with the Partnership for
Central America, drawing over 1,300 business, government and civil
society leaders from across the region and the United States, to
encourage more companies to respond to the *Call*. Initial commitments
made during the launch of the *Call to Action *are already bearing
fruit. Some highlights include:

-   Microsoft catalyzed the development of digital access training
    centers, clean off-grid energy, and broadband access covering a
    population of 1.1 million people. The company engaged more than one
    hundred thousand individuals in soft technical and digital skills
    training.
-   Nespresso works with over 1,200 farms in Guatemala to improve
    livelihoods in the region. The company announced its first-ever
    coffee sourcing from Honduras and El Salvador, with plans to
    increase activities in the region for the next harvest season. This
    is part of the company’s commitment to support the region’s economy
    with a minimum of $150 million to be spent across coffee purchases,
    price premiums, and technical assistance by 2025.
-   Mastercard negotiated and signed a memorandum of understanding for a
    Digital Country Partnership with the Ministry of the Economy of
    Guatemala, accelerating their work to bring five million people in
    El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras into the formal financial
    economy and to enable one million micro and small businesses to
    access online payment and management systems.

**New Commitments as part of the *Call to Action***  
The following seven companies and organizations announced major new
commitments today*, *alongside three companies and organizations who
joined the Vice President in May who announced further action in the
region.

**<u>PepsiCo</u>**

PepsiCo is a global food and beverage company with a long-standing
presence in Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras. PepsiCo directly
operates its food business with a regional manufacturing hub in
Guatemala, employing over 4,000 people directly, and generating at least
an additional 6,800 indirect jobs through its supply chain. PepsiCo
expects to invest at least $190 million in northern Central America
through 2025, including with improvements to its infrastructure and
manufacturing plants; expansion of new distribution routes; IT projects;
and investments aligned with its “pep+” (PepsiCo Positive) agenda. This
includes spreading regenerative farming practices across seven million
acres (which is approximately the size of the company’s entire
agricultural footprint), becoming Net Water Positive by 2030 by reducing
absolute water use and replenishing watersheds, and achieving net-zero
emissions by 2040 by increasing the use of renewable energy, among other
efforts.

**<u>Cargill</u>**

Cargill has operated in Central America for more than 50 years, with
10,000 employees working in the region. As part of the *Call to Action*,
Cargill will invest an additional $150 million over the next five years
with the intention of improving farmer livelihoods and building economic
resilience in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador. The company’s
investments will aim to create jobs and support producers as well as
micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the protein and animal
nutrition supply chains. Cargill will also contribute at least $10
million over three years to partnerships that directly support farmers
and farm communities, and improve food security through community
nutrition and school meal programs. Cargill’s new commercial and
philanthropic efforts will expand support for more than 19,000 farmers,
52,000 MSMEs, and more than 25,000 children and community members in El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. This includes support for USAID’s
Guatemala Entrepreneurship and Development Innovation (GEDI) Initiative
for small businesses owners, which the Vice President announced in June.

**<u>Parkdale Mills</u>**

With a new investment of $150 million, Parkdale Mills, one of the
largest providers of spun yarns and cotton consumer products in the
world, will build a new yarn spinning facility in Honduras and support
an existing facility in Virginia, with the hope of providing customers
with sources for purchasing 1 million pounds of yarn per week within the
region and increasing U.S. supply chain resilience. The investment is
intended to support roughly 500 employees at each location and increase
indirect job growth in Honduras and in the United States, particularly
in the U.S. cotton industry across 18 states. The investment also
includes $24 million in new investments in solar energy, water
recapture, and energy efficient HVAC systems.

**<u>Mastercard</u>**

In May, Mastercard committed to bring 5 million people in El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras into the formal financial economy and to digitize
1 million micro and small businesses. To achieve that goal, today,
Mastercard is announcing a commitment of $100 million in investment in
the region, and that they have signed a memorandum of understanding with
the Ministry of Economy of Guatemala to establish a Digital Country
Partnership to facilitate digital acceleration in areas such as
commerce, social benefit payments, transportation, tourism, and economic
development for small and medium-sized companies. In addition,
Mastercard has partnered with Walmart to enable access to credit for
underserved citizens, and with Accion to digitize agricultural value
chains and drive stronger financial inclusion for small shareholder
farmers in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador.   
  
**<u>CARE International</u>**

CARE is a humanitarian international organization that has worked with
State, USAID, and DOL. CARE is announcing a $50 million Center for
Gender Equity in Central America focused on women and young people and
designed to reach 500,000 individual women and their families, impacting
two million people in total. The Center will support public and private
programs in the region—scaling up those that work—to support financial
inclusion, women’s economic empowerment (including in the protection of
labor rights and in supporting entrepreneurship), improved agricultural
outcomes, and reductions in gender-based violence. In particular, CARE
will support companies joining the *Call to Action* with technical
assistance to ensure that a gender-based lens is applied to new programs
and investment.  
  
**<u>Grupo Mariposa</u>**

Grupo Mariposa is a Guatemalan food and beverage company with operations
throughout Latin America. Grupo Mariposa will provide more than 70,000
neighborhood stores (‘tiendas’)—which serve as important community
hubs—with access to credit and digital tools to improve administrative
management. It will support 3,500 small and medium-enterprises (SMEs)
with access to telemedicine, education, and internet connectivity,
impacting more than 200,000 people and expanding healthcare and
telemedicine solutions to 2,000 remote communities. In addition, it will
invest more than $10 million to grow its coffee footprint, creating more
than 500 new jobs and supporting more than 400 small and medium-sized
coffee producers to increase productivity and earnings potential.
Finally, with the support of SOPHIA Oxford, Inc., a non-profit partner
of the Oxford Poverty & Human Development Initiative (OPHI), Grupo
Mariposa adopted the United Nations Multi-Dimensional Poverty Index
(MDI) as a biannual measure of its employees’ well-being, going beyond
wages to include a household’s access to healthcare, nutrition, and
education. Grupo Mariposa will expand this program to create the
conditions to eradicate multi-dimensional poverty with support for
employees and their families to reduce their debts, pursue
entrepreneurship, and access education and healthcare.

**<u>PriceSmart</u>**

PriceSmart operates 49 U.S.-style membership shopping warehouse clubs in
12 countries and the U.S. Virgin Islands and opened its fifth store in
Guatemala in October. PriceSmart has operated in Guatemala, El Salvador,
and Honduras for 22 years. With close to 2,000 employees and 700,000
members in northern Central America, it has long been a partner of
USAID—including most recently in announcing a new commitment as part of
USAID’s $56 million Guatemalan Entrepreneurship and Development
Innovation (GEDI) Initiative, which the Vice President announced in
June. Building upon that announcement, PriceSmart is committing to
additional support of GEDI, and this support, alongside other GEDI
partners, will reach at least 500 entrepreneurs with business support
services to help them grow and create jobs in areas of high
out-migration.  
  
**<u>JDE Peet’s</u>**

JDE Peet’s, the world’s largest pure-play coffee and tea company, is a
long-standing partner of USAID. JDE Peet’s plans to increase its
financial support for smallholder farmers in the region by 40%. This
support will be provided through the implementation of a new series of
sustainability programs throughout the Central American coffee belt, in
partnership with the Coffee Alliance. The new support programs will
include technical expertise, intended to allow for increased
productivity, adaptation to the effects of climate change,
diversification of incomes, and improved access to markets and credit.
As a result of this increase, JDE Peet’s will allocate a total of $2.7
million over the next four years, to expand the reach of its Common
Grounds Program in the region. The Coffee Alliance is a public-private
partnership among USAID, JDE Peet’s, CoHonducafe (Honduras’ largest
coffee exporter), the CoHonducafe Foundation, and Grupo Cadelga
(Honduras’ largest agricultural input supplier). The increased
contribution from JDE Peet’s will enable the Coffee Alliance to reach
10,000 additional smallholder coffee farming households, doubling its
active footprint in the region.  
  
**<u>Microsoft</u>**

In May, Microsoft committed to expanding internet access to up to three
million people in the region by July 2022 and to build on its global
skills initiative to provide access to digital skills learning paths to
connect people to skills and certifications. Microsoft’s Airband
initiative is now on track to expand broadband internet access to 4
million people by 2024. In addition, Microsoft will commit to training
over 100,000 individuals in the next three years, including in soft,
technical, and digital skills, enabling them to access higher-paying,
local jobs.  
  
**<u>Nespresso</u>**

In May, Nespresso committed to expanding its existing sourcing
activities in Guatemala and to start sourcing quality coffees from El
Salvador and Honduras, creating new economic opportunities for
smallholder farmers and replicating the social and environmental impact
of Nespresso’s programs in more communities. Nespresso aims to support
the local economy with a minimum of $150 million spent across coffee
purchases, price premiums and technical assistance by 2025, more than
doubling both the number of coffee farms it works with and total coffee
volumes. Nespresso is now working with over 1,200 farmers through its
AAA Sustainable Coffee Program in Guatemala and is sourcing coffees from
farms in Honduras and El Salvador for the first time in the company’s
30-year history. Nespresso will also pilot an innovative crop insurance
program designed to help protect farmers against the effects of climate
change during next year’s harvest. To help empower women and raise the
percentage of female farmers, Nespresso has provided its agronomists—41%
of whom are women—with training focused on gender equity. In addition,
Nespresso is providing safe and educational places for children by
funding 25 daycare centers during this year’s harvest in Guatemala.  
  
**<u>Partnership for Central America</u>**

In May, the Partnership for Central America (PCA) launched as an
independent non-profit to mobilize investments and coordinate private
sector projects in support of the Vice President’s *Call to Action*. The
Partnership is working to coordinate coalitions of partners in digital,
financial, health, education, and energy programs to support more than
15 million people across the region. Since May, in addition to helping
to mobilize partners making commitments in response to the *Call to
Action*, the Partnership has shaped a coalition with a number of the
largest agricultural companies to improve economic resilience and
improving incomes for 250,000 small and medium size farmers through a
regenerative agricultural program that will support climate resilience;
launched a partnership with Glasswing International to implement the
Central Americorps to support at least 20,000 young adults in the
region; and launched a collaboration with the World Economic Forum to
bring Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) programs to Latin
American business practices. Today, the Partnership announced that Ajay
Banga, Executive Chairman of Mastercard, has assumed the role of
Chairman of the Partnership and Blanca Treviño, President of Softtek,
Latin America’s largest IT firm, has assumed the role of Co-Chair.

**How to Respond to the Call**

Facilitated through a public-private partnership between the State
Department and the non-profit Partnership for Central America, and in
close coordination with the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID), the *Call to Action* has also generated new
collaboration across participating companies, further boosting the
initiative’s impact.  
  
The *Call to Action*’s six focus areas are intended to support long-term
development of the region, including: promoting a reform agenda; digital
and financial inclusion; food security and climate-smart agriculture;
climate adaptation and clean energy; education and workforce
development; and public health access. It serves as one component of our
comprehensive strategy to address the root causes of migration, which
will involve significant commitments of U.S. government resources to
support the long-term development of the region—including efforts to
foster economic opportunity, strengthen democratic governance, combat
corruption, and improve security. This approach will leverage
commitments and resources from the governments in the region, as well as
partnerships with multilateral development banks and international
financial institutions.  
  
The State Department is the lead U.S. government agency managing
follow-up to the *Call to Action*. In this effort, the State Department
works closely with the Partnership for Central America. The State
Department and the Partnership work to:

-   Connect businesses with relevant U.S. interagency partners, such as
    the U.S. Agency for International Development, U.S. International
    Development Finance Corporation, Department of Commerce, Department
    of Labor, among others; non-governmental organizations (NGOs),
    multilateral development banks, UN agencies, other international
    organizations, and relevant government officials from the region to
    facilitate potential new partnerships and commitments;
-   Coordinate private sector partners to ensure sustained progress
    through strategic and high-impact initiatives aligned to social
    impact goals, and facilitating joint ventures between new and
    existing partners across global public, private, and social sectors;
-   Offer feedback on potential private sector initiatives, based on an
    assessment of potential migrants’ needs in the region;
-   Work with partner governments and institutions to promote reforms
    that address impediments to investment and foster a
    business-enabling environment;
-   Establish metrics to measure the impact of commitments made in
    response to the *Call to Action*, to track program effectiveness and
    identify key trends across key economic and social impact metrics;
    and
-   Convene public forums and facilitate discussions on challenges,
    trends, and progress toward aspired social impact goals.

Supporting the long-term development of the region, and of the Western
Hemisphere more broadly, will require more than just the resources of
the U.S. government. For this reason, Vice President Harris called upon
the private sector to draw upon its resources and expertise to commit to
support inclusive economic growth in northern Central America. The
Administration looks forward to increased collaboration with private
companies from around the world to build upon this *Call to Action *in
the months and years to come. The Administration welcomes additional
commitments to participate in this initiative and promote economic
opportunity in northern Central America. ***Vice President Harris
invites **interested parties to visit the State Department’s website
at ***[***www.state.gov/jointhecall***](http://www.state.gov/jointhecall)***,
or contact the State Department
at ***[***jointhecall@state.gov***](mailto:jointhecall@state.gov)***.***  
  
More information can also be found in the [initial Fact Sheet announcing
the Call to Action on May
27](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/27/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-launches-a-call-to-action-to-the-private-sector-to-deepen-investment-in-the-northern-triangle/).
More information about the Partnership for Central America can be found
at www.centampartnership.org. The Partnership can be contacted
at <support@centampartnership.org>.
