---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-08'
modified_time: 2021-12-08 13:52:07-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/08/president-biden-announces-key-nominees/
published_time: 2021-12-08 16:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Constance J. Milstein, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Malta
-   Alina L. Romanowski, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Iraq
-   Margaret C. Whitman, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Kenya
-   January Contreras, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Children and
    Families, Department of Health and Human Services
-   Agnes G. Schaefer, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Army for
    Manpower and Reserve Affairs, Department of Defense
-   Timothy J. Baker, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Mine
    Safety and Health Review Commission

**<u>Constance J. Milstein, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Malta</u>**

Constance J. Milstein is an attorney, businesswoman, philanthropist, and
social entrepreneur. She is a Principal and Co-Founder of Ogden CAP
Properties, LLC. Milstein has led international initiatives to address
pressing global issues and geopolitical threats. She is a founding board
member of Blue Star Families, the nation’s largest support organization
for military spouses and children. Milstein pioneered the inventive
non-profit Dog Tag bakery, dedicated to empowering disabled veterans.
During the Obama-Biden administration, Milstein served as a Civilian
Aide to the Secretary of the Army. She has played key roles with many
nonprofits and NGOs focused on international relations, global
education, and democracy building, which include Seton Hall University’s
School of Diplomacy, United Nations Association, Refugees International,
and UN Watch. Milstein earned her B.S. from New York University and her
J.D. from North Carolina Central University. She is the recipient of
numerous awards, including the Angel Award, Blue Star Families;
Distinguished Service Award, NYU College of Arts & Science; and the
Albert Gallatin Medal for outstanding contributions to society, NYU. She
speaks French and Italian.

**<u>Alina L. Romanowski, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Iraq</u>**

Alina L. Romanowski, a career member of the Senior Executive Service,
currently serves as the U.S. Ambassador to Kuwait. Prior to this, she
was the Department of State’s Principal Deputy Coordinator for
Counterterrorism. During almost 40 years of service across various U.S.
government agencies, Romanowski has become expert on Middle East
affairs. Previously at the Department of State, she served as the
Coordinator for U.S. Assistance to Europe and Eurasia. Earlier, at the
U.S. Agency for International Development, she was Deputy Assistant
Administrator for the Middle East Bureau. Romanowski joined the
Department of State in 2003 to establish the Middle East Partnership
Initiative Office and served as its first Director. She also held Deputy
Assistant Secretary positions in the Bureau of Education and Cultural
Affairs and served as acting Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of
Near Eastern Affairs. Romanowski also served in senior positions at the
Department of Defense. She was the founding Director of the Near
East-South Asia Center for Strategic Studies at the National Defense
University; Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Near Eastern and
South Asian Affairs in the Office of the Secretary of Defense; the
Director of the NESA Office; and country director for Israel. She began
her government career as an analyst at the Central Intelligence
Agency. The recipient of numerous awards, including a Presidential
Distinguished Rank Award, Romanowski received a B.A. and an M.A. from
the University of Chicago. She speaks French and is a member of the
Council on Foreign Relations.

**<u>Margaret C. Whitman, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Kenya</u>**

Margaret C. Whitman (Meg), a business executive and former candidate for
Governor of California, is a Member of the Board of Procter & Gamble and
General Motors, and National Board Chair at Teach for America. She is
the former CEO of Quibi, a streaming content platform for mobile
devices, and a former President and CEO of Hewlett Packard Enterprise,
the Hewlett Packard Company, eBay, and FTD. She has held senior
leadership positions at Hasbro, StrideRite Corporation and the Walt
Disney Corporation, and she is a former partner at Bain and Co. Whitman
received a B.A. from Princeton University and an M.B.A. from Harvard
University. Among numerous honors, Meg has been inducted into the Bay
Area Business Hall of Fame and the U.S. Business Hall of Fame. She
received an Honorary Doctor of Business Practice from Carnegie Mellon
University. She is a recipient of the Alumni Achievement Award from
Harvard Business School and was awarded the Corporate Citizenship Award
by the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc.

**<u>January Contreras, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Children and
Families, Department of Health and Human Services</u>**

January Contreras has dedicated her career to strengthening safety and
stability for women, children, and families. She is a former county
prosecutor and assistant attorney general who went on to lead a legal
aid center for children and young adults who have experienced abuse,
neglect, family separation, homelessness, and human trafficking.
Contreras has championed the safety and well-being of children and
families for more than twenty years. She previously served in the
Obama-Biden Administration as Ombudsman for Citizenship and Immigration
Services at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and as a designee
to the White House Council on Women and Girls. In this role, she led
efforts to launch new federal training and guidance to ensure that
immigrant victims of domestic violence and other crimes are treated with
the same dignity and protection that all victims deserve. At the state
level, Contreras oversaw the Arizona Department of Health Services after
serving as Assistant Director of the Arizona Health Care Cost
Containment System, Arizona’s Medicaid agency. She was a member of
Governor Janet Napolitano’s Children’s Cabinet and the Arizona Early
Childhood Development and Health Board. Throughout her career, Contreras
has been motivated by a sense of duty to strengthen the safety and
stability of children, young adults, and families, especially when they
are facing difficult obstacles. Contreras is a proud product of
Arizona’s border towns, mining towns, and Phoenix barrios. She earned
her undergraduate and law degrees from the University of Arizona.
Contreras lives in Arizona with her husband of twenty-seven years and
their two sons.

**<u>Agnes G. Schaefer, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Army for
Manpower and Reserve Affairs, Department of Defense</u>**

Agnes Gereben Schaefer is a senior political scientist at the RAND
Corporation. Her research specializations include issues related to U.S.
military personnel policy, reserve component issues, national security
strategy, emerging threats, and homeland defense/homeland security
issues. From August 2018 to July 2021, Dr. Schaefer served as Associate
Director of RAND’s International Security and Defense Policy Center.
Since joining RAND in 2005, Dr. Schaefer has conducted more than 60
studies for senior military and civilian leaders, including for the
Secretary of Defense, Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and
Readiness, and various senior leaders in the Air Force, the Army, and
the Marine Corps. She has also led several congressionally mandated
studies for the Department of Defense. Prior to joining RAND, Dr.
Schaefer was a postdoctoral research associate and lecturer at Princeton
University’s School of Public and International Affairs. She received
her Ph.D. from Syracuse University’s Maxwell School of Citizenship and
Public Affairs, and she received her M.A. in political science and her
B.A. in international relations from Florida International University.
Dr. Schaefer currently resides in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania with her
husband. 

**<u>Timothy J. Baker, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Mine
Safety and Health Review Commission</u>**

Timothy (T.J.) Baker is currently the Associate General Counsel of the
United Mine Workers of America and has been with the Union since 2018.
From 2012 to 2018, he worked for the Federal Mine Safety and Health
Review Commission, first as an attorney-advisor in the Office of
Administrative Law Judges in Pittsburgh and then as an attorney-advisor
in the Office of the Commissioners in Washington, D.C. He is a graduate
of the University of Pittsburgh and Washington and Lee University School
of Law. At Washington and Lee, he participated in the third-year Black
Lung Clinic, seeking to obtain benefits for miners afflicted with
occupational lung disease. Baker is the son of a coal miner. He lives in
Fredericksburg, Virginia with his wife Laura and their children, Lydia
and Jon.
