---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-12-19'
modified_time: 2021-12-19 11:59:16-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/19/statement-from-press-secretary-jen-psaki-4/
published_time: 2021-12-19 11:59:15-05:00
title: "Statement from Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki"
---
 
Senator Manchin’s comments this morning on FOX are at odds with his
discussions this week with the President, with White House staff, and
with his own public utterances. Weeks ago, Senator Manchin committed to
the President, at his home in Wilmington, to support the Build Back
Better framework that the President then subsequently announced. Senator
Manchin pledged repeatedly to negotiate on finalizing that framework “in
good faith.”

On Tuesday of this week, Senator Manchin came to the White House and
submitted—to the President, in person, directly—a written outline for a
Build Back Better bill that was the same size and scope as the
President’s framework, and covered many of the same priorities. While
that framework was missing key priorities, we believed it could lead to
a compromise acceptable to all. Senator Manchin promised to continue
conversations in the days ahead, and to work with us to reach that
common ground. If his comments on FOX and written statement indicate an
end to that effort, they represent a sudden and inexplicable reversal in
his position, and a breach of his commitments to the President and the
Senator’s colleagues in the House and Senate.

Senator Manchin claims that this change of position is related to
inflation, but the think tank he often cites on Build Back Better—the
Penn Wharton Budget Institute—issued a report less than 48 hours ago
that noted the Build Back Better Act will have virtually no impact on
inflation in the short term, and, in the long run, the policies it
includes will ease inflationary pressures. Many leading economists with
whom Senator Manchin frequently consults also support Build Back Better.

Build Back Better lowers costs that families pay. It will reduce what
families pay for child care. It will reduce what they pay for
prescription drugs. It will lower health care premiums. And it puts a
tax cut in the pockets of families with kids. If someone is concerned
about the impact that higher prices are having on families, this bill
gives them a break.

Senator Manchin cited deficit concerns in his statement. But the plan is
fully paid for, is the most fiscally responsible major bill that
Congress has considered in years, and reduces the deficit in the long
run. The Congressional Budget Office report that the Senator cites
analyzed an unfunded extension of Build Back Better. That’s not what the
President has proposed, not the bill the Senate would vote on, and not
what the President would support. Senator Manchin knows that: The
President has told him that repeatedly, including this week, face to
face.

Likewise, Senator Manchin’s statement about the climate provisions in
Build Back Better are wrong. Build Back Better will produce a
job-creating clean energy future for this country—including West
Virginia.

Just as Senator Manchin reversed his position on Build Back Better this
morning, we will continue to press him to see if he will reverse his
position yet again, to honor his prior commitments and be true to his
word.

In the meantime, Senator Manchin will have to explain to those families
paying $1,000 a month for insulin why they need to keep paying that,
instead of $35 for that vital medicine. He will have to explain to the
nearly two million women who would get the affordable day care they need
to return to work why he opposes a plan to get them the help they need.
Maybe Senator Manchin can explain to the millions of children who have
been lifted out of poverty, in part due to the Child Tax Credit, why he
wants to end a program that is helping achieve this milestone—we cannot.

We are proud of what we have gotten done in 2021: the American Rescue
Plan, the fastest decrease in unemployment in U.S. history, the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, over 200 million Americans vaccinated,
schools reopened, the fastest rollout of vaccines to children anywhere
in the world, and historic appointments to the Federal judiciary.

But we will not relent in the fight to help Americans with their child
care, health care, prescription drug costs, and elder care—and to combat
climate change. The fight for Build Back Better is too important to give
up. We will find a way to move forward next year.

\###
