---
date: '2022-11-18'
modified_time: 2022-11-18 18:11:32-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-18 18:11:31-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/11/18/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-the-vice-presidents-engagements-in-thailand/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call By a Senior Administration Official On the Vice President\u2019\
  s Engagements in\_Thailand"
---
 
*Via Teleconference*

9:17 P.M. ICT  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Hello, everyone.  Thanks for your patience tonight. 
We’re ready to get started.  Just as a reminder, today’s call will be on
background, attributed to a “senior administration official.”   
  
We are going to do this call in two parts.  The first part will be
immediately reportable; there’s no embargo on that.  And we’ll review
the Vice President’s engagements here today in Thailand, and we’ll take
a few questions on that front if there are.  
  
We will then transition to preview tomorrow’s events and that will be
embargoed until 6:00 a.m. local time in Bangkok, 6:00 p.m. in
Washington.  
  
So, again, not for your reporting, but for your awareness, our speaker
today is \[senior administration official\], hereinafter referred to as
a “senior administration official.” \[Senior administration official\]
will give some brief remarks recapping today, and then we can open up
for questions.  
  
Again, this first portion is immediately reportable, no embargo.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  And good evening to
everybody.  Sorry to keep you waiting.  I will be brief about today, but
look forward to your questions.  
  
As you all saw, I think after the DPRK launched a long-range missile
this morning, the Vice President convened a group of Indo-Pacific
leaders who were present here in Bangkok, at APEC.  And she convened
them to consult on next steps on this issue and to jointly condemn the
DPRK’s provocative act.  
  
This was a meeting that came together quickly, but the Vice President
wanted to do it for the reasons I said.  And the meeting was actually
very productive and free flowing.  It was a chance for these leaders,
who are all deeply concerned about North Korean actions, to consult and
to come together and jointly condemn these destabilizing activities,
which, as they pointed out, are in violation of multiple U.N. Security
Council resolutions.  They come as part of a pattern of increased North
Korean missile tests.   
  
Some of you will recall that — North Korea’s undertaking missile tests
at the time of the Vice President’s trip to the Republic of Korea a
couple of months ago, and that pattern continued today with the ICBM
test.  And the Vice President wanted to consult with our close allies
and partners on this, and that’s what she did in that meeting.  
  
She also, during her remarks at the APEC Leaders’ Retreat, condemned the
DPRK’s missile launch in front of other world leaders present there.  
  
At the APEC meeting itself, as we have discussed previously, she used
her engagement in the Leaders’ Retreat to lay out the United States’
vision for economic rules and norms to underscore our commitment — our
economic commitment to the Indo-Pacific that goes along with our
strategic and security commitment.  And she laid out our economic
agenda, what we’ve done and what we intend to do, including in our host
year of APEC next year.  And she gave quite a comprehensive assessment
of U.S. economic approach in the region in her remarks to the APEC CEO
forum.   
  
So, that’s essentially what we wanted to convey about today’s events,
and happy to take whatever questions you might have before we give you a
preview of tomorrow.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Okay, great.  Thanks.  If anyone has any questions
about today, please use the “raise hand” function at the bottom of your
screen.  And we’ll just give folks a moment to lodge those questions,
and we’ll go from there.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Our first question will go to Jasmine Wright. 
Jasmine, your line should be unmuted now.  
  
Q    Hi all.  Thanks for doing this call.  I have two questions for
you.  First is: Has the Vice President spoken to President Biden yet
about the missile launch?  If so, did she call him?  Did he call her? 
And can you give some details on how that conversation went?   
  
And my second question is: Could you describe what the Vice President’s
level of concern was while being briefed but also while in the
meetings?  As you said, this definitely is like an increased cadence of
actions from North Korea, so — and — so I’m just wondering if you can
describe her level of concern.  
  
Also, after the meeting, the Japanese foreign minister said that the
missile had the capability to U- — reach U.S. mainland.  I’m wondering
if this is something that the Japanese Prime Minister shared with the
Vice President while in the emergency meeting.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks, Jasmine.  The Vice
President hasn’t had the chance to speak with the President today, but
her national security team has been in close touch with counterparts in
Washington and around the world, keeping her briefed and coordinating
U.S. policy.  
  
On her level of concern, I think I characterized her deep concern with
this provocative action.  I think the words you used just a minute ago
were “increased cadence,” which I referred to as well.  The DPRK has
been not just testing missiles but doing so with increasing
frequency.   
  
And then, of course, today’s action was further escalation because of
the range of the missile.  Most of the recent tests, as you know, have
been medium-range missiles.  This was a longer-range missile, which
does, as the Japanese foreign minister noted, have the capability of
reaching the United States and many other countries around the world.   
  
And indeed, I would underscore that — about the meeting that was held
today — I think there’s growing global concern about North Korean tests,
precisely because it is developing missiles with ranges that can hit
many, many countries around the world, including the United States.   
  
So, yes, the Vice President was deeply concerned, and that was one of
the reasons she wanted to call this group together and join together in
condemning this action.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Great, thanks so much.  Our next question will go to
Shaun Tandon.  Shaun, your line should be unmuted.  
  
Q    Hey, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks for doing this. 
Could I ask you about engagements, if any, with the Chinese?  Obviously,
President Biden met a few days ago with Xi Jinping, so maybe — I’m sure
you’re not expecting a formal bilat here, but was there any exchanges,
informally or otherwise, with the Chinese president or other members of
the Chinese leadership?  
  
And if I could just expand a little bit on North Korea.  The Australian
Prime Minister Albanese was afterwards saying that one of the — that one
of the things that was discussed was the idea of having an emergency
Security Council meeting about North Korea.  Is that something that the
United States favors?  Were there any other — were there any other goals
that were set out from this from this meeting today about where to go
forward on North Korea?  Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, on the latter, first: Yes, the
United States does believe that the Security Council should meet and
discuss this issue.  And it was indeed one of the things that the Vice
President brought up with — with counterparts around the table today.  
  
On engagement with China, again, I don’t have any meetings to announce. 
I would note, as you did, that the President just met at great length
with President Xi.  President Xi was also in the Leaders’ Retreat this
morning with the Vice President, participating in that APEC discussion. 
But there hasn’t been a direct meeting.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Thank you.  Next, we’ll go to Poppy McPherson. 
Poppy, your line is unmuted.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks.  Just following up on that, did you — did you or allies
intend to engage China or encourage them to pressure North Korea on the
missile launch?  And has any approach been made?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We are in regular contact with China on
this issue.  It’s something President Biden brought up.  We do think
that Beijing has a role to play.  That is, indeed, one of the reasons
for taking this to the U.N. Security Council.  And it will definitely be
part of our diplomacy to try to get China to join the countries that
went on record today in condemning this, and using its influence to
persuade the DPRK not to go in this provocative direction, which only
destabilizes the region and the world.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  And our next question will go to Patsy Widakuswara. 
Patsy, your line should be unmuted.  
  
Q    Hi, can you hear me?  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Yes, we can.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Thanks for taking my question.  So I was wondering if you
can flesh out a little bit more of the details, the schedule of the Vice
President’s visit to Palawan.  And, you know, obviously we know it’s
very close point to the Spratly Island.  Is there any kind of particular
message you’re sending to the region?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I mean, we’ll be sharing more
details about the schedule as it emerges in the next couple of days. 
But I think we’ve said already that there are a number of reasons to go
to Palawan.  And the Vice President often likes to get out of capital
city, and she’ll have a chance to engage with locals there, including
locals in the fishing community.  
  
She’ll have a chance to underscore — and I think this is the issue
you’re alluding to — the U.S. commitment to freedom of navigation, which
is obviously an important issue in and around Palawan.  And she’ll have
a chance to talk about environmental issues and the impact of climate
change and the consequences of illegal, unregulated, and unreported
fishing.  
  
So all of those factors are at play there.  And so that’s why she’s
going.  And it will really be an important opportunity for her to
underscore our concern about that entire set of issues.  
  
As for the precise details of what she’ll do that day, we’ll be
announcing that soon.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  All right.  Thank you.  
  
I think we will now transition to the second half of our call.  So, the
for- — so the new ground rules for this, again, will be embargoed until
6:00 a.m. on Saturday, November 19th, in Bangkok, and 6:00 p.m. on
Friday, November 18th, in Washington.   
  
And the purpose of this portion of the call is to preview the Vice
President’s day on Saturday in Bangkok.  As most of you who — should
have received an embargoed factsheet announcing a series of
deliverables, so encourage you to report on that.  Embargoed until 6:00
a.m.  
  
And to speak a little bit more about that, I will turn it back over to
our speaker.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  So, yeah, tomorrow we’ll begin
with another APEC session, another Leaders’ Retreat at which, by the
way, the Vice President will also take the baton, so to speak, from
Thailand, who is the 2022 host, for the U.S. 2023 host year.  
  
After that meeting, she will have a meeting with Prime Minister Prayut
of Thailand.  And she’ll have an opportunity in that meeting to commend
Thailand on its successful host year and thank Thailand for the strong
foundation it created going into our host year.  
  
She’ll welcome the Bio-Circular-Green Economy model that has been a
feature of Thailand’s approach, which we support, and they’ll discuss
other efforts to accelerate action on the climate crisis.  
  
To that end — and I think you’ve all seen the embargoed factsheet, which
has a series of climate and clean energy deliverables — climate and
clean energy is a real focus, both for the Vice President and the Prime
Minister, and she wanted to use her visit here as a way to move forward
on several initiatives, which is what we’re doing.  
  
I want to call your attention in particular to one item on the
factsheet, which is that the Vice President will launch a FIRST Program
Partnership — F-I-R-S-T — which is the U.S. Foundational Infrastructure
for Responsible Use of Small Modular Reactor Technology Program.  And we
really look forward to working with Thailand to take advantage of the
benefits of small modular reactors and reliable clean energy sources.  
  
The Vice President will also raise economic issues, including supply
chain resilience and the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, or IPEF.  
  
On security, Thailand is, of course, our only defense treaty ally in
mainland Southeast Asia, one of two treaty allies in Southeast Asia. 
And the Vice President will be going to the other, the Philippines, the
next day.  
  
But Thailand is, therefore, an essential partner in advancing peace and
security in the Indo-Pacific.  And you can expect the Vice President and
Prime Minister Prayut to discuss the strong nature of our security
cooperation, including the Cobra Gold exercise, which is the largest and
longest-running multilateral exercise in Southeast Asia.  
  
We anticipate they will have a discussion on regional and global issues
as well.  And you can expect that she’ll raise the importance of
standing up for international rules and norms, which I know you’ve seen
has been a theme that she has stressed throughout the world and
including in the Indo-Pacific.  And she’ll do that also including in the
context of Russia’s brutal and unjustified war in Ukraine.  
  
With that, I will stop and, again, look forward to your questions.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Okay, again, if you have questions about the Vice
President’s program in Thailand on Saturday and any deliverables or
substance of that, please use the “raise hand” function at the bottom of
your screen.  
  
Actually, we have a few more comments from our speaker before we turn it
over to calls.  Give us one more moment.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Just to add to the regional agenda and
make sure I was being comprehensive about that, those discussions we can
expect will also include Burma, where the Vice President and the prime
minister, I think, will discuss our shared concerns over the political
and humanitarian crisis.  She’ll acknowledge Thailand’s long tradition
of humanitarian generosity and discuss how we can best support the
people of Burma as they seek to restore their country’s democratic
transition.   
  
And the regional discussion will also include the Mekong region.  There
are a number of initiatives on women entrepreneurs in health and
environmental conservation that the Vice President will be launching.  
  
We recognize Thailand’s leadership in the region, and we welcome the
close cooperation on regional development.  And we’ll have more to say
about the Mekong region on Sunday when the Vice President meets with
activists from northern Thailand, but I just wanted to make sure to
stress that Burma and the Mekong will also be included in the regional
discussion with the prime minister.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Great.  Okay, now we’ll take questions about this
program in Thailand.  If you have any questions, please use the “raise
hand” function at the bottom of your screen.  We’ll give folks a moment
to weigh in.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Okay, our first question would go to Yiamyut
Sutthichaya.  Your “hand” should be unmuted.  
  
Q    Thanks for letting me ask.  Is there any chance for the Vice
President to address — speak to Prayut regarding the human rights
situation in relation to the recent protests crackdown today in
Bangkok?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks for raising that.  And I
think you know everywhere the Vice President goes — and, in fact, all
U.S. leaders — we stress the importance of democracy, rule of law, and
human rights.  And I think you can expect the Vice President will raise
that in meetings here tomorrow as well.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Next, we will go to Christopher Woody.  Your line
should be unmuted.  
  
We’re having trouble hearing you if you’re speaking.  
  
While we’re waiting for audio from Christopher, we can go to Kemi
Osukoya.  Kemi, your line should be unmuted.  
  
Q    Hi, good morning.  Can you hear me?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, we can.  
  
Q    Okay.  Good morning.  Thank you for taking my question.  I was
wondering if you could talk more about the global health aspects.  It
said that there will be $600,000 that will be donated for the Oncology
Center, if you can talk about that, and also talk about the woman
initiative program that will be funded.  
  
Hello?  Hello?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.  Hi.  Can you hear me?  
  
Q    Oh, okay.  Yeah, I can hear you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m sorry.   
  
Yeah, I mean, I don’t — you have the embargoed factsheet, and I don’t
really have much to add beyond the details that is in there about the
Oncology Center.  Our Trade and Development Agency is leading that
project.  And, as you noted, it’s going to be $600,000 for the Oncology
Center.  
  
And, you know, we’ve got some information on the factsheet about it, but
I think if you want more detail than that, I would be happy to refer you
to USTDA who can walk you through the details.  
  
You see other global health initiatives in the factsheet as well.  And
as you know, it is a real priority for the Vice President around the
world and in this region as well, as is the other issue you mentioned,
which is women’s issues.  And she has really made it a priority to
engage with women around the world and underscore the point that she
frequently makes that when you lift up women, and especially young
women, and involve them in the economy, you’re not only helping them but
you’re helping the entire society and their families, and with
productivity and prosperity.   
  
And so that is why she will be engaging with women on this trip.  And
it’s why some of the deliverables that, including what you referenced in
the factsheet, are specifically designed to provide opportunities and
lift up women.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Great.  Okay.  We’ll try to unmute and have
Christopher Woody give it another go.  Chris?  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks.  Can you hear me?  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you for your time, and sorry for the audio issue.  I
wanted to ask about follow-up on the defense ties reference.  Thailand
also has a relationship with China, including military exercises.  And
there’s a report this week they’re going to discuss Chinese engines for
submarines Thailand is building.  So, does the Vice President have any
plans to raise Thailand’s relationship with China during her meeting and
address any concerns about that?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think our focus is going to be on the
positive agenda that we are pursuing.  Thailand is a sovereign country
and has ties with other countries, including China.  We’ve made no
secret about the reality that the United States competes with China. 
But we also recognize and respect the sovereignty of our partners and
allies around the world.  
  
I think the Vice President will make a positive case about — not just
about the value of U.S. security cooperation and defense ties, but also,
importantly, the importance of international rules and norms, which I’ve
said she stresses around the world and has done so particularly in
Southeast Asia where they can often be challenged by illegal and
unreported fishing, by certain environmental practices, and also by
security forces when they don’t respect sovereignty and territorial
integrity and freedom of navigation and freedom of commerce.  
  
So, I think by standing up for those norms, the Vice President will also
be standing up for Thailand, which I think the Thais appreciate and
value in the United States as a security partner.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  All right.  Well, thank you very much.  That will do
it for tonight’s briefing.  
  
If you have any further questions, please feel free to reach out.   
  
And for those who did not receive the embargoed factsheet, we can share
it with all participants.  
  
Again, this portion of the briefing is embargoed until 6:00 a.m. on
Saturday in Bangkok and 6:00 p.m. on Friday evening in Washington. 
Thank you all very much.  Have a good morning and evening.  Thanks.  
  
                          END                9:40 P.M. ICT  
