---
date: '2022-11-15'
modified_time: 2022-11-15 20:26:29-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-15 20:26:11-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/11/15/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-previewing-vice-president-harriss-trip-to-thailand-and-the-philippines/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call By Senior Administration Officials\_Previewing Vice\
  \ President Harris\u2019s Trip\_To Thailand and the\_Philippines"
---
 
* Via Teleconference*

5:05 P.M. EST

  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone, for joining us this evening.  We’re here
to preview the Vice President’s trip to Thailand and the Philippines. 
And this call will be on background, attributed to a “senior
administration official.”  There is no embargo on this call.  Again, on
background, attributed to a “senior administration official.”  And by
joining this call you’re accepting those ground rules.  
  
Just for your awareness and not for your reporting, our speaker today is
\[senior administration official\], hereinafter will be referred to as a
senior administration official.  So I will turn it over to him.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[moderator\].  And hello,
everybody.  As I think all of you know, the Vice President will depart
tomorrow, Wednesday, November 16th, for Thailand and the Philippines.   
  
I’ll talk a bit about her schedule in a minute, but let me just start
with a few points about the trip in general.   
  
The Vice President will make clear that the United States has an
enduring commitment to Southeast Asia, following up on the strong
message she delivered when she traveled to Singapore and Vietnam in
August 2021 and at the U.S.-ASEAN Summit in Washington, D.C., in May
<s>2020</s> \[2022\].  
  
This work builds on the President’s current and ongoing trip in
Southeast Asia.  And when you put the two together, I think it shows the
deepening of our engagement in this region and the effort by both the
President and the Vice President to strengthen our alliances in the
region and to invest in critical institutions, mainly ASEAN, the East
Asia Summit, and APEC.    
  
Finally, economic growth and advocating for American workers and
businesses will be a key theme throughout the Vice President’s trip.  Of
course, this will be a topic in her time at the APEC Conference in
Bangkok, but it will also feature throughout her bilateral meetings the
recognition that the Indo-Pacific and Southeast Asia directly affect the
prosperity of the American people.  
  
Let me turn to the schedule.  I’ll try to brief, but bear with me. 
We’re going to have a full set of engagements over the following days,
starting in Bangkok, at the Economic Leaders Meeting of APEC.  
  
And there, the Vice President will participate in Leader Retreats on
Friday and Saturday.  And in those engagements, she’ll reaffirm our
economic leadership in the region in the lead-up to the United States’
2023 host year, which is something she announced in Singapore in the
summer of 2021.  And she’ll lay out the key principles we think should
guide APEC economies and rally other economies around our vision for the
future of the rules-based international economic order.   
  
As part of the proceedings, she’ll outline U.S. objectives and goals for
the U.S. host year, focusing on sustainability and building on the
foundation — the solid foundation that Thailand set in 2022.  
  
We anticipate she’ll have the opportunity to meet with other APEC
leaders on the margins of the meetings.  I don’t have any meetings to
announce here, but we’ll keep you updated as those encounters occur.   
  
On Friday, November 18th, the Vice President will deliver remarks at the
APEC CEO Summit.  And in these remarks, she’ll lay out our
administration’s comprehensive economic agenda for the Indo-Pacific.   
  
The central message of her remarks will be that the United States has an
enduring economic commitment to the Indo-Pacific, and there is no better
partner for the economies and companies of the Indo-Pacific than the
United States of America.  
  
We believe it’s important to show our track record — everything we’ve
done and are going and will do.  And this includes our increased
diplomatic engagement in the region.  It includes IPEF, the Indo-Pacific
Economic Framework, which covers supply chains and clean energy to deal
with the climate crisis and fair trade and anticorruption; and also the
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment, which focuses on
infrastructure investments that are badly needed throughout the region
and the rest of the world.   
  
She’ll talk about our historic domestic legislation that we’ve recently
enacted here in the United States, including the CHIPS and Science Act
and the Inflation Reduction Act, and demonstrate how this also benefits
the entire region.  
  
When you put it all together, frankly, we think it tells a very positive
story with significant resources brought to the table.  We know there is
strong demand for increased economic presence by the United States.  And
the Vice President will make clear we believe we have answered the call
for that increased economic presence.  And I want to be clear this is
just the start of our efforts, with much more to come.  
  
The Vice President will also commit to work with the private sector to
increase our business ties with the Indo-Pacific region, through foreign
direct investments, supply chain resiliency, and other areas.  
  
On Saturday, November 19th, following the conclusion of the APEC Leaders
Meeting, the Vice President will have a bilateral meeting with Prime
Minister Prayut of Thailand.  She’ll underscore our enduring commitment
to Thailand and the work to strengthen our alliance.  
  
The focus will be to deepen bilateral cooperation on areas such as the
climate crisis and economic development by accelerating the clean energy
transition, building climate resilience, and promoting sustainable
development.  
  
We do anticipate some deliverables and outcomes from this meeting, in
terms of new initiatives and funding that will deepen our work together,
and we’ll have more to say about that closer to the meeting.  We also
anticipate they will discuss the situation in Burma, as well as other
regional and global developments.  
  
On Sunday, November 20th, the Vice President will convene a roundtable
on climate and clean energy with a particular focus on the Mekong
region.  It will include activists who are focused on protecting the
environment in the Mekong region and business leaders who are building a
clean energy future.  
  
The Vice President recognizes that the climate crisis is at the
intersection of so many of our priorities from public health to
sustainable livelihoods and economic growth.  And she believes that we
need all voices at the table, including from the advocacy community as
well as the private sector, and that’s why she is convening this
group.  
  
They’ll discuss initiatives underway and future ones to seize the
economic opportunities from climate action.  They’ll also discuss the
threats posed to communities along the Mekong River, from droughts,
floods, extreme heat, and the impacts of upstream development.  
  
On Sunday evening, the Vice President will fly to Manila, the
Philippines.   
  
On Monday, the 21st of November, in Manila, she will have a meeting with
Vice President Duterte-Carpio and then a longer bilateral meeting with
President Marcos.  
  
The focus with President Marcos will be twofold: strengthening our
security alliance and economic relationship.   
  
On security, the Vice President will reaffirm our defense commitments to
the Philippines and the importance of our alliance in peace and
stability in the South China Sea.  They will discuss upholding
international rules and norms.  The Vice President will also commit to
work more closely with the Philippines to strengthen our economic
partnership and investment ties.  We anticipate there will be
deliverables and new initiatives on this front, as well, related to the
digital economy and upskilling and accelerating the transition to clean
energy.  
  
And later on Monday, the Vice President will have an opportunity to meet
with civil society activists, demonstrating our commit- — continued
support for human rights and democratic resilience.  
  
She’ll then participate in a moderated conversation, or town hall, with
an audience of young Filipino women.  The topic will be “Empowering
Women and Girls.”  As she does all around the world, the Vice President
prioritizes lifting up the voices of women and advocating for their
economic empowerment and civic participation.  This will be the first
event of its kind she has done overseas since taking office, and it’ll
be a good opportunity for direct engagement with the Filipino people,
underscoring the strong people-to-people ties with the Philippines and
historic ties.  
  
On Tuesday, November 22nd, the Vice President will travel to Puerto
Princesa, on the island of Palawan, where she will meet with residents,
civil society leaders, and representatives of the Philippines Coast
Guard.  This is another historic visit, as the Vice President is the
highest-ranking U.S. official ever to visit Palawan.  
  
This visit demonstrates the Biden-Harris administration’s commitment to
stand with our Philippine ally in upholding the rules-based
international maritime order in the South China Sea, supporting maritime
livelihoods, and countering illegal, unregulated, and unreported
fishing.  
  
As part of her effort to uphold international rules and norms around the
world, during her engagement with the Philippines Coast Guard, the Vice
President will deliver remarks underscoring the importance of
international law, unimpeded commerce, and freedom of navigation in the
South China Sea.  
  
The Vice President, as I think you know, has prioritized maritime
cooperation nations throughout Southeast Asia — with nations throughout
Southeast Asia.  In particular, during the U.S.-ASEAN Summit in May
2022, the Vice President led the session with ASEAN Leaders on maritime
security and launched $60 million in new Coast Guard initiatives for
Southeast Asia.  
  
And now, in her engagement with the Philippines Coast Guard, which has
benefitted from U.S. partnership, training, and equipment, she will see
firsthand the outcomes of this partnership and discuss how to strengthen
it even further with new funding and initiatives.   
  
During her engagement with the residents of Palawan, she will be
discussing the impacts of IUU fishing on coastal economies and their
livelihoods.  
  
Finally, on Palawan, let me also note that the Vice President feels very
strongly about getting outside of government buildings and engaging
directly with people who often don’t get to interact with high-ranking
U.S. officials.  
  
Leaving the capital city and going to Palawan and visiting communities
there will do just that.  And it’s a prime example of the way the Vice
President seeks to engage on the world stage.  
  
Thanks for joining.  I know that was a lot.  But again, we’re doing a
lot, the Vice President is doing a lot.  And happy to take any questions
you might have about the trip.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you to our speaker.  Could our moderator re-up the
instructions to ask a question, please?  
  
Q    Hi, sorry.  I have two questions.  And thanks so much for doing
this.  My first question is: Will the Vice President meet with President
Xi at the APEC Summit since he’s going?  
  
And then the second question is: Why visit the island of Palawan,
knowing that it’s so close to the Spratly Islands?  Obviously, there is
a lot of disputes about who owns it.  And it’s something that could
potentially have an impact to make China upset or, you know, bring back
any tensions that were — appeared to be kind of cooled during — or after
President Biden’s very extensive meeting with him this week.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Thanks for both of those.  On
the latter — and I think I ended the presentation underscoring why the
Vice President will go to Palawan — it is starting with just this notion
of getting outside the capital.    
  
And in Palawan, she’ll have a chance to meet with local communities and
fisher communities that are impacted by the climate crisis and
environmental challenges and to highlight what we’re doing with the
Philippines in that space, but also to highlight the perils and risks to
locals from illegal and unreported fishing, which is another thing that
threatens their livelihoods.  And I think by going there she’ll
demonstrate our support and solidarity for the rule of law, maritime
law.  
  
And then, finally, as I also mentioned, the Vice President feels
strongly about and has highlighted on a number of her trips throughout
the Indo-Pacific the importance of freedom of navigation, freedom of
commerce.  And that is, obviously, highly relevant in the South China
Sea and in and around Palawan as well.  
  
So it’s an opportunity to do all of those things, standing with our
Philippine ally.  
  
On your first question of President Xi, as noted, I don’t have any
meetings or bilateral meetings to announce other than the ones that I
did announce.  
  
We do expect that President Xi will be at the APEC meeting.  But, of
course, I would also note that President Xi just did a three-plus-hour
bilat with President Biden.  
  
So we did, as you noted, I think, just had the opportunity to
extensively engage in dialogue with China’s leader.  
  
Q    Thank you so much for taking my question.  I’m wondering if there’s
going to be any specific meetings on Myanmar or if you expect that to
come up in any particular forum.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, I think I noted we do expect it to
come up.  And if I didn’t note it, I’ll note it now.  I mean, we’re
focused on a lot of regional concerns, and Myanmar/Burma has been high
on the agenda.  
  
Thailand and the Philippines are both heavily impacted by the crackdown
by the regime there.  They stand in solidarity together in calling for
the regime to cease violence and to allow humanitarian aid in and to
allow for the appointment of an ASEAN mediator.  
  
And we’re all impacted by the terrible humanitarian tragedies that we’ve
seen in Burma, as well as the consequences for the region.  
  
So it’ll definitely be a subject of the bilateral conversations that the
Vice President has with the leaders of Thailand and the Philippines. 
And, of course, Burma is also part of the Mekong region.  And, as noted,
the Vice President will be doing a roundtable focused on the Mekong,
including environmental security, but also it will be another chance to
show our support for the Burmese people by drawing attention to that.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks.  I think we’re ready for our next question.  
  
Q    Hi, everybody.  I had two clarification questions on the schedule
and then one larger question.  On the schedule, what is happening on
Sunday?  Was that the roundtable with activists?  
  
And then, secondly, this meeting with the Filipino women — you mentioned
that was the first meeting of its kind.  I wasn’t sure what made that a
first, because, obviously, she’s been engaging with women in previous
trips.  
  
And then, lastly, just wanted to get you signed off on kind of what
message you hope this trip sends in the region, you know, given the
pressure China is under to expand its own influence, and what message
you hope to send to Beijing.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, Chris, I’ll go, I think, in the
order you asked to make sure I answer all of your questions.  
  
On the “first of its kind,” it’s just — obviously, she’s met with women
while abroad, but this is going to be more, sort of, moderated
conversation, townhall style with a larger group.  So it’s just
different.  But she has obviously engaged with women and done some small
roundtables on a number of different topics.  But that’s what is
different about this one.  It’s going to be a more open —  
  
Q    Understood.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  — free flow, town hall style event.  
  
Then you asked on Sunday.  Sunday, I think I said, is the roundtable on
climate and clean energy with a focus on the Mekong.  Was that the
question you were asking for clarification on?  
  
Q    Yes.  You answered that.  Yeah.  Okay, good.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Those are two examples on each day of
things beyond the government meetings that she’s doing.  
  
And then your third question was about China’s influence in the
region?  
  
Q    Yeah, what message this trip sends to China, as far as the U.S.
commitment to the region.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I mean, China can take the
message it wants.  The message to the region is that the United States
is a member of the Indo-Pacific, we are engaged, we’re committed to the
security of our allies in the region.  
  
I think because this is an APEC meeting, indeed it’s an opportunity to
not only demonstrate that we’re committed to their security — which I
think, frankly, we have been demonstrating from the start of this
administration through extensive diplomatic and security engagement and
building out our alliances and even coming up with new configurations —
but on the economic side, that we’re a real valuable partner as well.   
  
And that’s why I went through some of what we’re going to stress in the
APEC meeting, between PGII and IPEF and a lot of what we’re doing
bilaterally on supply chains and infrastructure and clean energy and
trade and investment.  
  
The message is that: you can count on the United States; we are — we are
a friend and a partner.  
  
And so it’s a positive agenda for us rather than a sort of negative
(inaudible) about competing with anybody else.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Hey, guys, thanks so much for doing this.  I wanted to know if the
Vice President had been briefed about the explosion that happened in
Poland earlier today, if she’s communicated with President Biden about
it at all, and anything else you can tell us on that matter.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, she has been briefed, and she’s
following it closely.  
  
MODERATOR:  All right.  Well, that does it for us tonight.  Thanks,
everyone, for calling in.  As a reminder, this call is on background —
(the call drops).  
  
                               END                 5:25 P.M. EST  
