---
date: '2022-11-29'
published_time: 2022-11-29 16:30:26-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/11/29/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-freeland-mi/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Freeland,\_MI"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Freeland, Michigan

1:33 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, good afternoon, everybody.  Thanks for joining
us for President Biden’s trip to Michigan, where he will discuss how
this ec- — his economic plan is leading to a manufacturing boom,
rebuilding our supply chains, growing the economy, and creating
good-paying jobs.  He’ll also discuss Democrats’ success in the midterm
elections in Michigan, following efforts to build an economy from the
bottom up and the middle out, protect democracy, and fight to protect
women’s reproductive healthcare. 

As you all know, the President will be visiting a new semiconductor
material manufacturing facility operated by SK siltron css, which last
year announced a 300 million expansion — 300 million dollars expansion
of its Michigan operations.  The investment will enable SK siltron css
to quadruple production capacity over the next few years, increase its
workforce to nearly 300 employees.

The President will be joined by Governor Gretchen Whitmer,
Representative Dan Kildee, and Elissa Slotkin, who are flying with us to
Michigan right now on Air Force One; Bay County Executive — Executive
James Barcia; and mayors from Saginaw and Midland; and state and local
elected officials. 

Oh my goodness.  Sorry, guys, give me one second. 

Efforts by Governor Whitmer to leverage the President’s CHIPS and
Science Act have helped attract semiconductor investments in Michigan,
including from SK siltron css.

In July, President Biden met with virtually — virt- — met virtually with
SK Group Chairman Tony Chey, who announced that SK Group plans to invest
over $50 billion in the U.S., which is protect — which is projected to
create 16,000 new U.S. jobs. 

President Biden’s economic plan has generated a manufacturing boom
across the country, with over $13 billion of new private sector
manufacturing investment in Michigan committed since 2021 and more than
$240 billion in major investments across the country since 2021 across
cutting-edge industries like biomanufacturing, electric vehicles,
semiconductors, and batteries. 

We have all seen Russia’s efforts to destroy Ukraine’s civilian
infrastructure using missiles and Iranian drones. Russia is depriving
the Ukrainian people of heat, power, and other critical services as
winter approaches.  This systematic campaign by the Kremlin is
outrageous and threatens the health and wellbeing of millions of
innocent people.  In response to Russia’s brutal attacks against
Ukrainian — Ukraine’s energy infrastructure, we are taking additional
action. 

Today, Secretary of — Secretary of State Blinken announced that the
United States government is providing over 53 billion — million, pardon
me — 53 million dollars in critical electricity grid equipment to help
Ukrainians preserve — presevere \[sic\] — persevere through the winter. 

This equipment will be rapidly delivered to Ukraine on an emergency
basis and will include distribution transformers, circuit breakers,
surge arresters, disconnectors, vehicles, and other key equipment that
Ukraine needs.  This new assistance is in addition to the $55 million in
emergency energy sector support the United States is already providing
for generators and other equipment to help restore emergency power and
heat to local municipalities impacted by Russia’s attack on Ukraine’s
power system.

We will continue to identify additional support with allies and
partners, and we are also helping to devise long-term solutions for grid
restorations and repair, along with our assistance for Ukraine’s effort
to advance the energy transition and build an energy system decoupled
from Russian energy. 

Russia’s cruel campaign against Ukraine’s energy infrastructure will not
work.  The Ukrainian people will continue to defend their sovereignty
and their independence, and we will stand with them for as long as it
take — takes.

One last thing: As President Biden has said, we know that democracy
remains the best tool humankind has to unleash our collective potential
and deliver security and prosperity for all.  That’s why he’s made
strengthening democracy a cornerstone of both his domestic and
international agendas.

Today, the United States is announcing that it will host a second Summit
for Democracy on March 29th and 30th of 2023.  In the new year, we will
be joined by new co-host governments Costa Rica, the Netherlands, and
the Republic of Korea, and the Republic of Zambia.  Joining together
with a regionally diverse group of partners to host the summit
underscores that democratic values are both a shared global aspiration
and a shared global responsibility.  The summit will also assemble world
leaders in a virtual plenary format, followed by in-person gatherings in
each co-host country, with representatives from government, civil
society, and the private sector.

Together, we will showcase progress made by world leaders on commitments
made at the first Summit of Democracy held in December 2021.  And it
will reaffirm the vitality of the democratic model and collective action
to meet the unprecedented challenge of our time.  We look forward to
another successful summit and accelerating concrete action toward
democratic resilience and renewal. 

Chris, you want to kick us off?

Q    Sure.  Today, the meeting with congressional leaders — one of the
most closely watched things is the President’s, you know, relationship
with the incoming — or who’s expected to be the incoming Speaker, Kevin
McCarthy.  How did the meeting go today with the two — with the two
men?  What prospects do they have for, you know, finding some areas of
agreement going forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So were you guys able to get the readout?

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, I mean, just — so you guys got the readout,
so I won’t dive into that too much.  I will say this — and you guys know
this.  You guys have known the President as a vice president, as a
senator.  He is someone that works towards making sure or wanting to
make sure that there’s bipartisanship, like working across the aisle. 
That’s what you’ve seen from this President.  This past 20 months, he
has signed more than 200 bills that have been bipartisan.  So this is
something that he believes is critical and important not just for him,
but for the American people — delivering for the American people. 

And so, look, he wants to build on that record with his Republican
colleagues.  And, again, for the American people.  And they were so
clear this election, right?  They made it very loud and clear that they
want to see more progress and they want to see us working together and
they want Republican colleagues to do the same.

He was glad to host the leaders of both parties in Congress for an
honest, productive conversation about how we can do more for families. 

We know we’ll have important disagreements.  That is — that is a reality
— right? — in this — in the space that we’re in, but there’s no reason
we can’t look each other in the eye and get more done for the American
people. 

That’s where the President is.  And he hopes his Republican colleagues
will take — will take those same steps and accept his invitation on
making sure that we continue to do the work for the — for American
families.

Q    Karine, we’ve heard from multiple sources within OPEC that they’re
looking at another oil output cut.  This is just a couple of days after
I think you guys helped them thwart another missile attack from an
Iranian-linked group.  Do they not care about this alliance as much as
the United States does?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Who are you talking about? 

Q    The Saudis. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look — I mean, look, I’m not going to get ahead
of what potential announcement OPEC Plus is going to make.  As you know,
we are not members of OPEC Plus, so not — certainly not going to get
ahead of that. 

Q    Would you pursue an output cut?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, what I will say is the President has
done the work this past several months to make sure that we bring down
prices at the pump — gas prices at the pump for the American family and
— and the American people just across — across communities, across the
country. 

And we have seen that effort pay — pay forward, right?  We have seen
prices go down because of the str- — because of the historic actions
that the President talk — took when it came to the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve. 

And that is what matters.  That is what the President is going to focus
on.  He’s always going to look at ways to bring down costs for the
American people.  He has said many times — we have said, when it comes
to our economic plan, inflation — focusing on inflation is a priority,
lowering costs for American people is a priority. 

That’s why the Inflation Reduction Act was so important — right? —
making sure that went through and signing that into — into law.  And
only Democrats voted for that.  And that’s going to bring down costs,
healthcare costs for American people.  That’s going to make a real
investment in climate change to — an historic investment.  And that’s
going to be the focus of the President. 

I’m just not going to get ahead of a potential announcement by OPEC
Plus.

Q    The President’s remarks about the rail strike and averting it were
a little cut off today. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And he said that he was “confident.”  But what was unclear is
whether that meant he was confident that there were enough votes in the
Senate to pass legislation.  So, I’m wondering if you could give as much
as you can on that specifically and — yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m glad you asked that question.  I actually —
right before coming back here, I asked him that because I know there was
some questions from all of you — some of your colleagues on exactly what
he said. 

He said to me that he is confident that we will not have a rail strike. 
That is what he’s confident about.

Q    Does that mean he’s confident of a vote, or he’s confident that no
matter what (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s confident that we’re going to get to a resolution
on this.  He didn’t —

Q    On the rail strike, you know, he — the President has said he — he
is the most pro-union President in history.  This must be a difficult
decision for him.  He indicated that in his statement.  But can you give
us a sense of like, personally, how much did he grapple with having to
make this decision? 

And on the flip side, are there demands — does he feel there are demands
that the rail workers are making that are unreasonable in this, which
led him to make this decision?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Just a couple of things.  As you heard — you guys all
heard from the Speaker, she is going to bring — bring this, the
tentative agreement, to the floor tomorrow.  So, it is getting some
movement there.  So, I think that’s something that we need to make sure
that we highlight. 

Look, I mean, as the President said for some time now: If — you know, a
rail strike would be unacceptable. 

Just a couple of things.  A shutdown would have devastating impacts on
American families, businesses, and farms.  As many as 7- — 765,000
Americans could be out of work in the first two weeks alone. 
Communities could lose access to chemicals for clean drinking water in a
matter of days. 

And the President is asking Congress to resolve this issue by putting
the tentative agreement in place that was agreed by the railway — the
railways.

Let’s not forget: 12 unions — these are 12 unions — 8 out of the 12
unions voted to ratify this tentative agreement.  That’s a majority of
the unions.  And the tentative agreement reached after the Presidential
Emergency Board made its recommendation includes a well-deserved and
long overdue 24 percent pay raise for workers and improved healthcare
benefits as well.

The day the agreement was announced, it was praised by labor leaders,
business leaders, and bipartisan members of Congress. And so, I just
wanted to make sure that we note that as well. 

Look — and you’ve heard the President say this — you know, the
legislation to keep the rails running is not about undermining the right
to strike.  That’s not what we’re talking about. 

The President has been very clear he is a President for all.  And this
will have — this will have — a shutdown will have — would have, you
know, effects and impacts on — thousands of jobs would be at risk and
endanger things like, again, drinking — safe drinking water.  And all of
this and that potential outcome is unacceptable.  And that is what we’re
working towards — making sure that we do not have an economy that’s
disrupted the way that it could potentially be if there’s a rail strike.

Q    Is the President disappointed then that so many union workers are
saying that he’s siding with the wealthy, with the oligarchs, instead of
union workers?  And one of their demands in particular on paid sick
leave, this is something the President has supported.  Is there any way
he would support maybe Congress putting that in — you know, in the
agreement that they end up passing?  Is there any way that could still
be on the table?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as you know, the President has advocated for
paid leave because of its importance for families, workers in our
broader economy.  This President’s leadership helped secure an agreement
that prevented, again, a major disruption to our economy.

But the President is not going to take any action that would undermine
the urgent need to avert a harmful rail shutdown.  And so, you know,
that’s the way that the President sees this.

Again, he’s a — he’s a president for all Americans.  He believes if
there is a real shutdown, it would be unacceptable and it would affect
jobs, it would affect communities across the country, it’ll affect
farms.  And he believes that we need to do everything that we can to
prevent that.

Q    Karine, on — the President was vice president back in 2011 when the
Republican-led House came close to a debt ceiling crisis.  Does he now —
in that he’s going to have to deal with a Republican-led House again;
some of the same people, in fact — does he still think the debt limit —
that the debt ceiling is a useful feature?  Would he support getting rid
of it?  If not, why not?  Did it come up with his discussion today with
the incoming Speaker?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to go beyond the readout of —
of — that we just put out.  So, I’m going to be very clear about that.

But, look, our position is very clear: The debt ceiling should never be
political brinksmanship.  Congressional Republicans voted three times,
as you know, under the last President, to — you know, to lift the debt
ceiling.  So it should be able to — we should be able to do it again.

Congress must once again responsibly address the debt ceiling before it
expires.  The sooner they act, the better for our economy and our
country.

And so, look, the President looks forward to working with Congress to
address the debt limit.  The sooner, the better.  And that’s where he
stands on that.

Q    Would he support getting rid of it entirely?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, the President — you’ve heard the President. 
You know, Republican plans to play games with economic catastrophe
unless they get — they get to cut Social Security and Medicare.  That’s
what they were saying the last couple of months going into the
midterms.  And that’s reckless; that’s irresponsible.  And we know that
would make inflation worse.

And so, we were very clear about that during — during the — during —
going — during the midterms.  So, we do not think that this should be
used as a political brinksmanship.  We’ve been very clear about that. 
We — the Republicans were able to lift — you know, lift the debt ceiling
three times under the last President, and we should be able to do that
again.

Q    On China, Karine, if I can?

Q    Did he press in that meeting today to get that done during this
lame-duck session?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m just not going to get behind — I’m not
going to get beyond the readout that we put out.  What I can say is what
I just laid out: It should not be used as political brinkmanship.  It
should not, when it comes to the debt ceiling.

Q    Karine, on China: Has the White House communicated to Beijing any
possible consequences of its crackdown on protesters?  And also, is the
White House considering saying something or using existing U.S.
government tools to help Chinese citizens get around Internet blocks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything to preview for you at this
time on — on, you know, anything connected to the social media.  Your
first — your second question. 

I don’t have any calls to preview to you — for you at this time.

Look, we’ve been very clear that people have a right to peacefully
protest without fear.  And — and we don’t think that that right should
be hindered or interfered with.

Nothing has changed about the President’s firm belief in the universal —
universitality of human rights and power of democracy.

So, we will continue to express our support for the fundamental
freedom.  The United States will also continue to stand for respect for
freedom of the press and freedom of expression.  No journalist should be
arrested or beaten or harassed for simply doing their job, as it comes
to some of the reports that we’ve been hearing on the ground.  And we’re
watching this closely, as you as you might expect that we would.

And we believe that, you know — you know, that people should have the
right, again, to peacefully protest.

Q    Karine, in the meeting today, Democrats and the White House have
said that they wanted to address, potentially in this lame-duck session,
tech reg- — tech regulation legislation.  There’s also been, I think, a
push from Elon Musk, upset over what’s going on with Apple, for Congress
to intervene in that case.  And Kevin McCarthy came out after the
meeting and said that he believed the President was picking on Elon Musk
with some of the oversight that you guys have participated in vis-à-vis
Twitter.  So I know that’s a number of questions under one umbrella —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  That’s a lot of questions, Justin.

Q    — but I was wondering if you have an update, kind of, on any of
those fronts. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on the Apple piece, I’m just not going to comment
on specific claims about Apple. 

More broadly, when it comes to antitrust, we — generally speaking,
promoting competition, including in the tech sector, is a core part of
the President’s economic agenda. 

The President has long called for fundamental legislative reforms to
address these issues, including tech antitrust legislation. 

There’s bipartisan support — as you know, Justin — for tech antitrust
legislation.  And we — we do hope that Congress — Congress acts.

As far as if that was brought up in the meeting, again, I’m not going to
get beyond or — beyond the readout. 

And, look — you know, look, what I can say as well to one of your
questions is that the President has long stated his belief about the
importance of social media uplifting accurate information — as it
relates to a once-in-a-generation virus, for example — as for another
example, Facebook has done, since the Trump administration, while those
continuing to take — take steps to reduce hate speech and
misinformation. 

He’s also concerned about the power large social media platforms have
over our everyday lives and has long argued that tech platforms must be
held accountable for the harms that they cause. 

And that’s why he has long called for greater accountability for tech
platforms, including the fundamental reforms to Section 230, more
competition, stronger privacy protection, and greater — and greater
transparency. 

And so, the President has been very clear about the responsibility that
they have.

Q    Karine, has the President had any discussions with DNC members
about their 2024 primary calendar?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, that’s a political question that — I’m
covered under the Hatch Act — that I can’t speak to.  So any specifics
on that I would refer you to the — to the DNC.

Q    And then, on Ukraine, Mr. McCarthy rolled out his “no blank check”
line again today.  Can you just talk us through what might happen if you
don’t get that full $37- or $38 billion?  And, you know, why do you need
it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  So, we continue to urge
Congress to pass the Ukraine funding quickly to ensure we can continue
to provide Ukraine with assistance they need, and we’ve been very clear
about that. 

Just a couple of things.  I do want to lay out we have been able to do
and the total funding that we’ve provided since Russia’s, you know,
illegal invasion — further invasion into Ukraine on February 24th. 

Working together with Congress, the administration has provided $32
billion in assistance to Ukraine.  That includes over $1.5 billion in
humanitarian assistance since February, with more than $250 million for
winterization efforts to distribute heating, fuel, generators, shelter,
repair materials, and blankets.

The United States and our allies and partners will continue to provide
Ukraine with what it needs to defend itself, including defense system. 
And we have been very clear we are going to stand with the people of
Ukraine as they bravely fight for their freedom and their democracy. 

All right guys, we’ve got to go.

Q    Has the President been in touch with Senator Bernie Sanders or any
Democrats who might be opposed to congressional intervention?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to get into specifics of who
he’s — who the President has — has been in touch with.  I have said he’s
been directly involved, talking to congressional members. 

As you know, he spoke to congressional members today, and he’ll continue
to do that and — and make the case for the American people. 

All right, guys.

1:55 P.M. EST
