---
date: '2022-11-11'
published_time: 2022-11-11 22:30:01-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/11/11/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-en-route-phnom-penh-cambodia/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor\
  \ Jake Sullivan En Route Phnom Penh,\_Cambodia"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Phnom Penh, Cambodia

7:18 A.M. ICT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, everybody.   
  
Q    Good morning.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good morning.  Good morning.    
  
Okay.  So, as you all know, we’re on our way to Cambodia for the
U.S.-ASEAN.  I have Jake Sullivan here, National Security Advisor.  He’s
going to lay out what we’re going to do and take any questions.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, everyone.  So, from the very beginning of the
administration, the President has said that he was intent on elevating
our engagement in the Indo-Pacific.  And he has spent the last nearly
two years delivering on that, from elevating the Quad to leaders’ level,
to launching the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, to launching the AUKUS
security partnership, to deepening our ties to ASEAN, to, of course,
deepening our engagement at every level with our traditional treaty
allies.

And he’s coming into this set of summits with that record of
accomplishment and purpose behind him.  And he wants to be able to use
the next 36 hours to build on that foundation to take American
engagement forward and also to deliver on a series of concrete,
practical initiatives.

He’ll start with a brief meeting with the 2022 ASEAN chair, the
Cambodian Prime Minister, Hun Sen.  Then he will have the U.S.-ASEAN
Summit meeting.

As you know, he held an unprecedented ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit in
Washington.  And at that meeting, the leaders agreed that they would
elevate the U.S.-ASEAN partnership to a comprehensive strategic
partnership.  That will happen at this summit.  And they will also
announce a series of new initiatives on maritime cooperation, digital
connectivity, economic investment, and a range of other issues.  And
we’ll have factsheets and the like for you to take a look at those
items.

One area that he will particularly focus is on maritime domain
awareness.  Along with the Quad leaders, he announced the Indo-Pacific
Initiative for Maritime Domain Awareness.  And with ASEAN, what he’s
going to do is launch an element of that initiative that focuses on
using radio frequencies from commercial satellites to be able to track
dark shipping, illegal and unregulated fishing, and also to improve the
capacity of the countries of the region to respond to disasters and
humanitarian crises.

The President also has been very focused on making sure that we maintain
a forward-deployed posture in our defense approach to the region.  And
whether it’s the Visiting Forces Agreement with the Philippines or other
steps to have the U.S. on the front foot, in terms of defense and
security cooperation, that will be on display as well.

And he will discuss with the leaders of ASEAN and of the region the need
for freedom of navigation, for lawful unimpeded commerce, and for
ensuring that the United States is playing a constructive role in
maintaining peace and stability in the region.

While he’s there, he’ll also have the opportunity to hold discussions
with both his Japanese and Korean counterparts and also hold a
trilateral meeting with them where they’ll be able to discuss broader
security issues in the Indo-Pacific and also, specifically, the threats
posed by North Korea’s missile and nuclear programs.

So that’s what’s on the docket for the ASEAN meetings and the East Asia
Summit.  There, I’m sure, will be other elements on the sidelines.

Ah, yes, one point I actually neglected to mention and would like to
before finishing the topper, on Burma — Myanmar: The President will use
this opportunity to discuss how we can coordinate more closely to
continue to impose costs and raise pressure on the junta in Naypyidaw as
they continue to take steps that repress and oppress their citizenry and
move that country further away rather than closer to the democratic path
it was on before the coup.  So that will be an important topic of
conversation in these sessions as well.

Let me stop there and take your questions.

Q    Jake, if we could just take you back to Sharm and the President’s
bilat with President El-Sisi.  Can you talk about the human rights
discussion?  Was the President surprised to hear President Sisi bring up
human rights first?  And what did you read into that?  And then, does —
did the President speak about raising the case of Alaa Abd El-Fattah
directly?  And does the U.S. have an update on his current health
status?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The President and President Sisi had an extended
discussion on the issue of human rights.  The President directed his
team to work with the Egyptians on a number of specific cases, one of
them being that case.

We had intensive consultations on that case while we were on the ground
in Sharm, and I’m not going to go further on the record on that because
we are doing everything we can to secure his release, as well as the
release of a number of other political prisoners.

I do not have an update on his condition for you at the time.  You know,
the Egyptians have one story on this; obviously, his family has a
totally different story.  And this is a circumstance where it’s not
“trust but verify”; it’s — it’s “verify.”  And we’ve not been able to do
that.

Q    Jake, I have a question.  At the briefing on Thursday, you spoke
about North Korea — your current sense around, you know, them carrying
out long-range missile tests or nuclear tests during ASEAN, G20.  When
the President meets with President Xi, is he asking him to, you know,
talk about North Korea, step in and sort of, you know, help out with the
situation?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The President will certainly raise the issue of North
Korea with the Chinese President, but not from the point of view of
being a demandeur of any kind.

He’s going to tell President Xi his perspective, which is that North
Korea represents a threat not just to the United States, not just to the
ROK and Japan, but to peace and stability across the entire region.  And
if North Korea keeps going down this road, it will simply mean further
enhanced American military and security presence in the region.   
  
And so the PRC has an interest in playing a constructive role in
restraining North Korea’s worst tendencies.  Whether they choose to do
so or not is, of course, up to them.

Q    You’ve been on calls with the President and President — President
Biden and President Xi in the past.  Has President Biden ever raised
North Korea in this context with President Xi in the past?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Of course.  They’ve had multiple discussions about the
DPRK since President Biden has been President.  And I would go on to say
nearly countless discussions on the DPRK going back to their engagements
when President Biden was Vice President.  
  
So they’ve had the chance to speak at a strategic level on this topic
repeatedly.  Of course, the operational situation is more acute in the
current moment because of the pace of these missile tests and because of
the looming threat of a potential nuclear test — seventh nuclear test. 
But the President sees this as quite familiar ground that he will be
treading with President Xi when they meet in Bali.

Q    President Biden is spending quite a bit of time on this trip
meeting with authoritarian leaders who don’t share the United States’
democratic values.  Why was it so important to him to focus on engaging
with those leaders on this trip?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I mean, let’s start with the fact that the
President felt it was very important to attend some highly consequential
summits this year.  The first of those summits was COP27.  COP27 was
hosted by Egypt.  The President was proud and pleased to have the
opportunity to engage with the host of that summit, the President of
Egypt.

The second summit is hosted by Cambodia.  The host of that summit is the
Prime Minister of Cambodia, so he’s engaging with him.

The third summit is hosted by Indonesia, the G20.  That’s a
democratically elected leader, Joko Widodo.

So he’s meeting with the host of each of the summits that he’s
attending.  And then he will also, as I said at the podium the other
day, be meeting with his European counterparts, including the UK and
Italian prime ministers.  He’s meeting, of course, as I just mentioned,
in Phnom Penh with his ROK and Japanese counterparts.

So he will have plenty of opportunity to engage deeply with core
democratic allies.  But he’s going to engage across the board in service
of America’s interests and to advance America’s strategic position and
our values.  And that’s what guides his decision on every leader he
chooses to engage with.  
  
Q    Jake, on El-Fattah, you said that that prisoner came up during the
discussion, but was it President Biden who brought it up or did Sisi
bring it up?  And was Biden calling specifically on his release?  You
wouldn’t get into, I think, his condition —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — but is there anything that you can get into in terms of what the
U.S. is requesting specifically of Sisi on that case?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  The U.S. is requesting his release.  We’ve made no bones
about that.  President Sisi first raised human rights not just in his
opening comments before the press, but in his opening presentation in
the meeting.  President Biden responded.  President Biden explained why
it is that these issues are very important to the United States.  And as
I said, he then directed his team to work through a set of individual
cases.  We’re the ones who raised the cases, not the Egyptians.  And we
worked through them.   
  
There is a question about the extent to which trying to resolve these
cases diplomatically is best done through public pressure or through
private engagement.  That’s a constant debate, a constant calibration. 
So I can say emphatically that we believe that Alaa Abd El-Fattah should
be released.   
  
But in terms of talking through the specifics of our discussions with
the Egyptians, I’d like to leave those behind closed doors for the
moment.  
  
Q    Jake, on the trilateral, can you just talk a little bit more about
what you hope or expect to get out of it?  Any deliverables that you can
share?  What does success look like?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  When you’re talking about close allies like this,
deliverables is usually not quite the right construct because we just do
so much together every single day.   
  
But what we would really like to see is enhanced trilateral security
cooperation where the three countries are all coming together — where
that triangle, in a way, is getting smaller and smaller — between Japan,
ROK, United States.  That’s acutely true with respect to the DPRK
because of the common threat and challenge we all face, but it’s also
true, more broadly, about our capacity to work together to enhance
overall peace and stability in the region.  
  
I do expect that there will be a statement that comes out of that
meeting.  That’s not a foregone conclusion, but it’s my expectation. 
And that — that statement will actually set out an elevated level of
engagement — trilateral engagement between our three countries.  
  
You guys know well, of course, that there are a number of issues that
the ROK and Japan constantly grapple with bilaterally.  It’s really our
goal, from the U.S.’s perspective,  
to ensure that at a trilateral level we are maximizing our capacity to
work together on critical security.  
  
Q    Following up on that meeting —  
  
Q    On China — if I can just have one quick one on China.  Just — just
a follow-up (inaudible.)  
  
Q    How much of that discussion will be centered around President
Biden’s meeting with Xi, following — in the following days, though?   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  It’s a great question.  One thing that President Biden
certainly wants to do with our closest allies is preview what he intends
to do and also ask the leaders of the ROK and Japan, “What would you
like me to raise?  What do you want me to go in with?”  That’s the kind
of style that he takes to his engagement with the PRC generally and with
Xi specifically.  
  
So it will be a topic, but it will not be the main event of the
trilateral.  
  
Q    On your discussion with Xi, President Biden said that what he
really wants to find out is what are his red lines.  I guess my question
is: Don’t you kind of already know what China’s red lines are,
particularly as it relates to Taiwan?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  We frequently say, almost to the point where it’s
catechism, that there’s no substitute for leader-to-leader engagement. 
But it’s not just a talking point for us; we really mean it.  And that’s
particularly true when it comes to the PRC, because there is no one else
in their system who can really communicate authoritatively other than Xi
Jinping.   
  
And so, having the two presidents actually be able to sit face-to-face,
and not face-to-face with a video screen between them, for the first
time in President Biden’s presidency, it just takes the conversation to
a different level strategically and allows the leaders to explore in
deeper detail what each of them see in terms of their intentions and
priorities.  
  
So, I do believe that there will be important clarifications — a
sharpening of our understanding of the PRC perspective and a sharpening
of their understanding of ours — in this meeting.  And that’s really
what this meeting is about.  It’s not about deliverables or trying to
produce some joint statement.  It’s about the leaders coming to a better
understanding and then tasking their teams to do intensive work to come
back for further engagements between the leaders.  
  
I think the President views this as not the end of the line, but rather
the start of a series of engagements that will also include further
leader-to-leader meetings down the road.  
  
Q    Jake, can I ask a follow-up to your comments about  
Elon Musk in the briefing the other day?  You referred things to CFIUS. 
Obviously, that was the context of the question that was asked to the
President.  So I’m wondering: Are you aware of an actual investigation
at CFIUS into — or a look at CFIUS into the Twitter deal?   
  
And the President’s comments seemed broader, beyond just CFIUS.  And I’m
wondering if you’re aware of or that the White House would want a review
by NASA or the Pentagon, any contractor that deals with Elon Musk, based
on his foreign relationships that the President referenced.   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I have not spoken with anyone in any agency about
anything to do with regulatory action involving Twitter or Musk, so I
really just don’t have anything for you on that.   
  
Q    And can I just ask, on the Xi meeting: It seemed to come together —
well, there was a lot of talk about it, a lot of uncertainty, and then
came together after his congress.  Can you talk — give a little bit of a
tick-tock of how the meeting came together on your guys’ end?   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  There was reporting along the way that somehow we
were pushing for it and the PRC was resisting.  And we said all along,
when those stories would come out, that it’s simply not true.  Because
what was happening was actually several weeks of intensive preparation
for the meeting between the two teams, both over video and over phone. 
And it was just a matter of trying to work out simple things like
scheduling and then more consequential things like what the agenda would
look like.   
  
And the idea always was to get an agenda agreed, get a time agreed, get
all of the elements agreed, and then announce the meeting just in the —
in the few days leading up to it.  So we had already, basically, in our
heads — a month ago or longer — this was going to happen.  It was just a
matter of working that out.  
  
Q    So you don’t think the timing of the announcement had  
anything to do with the election?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  No.  Although if that makes us strategic geniuses or
something, I’ll take it.   
  
Q    No, I meant them agreeing to the meeting had —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  No.  No.   
  
Q    — nothing to do with the timing?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  No.  No.  No.  No.   
  
Q    You mentioned in your topper freedom of navigation, fish- — efforts
to crackdown on illegal fishery — fishing in the region.  Obviously,
those are all things that pertain to China.  Can you speak broadly about
how the first parts of this trip sort of set the President up for that
bilat?  How much is China’s activities in the region and threats to
other nations in the region sort of a factor?  And how does that boost
the President’s leverage when he goes to meet with Xi Jinping on Monday,
face-to-face?   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I mean, look, it is certainly the case that the countries
of the region do not want conflict or confrontation between the major
powers.  But they also very much want U.S. presence — forward-deployed
presence in the region.  And the reason they want that is because they
see the United States as an important anchor of peace and stability, and
that includes ensuring that there is freedom of navigation.  It includes
ensuring that these countries are better equipped to be able to handle
things like illegal fishing.  And also, it ensures that no country can
engage in the kind of sustained intimidation and coercion that would be
fundamentally adverse to the nations of ASEAN and other countries.  
  
So there is no doubt that the President comes in with a meaningful value
proposition to the rest of the region that says, “The United States is a
resident Pacific power.  We played a critical role in the past.  We play
a critical role today.  And we have every intention of doing so in the
future.”  And there’s a real demand signal for that.  I think the PRC
may not love that fact, but they certainly acknowledge it and understand
it.  And that’s some of the context for the meeting on Monday with Xi.  
  
Q    Jake, coming out of the climate conference, the President spoke at
length about his goals there.  Are there any specific climate
commitments that he is seeking from  
President Xi when he sits down with him, considering this as an area of
cooperation that you have identified?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  He will, having just consulted with Secretary Kerry on
the ground in Sharm, go into this meeting with a kind of specific set of
thoughts around climate.  But I’m going to leave that to the meeting and
see where we are after in terms of reading it out, because I don’t want
to get ahead of him being able to talk to Xi about it.  
  
Q    Jake, MBS — is there — is he — do you guys know if he’s going to be
at — in Bali?  Like, are there other engagements that you guys are
expecting, including MBS, if he’s there?  I don’t know if he’s — he’s
had some condition, and I don’t know if he’s traveling.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I think he is going, but I don’t know for certain.  So I
guess you’d have to check in with the Saudi government.  We don’t have
any plans to have a sit-down meeting with MBS.  
  
I said at the podium that we were likely to end up with other bilateral
engagements as we go forward.  There’s a number of other leaders. 
There’s Scholz and Macron and Modi and Erdoğan and Albanese.  
  
And, you know, so my guess is as particularly the two days of Bali
unfold, the odds of additional meetings that we notice to you will
rise.  
  
Q    Before you go, there was a lot of flight time on this  
leg.  How did the President spend it?  Was able to get any sleep?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’ll defer you to Karine on that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my gosh.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Will he also —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t talk about the President’s comings and goings on
the plane.  
  
Q    One last one.  We’ve seen some more — the Russian pull-out in the
Kherson region sort of play out on the ground over the last 24, 48
hours.  Has there been any U.S.-Ukrainian contact, discussion, now after
that pull-out — engagement regarding negotiations and, you know, sort of
— everyone sort of taking their time over the winter to assess their
situation for negotiation?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I’ve obviously seen a number of press stories on this
topic, and I thank you for the opportunity to lay down what I think are
the four core elements of consensus in the U.S. government and,
fundamentally, what President Biden believes about this question.  
  
The first is: He said in the press conference it’s up to Ukraine to
decide when and how they want to negotiate.  Nothing about Ukraine
without Ukraine.  We’re not going to pressure them; we’re not going to
dictate to them.  
  
The second is that we believe in a just peace based on the principles of
sovereignty and territorial integrity that are not things we made up but
that are embedded in the U.N. Charter.  The G7 leaders spoke to these
principles of a just peace, including territorial integrity.  President
Zelenskyy has spoken to these.  
  
The third point is that Russia is doubling down on its “annexation,”
quote, unquote — annexation of Ukrainian territory.  That’s not exactly
a sign of seriousness about negotiating.  As long as Russia holds the
position that it simply gets to grab as much territory as it wants by
force, it’s hard to see them as a good-faith counterparty in a
negotiation.  
  
And the fourth and final point is that the U.S. approach remains the
same today as it was six months ago, which is we’re going to do
everything we can, including our announcement, our military announcement
— our military security assistance announcement yesterday — to put
Ukraine in the best possible position on the battlefield so that when
they make their determination to proceed, they’re in the best possible
position at the negotiating table.  
  
And one more big-ticket item.  So there’s kind of this sense of when is
Ukraine going to negotiate.  Okay, ultimately, at a 30,000-foot level,
Ukraine is the party of peace in this conflict, and Russia is the party
of war.  Russia invaded Ukraine.  If Russia chose to stop fighting in
Ukraine and left, it would be the end of the war.  If Ukraine chose to
stop fighting and give up, it would be the end of Ukraine.  
  
So this whole notion, I think, in the Western press of “When is Ukraine
going to negotiate?” misses the underlying fundamentals, which is that
Russia continues, even as recently as the last 24 hours, to make these
outlandish claims about annexed Russian territory — quote, unquote,
“Russian territory” — including territory they just left.  
  
So in that context, our position remains the same as it has been, and
fundamentally is in close consultation and support of President
Zelenskyy and Ukraine.  And that is shared across the U.S. government.  
  
Q    Can I follow up on that, on Ukraine?  Regarding Kherson city, at
the briefing you gave, you expressed reservations — “Let’s wait and see
what actually happens,” the evidence.   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Is that still your position now, or do you feel like this is real? 
And if so, can you talk about the significance of that?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I think you’ve heard enough from me to know that — over
the last months — to know that I express permanent reservations about
everything.  So I, personally, will not be fully confident that there’s
been a complete pull-out of Kherson on the right bank of the Dnieper
River until we land and I can call back secure and hear for certain.   
  
But it does look as though the Russians have executed this withdrawal. 
And it does look as though the Ukrainians have just won an extraordinary
victory where the one regional capital that Russia had seized in this
war is now back under a Ukrainian flag.  And that is quite a remarkable
thing.   
  
And it has broader strategic implications as well, because being able to
push the Russians across the river means that the longer-term threat to
places like Odessa and the Black Sea coastline are reduced from where
they were before.   
  
And so this is a big moment.  And it’s certainly not the end of the
line, but it’s a big moment.  And it’s due to the incredible tenacity
and skill of the Ukrainians, backed by the relentless and united support
of the United States and our allies.  
  
Cool.  Thank you, guys.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  
  
Q    Hi.  (Laughs.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, what do you guys got?  I don’t have — I don’t
have anything else to add.  What do you guys have?  
  
Q    Can you confirm that the — that the President, through the
Secretary of Homeland Security, has directed the chairman of Customs —
of CBP to either resign or be fired in the coming week?  And why is
that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ve seen — we’ve seen those reports.  I just —
I’m not going to comment on that from here at this time.

Q    Are you denying that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to comment on it at this time.

Q    Is the President — does the President have confidence in his
director of CBP?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President has confidence in — in folks that he’s
appointed — right? — the director of CBP.  I just am not going to — I’m
just not going to comment on the reporting.  
Q    Why not?  Obviously, there’s — this is something —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I hear you.  I’m just not going to comment on
it.  I’ve seen the reporting.  Just not going to comment from here.  I
would — if you want more, I would refer you to the Department of
Homeland Security.

Q    But you said the President does have confidence in this individual?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have more.  I’ve seen the reporting.  I’m
just not going to comment on it.

Q    And on a different topic.  Student loans, obviously, stalled up by
a federal judge the other day.  You put out a statement on this.  Any
new federal government action now — since, you know, we’ve been in the
air for 24 hours or so now — on this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you mentioned, Zeke, I put out a statement on this
when we were leaving for Egypt.  So we strongly disagree with this
baseless decision, and the Department of Justice is appealing it.

While we appeal, the Department of Education will hold on to the
information of the 26 million Americans already being considered for
debt relief.

We’re confident that this baseless decision will be overturned.  And
when it is, we will quickly process relief for the millions who have
already applied.

We will never stop fighting for hardworking Americans, middle-class
Americans most in need.  As we have said many times before, no matter
how much — how many roadblocks or oppoi- — opponents and special
interests try to put in the way, we’re going to continue to fight.  
  
Q    Sorry, one last one from me.  We’re just — one last one.  We’re
just getting close to the end of the year when that student debt relief
pause is supposed to — supposed to come to an end.  Now with this — with
this court ruling, there’s a lot of uncertainty.  Will the President
commit to extending a pause on student debt repayment for people who
have applied to this program and now that’s been held up?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we are confident that this is going to get
resolved.  I don’t have anything new to announce.  But we’re going —
we’re confident that we will get this resolved soon.

Q    Karine, quick —

Q    Just a follow-up on that, Karine.

Q    — quick question.  Sorry, go ahead.

Q    Just to follow up on that — December 31st is fast approaching. 
Should people who have student loans that are applying for this program,
should they be prepared to start repaying those on December 31st? 
That’s significant planning they need to make.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I totally understand.  I get your question.  Again, we
think we will prevail.  And I just don’t have anything new to announce
on that.

Q    A quick one on the Twitter layoffs, Karine.  We’re seeing mass
layoffs in the company.  Obviously, the President is the most pro-worker
President in the history of the United States.  Has he asked his Labor
Department to look at this?  Is the NLRB looking at this?  What kind of
investigations are — is the White House asking for?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’ve seen the reporting.  I was asked about this
on Thursday.  So we’re aware of the layoffs from Meta and other — and
other tech companies.   
  
Look, more broadly speaking, I don’t have anything to share about any —
any — any investigation or anything alike.

But, more broadly speaking, the most recent jobs and CPI report suggests
that the economy continues to grow and add jobs, and Americans are
beginning to see a much-needed break in inflation.  And we think that’s
important as well.  But don’t have anything to share.  But, again, we’ve
seen the reporting.

Q    Karine, the President was only on the ground for a few hours in
Sharm.  Why did the White House think it was worth it for him to go
there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, it was the COP27, which was hosted
by Egypt.  Jake has laid out why this — this particular summit was
important.  He talked about it on Tuesday, and he talked about it a
little bit today.

Look, I — it was important for the leader of the United States, the
President of the United States, to attend, to be there for COP27.  And
you heard him talk in very great detail about our commitment — our
commitment to climate change and the work that we’re doing and how we’re
being a leader in that role, in that — in that realm.

And so, again, it was an important stop for the President to make.  You
heard him; you saw how the reaction of him being there.  And now we’re
going to head to — to Cambodia to continue the rest of — the rest of
this trip.

Q    How are you feeling?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my gosh.  I actually — I actually feel —

Q    Your voice is still (inaudible) same.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I actually feel much better than I sound.  So
— but thank you for asking.  I think it’s part of, like, when you go,
go, go of the campaign season, right?

Q    Just because we’ve been in the air, there was a call that was read
out to Tina Kotek that the President made.  Has he made any other calls
to politicians since we’ve been in flight?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any other calls outside of that to read
out.  We’ve been — I think you would agree we’ve been pretty good at
reading out calls that he’s made after — after Tuesday’s elections. 
We’ll continue to do that.

Tina Kotek — as you know, he went out there a couple times over the last
couple of — couple of months.  They’ve developed a very good
relationship.  And, as you know, he called to congratulate her.  And she
also made history, along with Maura Healey in Massachusetts.  And so,
very proud of that win.

Q    And he did call J.B. Pritzker, and he also called Governor Whitmer
and a few others.  Does he have any plans to call Governor Newsom?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any calls to preview at this time.  But
he saw — as you know, he saw Governor Newsom very recently when he was
there.  But I don’t have any calls at this time.  
Q    Karine, just to pick up on Fran’s question from before, can you
give us a readout of how the President has been spending his time while
we’ve been traveling the world?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s see.  What — it was a nine-hour flight?  So he
had an opportunity to — to talk to his team.  As you know, Secretary
Blinken is on — is on the plane, as well as Jake, our National Security
Advisor.  Had an opportunity to check in with his team, talk about the
next couple of days.

This is an important trip.  You know, this is an important trip, as we
talk about the Indo-Pacific, as we talk about the issues at hand, as we
talk about this upcoming meeting that he’s going to have with President
Xi.  This is an important — as we talk about COP27.

And so he’s been meeting with his team, talking about the next couple of
days.  And — and, you know, I don’t have much more to share on that.  
Q    Is there anything else that you can tell us about his day when he
gets there?  He has about seven hours of downtime before his first
meeting.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to share.  If we do,
certainly we will — we’ll read that out.  You know, it’s going to be an
important day, an important trip.  And you’ll hear more from us.  And
also, as you know, he’ll be having other bilateral meetings that we’ll
share out once we have those locked in.

Thanks for thinking about my health.  Appreciate it.  (Laughter.)

All right, guys, thanks.  See you on the ground.

7:49 A.M. ICT 
