---
date: '2022-11-18'
modified_time: 2022-11-18 22:07:01-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-18 22:07:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/11/18/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-november-18-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, November 18,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

4:03 P.M. EST    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And welcome back to those who — who traveled abroad
with us.  Good to see everyone.   
  
Okay, I just have a few things at the top before we get started.  I know
you all saw President Biden’s meeting with business and labor leaders
this afternoon, where they discussed the progress we have made building
on an economy from the bottom up and the middle out, and giving
Americans across the country more breathing room.   
  
One example of that progress: Today we learned unemployment rates in
many states across the country remain at or near record lows.   
  
People across the country are going to work, getting paychecks, and
benefiting from one of the strongest jobs recovery in history.   
  
Our labor market, consumer spending, and business investment all remain
remarkably strong.  And as the President’s economic agenda takes hold,
we continue to see historic new investments in America practically every
week, from chips to clean energy.   
  
America is on its way to leading the world again by rebuilding our
infrastructure, supply chains, and manufacturing here at home.   
  
On another topic, the President, as you know, has taken great pride in
making sure that his administration looks like America.   
  
And now that we have a little clearer picture of last week’s election
results, we wanted to highlight how Americans turned out to elect a
number — a few diverse and historic public servants to represent them at
every level of government.   
  
Here are just a few — a few.  Just — just hold on.  I’ll go through
them.   
  
First, a record number of female governors were elected in this year’s
midterms.  Maura Healey from Massachusetts and Tina Kotek of Oregon were
elected the nation’s first openly lesbian governors.   
  
Wes Moore will be the first Black governor of Maryland.  
  
We have the first Gen Z member of Congress: Maxwell Frost of Florida,
who is also Afro Cuban.   
  
And in Ma- — in New Hampshire, James Roesener is the first trans man
elected to a state legislature.   
  
Delia Ramirez will become the first Latina to represent the Midwest, and
Alex Padilla is the first Latino to be elected as a U.S. senator from
California.   
  
And lastly, the four largest cities in America — New York City, Los
Angeles, Chicago, and Houston — are each going to be led by an African
American mayor.   
  
There’s more progress to be made, but we’re encouraged by these strides
at all levels of government toward leadership that looks like the
country.   
  
Now, as you know, President Biden doesn’t back away from a fight —
you’ve heard him say that himself — especially a fight for the middle- —
middle-class American families.   
  
Today, we took that fight to the Supreme Court.  We’re asking the
nation’s highest court of the land to allow us to deliver student debt
relief to millions of middle-class Americans.   
  
Under our plan, nearly 90 percent of the — of the benefits will follow
Americans — will flow to Americans making less than $75,000 a year. 
Many will be saved from delinquency or default.  Others will be able to
buy a home, a car, or just start a family.   
  
This is critical breathing room that many middle-class families were
looking forward to.  And it’s outrageous — just outrageous that
Republican officials and special interest groups are trying to block
that, are trying to make it harder for these middle-class Americans
across the country.   
  
We are confident in our legal authority to carry out this program, and
we won’t let these baseless lawsuits stop us either.   
  
And finally — and finally, finally, as we head to next week, I have a
little bit of a week ahead that I wanted to share with all of you.  
  
On Monday, the President will pardon the national Thanksgiving turkey in
a ceremony on the South Lawn.  The President will celebrate the 75th
anniversary of the National Thanksgiving Turkey Presentation, reflect
upon the time-honored traditions of Thanksgiving, and wish American
families a safe and healthy holiday.  
  
The 2022 national Thanksgiving turkey and its alternative were — and its
alternative — pardon me — and its alter- — alternate were raised near
Monroe, North Carolina.  
  
In the afternoon, the President and the First Lady will travel to Marine
Corps Station Cherry Point, North Carolina.  There, they will
participate in a Friendsgiving dinner with service members and military
families as part of the White House Joining Forces initiative.  
  
On Tuesday, the President and the First Lady will travel to Nantucket,
Massachusetts, where they will celebrate Thanksgiving with their
family.   
  
On Thanksgiving Day, the President and the First Lady will call members
of the military to thank them for their service.  
  
On Sunday, the President and the First Lady will return to Washington,
D.C.  
  
And with that — and welcome back.  I haven’t seen you in a while.  
  
Q    I haven’t seen you in a while either.  Glad to hear your voice is a
little better.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A little better.  A little better.  We’re getting
there.  We’re getting there.  
  
Q    One little housekeeping question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.  
  
Q    Can you help us understand why the briefing was delayed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.  It’s just been — it’s just been a long
week.  There was a lot — there’s a lot to cover, as I know you all have
a lot of topics.  And it just took a little bit of time to get us out
here tonight, this — well, it’s almost tonight — this afternoon —
(laughs) — as the sun is probably setting at this time.  But no big
reason.  Just — there’s just a lot going on today.  
  
Q    Okay.  Was the President aware of the Attorney General’s decision
to name a special counsel to oversee the investigations into former
President Trump?  And is there any reaction from him to that decision?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So just, first, I can just tell you: No, he was not
aware.  We were not aware.  As you know, the Department of Justice makes
decisions about its criminal investigation independently.  We are not
involved.  We are not — we have not been aware about this particular
investigation or any criminal investigation.  I would refer you to the
Department of Justice on any questions on this.  
  
But again, we were not given advance notice.  We were not aware of this
— of this investigation.  
  
Q    And any reaction from the President?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No reaction.  Again, this is going to be up to the
Attorney General, up to the Department of Justice, as it relates to a
criminal investigation.  But I can tell you that the President was not
aware, we were not aware.  We were not given advance notice.  And I
would refer you to the Department of Justice.  
  
Q    And then, on the brief the State Department filed last night in the
Jamal Khashoggi litigation, does the President have any concerns that
the administration may be sending the wrong message about his commitment
to holding the Saudis accountable on human rights?  And can you say
whether he signed off on that brief?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just — just let me just say at the top, just so
that there’s clarity — and I know that you’ve heard from the State
Department on this as well, and other colleagues.   
  
At the request of a federal district court for U.S. government views on
whether Mohammed bin Salman enjoys head of state immunity, the
Department of Justice, at the request of the Department of State,
informed the court that Prime Minister bin Salman is immune from suit in
the U.S. — in U.S. courts while he holds the office of prime minister.  
  
It’s nothing to do with the merits of this case; I want to be very clear
on this.  But this is something that State Department and the Department
of Justice has more details on, so I would certainly refer you — refer
you to them.  
  
Q    And then, just one last question.  Can you say if the President was
COVID tested after he got back from Indonesia?  There was a possible
exposure there, and then tomorrow he’s going to be among guests at his
granddaughter’s wedding here.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s a good question.  I can tell you that he was
not a close contact.  If you’re speaking about John Kerry, he was not a
close contact — I can tell you that.  
  
I was not able to have an opportunity — it’s just been a busy day — to
check in on when he was last tested.  But, certainly, we will check in
on that.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    And just to press this again, though: Was the President at all
involved in the State Department’s decision regarding MBS and this
Khashoggi case?  Was he consulted by State Department officials,
Secretary of State, National Security Advisor, anybody else?  Was he
asked to weigh in?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, again, this is — immunity determination is a
legal one.  That’s what I was laying out earlier.  The United States
consistently has afforded head of state immunity to heads of
governments, such as prime ministers, consistent with customary
institutional law.   
  
U.S. practice on this issue is longstanding and consistent, including a
number of head of state immunity cases from the past four
administrations.  And the example is President Aristide — this was Hait-
— of Haiti in 1993.  President of Zimbabwe — the president of Zimbabwe
at the time in 2001.  Prime Minister Modi, India, as we all know, in
2014.   
  
And the State Department and DOJ will have more information for you on
these particular — on these particular pieces.  
  
I’m not aware —  
  
Q    Right, but I’m asking about presidential involvement.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m just going to answer.  I’m not — I’m not
aware of any conversations providing advance notice.  And so, I can — I
can just say that I am not aware of any of — any advance notice to this
particular issue.  
  
Q    Okay.  Two tech-related ones.  There have been some Democratic
senators today calling on the FTC to investigate potential violations of
consumer protection laws by Twitter.  I’m curious if the White House
agrees that perhaps that agency should do that or has any other comment
on the ongoing calamity at that platform.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as you know, the FTC is an independent
agency.  I’m not going to comment on any actions that they — they may or
may not be taking.  Again, can’t — not going to comment.  It’s — they’re
independent.  I’m going to leave it there.  
  
Q    Is the White House planning to continue using the platform amid the
uncertainty about its future?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you know, we’ve seen — we’ve seen the
reports, as all of you have, on what is currently happening with
Twitter, you know, Ed.  But we’re not going to speculate on its future
of the site or what may happen next to the site.  But we’re just not
going to comment from there.  
  
Q    And there was a meeting yesterday between some Silicon Valley CEOs
and White House officials regarding the passage or the potential passage
of the Big Tech antitrust legislation that’s been pushed by Senators
Klobuchar and Grassley.  It has bipartisan support.  Does the President
support putting that bill on the floor during the lame duck, as various
groups are calling for?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this: It was a thoughtful and a
productive meeting — the meeting that you’re speaking of.   
  
We are very committed to moving ambitious tech antitrust legislation, as
you’ve heard us say before, and we’re stepping up engagement during the
lame duck on the President’s agenda across the board, including
antitrust.   
  
There’s a bipartisan support for these antitrust bills and no reason why
Congress can’t act before the end of the year.  
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
Q    Thanks.  Just first, really quick, following up on what you said
about the special counsel.  Even if the President wasn’t aware ahead of
time, I’m sure he is aware now.  Can you provide any details about who
informed him today, when he learned of the news, how he learned of the
news today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m just not going to go beyond.  I know you’re
asking me about the President specifically.  I’ve not spoken to him
before coming — before coming out here, so I can’t give you details on
that.  I’m assuming it was — it was a — you know, a senior member of his
staff who would most likely have let him know about — about the special
counsel.  
  
But, again, I just want to make very, very clear we were not given
advance notice.  This is — the Department of Justice makes their own
decision when it relates to criminal investigation.  We were not — we
were not involved.  And so, I just want to make that very clear.   
  
I’m not going to say more about this particular case from here.  I would
refor- — refer you to the Department of Justice.  
  
Q    And I wanted to ask you about what you said at the top about the
administration reaching out to the Supreme Court to intervene on student
loans.  Should Americans, at this point, be prepared for the reality
that the student loan forgiveness might be entirely blocked?  Or should
— at the very least, should they prepare for the reality that it’s not
likely they’re going to get relief by January 1st?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re — we’re confident in our — in our
legal authority to carry out this program.  We’re taking this fight to
the Supreme Court so that borrowers can quickly, we believe, by doing
this — by taking it to, you know, the largest court of the land, that it
helps us get clarity in a — in a quicker way and relief to those who
truly deserve it, who really need a little bit of breathing room.   
  
So, no matter how hard — again, this is what we’re seeing here is what
Republican officials are trying to do.  They’re trying to block a plan
that’s going to give relief to middle-class Americans across — across
the country.  
  
We’re going to continue to fight, as I just said at the top.  The
President is never afraid to get into a fight, especially when it comes
to the American people.  We’re taking this step because we want to get
to a — to a quicker clarity on this.  And we’re going to continue to —
continue to fight.  
  
Q    I guess — but my question is, like, it’s the holidays.  Millions of
people are trying to figure out their budgeting right now.  Should there
be an extension of the moratorium?  Have there — has there been a
decision on that?  Or what would your advice be to a borrower —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And that’s —  
  
Q    — that’s not sure what’s going to happen?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And that’s why we’re calling out Republican
officials.  You’re exactly right.  Millions of Americans are trying to
figure out their budget.  Millions of Americans are sitting around the
kitchen table trying to figure out how they’re going to pay for a
critical — critical items that matter to their family.  
  
This is why we’re — this is why the President actually took the step to
give relief to the American people.   
  
Look, we’re examining — to your question about the potential pause,
we’re examining all options to provide middle-class families a little
extra breathing room, as you hear the President say, as they continue to
recover from the pandemic.  
  
But it’s clear: We are confident in our legal authority to provide
relief to student borrowers, and the President won’t stop fighting for
them.  Again, we are just not going to walk away from it.  This is why
we’re taking this to the Supreme Court.  
  
Q    If I could ask one more about this weekend.  Why is the White House
going against precedent and not letting any journalists in to cover a
bit of this wedding that is taking place here at the People’s House?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just give you a little bit of a wedding
tick-tock because I know many of you had some questions.   
  
So, at 11:00 a.m., the ceremony on the South Lawn will begin.  A family
wedding party luncheon immediately after.  And then there will be an
evening reception on this very joyous occasion.  
  
These are two young people who have decided that they want  
to spend the rest of their life together, and the President and the
First Lady are going to be able to participate in their first
grandchild’s wedding.   
  
But here’s the thing — and here’s — here’s the reality: The wedding of
Naomi Biden and Peter is a private one.  The family — it’s a family
event.  And Naomi and Peter have asked that their wedding be closed to
the media, and we are respecting their wishes.  This is something that
the couple has decided.  
  
So — but understanding you all have interest, understanding that the
media has interest in this — which I can understand it is a joyous
occasion; we all want to celebrate them — we will be releasing — we will
be releasing pictures, photos, and a statement from the President and
the First Lady following the ceremony.  
  
Again, this is their wish.  And we should be — we should be thrilled and
happy for them in making this really important step in their lives.  
  
Q    I wanted to close the loop on some Ukraine-related matters and then
a domestic issue as well.  Just first on Ukraine, it doesn’t appear that
there was any conversation at all between the United States government
and Russia while we were in the midst of that crisis where Russia was
being blamed for the incident in Poland.  
  
Milley came out and said that he wasn’t even able to reach the Russians
on the phone.  What — what should the Americans take away from — from
that, as far as our preparedness for, you know, a nuclear standoff with
Russia if we can’t even get them on the phone in moments of crisis?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’ve always been very clear here, as you
speak about a nuclear — as you asked a question about a nuclear — a
“nuclear standoff,” in your words, that — but we’ve been clear from the
outset that Russia’s comments about the potential use of nuclear weapons
are deeply concerning, and we take them seriously.   
  
And we continue to monitor this as best as we can, and we see no
indications that Russia is making preparations for such use.  So that is
also important that we do not actually see that those types of
preparations or — or indications, I should say, for us to — for us
making prep- — for Russia making preparations.  
  
So, as we have said —  
  
Q    But is it an issue that you can’t get them on the phone is my
question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, I mean, what I’m saying is that we’ve been
very clear.  We’ve been clear — very clear in public.  We’ve been clear
in other conversations.  You’ve heard Jake Sullivan said that he’s been
in touch in the past with his — with his counterpart about this
particular issue.  We’ve been very clear we’re not going to lay out in
public what — what those conversations were.  
  
But we’ve been very clear that this is — this would be — this would be
catastrophic.  And — and there would be consequences.  The President has
made clear, over and over again, on this particular issue.  
  
But I think what you should take, honestly, from what you saw that
morning — you know, overnight, as you all know, there was an explosion
in Poland.  What you saw this President do is bring leaders from 11
countries to have — to hold a meeting.  He did that in about 55
minutes.  He brought leaders — some of your colleagues were in the room,
were able to be there for a pool spray and capture that moment.  And
this is what this President was able to do.  This is because of his
leadership globally.   
  
And you saw him do that at the G20.  You saw his leadership there.  They
were very — and those leaders were very, very clear about where they
were on what was occurring with Russia and Ukraine, and calling that
out, and saying that, you know, what — what Russia was doing was
inappropriate, what Russia was doing was brutal, what Russia was doing
was attacking the sovereign — the sovereignty of another nation.  
  
And so, we’ve seen this leadership of this President.  And I think him
saying this publicly, very loudly, about what would happen if nuclear
weapons were used to Russia, I think, is a loud statement within
itself.  
  
Q    Okay.  One more on Ukraine.  President Zelenskyy said that Russia
has proposed a short truce.  Is that something that the White House has
an opinion on?   
  
And also, have you — has President Biden talked to President Zelenskyy
about his assertions that it wasn’t a Ukrainian missile involved in
Poland?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me — let me first say this about your — your
last question.  Let me answer that first.  
  
So, U.S. and Polish officials have been in touch with Ukraine to clarify
the facts.  Chair of Ukraine’s National Security and Defense Council has
said that Ukraine remains fully open to a comprehensive analysis of the
situation.  The party ultimately responsible for this tragic incident is
Russia, which launched a barrage of missiles on Ukraine specifically
intended to target civilian infrastructure.  
  
So, we have been pub- — we have been public about the fact that our
information supports President Duda’s preliminary assessment that this
was most likely the result of a Ukrainian air defense missile that
unfortunately landed in Poland.  
  
But the bottom line is Ukraine has a right to defend itself, as we have
said many times, and Russia should — should end this war.  This is
something that they can do today.  
  
Q    And just on the short — on the short truce question?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m sorry.  Can you say your question again?  I —
I —  
  
Q    Zelenskyy was saying that there was a short truce that was proposed
by Russia that he doesn’t support.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would — I would refer you to the government of
Ukraine.  I have not heard those reports.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, very quickly, one quick domestic one: So, 58
Democratic lawmakers have called for trading corporate tax cuts for
extending the Child Tax Credit in this lame duck session.  Is that
something the White House has an opinion on and would be willing to
entertain?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as you know, the President strongly believes
that any bill that cuts taxes for a big corporation must also tax — cut
taxes for working families — working American families and — and, you
know, working family — American families with children.   
  
So, as the President said following the election, he is proud of how the
Child Tax Credit expansion he signed into law helped cut child poverty
nearly in half in 2021.  Both Democrats and Republicans have put forth
tax relief ideas for families with children, including the families who
are struggling the most.  And the President believes that these are the
kinds of policies we should be prioritizing.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  First of all, on the appointment of the special
counsel today, former President Trump reacted to this news in an
interview calling this the, quote, “worst politicization of justice.” 
He said that this was an unfair and political decision.  I’m wondering
if you have a response to that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I will say this, and I’ve said this many times
before: We do not politicize the Department of Justice.  That is
something that the President said during the campaign.  That is
something that the President said in his early days of — of being in the
White House.  And that continues to be true.   
  
We were not involved in this — in this particular issue.  We were not
involved in — let me just say that more broadly — we’re not involved in
criminal investigations that are done independently by the Department of
Justice.  We were not given advance — advance notice.    
  
Again, I would refer you to the Department of Justice on any — any
questions on this.  But this is not an administration — the President
has been very clear — that will politicize the Department of Justice.   
  
Q    And then, on the MBS immunity issue, the administration was invited
by the court to make a filing in this case, but it was not required to
do so.  So, why not let the court making its own determination as it
relates to MBS’s immunity, particularly at a time when you’re supposedly
reevaluating the relationship with Saudi Arabia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look — look, again, it’s — a federal court
requested the government’s legal position, so the Department of Justice
provided it.  That is what occurred, and that is what happened.   
  
Q    “It was not required” is the — is the question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I am — I would refer you to the State Department on
any other specifics.  This is what I’m laying out to you, is that the
federal — a federal court requested the government’s legal position, so
the Department of Justice provided it.  
  
The immunity determin- — determination is made based on longstanding and
well-established principle of common law, including customary
international law.  
  
The United States has consistently and across administrations applied
these principles to heads of state, heads of government, and foreign
ministries while they are in office.   
  
The immunity flows directly from MBS’s role as prime minister in the
Saudi government, which he was appointed to in September.   
  
Again, I would refer you to the Department of State on any further
questions.   
  
Q    And one last — one last question.  The top Republican on the House
Oversight Committee, Congressman Comer, has said that he’s investigating
the President’s involvement in his son Hunter’s foreign business
dealings.   
  
One, looking for your reaction to that.  And then, on the merits of the
allegations, can you address whether the President was involved in any
of his son Hunter or his brother’s foreign business deals?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you know, there’s — there’s some — a little
bit of interesting, you know, kind of, on-brand thinking here, because,
you know, congressional Republicans ran saying that they were going to
fight inflation.  They said they were going to make that a priority. 
They were very clear about that these past several months.   
  
And instead, what they’re doing is they’re focusing — you know, they’re
focusing — they’re making their top priority — they get the majority,
and their top priority is actually not focusing on the American families
but focusing on the President’s family.   
  
They’re not coming up with solutions on how we’re going to lower costs
for Amer- — for American families.  They’re not coming up with solutions
as to how are we dealing with issues that matter the most to American
families.  
  
Look, the midterm elections were very clear.  They were very clear where
Americans said they wanted us to deal with real issues.  They wanted us
to deal with what we were seeing with democracy.  They wanted us to deal
with how are we going to fight for freedoms and for rights of the
American people.   
  
And so, that’s not — the first thing that — the top priority that they
lay out is an investigation on the President’s family.   
  
Look, my colleagues in the White House Counsel’s Office are handling
these threats of investigation by the House Republicans.  So, when it
comes to specific allegations, I would refer you to — to them.  I’m not
going to get into specifics of what that might look like or anything
else that’s related to this.  
  
Q    So you won’t say anything on camera as it relates to the merits of
any of these allegations?  Because we —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ve been very clear —  
  
Q    — we can speak to them but not on camera also.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ve been very clear.  It’s like — you know,
Republicans said that they were going to, during — during the midterms,
they were going to fight inflation, right?  They said that they were
going to deliver for the American people, that they were going to
actually do things that give relief to the Americans.   
  
And what they’re doing instead — their top priority when they get a
majority is to talk about investigating the Amer- — the President’s —
the President’s family instead of doing what they said that they would
do, is giving support to American families.  
  
That is — that is what we’re seeing.  But, again, it’s pretty much on
brand.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  In light of the legal fight over the President’s
student loan debt forgiveness program, is the President considering
extending the moratorium on repayments that is set to currently expire
at the end of the year?  The NAACP and other advocates are pushing for
that extension.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I sort of just —  
  
Q    Yeah —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — answered that question, and I said we — all options
are on the table.  
  
Q    So, that’s under consideration?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just saying all options is — are on the table.  
  
But what I really want to be clear here is the reason why we took it to
the Supreme Court is because we want to come to resolve on this very
quickly, because we understand what American families are dealing with
at this time.   
  
And so — look, and we’re going to continue to call out Republican
officials and special interest groups who are instead — instead of
giving relief to American families on a plan that will help — 90 percent
of the — of the borrowers will be making less than $75,000.  That
matters.   
  
And so, again, all options are on the table.  I don’t have anything more
to say.  But, again, we’re going to continue to fight.  
  
Q    I know you said the White House is confident that the President has
this legal authority, but how confident is the White House that a
Supreme Court with a 6-3 conservative majority is going to intervene on
this matter?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what we’re saying to you is we are not going to
walk away from this fight.  The President is not going to walk away from
this fight.  We feel pretty confident in our legal authority to provide
relief to these student borrowers.   
  
And so that is — that is what we’re — you’re seeing from us.  You’re
seeing a fight from this administration to — for a plan that’s going to
help tens of millions of people.  As you know, 26 million peo- — people,
borrowers already went to the website and filled out those
applications.   
  
And so, that — that tells you that this is a popular plan that matters
to American — American people across the country.  
  
Q    And lastly, on a lighter note, the President turns 80 years old on
Sunday.  How will he be celebrating that moment?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the First Lady is going to be having a brunch on
Sunday for the President and — to celebrate the President’s family — I’m
sorry — the President’s birthday on Sunday with his family.   
  
Usually, they celebrate it on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving, but
because everyone is going to — the family is going to be here this
weekend, they’ll have an opportunity to celebrate his birthday on his
actual day.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Thanks.  The American Academy of Pediatrics is calling for the
President and HHS to declare a public health emergency in response to
the surge in cases of pediatric respiratory illnesses.  They’re saying
that this is going to free up — or could free up funding and make a
national coordinated effort on this issue.  Is this something the
administration is considering?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on — when it comes to public health auth- —
emergencies — as you know, we’ve mentioned this before on different — on
different occasions for different issues — that declaration, that comes
from HHS.  So, the HHS Secretary would determine the public health
emergency.  That is the case still here with the issues that you just
laid out.  
  
But I do want to take us a step back and talk about some of the
sicknesses we’re seeing right now.  I’d like to make, really, a few
points because I think it’s important.  
  
First, on COVID vacc- — vaccinations, we’re seeing more — some — we’re
seeing some encouraging numbers on vaccinations.  Last week, we saw the
most vaccinations in a week since January 2022.  And this week, we saw
another high number of vaccinations.   
  
At the same time, we need to continue to drive urgency around getting
your updated COVID vaccine.  It’s our best protection for the winter.  
  
So, for Americans who are watching right now, it is important.  If you
haven’t yet, please do get your new vaccination, especially as you go
into the Thanksgiving holidays and you’re going to see, you know, your
elderly grandparents.  This is an important step to take to protect not
just yourself but them as well.  
  
Second, flu is also increasing right now.  We have safe and effective
flu shots, but not nearly enough Americans are stepping up to get their
flu shots.  
  
On both flu and COVID, we are doing a lot of work to engage doctors and
have an ad campaign in place.  But this is another critical tool we must
all encour- — encourage ahead of winter.  
  
Get your flu shots, folks, please.  It’s very important.   
  
And, look, vaccines are our best tool for both of these issues, when
we’re talking about the flu, when we’re talking about COVID.  And we all
need to encourage folks to get the protection right now, today.  It is
important to do so.  You can even get them together if you wish.  You
can get both shots in both arms.  Go do it, please.  
  
And lastly, I want to note that HHS has been abundantly clear that —
that it can provide resources to jurisdictions as requested.  Already,
they are hosting town halls to hear about any needs, and CDC is doing
extensive work with doctors just across the country.  
  
But again, folks need to make sure they get their vaccinations.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, thank you so much.  I want to try again on MBS and just ask
you to respond to his fiancée, who said of this decision to grant
immunity to the Saudi Crown Prince, quote, “Jamal died again today.” 
She said, “We thought maybe there would be a light to justice from
\#USA.  But again, money came first.”  What’s your reaction to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me just first say that the President’s feelings
about what happened to Khashoggi — Jamal Khashoggi — are very well
known.  And as we have said, he brought up the issue, he brought up
Khashoggi to — during his — when he met with the Prime Minister, as you
know, this summer.  So, he’s been very clear.  He’s been very — he’s
been very clear about that over the past several years.  
  
So, as it comes to this case, the immunity determination, again, is a
legal one.  It’s nothing to do with the merits of this case.  I want to
say that again: It has nothing to do with the merits of this case.  
  
I would ri- — not read anything into this filing when it comes to the
future of this relationship.  We’ve been very clear about that from
here; the President has been very clear.  
  
And I just want to reiterate a couple of things here.  We announced a
series of actions last year in response to the killing, as you all
know.  We froze offensive arm sales, released the IC’s Khashoggi
report.  We imposed visa bans on nearly 80 Saudi officials.  We
sanctioned Saudi officials and entities, including the Royal Court’s
Rapid Intervention Force. And we are working with Congress to more
broadly reevaluate the relationship, which is something that we have
done, meaning we do this in a bipartisan way, which is important as we
reevaluate the relationship, because it’s something that we have done
the past 80 years.  
  
Q    And what is your message directly, though, to his ex-fiancée?  What
do you — and I understand you’re laying that out, but what do you think
the President would say to her directly, to what she said?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would say, look — look, our hearts go out to her. 
We understand she lost someone that she loved very dearly.  And she —
you know, we totally get that and understand.  
  
You know, this was a legal determination; immunity is a legal one, as I
just stated.  You know, it has nothing to do with the merits of the
case.  I want to be very clear about that.  And wouldn’t read anything
into the filing when it comes to the future of the relationship, which I
have said we are evaluating, which you’ve heard from the President and
which you’ve heard from Jake Sullivan and others in the National
Security Council.  
  
Q    And to that point — in reference to the trip, in the wake of that
trip, you were asked if the President still believes that Saudi Arabia
is a pariah.  At the time, you said his comments stand.  And I’m
wondering if that’s still the case today in the wake of this
decision.   
  
His comments stand.  I’m just not going to go beyond what the President
has said in the past.   
  
Q    If I could try one more on the White House wedding.  As I’m filing
on this wedding and previewing it for folks, I’m looking at all of this
video and images that we have of Tricia Nixon’s wedding, Alice Roosevelt
Longworth’s wedding, the Johnson family’s wedding, and the historic
record that now exists because the press was let in and able to get a
glimpse of it.  Why not just let the press in for a few minutes to have
access?  And, again, this is a wedding that’s happening here at the
People’s House, not at a private residence.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I totally understand it’s happening at the People’s
House.  It’s a beautiful moment.  It’s a joyous moment between these two
young — these two young couple who have decided.  It is their decision. 
They have decided to make this wedding private.  It is a family event. 
It is — and we are going to respect Naomi and Peter’s wishes.  
  
This is going to be, you know, the wedding of — of the First Lady and
the President’s first grandchild, and these are their wishes.  They want
it to be private, and we’re going to respect their wishes.  
  
We are going to provide a photo and a statement from the President and
the First Lady after the wedding.  And, again, these are their wishes,
and we’re going to respect that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Karine, Russia says it’s working with the U.S. on a
potential prisoner swap.  Can you comment on where this stands?  Could
this lead to the release of Brittney Griner?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I heard — I’ve heard these reportings.  Let me
just say something at the top because there’s also been reporting about
the location of Brittney Griner, so I just want to get this on the
record.   
  
So, we’re — we’re in frequent contact with Brittney Griner — Brittney
Griner’s team and are aware that they were able to visit her earlier
this week at IK-2 in Mordovia.   
  
The administration continues to work tirelessly to secure her release. 
As I said when we first learned she was moved, the President has
directed the administration to prevail on her — on her Russian captors
to improve her treatment and the conditions she may be forced to
endure.  
  
The U.S. government is ready to resolve the wrongful detentions of
American citizens in Russia.  We have made an offer, have continued to
follow up on that offer, and propose alternative potential ways forward
with Russia — Russians through a — through all available channels.  We
hope Russia is ready to negotiate in good faith.  
  
And you’ve heard us say this before: The Russian government’s actions
have contradicted what they have said publicly.  Over the last several
months, they have failed to seriously negotiate through the established
channel or any other channel.  And that’s what we’re going to see.  
  
On the prisoner — prisoner swap, your specific question, look, we’re not
going to comment on specifics of any proposals, other than to say that
we have made a substantial offer and that the Russian Federation has
consisensly \[sic\] — consistently, again, failed to negotiate in good
faith.  And you’ve heard us say that before.  They need to negotiate in
good faith.  But I’m not going to get into specifics of the
negotiations.  
  
Q    Also, Karine, following the issues surrounding Taylor Swift ticket
sales this week, some Democrat lawmakers have been calling for more
scrutiny over Ticketmaster and Live Nation, questioning whether that
merger should continue.  Does the White House thinks — think that there
needs to be more scrutiny over Ticketmaster?  And there’s some reports
that DOJ is investigating Live Nation.  Are you aware of this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, I would refer you to the Department of
Justice on any investigation.  I’m just not going to comment on any
potential investigation from here or enforcement matter from here.  
  
We respect their independence, as we have said many times from here, as
a matter of just economic policy across industries.  The President has
been very clear — he’s been crystal clear on this, and I quote:
“Capitalism without competition isn’t capitalism; it’s exploitation.”  
  
Q    Is there anything the White House is doing?  He had talked about
concerns about hidden fees recently.  Is there anything that you’re
doing in this space?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The junk fees?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He talked about that just a couple of weeks ago.  
  
Look, you know, as you all know, you know, the President is a strong
proponent of increasing competition in our economy.  You’ve heard him
talk about this over the past several months, as he said last year when
he signed the land- — landmark executive order on competition.   
  
And so, the President’s executive order that he did very recently
establishes a whole-of-government effort to promote competition in the
American economy, because we know lack of competition leads to higher
prices and worse service. 

So, as you just mentioned, Lucey, he — he mentioned — Catherine, I
should say — he mentioned — (laughs) — I’m like, “Catherine Lucey, two
first names.”

Q    (Inaudible.)  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Anyways — people call me “Jean-Pierre.”  It’s fine.

He talked about excessive hidden junk fees.  He recently called on all
federal agencies to reduce or eliminate these fees.  And the Federal
Trade Commission has now started to work on a rule to crack down on
unfair fee practices across industries, which would encompass ticket
processing fees as well, among those many junk fees.

So, again, this is something that the President takes very seriously,
that he’s taken action.  You know, he believes in competition.  And —
and he’ll continue to do the work on that.

Go ahead.

Q    If I could ask a broader question on Saudi Arabia.  You had
mentioned that the President is working with Congress to reevaluate the
relationship.  What is the timeframe for that reevaluated relationship? 
And a quick follow-up there is also: On this most recent trip to the
G20, did any members of the President’s delegation meet with some of
their Saudi counterparts, Saudi officials?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, let me take your first question first.  So,
following the OPEC+ decision, as you said, the President directed his
team to reevaluate the relationship with Saudi Arabia.  That’s what
we’re doing.  And so, in consultation with both parties in Congress;
longstanding U.S. allies, partners in the region; and with the Saudi —
and with Saudis, there have already been consequences, I should say.

Congress has frozen all arms sales, so we have time to determine the
broader way forward.  And, you know, we have already had preliminary
conversations with the Hill.  And now that members of Congress are back
in Washington, D.C. — because as you remember, the President was waiting
for — for Congress to come back to have a more in-depth conversation
after the midterms — we’re going to start picking up those conver- —
those conversations.

I don’t have a timeline for you.  But we want — as I said earlier, when
you look at the relationship with Saudi Arabia, it’s a relationship that
has been for the last 80 years.  And — and it’s always been done, when
we think about that relationship, in a bipartisan way.  And that’s what
the President wants to do.

Again, we’ve had initial conversation with Congress.  There has been
some consequences, as I just laid out.  And now that Congress is back,
we’ll continue to have those — we’ll have those conversations a little
bit more in depth, and we’ll let you know when those decisions have been
made.

Q    And then on the G20 trip, were there meetings with the President’s
delegation and Saudi officials (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a good question.  I would have to check with —
with our national security team.  I don’t have any insight on that at
this point.

Q    And I have one follow-up on a domestic question here.  Is the
President intending to travel to Georgia to campaign for Senator
Warnock?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so I want to be careful because that — that
runoff election is under the — is covered under the Hatch Act, so I want
to be really careful on how I — how I answer this.

But what I can say to you: The President wants to be as helpful as he
can to Senator Warnock.  And I will leave it there.  Don’t have anything
to announce as far as any trip or plans to travel to Georgia.

But, again, the President wants to be as helpful as he can be.

Go ahead.

Q    Hi, Karine.  The Supreme Court filing on student loans — this is
the same week that Fed Governor Christopher Waller had said that pay
increases across the economy should slow because there’s too much money,
essentially, in the economy.  Are there concerns in the administration
about the inflationary effects of student loan debt forgiveness?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I want to be careful — again, the Federal
Reserve is a — is a independent body.  And so I’m not going to comment
on — on the actions by the Fed or remarks from Fed officials as well.

So, again, they’re independent, and we respect the independence of the
Federal Reserve.

So I will say this: that the President’s top priority is tackling —
especially when it comes to the economy — is tackling inflation and
lowering prices for the American families.  That’s why he’s taken the
actions that he has on gas prices.  That’s why he’s taken — that’s why
Democrats and the President took the actions that you saw, and signed
into law — the President signed into law the Inflation Reduction Act.

So, as the President said today, this week’s data shows sign of progress
in lowering inflation without giving up any of the economic gains that
we have seen in the past 20 months. 

But again, when it comes to this particular federal official that that
you’re asking about, I’m not going to comment.  Again, I just laid out
more broadly where we see the economic situation.

Q    But specifically on the loans, has the administration analyzed any
potential inflationary effects of student loan forgiveness?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, by — by making those comments, it’s kind of
connected to what the — the Federal —

Q    It has nothing to do with the Fed.  This is — okay, full-blown stop
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    — nothing to do with the Fed.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, that’s not the way you asked the question, so
that’s the way I was answering the question. 

Q    Has the administration analyzed any potential inflationary effects
of student loan forgiveness — the plan that the administration has
enacted?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a good question that you’re asking.  But, look,
the President has always — I don’t have any data to share with you on
that particular question.

But the President has been very clear: He wants to make sure that he’s
lowering cost for the American people.  He feels that the student debt
relief, especially as we were talking about lifting the pause at the end
of this year, he wanted to make sure that he was giving those — those
families, those American middle-class families, a little bit of a
breathing room, especially as they’re dealing with — with, you know,
with — with cost.

And so it was a campaign promise that he had — he had made and that he
wanted to keep.  But, more importantly, he knows that this is going to
help tens of millions of Americans across the country, up to 40 million
people.

And again, this is going to — this is going to be — give an opportunity
to an American family, a middle-class family across the country to start
a family, to buy a house.  And that matters.

When you see a number of 26 million people who’s — who went to the
website to sign up, that tells you how important this plan is.

Q    And, finally, does the former President’s announcement this week
have any bearing on the current President’s calculation in his decision
as to whether he’s going to run again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, Hatch Act, going to be very careful. 
You’re asking me about an election that’s coming up in 2024.  The
President has been very clear that he intends to run, and — and so I’m
going to — I’m going to leave it there.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

Q    Karine, can I follow up on the student debt question?  Is that all
right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to take one last —

Q    Follow-up on the student debt —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to take one last question.  Go ahead. 
Because I’ve answered the student debt question multiple times today.

But go ahead.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  I’m going to take your question.

Q    How was the meeting between President Biden and Prime Minister Modi
of India in Bali?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, it was a — we had a successful G20
Leaders’ Summit and a strong Leaders’ Declaration, as you know.  I know
you follow this very closely.

President Biden spoke with the Prime Minister and Indonesian President
on the margins of the summit, and we issued a readout of their
trilateral meeting.

India played an essential role in negotiating the summit’s declaration. 
Prime Minister Modi made clear “today’s era must not be of war.”  And —
and that’s a direct quote from the <s>President</s> \[Prime Minister\].

Among other priorities addressed, we have a path forward to addressing
current food and energy security challenges while continuing our efforts
to build a resilient global economy. 

Prime Minister Modi’s relationship was critical to this outcome, and we
look forward to supporting India’s G20 presiden- — G- — pres- — G20
presidency next year.  We look forward to — to that — to that — to that
next meeting.

But we’re going to get going.  Thanks, everybody.  Have a great weekend.

4:50 P.M. EST
