---
date: '2025-08-14'
published_time: 2025-08-14 15:07:04-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/08/presidential-message-on-the-80th-anniversary-of-winning-world-war-ii/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on the 80th Anniversary of Winning World War II
---
 
On August 14, 1945, the Allied Powers accepted Imperial Japan’s
unconditional surrender in World War II, delivering a hard-fought
American victory in the Pacific and bringing the deadliest war in human
history to a decisive close.  Eighty years later, our Nation remembers
freedom’s triumph over tyranny—and we proudly honor the truth that
victory was made possible only by the unmatched courage, grit, and
sacrifice of the fearless patriots of the United States Armed Forces.

After Imperial Japan’s unprovoked attack on Pearl Harbor, America
responded with overwhelming force, launching a two-front fight against
totalitarianism.  In the Pacific—across vast oceans and unforgiving
terrain—American servicemen undertook one of the most grueling campaigns
in military history.  From the turning point at Midway to the fierce
battles on Biak Island and the sands of Iwo Jima, our troops pushed
forward against a ruthless enemy, island by island, driven by duty,
honor, and an unrelenting devotion to the cause of freedom.

The path to peace came at a staggering cost.  More than 100,000
Americans perished in the Pacific Theater alone.  It was only through
the commitment and patriotism of the Greatest Generation that the
Japanese Empire was defeated, ensuring that the world would be spared
from the oppressive clutches of destruction and tyranny—and that America
would remain a beacon of liberty and hope for the entire world for
future generations.  Today, Japan has become our strongest ally in the
Pacific, hosting more than 50,000 American troops who stand guard
against new totalitarian regimes and their expansive ambitions.  

As we celebrate the 80th anniversary of winning World War II, we reflect
on the sacrifices and bravery of our Nation’s troops who secured our
freedom and victory.  We remember with deep reverence the fearless
warriors who raised our beautiful Stars and Stripes atop distant
islands.  Above all, we pay tribute to all those who stormed foreign
shores under enemy fire to inflict the full fury of American might to
defend our interests, our people, and our beloved homeland against
forces of evil.

Their enduring triumph reminds us that peace is never promised, but is
earned through sacrifice, defended with strength, and kept alive by
those willing to risk their lives for the survival of our freedom and
our beloved way of life.  Guided by this vision, my Administration
remains steadfastly committed to upholding a foreign policy of peace
through strength to ensure that our citizens are always put first, our
sovereignty is always defended, and our Nation remains the greatest
country on earth.

May God bless the memory of those who fell, and may we always remain
worthy of the freedom they valiantly secured.
