---
date: '2025-08-21'
published_time: 2025-08-21 07:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/08/joint-statement-on-a-united-states-european-union-framework-on-an-agreement-on-reciprocal-fair-and-balanced-trade/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Joint Statement on a United States-European Union Framework on an Agreement
  on Reciprocal, Fair, and Balanced Trade
---
 
The United States and the European Union are pleased to announce that
they have agreed on a Framework on an Agreement on Reciprocal, Fair, and
Balanced
Trade (“Framework Agreement”). This Framework Agreement represents a
concrete demonstration of our commitment to fair, balanced, and mutually
beneficial trade and investment.  This Framework Agreement will put our
trade and investment relationship – one of the largest in the world – on
a solid footing and will reinvigorate our
economies’ reindustrialization. It reflects acknowledgement by the
European Union of the concerns of the United States and our joint
determination to resolve our trade imbalances and unleash the full
potential of our combined economic power. The United States and the
European Union intend this Framework Agreement to be a first step in a
process that can be further expanded over time to cover additional areas
and continue to improve market access and increase their trade and
investment relationship.

The key terms include: 

1.​ The European Union intends to eliminate tariffs on all U.S.
industrial goods and to provide preferential market access for a wide
range of U.S. seafood and agricultural goods, including tree nuts, dairy
products, fresh and processed fruits and vegetables, processed foods,
planting seeds, soybean oil, and pork and bison meat. The European Union
will immediately take the necessary steps to extend the Joint Statement
of the United States and the European Union on a Tariff Agreement
announced on August 21, 2020, with respect to
lobster (that expired 31 July 2025), coupled with an expanded product
scope to include processed lobster.

2.​ The United States commits to apply the higher of either the U.S. Most
Favored Nation (MFN) tariff rate or a tariff rate of 15 percent,
comprised of the MFN tariff and a reciprocal tariff, on originating
goods of the European Union. Additionally, effective as of 1 September
2025, the United States commits to apply only the MFN tariff to the
following products of the European Union: unavailable natural
resources (including cork), all aircraft and aircraft parts, generic
pharmaceuticals and their ingredients and chemical precursors. The
United States and the European Union agree to consider other sectors and
products that are important for their economies and value chains for
inclusion in the list of products for which only the MFN tariffs would
apply.

3\. ​The United States intends to promptly ensure that the tariff rate,
comprised of the MFN tariff and the tariff imposed pursuant to Section
232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, applied to originating goods of
the European Union subject to Section 232 actions on pharmaceuticals,
semiconductors, and lumber does not exceed 15 percent. When the European
Union formally introduces the necessary legislative proposal to enact
the tariff reductions set forth in Section 1 of this Framework
Agreement, the United States will reduce tariffs on automobiles and
automobile parts originating from the European Union subject to Section
232 tariffs as follows: No Section 232 automobile or automobile parts
tariffs will apply to covered European Union goods with an MFN tariff of
15 percent or higher; and for covered goods with an MFN rate lower than
15 percent, a combined rate of 15 percent, comprised of the MFN tariff
and Section 232 automobile tariffs, will be applied. These tariff
reductions are expected to be effective from the first day of the same
month in which the European Union’s legislative proposal is
introduced. The United States expects the European Union’s legislative
proposals will be consistent with this Framework Agreement and enacted
by the necessary legislatures. All modifications to U.S. Section 232
tariffs will be executed in a manner that reinforces and is consistent
with U.S. national security interests. With respect to steel, aluminum,
and their derivative products, the European Union and the United States
intend to consider the possibility to cooperate on ring-fencing their
respective domestic markets from overcapacity, while ensuring secure
supply chains between each other, including through tariff-rate quota
solutions.

4\. ​The United States and the European Union will negotiate rules of
origin that ensure that the benefits of the Agreement on Reciprocal
Trade accrue predominately to the United States and the European Union.

5. ​The United States and the European Union commit to cooperate on
ensuring secure, reliable, and diversified energy supplies, including by
addressing non-tariff barriers that might restrict bilateral energy
trade.  As part of this effort, the European Union intends to procure
U.S. liquified natural gas, oil, and nuclear energy products with an
expected offtake valued at $750 billion through 2028. In addition, the
European Union intends to purchase at least $40 billion worth of U.S. AI
chips for its computing centers. The European Union further plans to
work with the United States to adopt and maintain technology security
requirements in line with those of the United States. in a concerted
effort to avoid technology leakage to destinations of concern. The
United States will endeavor to facilitate such exports once such
requirements are in place.

6\. ​The United States and the European Union share one of the world’s
largest economic relationships, supported by mutual investment stocks
exceeding $5 trillion, and intend to promote and facilitate mutual
investments on both sides of the Atlantic. In this context, European
companies are expected to invest an additional $600 billion across
strategic sectors in the United States through 2028. This investment
reflects the European Union’s strong commitment to the transatlantic
partnership and its recognition of the United States as the most secure
and innovative destination for foreign investment.

7\. ​The European Union plans to substantially increase procurement of
military and defense equipment from the United States, with the support
and facilitation of the U.S. government.  This commitment reflects a
shared strategic priority to deepen transatlantic defense industrial
cooperation, strengthen NATO interoperability, and ensure that European
allies are equipped with the most advanced and reliable defense
technologies available.

8\. ​The United States and the European Union commit to work together
to reduce or eliminate non-tariff barriers. With respect to automobiles,
the United States and the European Union intend to accept and provide
mutual recognition to each other’s standards. Cooperation on standards
plays a crucial role in enhancing the transatlantic marketplace. The
European Union and United States commit to enhance opportunities for
technical cooperation between EU- and U.S.-domiciled standards
development organizations with the objective of identifying and
developing standards for the transatlantic marketplace in key sectors of
mutual interest.  The United States and the European Union commit to
facilitate conformity assessments to cover additional industrial
sectors.

9\. ​Recognizing the importance of continued
engagement to resolve longstanding concerns, the European Union and the
United States commit to work together to address non-tariff barriers
affecting trade in food and agricultural products, including
streamlining requirements for sanitary certificates for pork and
dairy products.

10\. ​Recognizing that production of the relevant commodities within the
territory of the United States poses negligible risk to global
deforestation, the European Union commits to work
to address the concerns of U.S. producers and exporters regarding the EU
Deforestation Regulation, with a view to avoiding undue impact
on U.S.-EU trade.

11. ​Taking note of the U.S. concerns related to treatment of U.S. small
and medium-sized businesses under the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism
(CBAM), the European Commission, in addition to the recently agreed
increase of the de minimis exception, commits to work
to provide additional flexibilities in the CBAM implementation.

12\. ​The European Union commits to undertake efforts to ensure that the
Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive (CSDDD) and the
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) do not pose undue
restrictions on transatlantic trade.  In the context of CSDDD, this
includes undertaking efforts to reduce administrative burden on
businesses, including small- and medium-sized
enterprises, and to propose changes to the requirement for a harmonized
civil liability regime for due diligence failures and
to climate-transition-related obligations.  The European Union commits
to work to address U.S. concerns regarding the imposition of CSDDD
requirements on companies of non-EU countries with
relevant high-quality regulations.

13\. ​The European Union reaffirms that U.S. conformity assessment
bodies can be designated as Notified Bodies in accordance with the
Sectoral Annex for Telecommunications Equipment to the Agreement
on Mutual Recognition Between the European Community and the United
States (1998) to carry out the tasks in relation to all essential
requirements, including cybersecurity, in the Radio Equipment Directive
2014/53/EU.  In addition, the United States and the European Union
will commit to negotiate a mutual recognition
agreement on cybersecurity.

14.​ The European Union and the United States commit to strengthen
cooperation and action related to the imposition of export restrictions
on critical mineral and other similar resources by third countries.

15\. ​The United States and the European Union commit to discuss
high-standard commitments related to intellectual property
rights protection and enforcement.

16\. ​The European Union and the United States commit to work together
to ensure strong protection of internationally recognized labor rights,
including with regard to the elimination of forced labor in supply
chains.

17.​ The United States and the European Union commit to address
unjustified digital trade barriers. In that respect, The European Union
confirms that it will not adopt or maintain network usage fees. The
United States and the European Union will not impose customs duties
on electronic transmissions. The United States and the European
Union intend to continue to support the multilateral moratorium on
customs duties on electronic transmissions at the World Trade
Organization and seek the adoption of a permanent multilateral
commitment.

18.​ The European Union intends to consult with the United States and
U.S. traders on digitalization of trade procedures and implementation of
the legislation currently proposed on EU Customs Reform.

19\. ​The United States and the European
Union agree to strengthen economic security alignment to enhance supply
chain resilience and innovation by taking complementary actions to
address non-market policies of third parties as well as cooperating
on inbound and outbound investment reviews and export controls, as well
as duty evasion. This includes addressing non-market practices, unfair
competition, and lack of reciprocity in public procurement with respect
to third countries. The United States and the European Union will
cooperate on further implementation measures. ​

The United States and the European Union, in line with their relevant
internal procedures, will promptly document the Agreement on Reciprocal,
Fair, and Balanced Trade to implement this Framework Agreement.
