---
date: '2025-08-19'
published_time: 2025-08-19 10:32:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/08/presidential-message-on-national-employer-support-of-the-guard-and-reserve-week/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve
  Week
---
 
Since before the birth of our Republic, the National Guard and Reserve
have stood as our first line of defense against forces of tyranny,
invasion, and violence.  From their origins in colonial militias to
their service fighting for our interests abroad and cleaning up the
streets of our crime-ridden cities, our courageous Guardsmen and
Reservists have been indispensable to the survival of our way of life. 
This National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Week, we pay
tribute to every employer who hires and supports these citizen Service
members—and we offer our thanks for their steadfast commitment to
keeping America safe, strong, sovereign, and free.

At a moment’s notice, the brave men and women of the National Guard and
Reserve—who comprise nearly half of our fighting force—bring
unparalleled expertise, combat capabilities, and technical prowess to
their mission.  Since I took office in January, members of the National
Guard have played a crucial role in restoring integrity to our southern
border, reasserting the rule of law in our Nation’s most violent cities,
and returning order to our communities and our public square.  Thanks in
part to their tremendous efforts, our Nation is now safer than ever
before.

Even in the throes of battle or extraordinary mayhem and violence, the
warriors of the National Guard and Reserve do not flinch.  With
incredible valor and professionalism, they defend our citizens, guard
our freedom, and enforce our laws—made possible by the businesses and
organizations in the private sector that employ them and empower them to
accomplish their mission.  Their support enables these Service members
to respond to unpredictable threats at home and abroad with the
assurance that their jobs will still be there when their mission is
complete.

The flexibility and understanding of these employers—often despite
sacrificing their own bottom line—is a testament to their integrity,
patriotism, and unwavering commitment to defending our homeland.  They
employ our Service members in the face of unpredictable schedules,
last-minute missions, and uncertain futures not because they have to,
but because they have faith in their unrivaled tenacity and unmatched
military discipline.  These employers know that our citizen Service
members are among the best, brightest, and toughest employees in our
Nation.  They represent the very best of the American spirit, and we are
grateful to every employer who makes their work possible.

The First Lady joins me in honoring the members of the National Guard
and Reserve, as well as their resilient loved ones who share the burdens
and blessings of service.  This week, we offer our heartfelt gratitude
to the extraordinary employers of our Reserve force for their valiant
work on behalf of our liberty, safety, and peace.
