---
date: '2025-08-14'
modified_time: 2025-08-14 15:08:48-04:00
published_time: 2025-08-14 15:07:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/08/presidential-message-on-the-260th-anniversary-of-the-formation-of-the-sons-of-liberty/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on the 260th Anniversary of the Formation of the Sons
  of Liberty
---
 
On this day 260 years ago, a small but mighty cohort of American
patriots banded together in the streets of Boston, Massachusetts, united
by one righteous goal: to resist the mounting persecution of the British
Crown and defend their sacred birthright of freedom. 

On August 14, 1765, five months after Great Britain’s imposition of the
Stamp Act—which levied taxes on paper, documents, and cards in the
Colonies—a legion of Americans now remembered as the “Loyal Nine” burned
an effigy of British tax collector Andrew Oliver.  This bold act of
defiance against the British Crown inspired thousands to rise up in
protest, sending an unmistakable message to Great Britain that the
colonists would never back down in their fight for freedom.

In the years that followed, The Loyal Nine became known as the “Sons of
Liberty,” a coalition of patriotic rebels spanning the 13 colonies, led
by Samuel Adams, John Hancock, and Paul Revere.  Staging protests,
rallies, and boycotts, the Sons of Liberty ignited the flame of
independence and set in motion the revolution that gave rise to
self-government.  Under the iconic battle cry, “No Taxation without
Representation,” the unruly rebels transformed the fight for American
liberty from an impossible hope into a unifying cause for independence
and helping to define what it means to be “American” for the first time.

The growing movement of resistance reached the tipping point on December
16, 1773, when the Sons of Liberty dumped hundreds of chests of British
tea into the Boston Harbor.  This protest against the unjust taxation on
tea—forever known as the Boston Tea Party—struck a powerful blow against
the British authority, rallied support for the patriot cause across the
colonies, and set the stage for the first shots of the Revolutionary War
fired at Lexington and Concord less than two years later.

Today, 260 years after the formation of the Sons of Liberty, their
righteous mission, daring courage, and unwavering devotion to freedom
remains the proud inheritance of every American citizen.  As my
Administration continues to usher in the Golden Age of America, we
remember the sacrifices they made, the victories they won, and the noble
cause that inspired them.
