---
date: '2025-08-02'
modified_time: 2025-08-03 13:58:48-04:00
published_time: 2025-08-02 13:58:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/08/presidential-message-on-83rd-anniversary-of-the-battle-of-guadalcanal/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on 83rd Anniversary of the Battle of Guadalcanal
---
 
At dawn on August 7, 1942, thousands of young, fierce, and tenacious
American patriots stormed the shores of Red Beach, commencing the epic
Battle of Guadalcanal—a roaring display of American might and one of the
most consequential military conflicts in the history of our country. 
Today, our Nation pays tribute to every legend of liberty who made the
ultimate sacrifice for their homeland in the jungles of Guadalcanal, and
we reaffirm the timeless truth that America will never retreat when our
sovereignty falls under threat.

On that fateful summer morning, the heroes of the United States Marine
Corps’ 1st Marine Division set foot on Guadalcanal Island for the
purpose of seizing control of a strategic airfield and defending vital
shipping routes.  They expected a hard-fought, swift battle, but the war
raged on in relentless fury for six months through treacherous ground
battles, naval bombardments by night, and air-to-air combat in the skies
above the Solomon Islands.

America’s fighting force battled not only a formidable enemy, but also
Guadalcanal’s brutal terrain, merciless monsoons, sweltering heat, thick
jungles, and disease-ridden swamps.  In the face of hellish conditions
and unimaginable suffering, our Marines, Sailors, and Soldiers—the
majority of whom were barely out of high school let alone untested in
warfare—demonstrated extraordinary courage and unwavering resolve.  They
achieved a decisive victory, but not without thousands of casualties in
the naval and ground campaigns.

America’s defeat of Imperial Japan at the Battle of Guadalcanal is
indelibly etched upon our national character.  The landmark victory
helped turn the tide of World War II and solidified our military
dominance—proving that our warriors could stand toe-to-toe with one of
the most vicious fighting forces on the face of the Earth.  To ensure
our military’s storied history continues well into the future, as
President, I am proudly rebuilding our military, achieving our
recruiting goals, and restoring a foreign policy of peace through
strength. Under my leadership, the United States military will remain
the mightiest, fiercest, boldest, and most revered in the entire world.
Our service members will always be prepared to defend American interests
and American security in the Indo-Pacific and elsewhere, standing ready
to summon the same bold fighting spirit that America’s heroes did at
Guadalcanal and throughout the Pacific theater during World War II.

The gallant troops at Guadalcanal fought not for territorial conquest,
but to conquer tyranny and defend our way of life.  In their honor, we
pay tribute to the enduring legacy of our Nation’s sons who selflessly
took up arms to secure an obscure yet pivotal island in the Pacific in
defense of our freedom, our home, and our beloved civilization.
