---
date: '2023-09-21'
published_time: 2023-09-21 18:20:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/21/press-call-by-vice-president-harris-on-an-announcement-to-ease-the-burden-of-medical-debt-on-american-family-budgets/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Press Call by Vice President Harris on an Announcement to Ease the Burden\
  \ of Medical Debt on American Family\_Budgets"
---
 
*Via Teleconference*

  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  And good afternoon, everyone.  Thank
you for joining us to address a subject that is critical to millions of
Americans, and that’s the issue of the tremendous burden of medical
debt.   
  
And I will tell you, I’ve traveled the country and met with families
from every region who talk about and — and often silently suffer under
the burden and weight of this debt.   
  
And President Biden and I are firm, therefore, in the belief that access
to healthcare should be a right and not a privilege just for those who
can afford it.  And that means that no one in our nation should have to
go into debt just to get the quality healthcare that they need.   
  
However, right now in our country, one in three adults — some 100
million Americans — struggle with unpaid medical bills.  They just can’t
afford those bills.  A disproportionate number are Black, Latino, or
live in rural areas.  Many of these debt — of the debt that people have
accrued are due to a medical emergency — a student with a burst
appendix, a grandmother who took a nasty fall — and, years later, they
are still paying off tens of thousands of dollars in bills that they
didn’t plan to have.   
  
For years, this medical debt has also harmed people’s credit scores. 
And this is a point of emphasis: We know credit scores determine whether
a person can have economic health and well — well-being, much less the
ability to grow their wealth.  Because think about it: Credit scores
determine whether a person can buy a home, whether they can buy a car,
rent an apartment, or own a small business.   
  
Today, we are offering a solution to fix this problem.  The Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau will propose a new rule to make clear that
medical debt cannot impact the credit scores of the American people. 
Once this rule is final, it will mean, one, that consumer credit reports
will not include medical debt and, two, that creditors will not be able
to use medical debt to determine a person’s eligibility for credit.   
  
Together, these measures will improve the credit scores of millions of
Americans so that they will better be able to invest in their future. 
For example, more people will qualify for a car loan.  Instead of taking
three buses to work, they can drive themselves.  More working people
will qualify for a home mortgage from a local bank instead of continuing
to pay rent or resorting to a predatory lender.  That home, in turn,
will help them to pass on intergenerational wealth.  And it will be
easier for entrepreneurs to get a loan and open a small business, which
we know benefits the economy of entire communities.   
  
I have spent my entire career fighting to lower medical bills for
families and to protect consumers.  When I was attorney general of
California, I intervened in the merger of hospitals that could have
resulted in less competition and increased cost for patients.   
  
As a United States senator during the pandemic, I worked to reduce
out-of-pocket healthcare costs.   
  
And since taking office, President Biden and I have focused on the
burden of medical debt, ensuring consumers know that they have the right
to contest inaccurate charges on their medical bills and how to file a
dispute; cracking down on debt collectors who threaten, harass, and
deceive consumers.  We cancelled or refunded about $1 billion in copays
for more than one and a half million veterans, and we continue to work
to bring down the cost of healthcare.   
  
By one, we capped the cost of insulin at $35 a month, and we will cap
the cost of prescription drugs for our seniors — the total cost — at
$2,000 a year.  We allowed Medicare to negotiate the price of
medications with Big Pharma companies to the benefit of 65 million
Americans.   
  
And President Biden and I will continue to create a future where every
person has the opportunity to build wealth and, in turn, build a
stronger economy that benefits us all.  
  
So, I thank you for participating in this call.  And I will now turn it
over to the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Rohit
Chopra.   
  
And I thank you for the work that you do, Mr. Director.  And you are
indeed a leader in the fight to reduce the burden of medical debt. 
Thank you.   
  
                               END
