---
date: '2023-09-27'
modified_time: 2023-09-27 18:30:11-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-27 18:29:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/27/remarks-by-president-biden-before-meeting-with-the-presidents-council-of-advisors-on-science-and-technology-san-francisco-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Meeting with the President\u2019s Council\
  \ of Advisors on Science and Technology | San Francisco,\_CA"
---
 
Fairmont San Francisco Hotel  
San Francisco, California

12:13 P.M. PDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  This is a 14-hour meeting.  (Laughter.)

Look, let me begin by saying that one of the things that disturbed me —
being involved in elective office for a long time — is how, over the
last 30 years, the federal government has paid less and less attention
to investments in science and technology. 

And we’re in a situation where we used to have a significant portion of
our GDP going into research and development.  And it got down to 0.7
percent from 2 percent.  We used to lead the world.

And I don’t know how we can be the safest, most secure, and healthiest
nation in the world without significant investment in — in science and
technology, and I mean that.  And so, you’ve all really stepped up.

And one of the things that I also — it doesn’t directly relate today,
but Arati and I talked a little bit about it earlier this morning — is
that: What leaders say matter, in terms of people’s confidence in things
they’re not sure about. 

And one of those areas — you saw what happened with regard to the crisis
— health crisis that we had that cost us — we lost well over a million
people.  And as time began to move on, you had more and more voices
saying, “No, no, no.  You don’t need to get that shot.  You don’t need
to be — get — you don’t need to.” 

And we have a new strain of COVID now, and we have answers for it.  But
I just would urge those in public life and both political parties or no
political party to be cautious about the ac- — the sometimes
inflammatory things you say about this, because people’s lives are at
stake. 

And the last piece was: When I was vice president, for a slightly
different reason, I spent a lot of time going between rural areas and
urban areas.  And one of the things that we — you’re going to talk about
here is the — the healthcare workers reflecting the community.  We need
not only to have more focus on rural communities and rural hospitals in
order to get the kind of care and — and attention they need, but we need
to have people from those communities to be the ones who are trained and
engaged in that effort.  And I think that — again, Arati raised that
with me this morning. 

I — I can’t tell you how certain I am that that is necessary, and I’m
not a scientist.  It matters.  It matters who you go to and do you trust
what they’re doing.  Do you think they know what they’re talking about?

And so, Dr. Zuber, thank you.  I’m really looking forward to this
discussion.

And this group represents some of the top minds in America.  And that’s,
again, not hyperbole.  That’s a fact.

I’ve often said, America is the only nation in the world  that can be
defined by one word.  I spent a lot of time with Xi Jinping when I was
vice president and subsequent to that.  And he once asked me, on the
Tibetan Plateau, could I define America for him?  And I mean this
sincerely — not a joke.  I said, “Yes.  One word: possibilities.”

We’ve always believed that anything is possible if we set our mind to
it.  Possibilities.

And science and technology is allowing us to unlock the potential as a
nation and meet the challenges of our time with some sense of urgency
and purpose.  I can’t emphasize the word “urgency” too much. 

I’d hate like hell if three generations from now, them to look back on
this period where we had the potential tools to explore and increase
significantly our ability to help, and we somehow mes- — messed it up. 
No, no, I mean it sincerely.  I’m sorry to talk so plainly, but I think
that’s what it gets down to in many cases.

So, I’m looking forward to discussing actions that we’re taking on two
priorities: AI — artificial intelligence — and expanding high-quality
healthcare for every American no matter where they’re quartered, where
they live, what their background is.

You know, as we just heard, AI has the potential to transform research,
and I’m looking forward to learning much more today.

And, by the way, I’m not joking.  My latest two trips around the world —
and not figuratively; literally around the world — to meet with other
world leaders, ev- — well, I wouldn’t say “everyone.”  I can think of —
I can’t think of anybody who didn’t, but I’m sure I will — there was
some world leader who didn’t ask me. 

They wanted to talk about our leadership on artificial intelligence and
what the meetings — what we — I’ve conducted already around tables
similar to this with the 10, 12 major, major initiators within AI — and
the vast differences that exist among them in terms of what potential it
has, what dangers there are. 

And so, you know, I’ve been keen — I have a keen interest in AI and
convened key experts on how to harness the power of artificial
intelligence for good while protecting people from the profound risk it
also presents — we can’t kid ourselves — the profound risk if we don’t
do it well. 

And the United States is committed to that goal.  And we’re going to
work with world leaders to achieve it, including British Prime Minister
Su- — Sunak and others that I’ve been — they want to do more together
with us.  

And I want to thank — thanks to our administrations, 15 American
technology companies have already begun to implement voluntary
commitments to help ensure that AI technology is safe, secure, and
trustworthy before it’s released to the public.  That includes extensive
independent safety testing.  That includes watermarking and identifying
images that have been generated by AI. 

And — and to state the obvious: AI — AI extends beyond health and
security issues.  I applaud the tentative resolution from the writers
strike, for example, here — not here — in California, in Los Angeles,
including insurances on how the use of AI will occur. 

This fall, I’m going to take executive action, and my administration is
going to continue to work with bipartisan legislation so America leads
the way toward responsible AI innovation. 

We’re also taking action to ensure our loved ones have access to
high-quality healthcare, starting with the PCAST release — report you
released on strengthening patient safety.  I made very brief reference
to it at the beginning, but it is really, really critical. 

And today, I’m announcing major investments in patient safety from
ARPA-H to develop antibiotics and to fight deadly drug-resistant
bacteria and save lives.  Think of that.  We’re talking about the
potential for antibiotics to be used to deal with ca- — anyway, it just
— 

When I start reading your reports, I think to myself, “My, Lord, what an
incredible era we’re about to go through.”  But it has to be done well. 

And so, finding and implementing solutions to reduce medical errors and
other problems for patients’ experiences when hospitalized is going to
improve health outcomes and protect our loved ones as well. 

And Joe Kiani knows a lot about that — been working with it a long, long
time. 

My administration is committed to ensuring every American receives
high-quality care they deserve in every community — urban, rural,
suburban, Tribal — I — and — and it varies as to who — think about your
— I — I say to the public who may be listening: Think about whether or
not — who you go to and how much you trust that doc is going to impact
on whether you follow the instructions.  No, I — I mean it.  It is a
very basic human nature element.  And that’s why having people from,
quote, “the neighborhood” makes a big difference, I think. 

And — and so, it’s going to reduce medical errors and other problems
patient fac- — face when they’re hospitalized.  And I believe it’s going
to improve outcomes and protect the people we love. 

My administration is committed to ensuring every American receives
high-quality care they deserve in every community, as I said.  And
ultimately, it’s all about dignity — it’s all about dignity. 

The actions we take together are going to help protect people’s health. 
They’re going to promote innovation.  And we’re going to win the
economic competition of the 21st century, in my humble opinion. 

And I’ll just say: If we have a government shutdown, a lot of vital work
in science and health could be impacted, from cancer research to food
safety.  So, the American people need our Republican friends in the
House of Representatives to do their job: fund the government. 

We’ve got a lot to discuss, so let’s get this meeting started.  I’d
rather hear from you than me.  Thank you.

Q    Mr. President, do you think the government shutdown is inevitable
at this point?  Over here, sir.  Do you —

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t think anything is inevitable in politics.

Q    What — what can be done now to make — to make sure it doesn’t
happen?

THE PRESIDENT:  If I knew that, I would have done it already. 
(Laughter.)

12:22 P.M. PDT
