---
date: '2023-09-25'
published_time: 2023-09-25 15:00:36-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/25/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-mark-brown-of-the-cook-islands-before-meeting-with-pacific-islands-forum-leaders/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Mark Brown of the Cook Islands\
  \ Before Meeting with Pacific Islands Forum\_Leaders"
---
 
East Room

10:46 A.M. EDT  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, fellow leaders and friends, welcome.  Welcome to
the White House.  
  
Following our historic summit last year, I was honored to host all of
you at the Pacific Islands Forum in the White House today.  And I know
it’s two more days of this.  You’re going to get to see more of our —
our staff and our — our administration.  
  
And I want to apologize again for not being able to join you in Papua
New Guinea this past May — the place holds a special meaning to my
family.  I want to thank the Prime Minister for his incredible gift: a
small piece of an A-20 aircraft that —  
  
During World War Two, my — my mother’s number-two brother, Ambrose
Finnegan — number-three brother, I should say — my uncle was in the Army
Air Corps, and he flew many missions in that A-20 across the Pacific.   
  
And in 1944, during one of those missions, his plane crashed off the
coast of Papua New Guinea.  And like so many soldiers who served
freedom’s cause during that time, my uncle’s remains were never
recovered — never found.   
  
But his sacrifice was always remembered, including when General
MacArthur, who sent my family a condolence letter, wrote, and I quote,
“He died serving in a crusade from which a better world for all will
come.”  “A better world for all will come.”  
My friends, that’s why our nations come together here today.  That’s why
they came together in World War Two and where we are today.   And that
is why we’re going — because I’m — our objective is to build a better
world.    
  
One of the great opportunities for security, prosperity, and dignity for
all our people, no matter where they live — that starts by building
stronger partnerships with each other.    
  
And that’s why the United States has delivered on the promises we made
last year to, one, open new embassies in Tonga and the Solomon Islands,
establish a USAID mission in Fiji, and return the Peace Corps to Samoa,
Fiji, Tonga, and Vanuatu.  
  
And that’s why we’ve signed a new economic agreement with Micronesia and
<s>Puala</s> \[Palau\].  Aiming to do the same for the Marshall Islands
as well.     
  
And that’s why the United States is formally  establishing diplomatic
relations with the Cook Islands.  And the real reason is: We’re both
from Baltimore.  (Laughter.)  That’s a long story, but — but all kidding
aside, the Cook Islands and Niue.  
  
Additionally, as the White House honors National Asian Americans and
Native American Pacific Islanders Serving Institutions Week for the
first time, I’m proud to announce that we are going to double the number
of academic exchanges of Pacific Island students, beginning this year. 
We’re going to double it.  
  
All of these steps are going to help build a strong foundation from
which we can tackle the challenges that matter most to our people’s
lives.  
  
And key among them is climate change.  I want you to know: I hear you. 
The people of the United States and around the world hear you.  We hear
your warnings of a rising sea and what — they pose an existential threat
to your nations.    
  
We hear your calls for reassurance that you never, never, never will
lose your statehood or membership at the U.N. as a result of a climate
crisis.  
  
Today, the United States is making it clear that this is our position as
well.  And alongside our Partners in the Blue Pacific, we’re increasing
our climate assistance, including more than $20 million for new
investments to prepare for climate and natural hazards.  
  
The second point I’d like to make is economic development.   Strong
growth begins with a strong infrastructure.  So, today, I’m pleased to
announce we’re working with Congress to invest $40 <s>billion</s>
\[million\] in our Pacific Islands Infrastructure Initiative.  We call
it the PG- — PI- — anyway, it doesn’t matter what we call it, but that’s
what it is.  (Laughter.)  I was going to get back to acronyms, and I’m
going to — I’m going to — withstand not doing that.  
  
Including investments in digital connectivity through the Partnership
for Global Infrastructure and Investment.  We’re also working to launch
a new microfinance facility in the Pacific to expand access to finances
for small business.  We realize how difficult it is and how important it
is.  
  
And we have signed a new 10-year $600 million agreement to support the
sustainable development of the Pacific Island fisheries, as I pledged to
you last year.  
  
Finally — finally — and finally, I want to talk about security.  The
United States is committed to ensuring an Indo-Pacific region that is
free, open, prosperous, and secure.  We’re committed to working with all
the nations around this table to achieve that goal.  
  
So, this year, we shall send the U- — first U.S. Coast Guard vessel
solely dedicated to collaborate and train with Pacific Island nations.  
  
And alongside our Quad partners, we intend to invest more than $11
million in bringing cutting-edge maritime domain awareness technology to
the region.   
  
All told, today, in the — in consultation with the Congress, we’re
launching $200 million in new proposals.  
  
Let me close with this.  Like our forebearers during World War Two, we
know that a great deal of the history of our world will be written
across the Pacific over the coming years.  
  
And like them, we owe it to the next generation to help write that story
together — to do the hard work, the historic work — that General
MacArthur said — and I quote him again — for “which a better world for
all will come.”  That’s the objective here.  
  
So, today, let’s recommit to that goal and let’s recommit to each other
because, with the past as our proof, we’re stronger and the world is
safer when we stand together.  
  
So, thank you very much.  
  
And I think I’m now turning this over to the Cook Islands?  Or am I —  
  
SECRETARY BLINKEN:  That’s right.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  — turning it to you?  Mr. Pre- —  
  
PRIME MINISTER BROWN:  Thank you, sir.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Mr. Prime Minister, the floor is yours.  
  
PRIME MINISTER BROWN:  Thank you.   
  
Thank you very much, President Biden.  Honorable leaders, colleagues,
ladies and gentlemen, *kia orana* to you all.   
  
As we, the leaders of the United States and the Pacific Islands Forum,
gather today to recommit our resolve to partnerships for prosperity, we
are reminded of historical milestones that should inspire us to reach
meaningful outcomes today.   
  
The United States is a country that’s 247 years old.  Our Pacific
countries here celebrate 40, 50, and 60 years as independent nations
from decolonization.  Our own organization, the Pacific Islands Forum,
is 52 years old this year.  And as mentioned, today, the Cook Islands
and Niue celebrate milestones of formal diplomatic relations with the
United States respectively.  
  
These milestones celebrate eras of change and demonstrate that with
unshakable resolve and leadership, remarkable achievements are
possible.   
  
In our discussions today, let us be empowered by the needs and
aspirations of the people of the Pacific and the United States.  We have
an opportunity here, as the Pacific Islands Forum and as the United
States, to develop our partnerships for prosperity.  
  
Excellencies, last year, the Pacific Island Forum leaders launched the
2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent.  Our strategy sets out our
long-term approach to working together as a region and as countries,
communities, and people of the Pacific.  It frames our regional
cooperation and broader actions around seven key theme — thematic areas,
which are designed and developed to support the achievements of our
region.  Our strategy also outlines how our international partners,
including the United States, can partner with us to deliver partnerships
for prosperity.   
  
In a few weeks, I will host the 52nd Pacific Island Forum Leaders
meeting, where we will endorse the 2050 Strategy Implementation Plan.  A
plan by the Pacific and for the Pacific that will ensure the security
and prosperity of all Pacific people to lead free, healthy, and
productive lives.  A plan that requires international partnerships to
succeed and can serve as a cornerstone of our U.S.-Pacific framework for
future cooperation.   
  
We know this partnership is not only attainable but also rests on three
key pillars.   
  
Firstly, the successful implementation of our 2050 Strategy
Implementation Plan.  At its core, our plan identifies key regional
collective actions under each of the seven thematic areas that we
believe will propel our development.  For the Pacific, access to
development and climate finance — which, in the Pacific content —
context, is exactly the same thing — is the only way to achieve
meaningful change at the grassroots level and at the national level. 
Let us remember that our people at home must feel connected to the
decisions that we make here.  
  
Mr. President, our strategy calls for more engaged and effective partner
coordination.  I strongly encourage the U.S., as a critical founding
dialogue partner, to actively engage at the highest level in the
upcoming Forum Dialogue Partners meeting in Rarotonga this year.   
  
That engagement cannot be restricted to annual summits.  It must be
year-long efforts working to an agreed plan of action and supported by
requisite resources to deliver transformative actions on the ground.   
  
Secondly, the significance of global collaboration.  Just last week, our
nations actively engaged in the discussions at the 78th session of the
U.N. General Assembly.   
  
Mr. President, you wisely stated that “no nation can meet the challenges
of today alone” — that the world must recognize the need for more
diverse leadership and capability, particularly from regions that have
not always been included.   
  
Those narratives, Mr. President, were born in regions like ours.  I
therefore applaud the G7 and ASEAN chairs of Japan and Indonesia,
respectively, for the opportunity afforded to me as the Pacific Islands
Forum chair to attend and speak at these important forums earlier this
year.   
  
My attendance to the G7 and ASEAN Leaders’ Summit is partnerships for
prosperity in action.  It demonstrates a genuine commitment to not just
talk, but to really hear our voices on the challenges we’re confronted
with — but, more importantly, the solutions to those challenges and how
and in what way international partners can support our region.   
  
Our gathering today is our joint commitment to elevating our efforts as
the Pacific Forum and the United States.  It follows our first summit a
year ago in this very building and our gathering in Papua New Guinea
with Secretary Blinken.   
  
I cannot emphasize enough the centrality of the forum for U.S. forward
engagement with the Pacific.  And I wish to commend you, Mr. President,
for your foresight and the significant elevation of engagements over the
last year.   
  
And this brings me to the final pillar of security.  This concept takes
on various forms in the U.S., but for the Pacific, it represents the
ability to provide our people with security — climate security and
economic security.   
  
As leaders, this requires international partnerships to deliver
financing initiatives to address areas that we have long identified as
being important to our countries.  And I’m encouraged, Mr. President,
with your opening comments in this regard.   
  
This includes building infrastructure that will help build our
resilience to climate change impacts, reestablishing transportation and
connectivity links to help grow our economies, and forging partnerships
that will allow business and investments to flow between our regions.   
  
Mr. President, our development agenda is uniquely Pacific, and
partnerships built on mutual understanding and mutual benefit that will
deliver a Pacific that we can all be proud of.  As we engage with you
and your leaders — both in government, in the private sector, and in
civil society — we do so with a clear understanding that our voice, our
agency, and our values are respected.   
  
Through this lens of inclusivity and respect, we seek to build a genuine
partnership with the United States.  Unlocking our full potential for
development begins today.   
  
Let our deliberation set our compass on the same path as we re- —
recommit ourselves to achieving a truly resilient and prosperous Blue
Pacific.   
  
With these remarks, I extend my heartfelt gratitude to each of you, my
fellow leaders, and offer our sincere appreciation to you, Mr.
President, for hosting this second summit of the U.S. and Pacific.   
  
*Kia orana*.  Thank you very much.  God bless.   
  
SECRETARY BLINKEN:  Thank you very, very much, Prime Minister Brown. 
And thank you, Mr. President.   
  
We’ll now just hold for a moment to give our colleagues from the press a
chance to depart.  Thank you.  
  
11:00 A.M. EDT
