---
date: '2023-09-15'
modified_time: 2023-09-18 11:45:34-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-15 14:50:59-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/15/remarks-by-president-biden-on-contract-negotiations-between-the-united-auto-workers-and-the-big-3-auto-companies/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Contract Negotiations Between the United Auto\
  \ Workers and the Big 3 Auto\_Companies"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

12:14 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, folks.  I’ll be very brief.  I wanted to talk very
briefly about the auto strike.  
  
I’d like to say a few words about the contract negotiations between the
United Auto Workers and the Big 3 auto companies.  
  
You know, I’ve been in touch with both parties over — since this began
over the last few weeks.  And over the last — the past decade, auto
companies have seen record profits, including the last few years,
because of the extraordinary skill and sacrifices of the UAW workers. 
But those record profits have not been shared fairly, in my view, with
those workers.   
  
Just as the Treasury Department has released a report, pointing out that
— the most comprehensive report ever, dealing with how unions are good
for both union workers and non-union workers t- — and the overall
economy.   
  
Unions raise workers’ wages, they said — incomes — increase
homeownership; increase retirement savings; increase access to critical
benefits, like sick leave and childcare; and reduce inequality — all of
which strengthen our economy for all workers.    
  
That’s because unions — unions raise standards across their workplaces
and entire industries, pushing up wages and strengthening benefits for
everyone.   
  
And that’s why strong unions are critical to growing the economy and
growing it from the middle out, the bottom up, not the top down.   
  
That’s especially true as we transition to a clean energy future, which
we’re in the process of doing.  I believe that transition should be fair
and a win-win — (clears throat) — excuse me — (clears throat) — for auto
workers and auto companies.  
  
But I also believe the contract agreement must lead to a vibrant,
made-in-America future that promotes good, strong middle-class jobs that
workers can raise a family on — where the UAW remains at the heart of
our economy and where the Big 3 companies continue to lead in
innovation, excellence, quality, and leadership.  
  
Last night, after negotiations broke down, the UAW announced a targeted
strike at a few Big 3 auto plants.  
  
Let’s be clear: No one wants a strike.  Say it again: No one wants a
strike.  But I respect workers’ right to use their options under the
collective bargaining system.  And I understand the workers’
frustration.   
  
Over generations, auto workers sacrificed so much to keep the industry
alive and strong, especially through the economic crisis and the
pandemic.  Workers deserve a fair share of the benefits they helped
create for an enterprise.   
  
I do appreciate that the parties have been working around the clock. 
I’ve — and when I first called them at the very first day of the
negotiation, I said, “Please stay at the table as long as you can to try
to work this out.”  And the — they’ve been around the clock, and the
companies have made some significant offers.   
  
But I believe they should go further to ensure record corporate profits
mean record contracts for the UAW. 

I’m going to say that again: Record corporate profits — which they have
— should be shared by record contracts for the UAW.   
  
And just as we’re building an economy of the future, we need labor
agreements for the future.   
  
It’s my hope that the parties can return to the negotiation table to
forge a win-win agreement.   
  
To continue our active engagement, I’m dis- — I’m deployi- — I’m
dispatching two members of my team to Detroit, Acting Labor Secretary
Julie <s>Shu</s> \[Su\] and White House Senior Advisor Gene Sperling —
both of them have been involved up until now — to offer their full
support for the parties in reaching a contract.   
  
The bottom line is that auto workers helped create America’s middle
class.  They deserve a contract that sustains them and the middle
class.   
  
So, thank you very much.  That’s all I’m going to say.  Thank you.   
  
12:18 P.M. EDT  
