---
date: '2023-09-19'
published_time: 2023-09-19 15:20:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/19/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-moderated-conversation-with-annie-gonzalez-during-the-national-fight-for-our-freedoms-college-tour/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Moderated Conversation with Annie Gonzalez\
  \ During the National \u201CFight for Our Freedoms\u201D College\_Tour"
---
 
Reading Area Community College  
Reading, Pennsylvania

12:46 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You did it, Micki!  (Applause.)  
  
Hi, everyone.  Let’s have a seat.  Hi.   
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Hi.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi.  We’re together again —  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  We are.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — at RACC.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  (Laughs.)  At RACC.  And we are so excited to be here. 
So excited to be here with the woman that needs no introduction, Madam
Vice President, and so excited —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Annie.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yes.  You can scream it one more time.  (Applause.)  We
can do it.  We can do it.   
  
And — and really excited to be here with all of you guys.  
  
First and foremost, I think it’s super amazing that you’ve — this summer
alone, you’ve embarked on a tour to meet with America’s young leaders,
17 different states.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  You’ve been to Colorado talking to the youth about
climate crisis.  You were in Virginia talking about advocates for gun
violence.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  And now you’re here on a college tour.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yep.  Right?  How amazing for — (applause) — yep —
Reading Area Community College.  And you’ve been serving a lot of
Hispanic, Latino college campuses.  Why embark on this tour?  And why
Reading?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, I — I know what you are doing
here in Reading.  These are extraordinary students.  And you all — I —
I’m here because I’m counting on your leadership to help direct our
country based on a vision that is about understanding everyone should be
free to live their best life and that we will fight for those freedoms
each and every day.  (Applause.)  
  
And so, yeah, I — I started this college tour because I — I’m meeting,
in these various visits I do, so many extraordinary young leaders.  And
I just want to remind you, the young leaders here at RACC: We’re — we
really are counting on you.   
  
And when I think about who you are, I know about your brilliance, I know
your ambition, I know your aspiration, and I also know you all have so
much at stake in terms of the future of our country.  
  
And what I love about the fact that you are here is you have already
decided, by the very fact that you are a student here, that you are
going to lead, that you are going to be a role model, that you’re going
to be committed to what we can do as a society to make sure everyone’s
voice is heard and that everyone matters.   
  
So, that’s why I’m here.  That’s why I’m here.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  That’s beautiful, and it’s — I mean, it’s really
important.  You know, in 2020, we had a record voter turnout.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.   
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  And in ‘22 — 2022, we had a near-youth-record voter
turnout.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes, yes.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yes.  So, that’s all y’all.   
  
So, I’m assuming we have some people who voted for the first time here
in 2020 and probably for the first time in 2022.  And now we have people
who are going to vote for the first time in our 2024 election, which is
really exciting.   
  
Why is it so important that we use our voice?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  And how do we garner information to do so?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, to your point, Annie, can I see a show of hands
of who voted for the first time in 2020 or in 2022?  That’s fantastic. 
That’s fantastic.  (Applause.)  
  
And — and, by the way, today is National Voter Registration Day.  So,
for everyone who is not yet registered, please use the celebration of
today as a way to get registered.   
  
And I also want to give a shoutout to the governor, because today they
have announced that if — when you renew or when you apply for your
driver’s license or state ID, you’re automatically registered to vote. 
(Applause.)  So, let’s make sure — right? — that we let everybody
know.   
  
And — and to your point — so, here’s the thing.  First of all, when I
think about what happened in 2020, there w- — it always is that people
will say about younger people, “Ah, they’re not going to vote.  Oh, your
vote won’t matter.”  But we had record turnout in 2020 of young voters,
because they understood, just like these leaders understand, that of the
many ways you can make a difference in our country, one of the tools
that you have is voting to make a difference.  
  
So, when people turned out in 2020 — even though there were the
doubters; I would say some of the haters.  Let’s keep it real. 
(Laughter.)  Record turnout, and it’s because you voted that Joe Biden
is president of the United States and I am vice president of the United
States.  It’s because you voted.  (Applause.)  Right?  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yeah, yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because young people — and, in particular, young
voters — said, “We are going to direct and decide what is the direction
of our country,” we — we had a whole initiative that’s about forgiveness
of student loans.  Now, the Court just recently went against us on that,
but we’re not going to stop fighting for that.  (Applause.)   
  
Because young people said, “We’re not leaving it to other people to
decide how we’re dealing with the climate crisis” —  you know, I’ve
heard young leaders talk with me about a term they’ve coined called
“climate anxiety.”   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Period.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?  Which is fear of — of the future and the
unknown of whether it makes sense for you to even think about having
children, whether it makes sense for you to think about aspiring to buy
a home —  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — because what will this climate be?   
  
But because people voted, we have been able to put in place over a
trillion dollars in investment in our country around things like climate
resilience and adaptation, around focusing on issues like environmental
justice and — (applause) — and understanding that despite what these
extremist, so-called leaders are trying to do when they’re trying to get
rid of DEI — diversity, equity and inclusion — we know that we’re going
to stay committed to issues like equity.   
  
Because here’s the thing: Yeah, we want everyone to have an equal
amount, but not everyone starts out on the same base.  And so, if you
give everyone an equal amount but you don’t start out on the same base,
you’re still going to end up with people being treated differently.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yep.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Equity says, “Let’s take that into account.”   
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yep.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And young voters and young leaders are then in a
position and have been to fight against these extremists who have tried
to say things like DEI are bad because they don’t want to have a
conversation about equity and inclusion and have a conversation that’s
about saying, “Well, as a leader, can you pay attention to who’s not in
the room and then figure out a way to invite them in —  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and leave the door open?”  (Applause.)  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  I mean, in low-income areas, Latinos make up about
15 percent of the voting population, and we only showed up to about 10
percent of the polls.  One in every four youth Lat- — are now Latino.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  And there’s so much of a divide there of what you’re
saying.  Like, how do we encourage our youth to come show up to the
polls and get excited about it?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, one is that we have to really remind each
other.  And all — to all the young leaders here: There is no better way
to lead than to do it as a peer — meaning we can talk with young people
about what they need to do, but when you’re talking to your peers about
how you know it makes a difference, your leadership is so powerful.   
  
And so, talking with our peers and family members about the fact that
when you vote, it actually determines whether the person who is holding
elected office is going to fight for your freedoms and rights or not. 
Whether that be the freedom that you should have to just be free from
attack, free from hate, free from gun violence, free from bias, free to
love who you love and be open about it, free to have access to the
ballot box without people obstructing your ability to exercise your
civic right to vote, in terms of who will be the people holding elected
office and leading your country.  (Applause.) 

All of these things are at stake.  And that’s why I call it the “Fight
for Our Freedoms Tour,” because it really is all that.  
  
You know, we talk about fighting for democracy.  Well, at the root of it
all, there is so much about a democracy that is about upholding and
protecting people’s freedoms.  Right?   
  
And I think about the generation of the young leaders here — you all
have only known the climate crisis, your whole life.  You all — you’re —
in your lifetime, witnessed the highest court in our land take a
constitutional right that had been recognized from the people of America
— from the women of America.  You all — your generation will have
mothers and grandmothers that had more rights than you will have.   
  
Your generation has had to go through, from elementary school on, on the
first day of school — in addition to learning the name of your teacher
and where the bathroom is and where your cubby is — to learn how to
protect yourself from an active shooter.   
  
For the students here, please, a show of hands: How many of you at some
point from elementary school on, before you got here, had an active
shooter drill at school?   
  
And I’d ask the press to take a notice of this.  Because here’s the
thing: I think older adults don’t understand what you all have been
through and what that means in terms of the fear that you have had to
live with and, to some extent, the trauma that you have experienced.   
  
So, when I think about our young leaders, they have been through a lot. 
But they also — what I love about you is that you’re not waiting for
other people to figure it out.  You are leading on these issues. 
(Applause.)   
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yes.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I love that.   
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yep.  We got to.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  And — and so, I’m here just to say thank
you and to encourage you to keep doing it.  I’m here to say, you know, I
have an ex- — several expressions, but one of them is, “I eat ‘no’ for
breakfast.”  (Laughter.)  Somebody tells me, “No, it can’t be done. 
Nope, nobody like you has done this before.”  I don’t hear that.  And
nor should you ever hear that.   
  
It can be done.  These things can be fixed.  They can be addressed.  If
there was a will and the courage and the determination with a sense of
urgency —  
  
MS. GONZALEZ: And knowledge.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and knowledge.  Yeah, that’s right.   
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  I love that.  I love that “no” is not in the vocabulary. 
I heard from someone very wise, Ms. Eva Longoria, “There is no such
thing as ‘no.’  I’m either asking the wrong person or the wrong
question.”  (Applause.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  That’s exactly right.  (Applause.)

MS. GONZALEZ:  So, to that point of this being our democracy — right? —
like, this — it wasn’t until I went to the White House for the first
time this year that I learned it was called the People’s House.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  And even just that shift in language for my brain was
like, “Oh, wait, this is my d- — like, this is why voting is so
important.  Yes, I want to take it back.”   
  
But now we have — our voting rights are under siege.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ: You know, and it’s — that has — it can be disheartening. 
Can you speak to that and give us some hope on how we can figure out how
to bring it back into our hands and what we can do?   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, one of the things that happens when you
exercise your power, especially if you are someone who has not
traditionally been in power, it will scare some people.   
  
So, record turnout of young voters in 2020 — that scared some people. 
And almost immediately thereafter, you started seeing laws being
proposed or passed to, in my opinion, intentionally make it more
difficult to vote.  In states like Georgia, passing a law that makes it
illegal to give people food and water when they’re standing in line to
vote.  What happened to “love thy neighbor”?  The hypocrisy abounds.  
  
Laws are being passed making it more difficult for students to vote,
making it — saying that student IDs aren’t enough.   
  
So, the — part of the point here is that we have to understand that
there are going to be, when you exercise your power, those — including
just systems — that will create obstacles to your leadership.   
  
And that’s when I say, again, don’t hear “no,” and understand there’s
always a way to jump over or run around an obstacle.  But don’t let
anything get in the path or in the way of your leadership.  But these —
there are efforts underway to do just that.   
  
But then you have, by contrast, what has just happened and was announced
today by Governor Shapiro, where you can automatically register when you
apply for a driver’s license or renew your driver’s license or get a
state ID.  So, see also the examples of how things are supposed to be. 
See also and know also that it doesn’t have to be this way.   
  
And that’s another part of it, which is learning to not accept what some
people will suggest, which is that, “Well, it’s always been that way;
that’s the way it should be.”  Come on.   
  
And so, I mean, the — the reality is that that’s actually very
narrow-minded to think that.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Talk about it.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  To be — to — to think that we should just be
content with status quo, with — with the way things are.   
  
The point about progress is to have the ability to have a vision and a
belief and some faith in what can be, unburdened by what has been, and
then going for it.  (Applause.)  And I will say — right? —  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  Yeah.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — that the greatest movements in our country — you
know, my parents were students when they were active in the Civil Rights
Movement back in the day.  The greatest movements in our country that
has been about the empowerment of people, the fight for equality, for
freedom, the expansion of rights — those movements have almost always
been led by students.   
  
And so, again, I’m here to encourage you to do what you already have
decided to do.  (Applause.)  
  
 MS. GONZALEZ:  I love that.  I love that.  Wow.  I love how you talk
about the obstacle is the way.  It’s going to happen regardless.  We got
to keep fighting.   
  
And she is so right.  Y’all students, this is — this is in your hands. 
Y’all are brilliant.  You have this.   
  
Thank you so much, Madam Vice President, for answering my questions. 
(Laughs.)  Now we have some questions from our students here.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good.  Good.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  So, let’s turn it over.  Let me stop taking y’all’s
time.  So can I have our first student, please, Nangelie?    
  
Yes, go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  Hello, everyone.  My name is Nangelie Zapata.  I’m a
second-year student at RACC.  I’m a proud Hispanic, and I live here in
Reading.   
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Woo!  (Applause.)  
  
Q    My question for you, Madam Vice President, is: Climate change
disproportionately affects low-income communities such as those in
Reading.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    How can the federal government ensure that environmental policies
address this imbalance?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, first of all, thank you for your question and
your leadership.  
  
Let’s start with what you and everyone here knows: The climate crisis is
a threat to us as a species and this planet that God gave us to live
on.  And we need to take this issue seriously and understand that the
clock is not just ticking, it is banging.  And on this issue, there are
things we as human beings can do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to
help communities deal with extreme climate experiences so that they are
not that facing peril.   
  
And when you bring up, in particular, communities of color, low-income
communities, immigrant communities, you will not be surprised — many
people here — to know that you see some of the, for example, worst air
quality districts in our country are in those communities.  You will not
be surprised to know that those communities are the ones that are
dealing with the fact that lead pipes are still delivering toxic water
to the babies of those communities, which is resulting in health issues
and learning im- — an impact on learning ability.   
  
So, what we have been doing as an administration — and President Biden
is very — he — he will talk about this with everyone in our
administration all the time.  Ours is an administration that is always
focused on equity: are all people having the same experience and, if
not, in particular, what they are entitled to, such as the right to
clean water, the cliat- — right to clean air.  Then, let’s address
that.   
  
So, “environmental justice” is a phrase that we use to talk about that
we want to make sure that there is equality and justice for all
people.  
  
Lead pipes.  The grandparents in communities that have had those lead
pipes have been for years saying, “Look, we may not have a medical
degree, but we know what this is doing to our babies.”  And part of the
problem with the — the approach was that, well, lead pipes were in many
communities, but if you had money, if you were — had high rates of
homeownership, you could just take some of the equity out of your home
and replace the pipes.  Well, what about low-income communities?  What
about communities of renters?  Who is going to do that?  
  
Our perspective as an administration — again, guided by equity — is it’s
a public health issue.  When the babies of our community are suffering
and becoming sick, having learning disabilities because of that toxic
water, it is our responsibility to address it as a public health matter
and that we will take care of it and pay for it as a government.  And
that’s what we decided to do.   
  
And so, we are now on track to remove every lead pipe in America because
of that kind of approach.  (Applause.)  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Amazing.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We are focusing — if, for example, you think about
the South, there’s a whole strip that is called “Cancer Alley.”   
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Oh, my God.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.   
  
Where the communities have been the subject of dumping, where there’s
poor sewage infrastructure, right?  All of these things that result in
health impacts.  So, we have been focusing on that in terms of targeted
resources for those communities.  
  
And then, what we are doing in terms of adaptation and resilience.  So,
that means how are we putting resources into helping communities, in
particular low-income communities, adapt when we have these extreme
weather occurrences, knowing that they may not necessarily — the people
who live in those homes — have the equity or have high rates of
homeownership to do it themselves.  But, again, this is in the interest
of public health and well-being.   
  
So, that’s the approach that we are taking, and I see it making a
difference.   
  
But I would urge the students who are here and haven’t figured out yet
what your major is to think about how you will think about your role of
leadership and career in a way that is about a growing economy that we
are starting and helping with, which is a clean energy economy —
thinking about, for example, a commitment to solar panels and wind
turbines and electric vehicles and smart technology.   
  
We have — we have passed rules that basically now allow for rebates for
people when — if they own their home to get a new HVAC system.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yes.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?  Because that’s going to be about cleaner
air.   
  
By the way, the people on the other side who did not vote for the
Inflation Reduction Act — not one Republican voted for it; this should
not be a partisan issue — there are many people who are trying to
actually roll back the rebates that we are getting for homeowners so
that they can afford to be able to fix their home up so that they will
have cleaner air.   
  
It’s a shame that it’s a partisan issue for some people, but we’re going
to keep pushing forward with equity being our focus.  (Applause.)  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Very nice.  Thank you.  
  
I believe we have another brilliant student in the audience.  Jonathan. 
Jonathan, can you stand up?  Oh, hi.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you, thank you.  Hi, Madam Vice President.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, Jonathan.   
  
Q    I’m a second-year student here at RACC .  My name is Jonathan
Alexander (inaudible) Pensado.  My question to you is: I am a proud
Mexican American, and hearing the recent news that Mexico has removed
federal penalties surrounding abortion has been a monumental step
forward for human rights.  These situations are already so complicated
and should ideally only involve their primary parties and their doctor,
which is something I’ve seen you’re in agreement with.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. PENSADO:  Do you feel a decision like that could happen here in the
U.S.?  And what would that mean for women here in this country?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s a great question, Jonathan.  That’s
great.   
  
So, one of the things that we saw that led up to that decision in Mexico
was students and people took to the streets — activism.  Activism
matters.  It makes a difference.   
  
You know, sometimes we talk about it as — there’s a phrase that is — we
refer to it as the “inside-outside game.”  It shouldn’t be called a
game, but that’s how some people talk about it.  And basically, it means
that sometimes leaders and people who are inside the system — it
requires the activism from outside the system to push them in the right
direction and give them some — some courage or just give them the
support they need when they want to change the system but they’re up
against a system that feels immovable.  
  
So, one of the things we saw about what happened in Mexico was there was
a great deal of activism and the people took to the streets.  There was
a whole — and we’ve actually seen it in Central and Latin America — the
whole movement in that direction on this issue of — of access to
abortion.   
  
So, on that subject, I think it’s very important to agree — I think most
people do: One does not have to abandon their faith or deeply held
beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her what to do
with her body.  (Applause.)    
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yes.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, if she chooses, she will talk with her priest
or pastor or her rabbi, but the government should not be telling her
what to do.   
  
The other point I will make is this — and again, this is real talk and
everyone here is — is grown.  You know, after the — it was in the
Supreme Court, the Dobbs decision came down, they took this
constitutional right from the people of America.  And these extremists
in these states — many of them started proposing or passing laws that
would criminalize healthcare providers.   
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yes.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Some providing for, like, serious prison time for a
doctor or a nurse or a medical health professional who is doing their
job.   
  
We have seen laws being proposed and passed that make no exception for
rape or incest.  And now, I’m going to get into the detail of that.  And
I know it’s difficult to hear and certainly to talk about, but it’s
important.  Because I will say to the students here, when we come — when
it comes to public policy, we always have to ask: How does this affect a
real person?  Not just, “Oh, intellectually, I think that the debate is
this, this, and that.   
  
On this issue, where laws are being passed that make no exception for
rape or incest, I — you know, many of you know my background was as a
prosecutor.  And part of the reason I became a prosecutor was my best
friend in high school was being molested by her stepfather.  And when I
learned about it, I said to her, “You have to come and live with us.”  I
called my mother; my mother said, “Yes, she has to come live with us.” 
And she did.   
  
The idea that someone who calls themselves a leader would say to a
survivor of an act of violence, a violation to their body — and say to
that person, that survivor “and you don’t have the authority or right to
make the decision about what happens to your body next” is immoral. 
It’s immoral.   
  
And this is what’s happening in our country.  Like I said earlier, the
fact that you, the students who are here, will know fewer rights than
your mother or your grandmother.   
  
And again, this is the reason to really take seriously elections,
because th- — what the Supreme Court took away, the United States
Congress can put back in place, in terms of those protections, under a
case called Roe v. Wade.  (Applause.)  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yes.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and Joe Biden has been very clear: He will
sign that bill to put back in place those protections.  Right? 
(Applause.)  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yes.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So —  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  We got to show up.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You got to show up.   
  
And — and, again, remembering that — you know, I’m — I know that young
leaders are sick of hearing “people fought and died for your right to
vote.”  I know sometimes I can get, like, you know, “I know.  I know the
history.”  But they did fight and die for your right to vote, one.  Two,
your vote really does make a difference —  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — in real things that are happening in real time in
your real lives.  And this is one of the front-and-center issues in this
election cycle.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I’m glad you raised this issue, Jonathan. 
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  And just to add to that and remind to y’all as
well, I know the hand — right? — the faith of our nation and the
restoration rests in the hands of the youth.  You guys are in school. 
There are a lot of people in your circumference that do not have access
to a college education —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  — that need the information that you have — just to share
it.  I myself didn’t go to college, and I think that’s why it’s so
important that I’m right here next to you asking these questions —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  — because then we have more reach that way.  So —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  — just, you know, vote and also talk to your friends and
family about it.  Get them registered to vote as well so we can further
our nation in the right direction.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, and I can’t be here without mentioning a
website, so — (laughs).  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Go ahead and do.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Vote.gov.  (Applause.)  It’s — just go to that
website.  You can see if you’re registered.  Ask your family members to
go on.  See if they’re registered.  And then they — they can register in
most states.  And it’s really simple and quick.  Vote.gov.  
  
So I’d ask you guys to share that information with your — your circle of
friends and family and — and your circle of influence, which I know is
big.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yay.  I believe we have one more question from the
audience.  Can I have it — there they are.   
  
Q    Hi, my name is Jamie Szarawara.  I’m also a second-year student
here at RACC and a proud Colombian American.  My question to you is:
Does the Biden administration have plans to increase gun safety laws
while still protecting the Second Amendment right?  Thank you.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes, absolutely.  And, again, this is one of the
issues.  So, we — we saw the show of hands — and — and to those who are
here who did not have to have those active shooter drills: It’s a big
deal.  It’s a very big deal.   
  
I have talked to students, in particular middle-school students in that
age range, who, when we were talking about this, have said to me, for
example, “Yeah, I don’t like to go to fifth period.”  And I said, “Why,
sweetheart?”  “Because in fifth period, there is no closet to hide.”   
  
The children of our country are sitting in classrooms where their brain
should be focused on all the wonders of the world.  And there is some
piece of their attention that is about whether there might be a shooter
busting through the door.  That’s the first point.   
  
Second point, I’m sure every- — you know, and everyone here knows — do
you know that gun violence is now the number one cause of death of
children in America?  Not a health disease — not that that would be any
better — but gun violence is the number one cause of death for children
in America.   
  
One in five Americans has a family member that was killed by gun
violence.   
  
And to the point of the brilliant way you asked this question: It’s a
false choice to suggest you’re either in favor of the Second Amendment
or you want to take everyone’s guns.  I’m in favor of the Second
Amendment.  And I also believe we need an assault weapons ban, we need
background checks, we need red flag laws.  (Applause.)  That’s just
reasonable.  It’s just reasonable.  
  
You just might want to know before someone can buy a lethal weapon if
they’ve been found by a court to be a danger to themselves or others. 
You might just want to know.  It’s reasonable.   
  
But there are, you know, again, these extremists — and some of them are
just — just basically feckless — who don’t have the courage to stand up
and say, “I know the difference, and I believe we should have reasonable
gun safety laws.”   
  
And so, again, elections matter.  Elections matter, because there was a
time when we did have an assault weapons ban in America.  It expired. 
But just know in terms of when I say to you it doesn’t have to be this
way, please always keep that in mind.  It doesn’t have to be this
way.   
  
You have a right to have your best life.  You have a right to that.  And
so, it’s a matter of having the people in Congress who do this, because
it — it’s — actually, some of the things we need to do don’t require
that much creativity.  They’re pretty basic, you know?   
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But we need people who have the courage.  And
again, that’s why elections matter.   
  
I am so certain that when the students who are here — when you all in
your generation starts voting in your numbers, so many of these things
are going to change.  I’m certain of that.  (Applause.)  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Yes, elections matter.  Elections
matter.  Your vote matters.  The only wrong way to vote is to not vote. 
Activism can start with talking to your neighbor about voting.  It does
not have to be trying to solve climate crisis or gun violence right
now.  You start small, and it makes a ripple effect.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Thank you so much, Madam Vice President Kamala Harris. 
We have so much that we tackled today.  And I know some of it can feel
daunting.  But to me, I’m inspired because it means we have something to
work for and work towards.   
  
Can you leave us with some words, some uplift- — I mean, you already
have.  Listen, you’ve — you’ve done a lot.  But can you give us some
more zhuzh to end on such a brilliant note for today and to remind our
beautiful students here to go register to vote.  There’s voter
registration outside.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Leave us with some words to give us some hope to keep
fighting the good fight.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Annie.  First of all, so great to be on
stage with you.  And thank you for your — using your voice in so many
ways that’s about uplifting others.   
  
And, I guess, on that point, I will say this about leadership.  So, I
think there’s this almost perverse thing that’s happening in our country
recently, which is to suggest that the measure of leadership is based on
who you beat down, when in fact the true measure of leadership is based
on who you lift up.  (Applause.)   
  
And that’s important to remember.  It is important to remember that it
is a sign of strength, not weakness, to have some level of curiosity,
concern, and care for the suffering of other people.  That’s a sign of
strength.   
  
And so, let’s renew, always, our commitment to what we want for
ourselves, each other, and our country and our world.   
  
And again, that’s why I have so much optimism when I think about the
future, because I know that these young leaders, they get it, and
they’re not falling for that stuff.  And so, I’ll say that.  
  
I’ll say also, for so many of you and I — I have a sense of who this
student body is.  I’m going to just give you a little piece of
advice.   
  
In your life and in your career, you’re going to often walk in a room
where you’re the only one like you — the only one who looks like you or
the only one who has had your life experience.  And what I want for you
is that when you walk in those rooms, you walk in those rooms chin up,
shoulders back, knowing that we are all in that room with you and that
your voice is the voice of all the people you carry into that room.  And
you make sure your voice is heard.   
  
It is so important.  Because, again, the challenge that we have at this
moment is that there are active attempts to suppress people’s votes, to
make people feel small, to make people feel alone.  And one of the best
ways that we can grow and be strong as a country is to remember the vast
majority of us have so much more in common than what separates us.  Our
diversity is our strength.  Our unity is our power.   
  
And so, let’s continue to work together as a community of people that do
care about each other and love our country and are prepared to fight for
all that is good and to fight for our freedoms.  (Applause.)  
  
MS. GONZALEZ:  Yes.  Thank you.  Thank you so much.  Thank you, guys,
here in Reading.  (Applause.)  
  
                          END                 1:24 P.M. EDT
