---
date: '2023-09-19'
modified_time: 2023-09-19 13:04:37-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-19 18:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/19/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-nec-director-lael-brainard-at-the-msci-sustainability-institute-launch-during-climate-week-nyc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by NEC Director Lael Brainard at the MSCI\
  \ Sustainability Institute Launch During Climate Week\_NYC"
---
 
Thank you to Linda and the MSCI team for inviting me to join you during
Climate Week, and congratulations on the launch of the MSCI
Sustainability Institute.

We must meet the generational challenge of building a clean energy
economy and reaching net zero emissions. President Biden has taken
decisive action to put the United States on track to cut our emissions
in half by 2030 and reach net zero by 2050. Accelerating this economic
transformation will require investment across a range of sectors and all
along the supply chain. It will require greater capacity to take risks
on critical first-of-a-kind green technologies, policies that support
revenue generation for new business models, and capital to reach the
necessary commercial scale.

The President’s climate strategy relies on a set of robust demand and
supply-side incentives to drive mutually reinforcing investment at all
stages of the value chain. This is the boldest climate action in history
to mobilize the once-in-a-generation collective action we need.

Technological innovation will be key to success. In every period of
fundamental economic transformation, technology breakthroughs have
played a pivotal role—from steam engines during the industrial
revolution to the internet during the information technology boom. And
the clean energy economy will be no exception. According to the
International Energy Agency, roughly half of the emissions reductions
we’re counting on globally to reach net zero will come from technologies
that are not commercially available today.\[1\]

While other countries that must play a key role in the clean energy
economy have relied on a state-driven approach, President Biden’s
policies are designed to be flexible as climate science and technologies
evolve and to allow public incentives to be a force multiplier for
private capital that will drive the green economy. Our approach is
government-enabled and private-sector-led. It is the core strength of
the dynamic US economy—catalyzing innovation in industries of the
future.

Taken together, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science
Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) have the potential to
catalyze a dramatic transformation of our economy toward the sectors,
technologies, and places where investment will be most productive and is
most urgent. Our approach seeds support from the earliest stages of R&D
all the way to commercial-scale manufacturing of clean
technologies—creating hundreds of thousands of good jobs in the process.
These investments will also help bring down the costs of key green
technologies, benefiting not only American workers, businesses, and
families, but also consumers and businesses around the world.

We are already seeing important progress on this front—from battery
breakthroughs to advances in direct air capture technology. These
achievements are in part the result of the U.S.’s unparalleled
innovation ecosystem, which includes many of you in this room. Already,
companies and capital markets are responding to these incentives. In the
last year, the U.S. has seen $213 billion in new clean investments from
clean manufacturing to household investments in green technologies like
heat pumps and EVs.\[2\]

Let me outline briefly how the individual pieces of the President’s
agenda work together to provide incentives for the private sector
investments and innovation we need to achieve our climate goals. It
starts with supporting basic research, including $2 billion of Inflation
Reduction Act (IRA) funding for the Department of Energy’s Office of
Science and our national labs to modernize our research facilities and
keep them on the cutting edge of climate science.\[3\]

For startups working to commercialize these discoveries, the IRA
includes a number of tax credits that will crowd in early-stage
investment in the green economy—from advanced manufacturing of clean
technologies like batteries to clean hydrogen and clean fuels that will
help to decarbonize heavy industry and jet travel. It includes revamped
credits for clean electricity investment and production, which are
technology neutral to support new forms of energy generation.

Critically, all of the credits I just mentioned are eligible for new
transferability rules that allow pre-revenue companies to turn them into
cash flow today, benefiting the youngest startups building the future of
the green economy. That’s why, according to outside estimates, funding
for the earliest stage climate startups rose 23 percent in the first
half of this year compared to a year prior, even as overall early-stage
funding fell.\[4\]

As companies move from R&D to scale-up, the Biden Administration has put
in place programs to accelerate their growth. This includes initiatives
like the $350 billion in new or additional loan authority for the
Department of Energy’s Loan Programs Office to help companies build
manufacturing facilities and critical energy infrastructure here in
America, including repurposing and reusing legacy fossil fuel
infrastructure to meet our clean energy needs.\[5\] Scale-up capital
like this is mutually reinforcing with our support for early stage
companies, giving climate investors the confidence to take smart risks
because they know that if they succeed in innovating, there will be
resources to support their growth.

The President’s comprehensive approach to fostering green innovation is
already working. The LPO has completed a number of new investments,
including a clean hydrogen facility in Utah,\[6\] deepening American
technological leadership and creating jobs.

With well-designed incentives, these innovations will be a force for job
creation and economic dynamism. That is why President Biden often says
that when he hears “climate” he thinks “jobs.” According to outside
analysis, the IRA has already led to the creation of over 170,000
good-paying and union jobs in the U.S. and is projected to add 1.5
million more over the next decade.\[7\]

The President’s strategy also includes place-based incentives that
prioritize communities that have too often been left behind during prior
economic transitions—from low-income areas to the energy communities
that powered our growth during the 20<sup>th</sup> century. According to
the Treasury Department, 65 percent of IRA-related investments to date
are in counties with above-average poverty rates, and 90 percent are in
counties with weekly wages below the national average.\[8\] For example,
in Wierton, West Virginia, a former coal and steel powerhouse that has
seen decades of decline, an advanced iron-air battery storage company is
building a new manufacturing facility in a former steel mill, spurred by
the IRA’s Advanced Manufacturing Production tax credit.

We know the innovation we need will require private sector action to
deploy capital and expertise and to position the United States at the
forefront of the industries of the future. With the power of American
innovation, capital, hard work, and forward thinking, we can reach net
zero and meet our climate goals. Thank you.

\###

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[1\]
<https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/a86b480e-2b03-4e25-bae1-da1395e0b620/EnergyTechnologyPerspectives2023.pdf>

\[2\] <https://rhg.com/research/clean-investment-monitor/>

\[3\]
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/Inflation-Reduction-Act-Guidebook.pdf>

\[4\] <https://www.ctvc.co/climate-tech-h1-2023-venture-funding/>

\[5\] <https://www.energy.gov/lpo/inflation-reduction-act-2022>

\[6\] <https://www.energy.gov/lpo/advanced-clean-energy-storage>

\[7\]
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/17/what-they-are-saying-one-year-anniversary-of-the-inflation-reduction-act/>

\[8\]
<https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/the-inflation-reduction-act-and-us-business-investment>
