---
date: '2023-09-19'
published_time: 2023-09-19 15:54:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/19/remarks-by-president-biden-before-the-78th-session-of-the-united-nations-general-assembly-new-york-ny/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before the 78th Session of the United Nations\
  \ General Assembly | New York,\_NY"
---
 
United Nations Headquarters  
New York, New York

10:17 A.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, and my fellow
leaders, about a week ago I stood on the other side of the world in
Vietnam on soil once bloody with war.  
  
And I met a small group of veterans, Americans and Vietnamese, who wit-
— and I wa- — I watched an exchange of personal artifacts from that war
— identification cards and a diary.  It was deeply moving to see the
reaction of the Vietnamese and American soldiers.  
  
A culmination of 50 years of hard work on both sides to address the
painful legacies of war and to choose — to choose to work together
toward peace and a better future.  
  
Nothing about that journey was inevitable.  For decades, it would have
been unthinkable for an American president to stand in Hanoi alongside a
Vietnamese leader and announce a mutual commitment to the highest level
of countries partnership.  But it’s a powerful reminder that our history
need not dictate our future.  
  
With a concerted leadership and careful effort, adversaries can become
partners, overwhelming challenges can be resolved, and deep wounds can
heal.  
  
So let us never forget that.  When we choose to stand together and
recognize the common hopes that bind all humanity, we hold our hands the
power — in that power to bend that arc of history.  
  
My fellow leaders, we gather once more at an inflection point in world
history with the eyes of the world upon all of you — all of us.   
  
As president of the United States, I understand the duty my country has
to lead in this critical moment; to work with countries in every region
linking them in common cause; to join together with partners who share a
common vision of the future of the world, where our children do not go
hungry and everyone has access quality healthcare, where workers are
empowered and our environment is protected, where entrepreneurs and
innovators everywhere can access opportunity everywhere, where conflicts
are resolved peacefully and countries can chart their own course.  
  
The United States seeks a more secure, more prosperous, more equitable
world for all people because we know our future is bound to yours.  Let
me repeat that again: We know our future is bound to yours.  
  
And no nation can meet the challenges of today alone.  
  
The generations who precede us — preceded us organized this body, the
United Nations, and built international financial institutions and
multilateral and regional bodies to help take on the challenges of their
time.  
  
It isn’t always perfect — it wasn’t always perfect.  But working
together, the world made some remarkable and undeniable progress that
improved the lives of all people.   
  
We avoided the renewal of global conflict while lifting more than 1
billion people — 1 billion people — out of extreme poverty.  
  
We together expanded access to education for millions of children.  
  
We saved tens of millions of lives that would have otherwise have been
lost to preventable and treatable diseases like measles, malaria,
tuberculosis.  
  
HIV/AIDS infections and deaths plummeted in no small part  
because of PEPFAR’s work in more than 55 countries, saving more than 25
million lives.   
  
It’s a profound testament to what we can achieve when we act together
when we take on tough challenges and an admonition for us to urgently
accelerate our progress so that no one is left behind, because too many
people are being left behind.   
  
The institutions we built together at the end of the second world war
are an enduring bedrock of our progress, and the United States is
committed to sustaining them.   
  
And this year, we’re proud to rejoin UNESCO.  But we also recognize that
to meet the new challenges of our decades-old institutions and
approaches, they must be updated to keep <s>peace</s> \[pace\] with the
world.  
  
We have to bring in more leadership and capability that exists
everywhere, especially from regions that have not — have not always been
fully included.  We have to grapple with the challenges that are more
connected and more complex.  And we have to make sure we are delivering
for people everywhere, not just somewhere.   Everywhere.  
  
Simply put, the 21st century — 21st century results are badly needed —
are needed to move us along.  That starts with the United Nations —
starts right here in this room.  
  
In my address to this body last year, I announced the United States
would support expanding the Security Council, increasing the number of
permanent and non-permanent members.  
  
The United States has undertaken serious consultation with many member
states.  And we’ll continue to do our part to push ref- — more reform
efforts forward, look for points of common ground, and make progress in
the year ahead.   
  
We need to be able to break the gridlock that too often stymies progress
and blocks consensus on the Council.  We need more voices and more
perspectives at the table.  
  
The United Nations must continue to preserve peace, prevent conflict,
and alleviate human suffering.  And we embrace nations stepping up to
lead in new ways and to seek new breakthroughs on hard issues.  
  
For example, on Haiti, the Caribbean Community is facilitating a
dialogue among Haitian society.  
  
I think President Ruto of Kenya’s — I thank him for his willingness to
serve as the lead nation of a U.N.-backed security support mission.  I
call on the Security Council to authorize this mission now.  The people
of Haiti cannot wait much longer.  
  
The United States is working across the board to make global
institutions more responsive, more effective, and more inclusive.  
  
For example, we’ve taken significant steps to reform and scale up the
World Bank, expanding its financing to low- and middle-income countries
so it can help boost progress toward meeting the Sustainable Development
Goals and better address interconnected challenges like climate change
and fragility.  
  
Under the new president of the World Bank, change is already taking
root.   
  
Last month, I asked the United States Congress for additional funds to
expand World Bank financing by $25 billion.  And at the G20, we rallied
the major economies of the world to mobilize even more funding. 
Collectively, we can deliver a transformational boost to World Bank
lending.   
  
And because the multilateral development banks are among the best tools
we have for modern- — mobilizing transparent, high-quality investment in
developing countries, reforming these institutions can be a
game-changer.  
  
Similarly, we’ve proposed making sure developing countries have a strong
voice and representation at the International Monetary Fund.  
  
We’re going to continue our efforts to reform the World Trade
Organization and preserve competition, openness, transparency, and the
rule of law while, at the same time, equipping it to better tackle
modern-day imperatives, like driving the clean-energy transition,
protecting workers, promoting inclusive and sustainable growth.  
  
And this month, we strengthened the G20 as a vital forum, welcoming the
African Union as a permanent member.  
  
But upgrading and strengthening our institutions, that’s only half of
the picture.  We must also forge new partnerships, confront new
challenges.  
  
Emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence, hold both
enormous potential and enormous peril.  We need to be sure they are used
as tools of opportunity, not as weapons of oppression.  
  
Together with leaders around the world, the United States is working to
strengthen rules and policies so AI technologies are safe before they
are released to the public; to make sure we govern this technology — not
the other way around, having it govern us.  
  
And I’m committed to working through this institution and other
international bodies and directly with leaders around the world,
including our competitors, to ensure we harness the power of A- —
artificial intelligence for good, while protecting our citizens from its
most profound risk.  
  
It’s going to take all of us.  I’ve been working at this for a while, as
many of you have.  It’s going to take all of us to get this right.  
  
In every region of the world, the United States is mobilizing strong
alliances, versatile partnerships, common purpose, collective action to
bring new approaches to our shared challenges.  
  
Here in the Western Hemisphere, we united 21 nations in support of the
Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection, launching a
region-wide approach to a region-wide challenge to better uphold laws
and protect — protect the rights of migrants.  
  
In the Indo-Pacific, we’ve elevated our Quad partnership with India,
Japan, and Australia to deliver concrete progress for the people of the
region on everything from vaccines to maritime security.  
  
Just yesterday, after two \[years of\] consultations and diplomacy, the
United States brought together dozens of nations across four continents
to establish a new Partnership for Atlantic Cooperation so that the
coastal Atlantic countries can better cooperate on science, technology,
environmental protection, and sustainable economic development.  
  
We’ve brought together nearly 100 countries in a global coalition to
counter fentanyl and synthetic drugs to reduce the human cost of this
affliction.  And it is real.  
  
And as the nature of the terrorist threats evolve and the geography
expands to new places, we’re working with our partners to bring
capabilities to bear to disrupt plotting, degrade networks, and protect
all of our people.  
  
Additionally, we convened the Summit for Democracy to strengthen
democratic institutions, root out corruption, and reject political
violence.  
  
And in this moment where democratically-elected governments have been
toppled in quick succession in West and Central Africa, we’re reminded
that this work is as urgent and important as ever.  
  
We stand with the Ac- — with the African Union and ECOWAS and other
regional bodies to support constitutional rule.  We will not retreat
from the values that make us strong.  We will defend democracy — our
best tool to meet the challenges we face around the world.  And we’re
working to show how democracy can deliver in ways that matter to
people’s lives.  
  
The Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment addresses the
enormous need and opportunity for infrastructure investment in low- and
middle-income countries, particularly in Africa, Latin America, and
Southeast Asia.  
  
Through strategic, targeted public investments, we can unlock enormous
amounts of private-sector financing.  
  
The G7 has pledged to work with parties to collectively mobilize $600
billion in infrastructure financing by 2027.  The United States has
already mobilized more than $30 billion to date.  
  
We’re creating a race to top with projects that have high standards for
workers, the environment, and intellectual property, while avoiding the
trap of unsustainable debt.  
  
We’re focusing on economic corridors that will max- — maximize the
impact of our collective investment and deliver consequential results
across multiple countries and multiple sectors.  
  
For example, the Lobito Corridor will extend across Africa from the
western port of Angola to the DRC to Zambia, boosting regional
connectivity and strengthening commerce and food security in Africa.  
  
Similarly, the groundbreaking effort we announced at the G20 connect
India — to connect India to Europe through the UAE, Saudi Arabia,
Jordan, and Israel will spur opportunities and investment across two
continents.  
  
This is part of our effort to build a more sustainable, integrated
Middle East.  It demonstrates how Israel’s greater normalization and
economic connection with its neighbors is delivering positive and
practical impacts even as we continue to work tirelessly to support a
just and lasting peace between Isr- — the Israelis and Palestinians —
two states for two people.  
  
Now, let me be clear: None of these partnerships are about containing
any country.  They are about a positive vision for our shared future.  
  
When it comes to China, I want to be clear and consistent.  We seek to
responsibly manage the competition between our countries so it does not
tip into conflict.  I’ve said, “We are for de-risking, not decoupling
with China.”  
  
We will push back on aggression and intimidation and defend the rules of
the road, from freedom of navigation to overflight to a level economic
playing field that have helped safeguard security and prosperity for
decades.  
  
But we also stand ready to work together with China on issues where
progress hinges on our common efforts.   
  
Nowhere is that more critical than accelerating the climate crisis —
than the accelerating climate crisis.  We see it everywhere:
record-breaking heatwaves in the United States and China; wildfires
ravaging North America and Southern Europe; a fifth year of drought in
the Horn of Africa; tragic, tragic flooding in Libya — my heart goes out
to the people of Libya — that has killed thousands — thousands of
people.  
  
Together, these snapshots tell an urgent story of what awaits us if we
fail to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and begin to climate-proof
the world.  
  
<s>For one day — for one day</s> \[from day one\], my administration,
the United States, has treated this crisis as an existential threat from
the moment we took office not only for us but for all of humanity.  
  
Last year, I signed into law in the United States the largest investment
ever, anywhere in the history of the world to combat the climate crisis
and help move the global economy toward a clean energy future.  
  
We’re also working with the Congress to quadruple our climate financing
to help developing countries reach their climate goals and adapt to
climate impacts.  
  
And this year, the world is on track to meet the climate fund — the cli-
— the climate finance pledge that — made under the Paris Agreement: $100
billion to raise collectively.  But we need more investment from the
public and private sector alike, especially in places that have
contributed so little to global emissions but face some of the worst
effects of climate change, like the Pacific Islands.  
  
The United States is working directly with the Pacific Islands Forum to
help these nations adapt and build resilience to climate impacts, even
as we lead the effort to build innovative, new partnerships that attack
the global challenges from all sides.  
  
From the First Movers Coalition, which is mobilizing billions of
private-sector community — in the private-sector commitments to creating
a market demand for green products in carbon-intense sectors like
concrete, shipping, aviation, and trucking; to the Agriculture
Innovation Mission for Climate, which is bringing farmers into the
climate solution and making our food supply more resilient to climate
shocks; and the Global Methane Pledge, now endorsed by more than 150
countries, which expands our focus beyond our carbon emission targets to
reduce the potential greenhouse gases in our atmosphere by 30 percent in
this decade: It’s all within our capacity.  
  
We need to bring the same commitment and urgency and ambition as we work
together to meet the Sustainable Development Goals of 2030.  These goals
were adopted at the United Nations in 2015 as a roadmap for improving
lives around the world.  
  
But the hard truth is: For decades of progress, the world has lost
ground these past years in the wake of COVID-19, conflicts, and other
crises.   
  
The United States is committing to doing its part to get us back on
track.   
  
All told, in the first two years of my administration, the United States
has invested more than $100 billion to drive development progress in
bolstering food security, expanding access to education worldwide,
strengthening healthcare systems, and fighting disease.  And we’ve
helped mobilize billions more in the private-sector investments.  
  
But to accelerate our forward progress on the Sustainable Development
Goals, we all have to do more.  We need to build new partnerships that
change the way we tackle this challenge to unlock trillions of
additional financing for development, drawing on all sources.  We need
to fill the gaps and address the failures of our existing system exposed
by the pandemic.  
  
We need to ensure that women and girls benefit fully from our
progress.  
  
We must also do more to grapple with the debt that holds back so many
low- and middle-income countries.  When nations are forced to service
unsustainable debt payments over the needs of their own people, it makes
it harder for them to invest in their own futures.  
  
And as we work together to recover from global shocks, the United States
will also continue to be the largest single-community donor — country
donor of humanitarian assistance at this moment of unparalleled need in
the world.  
  
Folks, cooperation, partnership — these are the keys to progress on the
challenges that affect us all and the baseline for responsible global
leadership.  
  
We don’t — we don’t need to agree on everything to keep moving forward
on issues like arms control — a cornerstone of international security.  
  
After more than 50 years of progress under the Non-Proliferation Treaty,
Russia is shredding longstanding arms control agreements, including
announcing the suspension of New START and withdrawing from the
Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty.  
  
I view it as irresponsible, and it makes the entire world less safe.  
  
The United States is going to continue to pursue good-faith efforts to
reduce the threat of weapons of mass destruction and lead by example, no
matter what else is happening in the world.  
  
This year, we’ve safely destroyed at least — the last chemical munitions
in the U.S. stockpile, fulfilling our commitment toward a world free of
chemical weapons.  
  
And we condemn the DPRK’s continued violations of U.N. Security Council
Resolutions, but we are committed to diplomacy that would bring about
the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.  
  
And we’re working with our partners to address Iran’s destabilizing
activities that threaten regional and global security and remain
steadfast in our commitment that Iran must never acquire a nuclear
weapon.  
  
Now, even as we evolve our institutions and drive creative new
partnerships, let me be clear:    Certain principles of our
international system are sanc- — sacrosanct.  
  
Sovereignty, territorial integrity, human rights — these are the core
tenets of the U.N. Charter, the pillars of peaceful relations among
nations, without which we cannot achieve any of our goals.  
  
That has not changed, and that must not change.  
  
Yet, for the second year in a row, this gathering dedicated to peaceful
resolution of conflicts is darkened by the shadow of war — an illegal
war of conquest, brought without provocation by Russia against its
neighbor, Ukraine.  
  
Like every nation in the world, the United States wants this war to
end.  No nation wants this war to end more than Ukraine.  
  
And we strongly support Ukraine in its efforts to bring about a
diplomatic resolution that delivers just and lasting peace.  
  
But Russia alone — Russia alone bears responsibility for this war. 
Russia alone has the power to end this war immediately.  And it is
Russia alone that stands in the way of peace, because the — Russia’s
price for peace is Ukraine’s capitulation, Ukraine’s territory, and
Ukraine’s children.  
  
Russia believes that the world will grow weary and allow it to brutalize
Ukraine without consequence.   
  
But I ask you this: If we abandon the core principles of the <s>United
States</s> \[U.N. Charter\] to appease an aggressor, can any member
state in this body feel confident that they are protected?  If we allow
Ukraine to be carved up, is the independence of any nation secure?   
  
I’d respectfully suggest the answer is no.   
  
We have to stand up to this naked aggression today and deter other
would-be aggressors tomorrow.  
  
That’s why the United States, together with our allies and partners
around the world, will continue to stand with the brave people of
Ukraine as they defend their sovereignty and territorial integrity and
their freedom.  (Applause.)  
  
It’s not only an investment in Ukraine’s future, but in the future of
every country that seeks a world governed by basic rules that apply
equally to all nations and uphold the rights of every nation, no matter
how big or how small: sovereignty, territorial integrity.  They are the
fixed foundations of this noble body, and universal human rights is its
North Star.  We cannot sacrifice either.  
  
Seventy-five years ago, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
captured a remarkable act of collective hope — and I say that again —
collective hope — drafted by a committee representing different regions,
faiths, philosophies, and adopted by the entire General Assembly.  The
rights contained in the declaration are elemental and enduring.  
  
And while we still struggle to uphold equal and inalienable rights of
all, they remain ever steady and ever true.  
  
We cannot turn away from abuses, whether in Xinjiang, Tehran, Darfur, or
anywhere else.  
  
We have to continue working to ensure that women and girls enjoy equal
rights and equal participation in their societies.  That Indigenous
groups; racial, ethnic, religious minorities; people with disabilities
do not have their potential stifled by systemic discrimination.  That
the LGBTQI+ people are not prosecuted or targeted with violence because
of who they are.  
  
These rights are part of our shared humanity.  When they’re absent —
when they are absent anywhere, their loss is felt everywhere.  They are
essential to the advancement of human progress that brings us
together.  
  
My fellow leaders, let me close with this.  At this inflection point in
history, we’re going to be judged by whether or not we live up to the
promises we have made to ourselves, to each other, to the most
vulnerable, and to all those who will inherit the world we create,
because that’s what we’re doing.  
  
Will we find within ourselves the courage to do what must be done to
preserve the planet, to protect human dignity, to provide opportunity
for people everywhere, and to defend the tenets of the United Nations?  
  
There can be only one answer to that question: We must, and we will.  
  
The road ahead is long and difficult, but if we preserve –persevere and
prevail, if we keep the faith in ourselves and show what’s possible.  
  
Let’s do this work together.  Let’s deliver progress for everyone. 
Let’s bend the arc of history for the good of the world because it’s
within our power to do it.  
  
Thank you for listening.  You’re kind.  (Applause.)   
  
10:44 A.M. EDT  
