---
date: '2023-09-06'
published_time: 2023-09-06 21:32:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/06/remarks-by-president-biden-on-a-new-contract-covering-americas-west-coast-ports/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on a New Contract Covering America\u2019s West\
  \ Coast\_Ports"
---
 
State Dining Room

2:21 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Hello, everybody.  Let me explain to the press: I’ve been
tested again today.  I’m clear across the board, but they keep telling
me, because this has to be 10 days or something, I got to keep wearing
it.  But don’t tell them I didn’t have it on when I walked in. 
(Laughter.)  All right?

Folks, good afternoon.  I’m really happy this day has arrived.  It’s a
big deal for — for management and for labor, as well as for the United
States of America.  And I really mean it. 

For the past 13 months, the International Longshoremen and Warehouse
Union, representing 22,000 workers in the West Coast ports, and the
Pacific Maritime Association, representing shipping companies that
depend on those ports and those workers — they’ve been negotiating a new
contract.

At long last, they have reached an agreement — because they stuck with
it — that has been ratified with overwhelming support by union members. 
I think over 70 percent, if I’m not mistaken. 

And I just met with the leaders of the ILWU, including President — and I
knew Willie for a long time — Willie Adams, who is the leader there.  I
was kidding him.  I said I want to know who his haberdasher is.  He
looks awful good, doesn’t he?  And I like that cut.

And the leaders of the Mari- — the Pacific Maritime Association and CEO
Jim McKenna.  Jim, thank you and congratulations on getting this deal
done. 

I also want to recognize Julie Su, my assistant — my Acting Secretary of
Labor, who used her deep experience to keep tough negotiations going and
— and I — I’m told by both sides, helped close the deal.

I want to thank both sides for working through this and for getting it
done.  It’s a good deal for workers, it’s a good deal for companies, and
it’s a good deal for the United States of America.

This landmark contract covers 29 ports — stretching from San Diego,
California, to Bellingham, Washington — that play a major role in our
nation’s economy.  More comes through those ports than any other means
of getting into the United States of America.  It’s gigantic — gigantic
economic impact. 

For example, the Port\[s\] of Los Angeles and Long Beach, which I’ve
visited both, covered this — are covered by this deal.  They handle 40
percent — 40 percent of the nation’s cargo containers every single
year. 

And with this contract, dock workers at those 29 Pacific ports will get
a pay benefit and working conditions that I believe they deserve, and,
apparently, it was agreed upon.  That includes a guaranteed 32 percent
pay increase over a six-year period.  It also includes a one-time bonus
for the dockworkers’ exceptional efforts during the pandemic — during
the pandemic.  And it matters.   

We all remember how the ports around the world were congested due to
disruptions caused by the pandemic. 

During my first year as President, ahead of the holiday season, my
administration brought together port operators and shipping companies
and labor to do everything they could to ease the bottlenecks for that
season — that Christmas season. 

And America’s longshore workers stepped up with extraordinary measures,
including working around the clock — 24 hours a day, 7 days a week — to
keep the cargo moving.  It worked. 

Working with port operations, about 97 percent of the packages were
delivered on time for the holidays or with only minimal delays.  And I
want to thank the port operators for that as well. 

Delivery times were actually quicker before the — than before the
pandemic.  Our dock workers did that, and I want to thank them and the
port operators.  And our nation’s ports moved record levels of cargo in
2021. 

Then we moved record cargo again in 2022.

And today, thanks to the American workers, including the longshore
workers and truckers and rail workers, America’s supply chains are
operating smoothly again.

With this agreement, they are being paid what they deserve, and goods
are moving quickly and efficiently across the country. 

Plus, this has a direct impact on redu- — reducing inflation.  When the
cost of moving goods through supply chains goes up, inflation goes up. 
Strengthening supply chains and — strengthen supply chains, and
inflation goes down.  That’s why we’ve made fixing our supply chains to
bring down inflation a top priority.  And it’s working.

Today, inflation is down to around 3 percent — about one third what it
was one year ago.  That’s near its lowest point in over two years.

This contract proves that collective bargaining works.  It gives workers
a seat at the table and ensures that their well-being, security, and
futures are our priority.  And, also, it gives employers the opportunity
— it delivers for employers by helping them attract and retain the best,
most productive workers in the world.

Yes, it often takes time.  But done right, collective bargaining means
everyone wins: Workers, employers, our economy, and consumers.

That’s why I also want to congratulate another labor agreement.  The
Teamsters overwhelmingly ratified their contract with UPS last month. 

UPS is the largest single-employer contract in all of North America,
covering 340,000 workers.  And thanks to that contract, those workers
will see significant pay increases; improved working condition; a brief
relief from the heat in delivery trucks by eliminating a tier system,
which unfairly paid some lower-waged — some drivers lower wages than
others doing the same exact job.

With this historic contract, our Teamsters are going to continue to
deliver UPS goods across the country and our supply chains will continue
working the way they should.

These labor agreements build on other actions we’ve taken.  During the
pandemic, ocean carriers increased their prices as much as 1,000
percent, costing farmers, ranchers, and our economy a lot of money.

Last year, I signed the Ocean Shipping Reform Act, cracking down on
foreign shipping companies that were making Americans pay higher prices
for everyday goods coming into our country.  Since then, we’ve seen
ocean shipping container rates come down to near pre-pandemic levels.

And under the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which we passed,
we are making long-overdue investments to upgrade our nation’s
railroads, highways, airports, and ports.  The Infrastructure Law
recognizes the vital role of modern, resilient infrastructure in
reducing costs for American families and businesses and in creating
good-paying union jobs for American workers.

You know, all of this progress underscores something else.  You’ve heard
me say many times, including this Labor Day, “Wall Street alone didn’t
build this country; the middle class built the country, and unions built
the middle class.”

American union workers are the best in the world.  And they do their job
on time, long-term — and at less cost over time. 

People are starting to understand that.  That’s why America’s support
for unions is higher than it’s been in nearly 60 years. 

And to anyone who asks whether unions really make a difference, I urge
them to read the new report from the Treasury Department, which was
released last week.  It’s the most comprehensive ever look at the impact
that unions have had on our economy. 

And it concludes definitively that unions raise workers’ income;
increase American homeownership, creating more jobs; increase retirement
savings; increase access to critical benefits, like sick leave and
childcare; and reduce inequity — all of which strengthens our economy up
and down the line.

When the middle class does well, everyone does well.  And the wealthy
still do very, very well.

Plus, even workers who aren’t in unions, even workers who have been laid
off see benefits when unions are strong.  Because unions raise standards
across the workforce and industries, pushing up wages, strengthening
benefits, and strengthening them for everyone.

That’s why I’m continuing to call on Congress to fully and finally pass
the Protection of the Right to Organize Act — the PRO Act — which makes
it easier for workers to organize unions and more difficult for
businesses to engage in unfair practices.    

Let me close with this.  We’ve faced some pretty tough times in recent
years: a pandemic that took more than a million of our friends and
neighbors and our families.  It was the worst economic crisis since the
Great Depression — and major disruptions to critical supply chains.  It
wasn’t long ago that 20 million people were out of work here in America
— 20 million. 

But the American people and American workers didn’t give up. 

Today, we have the strongest economy in the world.  Let me say that
again:  Today, the United States has the strongest economy in the world,
the lowest inflation rate among all major economies, and 13.5 million
new jobs — around 800,000 of them manufacturing jobs. 

America is now one of the strongest job-creation — going through one of
the strongest job-creation periods in our nation’s history.  And it’s no
accident.

I came determined to build an economy, as I said before, from the middle
out and the bottom up.  Because everyone does well when the middle class
does well, and the wealthy do very well. 

And, look, to invest in American workers, who are the backbone of the
country, makes sense to me.  The labor contracts we celebrate today
prove that.

And while I’m proud of all the steps my administration has taken to
strengthen the economy, the real hero in this story are the American
people — ordinary people getting up every morning, walking out, busting
their necks, believing in and doing their work, showing up.  They’re the
ones making this happen, and they remind us who we are.

I’ve said it many times, and I make no apologies for it: We’re the
United States of America.  There is nothing, nothing, nothing beyond our
capacity when we do it together.

Think about it.  Name me one major issue that we’ve set our mind on
solving we haven’t been able to do.

So, God bless you all.  Thanks for what you did.  Thanks for pr- — and
may — may we continue to have this economic growth.  And — and may God
protect our troops.

Thank you, all, so very, very much.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

2:32 P.M. EDT
