---
date: '2023-09-06'
published_time: 2023-09-06 13:20:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/06/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-11th-u-s-asean-summit/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the 11th U.S.-ASEAN\_Summit"
---
 
*Balai Sidang Jakarta Convention Center  
Jakarta, Indonesia*

  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. President.  And congratulations on a
successful year as the Chair of ASEAN.   
  
It is my honor to be here in Indonesia and to be back in Southeast
Asia.  This is my third trip to Southeast Asia since taking office as
vice president of the United States and my fourth to the Indo-Pacific. 
And in May of 2023, it was my pla- — pleasure to chair several sessions
with ASEAN leaders at the historic U.S.-ASEAN Special Summit in
Washington, D.C.  It is good to see so many of you again.  
  
The United States has an enduring commitment to Southeast Asia and, more
broadly, to the Indo-Pacific.  We are a proud Pacific power, and the
American people have a profound stake in the future of the
Indo-Pacific.   
  
We share historic bonds and common values with many of the people and
nations here.  And our alliances and partnerships support the security
and prosperity of the United States and ASEAN.   
  
For example, Mr. President, as you mentioned, the flow of commerce
between Southeast Asia and the United States supports more than 600,000
American jobs, and U.S.-ASEAN economic cooperation represents a huge
opportunity for growth for both of our markets.  And the defense and
deterrence commitments of the United States and our security presence in
the Indo-Pacific help protect our homeland and ensure regional
stability.   
  
It is therefore in our vital interest to promote a region that is open,
interconnected, prosperous, secure, and resilient.   
  
Colleagues, ASEAN is at the center of America’s commitments to the
Indo-Pacific.  As the United States Indo-Pacific Strategy makes clear,
we are committed to ASEAN centrality.   
  
And I’m pleased that our collective vision for the Indo-Pacific is in
strong alignment.  We have a shared commitment to international rules
and norms and to our partnership on pressing national and regional
issues, such as the crisis in Myanmar.  The United States will continue
to press the regime to end the horrific violence, to release all those
unjustly detained, and to re-establish Myanmar’s path to inclusive
democracy, and we will continue to support ASEAN’s Five-Point
Consensus.  
  
More broadly, in a demonstration of the enduring and important
relationship between the United States and Southeast Asia, since
President Biden and I took office, we have expanded U.S.-ASEAN ties.To
that end, we have upgraded the relationship to a Comprehensive Strategic
Partnership. We invested in infrastructure and the digital economy, we
launched major initiatives to address the climate crisis and health
security, and we expanded cultural and educational exchange programs.   
  
And today, I am pleased to announce that we will establish, through a
public-private partnership, the first-ever U.S.-ASEAN Center in
Washington, D.C.  The center will facilitate official ASEAN engagements
and support further exchange between our people, businesses, and
academic institutions.   
  
To further strengthen our ties, I’m also pleased that our ambassador to
ASEAN, Yohannes Abraham, is here in Jakarta.  He has been a close
advisor to President Biden and to me since we took office, and I know
his leadership will help make progress on the many issues we will
discuss today.   
  
Additionally, I will acknowledge and welcome the presence of Timor-Leste
in this meeting.  The United States will continue to support Timor-Leste
in its path towards ASEAN membership.   
  
In conclusion, I believe, as leaders, we must address global challenges
of today while also investing in a long-term vision.  We must look 10,
20, 30 years out and measure our current steps against that vision.   
  
The United States and the nations of Southeast Asia share many long-term
interests and priorities, as well as a long-term vision.   
  
So, with that in mind, I look forward to our discussion today, and I
thank you.  
  
                          END

\###
