---
date: '2023-09-10'
modified_time: 2023-09-10 14:22:02-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-10 14:22:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/10/remarks-by-president-biden-and-general-secretary-nguyen-phu-trong-of-the-communist-party-of-vietnam-in-joint-press-statements/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and General Secretary Nguy\u1EC5n Ph\xFA Tr\u1ECD\
  ng of the Communist Party of Vietnam in Joint Press\_Statements"
---
 
Central Office of Communist Party of Vietnam  
Hanoi, Vietnam  

6:33 P.M. ICT

GENERAL SECRETARY TRỌNG: (As interpreted.) Your Honorable Joe Biden,
President of the United States of America, distinguished delegates, on
behalf of the leaders of the party, state, and people of Vietnam, I’d
like to extend my warmest welcome to his Honorable President Joe Biden,
who has great affection for the country and people of Vietnam, and for
his various contributions to the strengthening of the friendship and
cooperation between Vietnam and the U.S. in different capacities.

His visit to Vietnam on this occasion is of great significance, for it
coincides with the celebration of the 10th anniversary of the
Comprehensive Partnership between the two countries.

I always recall the fond memories of his cordial reception and warm
welcome and that of the American — the U.S. government, as well of the
affection of the American people during my visit to the U.S. in July
2015. Most notably, I always recall the very sincere and interesting
discussion between myself and President Biden during this visit.

I’d also like to thank him for his letter in June this year to invite me
to visit the U.S. again, which has regrettably not been arranged.

In an air of friendship, equality, understanding, and mutual respect,
President Biden and I held very extensive and fruitful bilateral talks
in the capital city of Hanoi. The two sides agreed that over the past
years, the Vietnam-U.S. ties have enjoyed — have grown by leaps and
bounds in a very substantive and effective manner since the
normalization of relations and following the establishment of the
Comprehensive Partnership.

On this occasion, on behalf of the people of Vietnam, I’d like to extend
my thanks — my greetings and thanks to organizations and individuals in
the U.S. for their contributions to the strengthening of the friendship
and cooperation between our two countries.

On this basis, for the interests of the two peoples and in line with the
aspiration to further bolster cooperation for peace, cooperation, and
sustainable development in a new context, President Biden and I
represented the two countries to adopt the joint leader statement to
elevate the Vietnam-U.S. ties to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership
for peace, cooperation, and sustainable development. (Applause.)

This is the most important aspect of this visit. That says it all. This
partnership shall continue to be built upon the basis of the full
respect for the fundamental principles guiding our bilateral ties thus
far. These include respect for the U.N. Charter, international law, and
each other’s political system, independence, sovereignty, and
territorial integrity.

Vietnam also underscores the fact that mutual understanding of each
other’s relevant situation, respect for each other’s legitimate
interest, and non-interference in each other’s domestic affairs are
fundamental factors with great significance in our bilateral relations
and in international relations as a whole.

Vietnam highly appreciates and attaches importance to the U.S.
reiteration of its support for a strong, independent, resilient, and
prosperous Vietnam.

The items of this new partnership are built upon existing cooperation
items between the two countries and elevate it to a new height through
the strengthening of economic trade and investment cooperation with
innovation serving as the basis, the core, and the driver for our
bilateral ties.

Other pillars include strengthening scientific and technological
cooperation, serving as a breakthrough for the Vietnam-U.S.
Comprehensive Strategic Partnership for peace, cooperation, and
sustainable development.

In the time to come, relevant authorities from both countries will work
closely in effectively implementing these agreements, and only then can
we say that we have achieved success. These are only initial success,
even if they are a great beginning, laying the foundation for our steps
forward.

Vietnam will continue to strengthen its ties with U.S. and others
international partners in the spirit outlined by President Ho Chi Minh
after Vietnam reclaimed its independence. That is, Vietnam wishes to be
a friend with all countries.

For the U.S., President — President Ho Chi Minh affirmed Vietnam’s full
independence and affirmed that Vietnam stands ready to engage in full
cooperation with the U.S. This independence and this cooperation will
benefit the entire world.

We are well aware that in the many years afterwards, the people of
Vietnam have had to endure arduous struggles to safeguard its
independence and reunification.

The 13th National Party Congress also identified the guidelines to
further deepen and strengthen its bilateral relations under the foreign
— consistent foreign policy of independence, self-reliance, peace,
friendship, cooperation, development, multilateralization, and
diversification of external relations.

Vietnam is a friend, a reliable partner, and an active and responsible
member of the international community.

President Joe Biden and I have provided each other with information on
the situation in each country and expressed the appreciation for the
efforts and outcomes achieved thus far, be it in terms of social
economic development in each country.

Regarding complicated developments in international conflicts, Vietnam
hopes that parties concerned will engage in dialogue and peacefully
settle disputes on the basis of respect for fundamental principles of
international law and the U.N. Charter.

I do hope that through this important and meaningful visit, Mr.
President, his delegates, and all distinguished guests present here will
have an opportunity to experience firsthand a reformed Vietnam with a
robust growth, a longstanding history and culture, and a people that is
hospitable, friendly, and a peace-loving nation.

I am confident that this visit to Vietnam by President Joe Biden will be
a great success.

I wish you, Mr. President, greater successes. And I wish you, your
distinguished delegates, and all distinguished guests present here
today, as well as your families, good health and happiness.

Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you very much.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Secretary General, thank you for welcoming me to
Vietnam for this truly historic moment.

Today, we can trace a 50-year arc of progress in the relationship
between our nations — from conflict to normalization to this new
elevated status that will be a force for prosperity and security in one
of the most consequential regions in the world.

We are evolving our partnership directly to a Comprehensive Strategic
Partnership, Vietnam’s highest tier of partnership. And we’re excited
about that. A critical step for our nations that reflects the strength
of our relationship as we take on the challenges that matter most to the
future of our region and, quite frankly, to the world.

We’re deepening our cooperation on critical and emerging technologies,
particularly around building a more resilient semiconductor supply
chain. We’re expanding our economic partnership, spurring even greater
trade and investment between our nations.

For example, last year, a Vietnes- — a Vietnamese company signed a $4
billion deal to build electric vehicles and batteries in North Carolina
in the United States, which will create more than 7,000 jobs in the
United States of America.

World-class Vietnamese technology companies are going public on the U.S.
stock market. And we’re welcoming more important new deals during this
visit.

We’re working to tackle the climate crisis and to accelerate Vietnam’s
clean energy transition; strengthening global health security and
advance treatments for cancer and HIV/AIDS; enhance our security
cooperation, including countering trafficking in persons.

I also raised the importance of respect for human rights as a priority
for both my administration and the American people. And we’ll continue
to — our candid dialogue on that regard.

Perhaps most vital to our future, we are doubling down on our
people-to-people ties. They’re the very heart of our partnership. That
includes millions of Vietnamese Americans who strengthen communities all
across the United States of America every single day and are looking
forward to the outcome of this meeting.

Just this year, the U.S. supported the Fulbright University in Vietnam,
graduated its first class, and they’re working to expand its new campus.
One of my oldest and closest friends, Tommy Vallely, is very much
involved in that.

Ladies and gentlemen, we’re also investing in strengthening the skilled
STEM workforce, promoting educational exchanges and collaboration among
our scientists, our entrepreneurs, innovators to better work together to
capture the enormous opportunities — and I mean enormous opportunities —
of this new age of technology.

Let me close with this. All the progress over the past 50 years — none
of it was inevitable. It required years of hard work from leaders in
both countries, including my friend who’s here today, the former senator
and secretary of state, now Special Presidential Envoy on Climate, John
Kerry.

We got it done because of another friend who is no longer with us — I
miss him — whose memorial we’ll be visiting tomorrow, the late John
McCain.

Both men saw so clearly, as I and so many others did, how much we had to
gain by working together to overcome a bitter past.

Years later, I remember the hard work it took, as a member of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, to be able to normalize relations in 1995.

And 10 years ago, when I was Vice President, we reached a new milestone
for the launch of our initial Comprehensive Partnership. I’m incredibly
proud of how our nations and our people have built trust and
understanding over the decades and worked to repair the painful legacy
the war left on both our nations.

It’s work that we pledge today to continue — clearing unexploded
ordnance, remediating environmental damage from dioxin, expanding
support for people with disabilities, and accounting for every American
service member still missing in action in Vietnam as well as the fallen
or missing Vietnam soldiers from that war.

Our cooperation on these painful issues, as well as on forging new
legacies, is one of shared peace and prosperity. It’s a testament — I
mean this — it’s a testament for the resilience and spirit of both our
peoples.

It’s a powerful reminder of all we can accomplish when we’re able to
transcend the pain of the past and embrace a future of progress, one
grounded on unity of our people.

So, thank you again, Secretary General. Vietnam is a critical power in
the world and a bellwether for — in this vital region. And I look
forward to continuing this new chapter in the story of our nation.

Godspeed. Thank you, Mr. President. (Applause.)

GENERAL SECRETARY TRỌNG: (As interpreted.) Therefore, my mission and
yours, Mr. President (inaudible) successful meeting. And going forward,
we would hopefully embark on a new journey together as President Joe
Biden mentioned. I myself have (inaudible). I speak from my heart in
this regard.

Thank you.

6:47 P.M. ICT
