---
date: '2023-09-09'
modified_time: 2023-09-09 12:48:52-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-09 12:48:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/09/remarks-by-president-biden-at-meeting-for-partnership-for-global-infrastructure-and-investment/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Meeting for Partnership for Global Infrastructure\
  \ and\_Investment"
---
 
International Exhibition-cum-Convention Centre  
New Delhi, India

5:46 P.M. IST

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all.  My
colleagues, this is — someone once said in a similar domestic action
that was positive: This is a big deal.  This is a real big deal.  And I
want to thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.

One Earth, One Family, One Future: That’s the focus of this G20 Summit. 
And in many ways, it’s also the focus of this partnership that we’re
going to — that we’re talking about today: building sustainable,
resilient infrastructure; making quality infrastructure investments; and
creating a better future — a future of a greater — that’s — represents
greater opportunity, dignity, and prosperity for everyone.

Last year, we came together as one to commit to this vision.  And this
afternoon, I want to highlight the key ways in which the United States
and our partners are working to make this a reality. 

Economic corridors — you’re going to hear that phrase more than once, I
expect, over the next decade.  Economic corridors.  As we work to
address infrastructure gaps across low- and middle-income countries, we
need to maximize the impacts of our investments.  That’s why, a few
months ago, I announced that the United States will work with our
partners to invest in economic corridors.

In practice, it means we’re focusing on regional infrastructure projects
that deliver results across multiple countries and in multiple sectors. 

And, today, I’m proud to announce that we’ve finalized a historic
agreement for a new India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor. 

As — as a key part of this corridor, we’re going to invest in ships and
rail that extends the India — that extends from India all the way to
Europe, connected by the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and Israel; bridging
ports across two continents; unlocking endless opportunities, including
making it far easier to trade, export clean energy, expand access to
reliable clean electricity, lay cables that will connect communities
that secure a stable Internet, contributing a more stable, more
prosperous, and integrated Middle East.

And I want to thank the sponsors.  And I particularly want to thank
Prime Minister Modi and the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin
Salam \[sic\] — Sa- — excuse me, Mohammed bin Salman and President von
der Leyen and the European Commissions.  And since his — he’s not
speaking today, I wanted to — or maybe he is speaking today.  I had a
note he wasn’t speaking.  Any rate, I’m going to — I’m going to stop
there. 

In Saudi Ar- — the Sub-Saharan Africa — we’re working in a
private-public partnership as well to invest in a Trans-African
Corridor.  That includes a new partner, the European Union.  President
von der Leyen, thank you for making this very possible.  Together, as
part of this corridor, we’re going to invest in a new rail line that
will extend from the western port in Angola, to the — the DRC, to
Zambia, and, ultimately, the Indian Ocean.

It’s a project that’s about — far from just laying tracks.  It’s about
creating jobs, increasing trade, strengthening the supply chains,
boosting connectivity, laying foundations that will strengthen commerce
and food security for people across multiple countries.  This is a
game-changing regional investment. 

And the — both of these are huge — huge steps forward, but they’re far
from the only ones. 

We’re continuing to make big investments in infrastructure around the
world.  That includes a solar energy site, an insulin manufacturing
facility, an electricity project right here in India. 

We’re continuing to develop economic corridors across Africa, Asia, and
the Americas.  And together with our partners, we’re working to mobilize
the trillions of investment needed to close the infrastructure gaps
around the world, including the formation of a new investor forum that
the United States will host in a couple of weeks. 

Let me close with this.  The world stands at an inflection point in
history.  A point where decisions we make today are going to affect the
course of our future — our future — all of our futures for decades to
come.  A point where our investments are more critical than ever.

So, together, let’s continue to work as one to seize this moment in
history and max- — maximize our collective investments, to find new
partners, to unlock new capital.  Because when we invest in low- and
middle-income countries, all countries benefit.  When we invest in
emerging economies, all economies benefit.  And when we invest in the
future of people anywhere, people everywhere benefit.

So, I want to thank you, again, for being here.  I look forward to
working with all of you.  And I’m going to turn it back to the prime
minister.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

(Event continues.)

MODERATOR:  Thank you, your Highnesses and your Excellencies, for
launching the landmark India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor.

I would request all media and officials to remain seated and standing in
their places while the leaders depart.

THE PRESIDENT:  Could I — excuse — excuse me for interrupting, but as we
say in my body I used to work, “a point of personal privilege.”  I did
not mention the Sheikh Mohammed of the UAE, but — because I knew he
wasn’t speaking.

But I do want to say thank you, thank you, thank you.  I don’t think
we’d be here without you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

6:05 P.M. IST
