---
date: '2023-09-20'
modified_time: 2023-09-26 10:38:47-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-20 20:44:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/20/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-moderated-conversation-with-john-leguizamo-at-the-congressional-hispanic-caucus-institute-leadership-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Moderated Conversation with John Leguizamo\
  \ at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Leadership\_Conference"
---
 
*Walter E. Washington Convention Center  
Washington, D.C.*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  (Applause.)    
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Look at all these great faces out there.  This diversity
is so heartwarming.  You didn’t see this four years ago, five years ago,
to see these leaders — future leaders, my Latin diaspora out there.  It
— it’s so heartwarming.  
  
Now, you see my Mets hat.  I’m also a Jets fan.  So, you know I always
have resting asshole face — (laughter) — because we’re always on the
losing end.  But it’s made me strong.   
  
And I’ve been in over 100 movies, not all of them good.  But I got Sid,
the sloth there, you know.  That’s — that’s a little moneymaker.  And
Encanto was great.  But it was — it’s more exciting, my work — not doing
my work, but being here with — with the — Madam Vice President.  This is
more — means more to be in the room where things really happen.  
  
So, I want to start with: You spent a lot of time engaging with the
Latino community, both in D.C. and on the road.  Over the last few
months alone, you visited Chicago for UnidosUS convention that —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  Woo!  
   
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Thank you for that, all three of you.  (Laughter.)   
   
And went to Miami to engage with young climate leaders, made multiple
stops at Latino-owned small businesses, hosted Latino leaders from
across the country at your residence.  And last week, you launched the
“Fight for Your Freedoms Tour” where you are traveling to college
campuses across the country to speak with young leaders about the most
urgent issues at this moment — in particular, the fight for our most
fundamental freedoms.   
  
And then, just yesterday, you were speaking with students at — at
Reading Area Community College, a Hispanic Serving Institution, HSI, in
Pennsylvania.  
  
It’s incredible what — what you’re doing and — and helping us to feel
seen, because this is an important moment. I mean, Latinos — we’re 20
percent of the population, 54 percent of registered voters.  We’re going
to decide the next presidential election, and you’re giving us the
self-worth that we deserve by being here.  Thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  What — what are you seeing and hearing from — from the
American people?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, first, let me say it’s an honor to be with
you, John.  I was — we were talking backstage, but I know everyone has
applauded him, but what you have been doing, in particular, with your
most recent project around traveling the country to remind people of the
history of Latinos in the United States, the present, understanding how
we all stand on the shoulders of great Latino leaders, and how it is so
much a part of who we are as a nation.  
  
So, I just want to congratulate you —  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — for the way you use your artistry and your
voice.  (Applause.)  
  
So, I’m — I’ve embarked on this college tour.  And I know that everyone
here knows the CHCI, with what you’re doing with the intern — the
interns here, with the fellowship program, which you’ve been doing for
years, bringing up and lifting up our young leaders, and — and I just
decided I wanted to get out of D.C. and get on the road and be with our
young leaders where they are.  And so, I decided to do a college tour,
which I started about two weeks now, and then yesterday, the most recent
one in Reading, Pennsylvania.  
And I just want to say, there are a lot of leaders who are in this room,
many of whom have been here working in Washington, D.C. — toiling in
Washington, D.C., to make sure that we propose and pass public policies
that are relevant to all people, that give dignity to all people, that
understand who the people of our country are and celebrate our diversity
in a way that hopefully is a step toward understanding what we should
celebrate in terms of unity.   
  
That being said, there are lots of challenges that we’re facing right
now as a country. And when I meet with our young leaders, and they’re
all over — and I’m going to give a particular shout out to the Gen Z. 
(Applause.)  
  
I knew I’d get that response.  They are brilliant.  They are practical. 
They are engaged.  They care deeply, but they also aren’t going to let
us waste any time with what needs to happen in our country.   
  
And so, I decided to travel the country meeting with our young leaders,
among many.  We have youngish leaders, we have leaders who consider
themselves young, we have leaders of all — all types.  (Laughter.)  
But in particular, most recently, on the college tour, I’m meeting with
our young leaders.  And, you know, it’s important for us to realize that
for so many of them, in their lifetime, they’ve only known the climate
crisis.   
  
In their lifetime — I’ve been asking, actually, on the college tour for
a raise of hands, how many of them, from kindergarten through high
school, ever had to have at school on the first day of school —
participate in an active shooter drill.  First day of school, where they
learn the name of their teacher, they learned where their bathroom is,
and they learned how to hide quietly if there’s an active shooter.  You
would be shocked at the number of hands that go up — the majority of the
students.  
  
In their lifetime, they have witnessed the highest court in our land,
the United States Supreme Court, take a constitutional right from the
people of America — from the women of America, such that they will know
fewer rights than their mothers and grandmothers.  
  
When I look at who our young leaders are, they are so clear about what
is at stake, and they are prepared to demand change in a way that always
has been a guiding force and an inspiration for the rest of us.  So,
that’s what I’m seeing in our country.  
  
And, you know, as I travel, I think everyone here knows we are also
witnessing what I believe to be an intentional, full-on attack against
hard-fought, hard-won freedoms and rights.   
  
And the counterweight, then, to that — the counterweight to what I would
and sometimes do describe as a venom that is coursing through our
country — the antidote will be among those young leaders and all the
leaders in this room to fight back against it, but not fight because
we’re fighting against something purely but because we’re fighting for
something.  
  
And so, in spite of what we might see on the evening news that causes us
to have great concern about what’s happening, I hope I can share with
everyone through this bit of my conversation that there’s a lot of good
stuff happening in our country and a lot of reason to have hope and
optimism about where we are heading.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Agreed, agreed.  I feel like this moment, this
inflection point that we’re at, has galvanized us, has lit a fire under
our butts that we — maybe we were asleep at the helm a little bit.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  But now we know we have to be alert, and we have to be
proactive.  So, in a way, it’s kind of good.   
  
Now, the next — next question: Now, you know, business is huge for us
Latinos.  That — that’s our number one focus.  We contribute $2.8
trillion to the GDP annually.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yep.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Yeah, applaud yourselves.  Applaud yourselves. 
(Applause.)  
  
We have $2 trillion — $2 trillion of buying power.  Eighty-seven percent
of small businesses are started by Latinos, and that’s the driving force
of American industry.  Sixty-nine percent of housing is Latinos
purchasing.  If we were our own country, it would be the seventh-largest
economy in the world, bigger than France — equal to France, sorry —
equal to France, bigger than — than Britain, bigger than Italy, bigger
than Brazil.   
  
And yet, we’re not getting the bang for our buck.  Like my grandfather
used to say, you know, “You — as a Latino man, you have to work three
times as hard to get half as far.”  And — and that’s the truth because,
even though Latinos start all these small businesses, venture
capitalists don’t come to them.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s true.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  They can’t get the bank loans to grow their
businesses.  
  
So, Madam Vice President, expanding on economic opportunity is a
critical issue for the Latino community.  And you have been focused on
this, especially through your work to support small businesses.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yep.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  You secured over $12 billion for community banks that
help entrepreneurs access that capital that they need to be successful. 
And you are leading the administration’s work to partner with the
private sector to support minority-owned businesses.  
  
Can you can you tell us more about that, a little bit more?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, you outlined it exactly right.  And I’ll add
to the statistics that you shared.  Small businesses employ at least
half of the private-sector workforce.  Small-business owners and the
people they employ are — are almost a majority population when we’re
looking at the private sector.   
And what we have been seeing in the last couple of years is that one out
of every four new small businesses is led by and owned by a Latino
small-business owner.  We are seeing exponential growth within the
Latino small-business community, led in large part by Latinas, who are
doing extraordinarily creative work, everyone — (applause) — in a range
of activities that are small businesses.   
  
You know, it’s — it’s clichéd and it’s a little stereotypical to talk
about — you know, when we think about minority small-business owners,
and let’s be more specific about Latino small-business owners — yes, it
is restaurants, but it is so much more.   
  
It is about — I’m meeting young and youngish small-business owners who
are entering the clean energy economy, those who are starting tech
firms, those who are engaged in extraordinary innovation, those who are
doing contracting in a number of ways.  
  
So, when we think about small businesses, especially when we’re talking
about minority communities, especially when we’re talking about the
Latino community, let’s never get trapped into our — some stereotype
about what kinds of small businesses we are talking about, because we
are talking about a variety.  
  
What I’m also saying is exactly your point, that, by my calculation,
only about 2 percent of venture capital, capital investments are in
Latino small businesses — 2 percent. And we know that there are a
variety of challenges to access to capital, and one of them is access to
the decisionmakers — and so the relationship issue — but there are also
the stereotypes about who can do what and who — what they look like.  
  
And so, the — what I love are community banks, because they are based in
the community, they are of the community, they understand the skills,
the capacity, the mores of the community.  And it’s one of the most
effective ways to then invest in small businesses.  And by small
businesses, I mean a couple of people up to over 100 people.  
  
The other piece that I feel very strongly about in terms of access to
capital: It’s not only to help somebody start up a small business but to
grow that business, which includes what we must do to — to create access
to financial literacy.   
  
You know, there are very few of us who grew up in a household where
people were engaged in business.  It’s not something we naturally
necessarily learned.  But it is absolutely something we can acquire as
knowledge and a skill, but we should teach it.  
  
And what I am seeing as an extension of all this work is a thriving
community of business leaders who are not only leaders in business, but
civic leaders, community leaders, mentors hiring locally.  And so, when
you think about the residual impact, it impacts our entire economy.  
  
But I want to make one critical point again, and it’s about how we think
about access to capital, especially when it comes to minority
communities and specifically here about Latino communities.  It’s not
only about making sure people have a job.  It’s about creating
opportunity to acquire and grow wealth.  And that’s very important. 
(Applause.)  That’s very important.   
  
It’s about understanding the ambitions and aspirations of a community. 
And, yeah, everyone wants to be able to have a job that allows them to
pay the bills and get through the month, feed their children.  But doing
that is not enough to meet the needs and the aspirations and the
ambitions of the people.  
And so, that’s how I think about it when I think about the work that we
are doing and need to still do to create opportunities for people to
grow their wealth and to create, then, a stronger economy for the
benefit of all of us.   
  
So, that’s how I think about the work.  And — and I’m very excited about
it because we are seeing progress.  
  
One of the things that President Biden and I have done, intentionally
and very early on, we’ve made clear that we were going to increase by 50
percent federal contracts for minority-owned businesses.  Very
important.  (Applause.)  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Yeah, yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because think about federal contracts, and then
combine that — there are a lot of folks who are here in D.C., and you’re
familiar with the things — the titles of all these bills, the — I’m
always reluctant to talk about these titles.  But anyway, IRA,
Bipartisan Inflation — I mean Infrastructure Act, right?  
  
So, on clean energy, economy, and climate alone, by my calculation, we
are investing $1 trillion over probably the next 10 years that will hit
the streets of America: manufacturing jobs, clean energy, jobs, tech
jobs, federal contracts that are going to be associated with that.  
  
And when somebody gets and qualifies for a federal contract, talk about
the opportunity not only to contribute to the strength and the building
of our country and our economy, but their personal ability and for their
family to create wealth and intergenerational wealth.  
  
So, we are absolutely focused on a number of things, including, by 50
percent, federal contracts to minority-owned businesses, understanding
that because of the other accomplishments we’ve achieved through things
like the Inflation Reduction Act and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill,
those are going to be about all of the new jobs that are about
construction and manufacturing.  
  
And I’ll just add as a specific point to reinforce that: The — over 70
percent of manufacturing companies in the United States employ 20 or
fewer people.  They’re small businesses.  
  
So, when we talked about the fact that we’re — we’ve now created — which
we have, as our administration — over 800,000 new manufacturing jobs;
when you see — when we’re out there showing about shovel in the ground
and these — these construction jobs and these infrastructure projects
starting, see the math on that.  This can be a very critical moment.  
  
And part of what I would ask all of the leaders here to do is help us
get the word out to all of these businesses to help them know that they
have the right to apply for and qualify for federal contracts to do this
work.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Well, thank you for the work you’re doing because that’s
— my grandfather would thank you.  Because that — that was the
difficulty for Latinos is that though we — we’re greatly
entrepreneurial, we’re not getting to that next level —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  — and creating that generational wealth —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  — that that we deserve, being that we give so much to
the country, and we’re not getting it back.  
  
Now, Madam Vice President, you often talk about how attacks on our
fundamental rights and freedoms are connected.  This makes me think
about recent attacks on teaching our full true history.  Not of fiction
— the attacks on critical race theory, book banning.   
  
And Plato said — Plato said, “He who controls the storytelling controls
the state.”  And only 5 percent of children’s books have Latino faces. 
You’re more likely to see an animal, a dog or a cat, than a Latin boy or
girl’s face on a children’s book — yet we’re 30 percent of the United
States public schools, the students are.   
  
Arizona has banned Latin history for the last 10 years, and it’s 30
percent Latino.  Texas is 40 percent Latino, and teachers are only
allowed to teach Latin History one day a year.  
  
Now, talk to us about how you see —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Don’t forget Florida.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Oh, yeah, yeah.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
I try.  I try to forget it, but nobody lets me.  Yeah, I just liked the
305.  That’s it.  (Laughter.)  
 Talk to us about how you see this issue in the moment we’re in.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Attacks on fundamental freedoms, including the
right of our children and our nation to learn America’s full history. 
And, look, the reality of it is that some of it may be difficult for
some people to hear, but to gloss over it and to deny it is to deny fact
and to then forever be guided by falsehood, which is never productive,
right?  
  
So, that is about teaching America’s full history in terms of legal
discrimination against populations of people, including Latinos,
especially when they were recent immigrants.  It means teaching
America’s full history about who were the leaders, who were the icons,
who were the ones who — who led movements.  You know, my — my aunt — my
Aunt Mary was actually — so, I grew up in the Bay Area and — in
California — (laughter and applause).  
  
Bay Area.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Represent.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  And — and she was one of the founders
of, at San Francisco State, the Black Studies Department, and then
worked with her colleagues the year later to create one of the first in
the country — it was then called Chaci- — Chicano Studies Department. 
(Applause.)   
  
And the Chicano Studies Department at San Francisco State — you should
actually see the history on that, because it was — and they’ve since
named — renamed it Latino Studies.  But early on, that — you know, and
I’m a Californian, so this was, you know, early on how we — (laughter
and applause) — but we grew up — I grew up with a full accounting of the
contributions.  
  
And to your point, I look now at what’s happening, where there’s
supposed to be progress, and instead these extremist so-called leaders
are trying to take us back.  They’re trying to erase America’s history,
both the good and the bad parts.  They’re trying to suggest to our
children that diversity is somehow not laudable, when we know diversity
is our strength.  Our unity is our power.  
  
Look what they’re doing — extremist so-called leaders who are daring to
suggest that studying and prioritizing diversity, equity, and inclusion
is somehow a bad thing.  They’re literally trying to change the
characterization of an effort to pay attention to who’s not in the room
and understand that when we have a full representation of who the people
are, the decisions, the discourse, the dialogue that occurs in that room
will be so much richer for the betterment of everyone.  
  
They’re saying that we should not teach equity and prioritize equity. 
(Applause.)   
  
So, that would overlook and deny the fact that, “Hey, yeah, we want
everyone to have an equal amount or access to equal, but not everyone
starts out on the same base.”  And we got to pay attention to that,
because otherwise you’re just perpetuating inequities to say everyone
gets an equal amount if everyone doesn’t start out on the same base.  
  
They’re denying inclusion, which, again, is about paying attention to,
“Hey, did you notice everybody in this room looks exactly like everybody
else and all the people who are on the wall who have been around here
for the last hundred years — (laughs) — and maybe we should pay
attention to who’s not in the room, and it might be a good thing to open
the door and let people in and invite them in.”  
  
So, John, when I look at what’s happening in our country — and back to
your point about we cannot be passive observers right now.  We’ve got to
see the writing on the wall, got to see what’s happening.   
You know that old story about the two frogs and the pots of water? 
Okay.  So, here it goes.  You’re a good storyteller.  I’m going to tell
you a quick story.  
  
So, two frogs and two pots of water.  So, in one pot of water, you drop
the frog in, and you slowly turn up the heat.  And that frog will be
like, “Oh, it’s getting a little warm in here.”  And then that water
starts to boil, and that frog perishes.   
  
In the other pot of water, you turn up the heat to the point it’s
boiling.  You drop the frog in it, it’ll jump right out.  Let’s not be
that first frog.  Let’s not be that first frog.  (Applause.)  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  I don’t want to be that first frog.  I’m jumping out,
yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I mean, you look at just most recently what
happened with the DACA decision.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?  I mean, we’re going — we’re going to keep
fighting against it.   
  
But good policies, morally correct and right policies and how they’re
being attacked and — and there are attempts — unapologic- — unapologetic
attempts to undo progress.  We have to see what is happening — what is
happening in front of us, and we have to step up and speak out.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  You have to get loud.  Absolutely.  I believe that. 
(Applause.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And be alert.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  You have to be proactive.  We can’t just be — it’s not —
democracy is not a spectator sport.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Earlier you mentioned how our fundamental rights and
freedoms are under attack, right?  One of those is a woman’s freedom to
make decisions about her own body.  
  
From the Dobbs ruling to state abortion bans, what’s — what’s the
administration doing to protect women’s health and reproductive
rights?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, let’s start with this.  The highest court in
our land, the United States Supreme Court — the court of Thurgood
Marshall and RBG — just took a constitutional right that had been
recognized from the people of America, from the women of America.  And
very shortly thereafter, laws have been proposed and passed in states
around our country that would criminalize healthcare providers, that
would punish women, that would make no exception even for rape or
incest.  
  
And on that last point, you know, we’re a bunch of grownups.  And this
is real in terms of what’s happening in our country.  And so, I want to
emphasize a point.  
  
As many of you know, I spent a large part of my career as a prosecutor,
and one of the reasons I became a prosecutor is because I learned in
high school that my best friend was being abused by her stepfather.  And
I told her, “You have to come live with us.”  I called my mother.  My
mother said, “Yes, she has to come live with us.”  And she did.   
  
So, the majority of my career as a prosecutor was focused on crimes
against women and children.   
The idea that in some of these states, they would propose no exception,
even for rape or incest, so they’re basically saying: After an
individual has survived a crime of violence to their body, a violation
to their body, that the government would tell her, “And you have no
choice about what happens to your body next.”  That is immoral.  
  
And this is what’s happening around our country. And on this subject, I
think it is really important that we all agree: One does not have to
abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government
should not be telling her what to do with her body.  (Applause.)  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Yeah, yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  If she chooses, she will consult her priest, her
pastor, her rabbi, but the government is not in a better position to
tell her what is in her best interests than she is to know.   
And so, when I think about this issue, John, you know, this is not just
some intellectual, academic issue, because right now in our country,
there are countless people, many of whom I have met, who are silently
suffering.   
  
And what we also know, by the way, the majority of Latinos agree that
the government should not be making this decision.  (Applause.) 
Right?  
  
And so, look, elections matter.  Local elections matter because if
you’re in a jurisdiction where — that has criminalized healthcare
providers, who is your local prosecutor matters.  If you are in a state
that is proposing and passing some of these outrageous laws, obviously,
who your state legislator is matters — your AG, your governor.   
  
And then, of course, it matters who is president of the United States,
because Joe Biden has been very clear that when the United States
Congress puts back in law the protections of Roe v. Wade, he will sign
that bill.  Elections matter.  (Applause.)  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Absolutely.  It — it’s so true.   
  
We Democrats have been a little bit asleep on the legislative fights and
the small elections.  We’ve let that pass.  But I think we’re woke now,
and we’re understanding the importance of winning these smaller
elections that — that have huge effects in states.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  They matter.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  And now, Madam Vice President, thank you so much.  We —
we’re facing so many challenges and have a lot of work to do.   
  
Now, what — what gives you optimism for the work ahead?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I’ll go back to where I started: our young
leaders.  They really do.  And all of us — we wouldn’t, all of us, be
here in this room together if we weren’t invested in the present and the
future of our country.   
  
You know, there’s so much that is about that — that — about the fight
for freedom and liberty and justice and equality that is just about our
true faith and belief in the principles upon which our country was
founded.  These are foundational principles that we will be a nation
that values freedom and liberty.  
And when I say freedom, that includes the freedom to just be — free of
hate, free of fear, free to thrive, to be, to have ambition.  And what
gives me optimism is that I think most people agree that it’s worth
fighting for these things because we love our country.  We love our
country.  And it’s worth fighting for.  
And I think most people do believe that.  And although we might be
seeing some full-on and loud attacks on these freedoms and, by
extension, on our democracy, I do believe that people are prepared and
will always be prepared to stand up in defense of what is right and what
is good and what we believe ourselves to be as the United States of
America.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  Awesome.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you for that.  Thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  
  
MR. LEGUIZAMO:  What a pleasure.  (Applause.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That was fun.  
  
MR. LEGUIZANO:  Awesome.  Thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Take care, you guys.  (Applause.)

  
  END                       5:33 P.M. EDT
