---
date: '2023-09-04'
modified_time: 2023-09-04 14:57:43-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-04 14:57:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/04/remarks-by-president-biden-celebrating-labor-day-and-honoring-americas-workers-and-unions/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Celebrating Labor Day and Honoring America\u2019\
  s Workers and\_Unions"
---
 
Sheet Metal Workers’ Local 19  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

9:42 A.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Philadelphia!  (Applause.)   
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello!  (Applause.)   
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Whoa!  Thank you, thank you, thank you thank you. 
Hello, Philadelphia!  And thank you, Brittany, for that introduction.  
  
 And by the way, where I come from, I learned women can do anything a
man can do.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Because all the women in my family
are smarter than I am.  (Laughter.)  
  
It’s good to be almost home.  (Applause.)  You know, I wouldn’t have
been elected to the United States Senate in the first place were it not
for Philadelphia — that’s not a joke — with all the help and support I
got from Philly.   
  
Before I begin, I’ve got a lot of friends to thank.  
  
Ryan Boyer, president of the Building Trades.  Ryan, thank you, pal. 
(Applause.)  I don’t know where Ryan is standing, but I know he’s
here.   
  
And Danny — Danny Bauder — Danny, president of the Central Labor
Council.  (Applause.)  Got to say hello.  
  
And Gary Masino, president of the Sheet Metal Workers Local 19.  Thanks
for hosting us today.  Nothing to it.  By the way, I think maybe the
worse sentence in the English language for somebody who runs a place is
“The President is coming.”  Like, “Oh, my God.”  Nothing but work. 
Nothing but a lot of work.  
  
And, by the way, you know, she couldn’t be here today because she’s
celebrating Labor Day in Detroit, but I want to thank Liz Shuler — a
great friend, a fearless leader of the AFL-CIO, and a great, great
partner.  (Applause.)  
  
And so many current and former elected officials are here today — all
friends of mine and friends of the labor as well.  
  
Governor Shapiro and Senator Fetterman, they couldn’t be here today
because we’re splitting the state.  They’re taking Pittsburgh, and I’m
taking Philly.  (Applause.)  
  
Along — along with a few friends.  By the way, Mayor Kenney is here, I
think.  Mr. Mayor, you — you show up here?  You were able to come? 
There he is under the American flag.  (Applause.)   
  
Good to see you, Mr. Mayor.  I’m sorry I keep bugging you all the time. 
He and I talk more than I think we talk to our staffs.  Thank you, Mr.
Mayor.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible) have to be 89.  You’ll live to be 90!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  (Makes the sign of the cross.)  Oh —
(laughter).  
  
I tell you what, someone said, “You know, that Biden, he’s getting old,
man.  I tell you what.”  Well, guess what?  Guess what?  I can — and,
you know, the only thing that comes with age is a little bit of wisdom. 
I — but I — (applause) — I’ve been doing this longer than anybody.  And
guess what?  I’m going to continue to do it with your help. 
(Applause.)  
  
Look, one of my friends from my hometown, Bobby Casey, from Scranton,
Pennsylvania.  (Applause.)  And, you know — and with Representatives
Dwight Evans, a good friend.  And Brendan Boyle is always there for me. 
And Mary Kay Scanlon — Mary Gay Scanlon is a — has been a great friend
as well.  
  
And, look, former member, <s>Charlene</s> \[Cherelle\] Parker — where is
Char- — she’s here?  I know I saw her.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  The next mayor!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I know — the next mayor.  I was about to do that.  I was
going to see her first.  You want to come up here and do this, old
buddy?  I’m happy — (laughter and applause).  
  
I told you when I ran for president that I’d — I told you I’d have your
back.  And I have.  (Applause.)  
  
You know, there are a lot of politicians in this country who don’t know
how to say the word “union.”  They talk about labor, but they don’t say
“union.”  It’s “union.”  I’m one of the — I’m proud to say “union.”  I’m
proud to be the most pro-union president, according to the experts about
— in American history.  And that’s — (applause).  And by the way, I make
no bones about that.   
  
Folks, on this Labor Day, let me tell you what we’re celebrating.  We’re
celebrating jobs — good-paying jobs, jobs you can raise a family on,
union jobs.  (Applause.)  
  
You’ve heard me say it before, but my dad used to have an expression — I
swear to God — he’d say, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than a
paycheck.  For real.  It’s about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about
your dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about being able to look your
kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay,’ and mean it when
you say it.”  
  
 And he was right.  And I’m determined to make that a reality for every
family in this country.  
  
And we are making it a reality.  Nearly 13 million 500 thousand jobs
just since you got me sworn in in — in January of <s>2020</s> \[2021\].
 (Applause.)  Eight hundred thousand new manufacturing jobs. 
(Applause.)  
  
But you wouldn’t know it from all the negative news you hear.  But we’re
getting through: This one of the greatest job creation periods in
American history.  For real.  That’s a fact.  
  
And, you know, it wasn’t that long ago we were losing jobs in this
country.  In fact, the guy who held this job before me was just one of
two presidents in history —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  — he was one of — but there is an important point — one
of two presidents in history that left office with fewer jobs in America
than when he got elected office.  By the way, do you know who the other
one was?  Herbert Hoover.  (Laughter.)  Isn’t that kind of
coincidental?  
  
Look, but we’re turning things around because of you.  
  
When the last guy was here, you were shipping jobs to China.  Now we’re
bringing jobs home from China.  (Applause.)  
  
When the last guy was here — when the last guy was here, your pensions
were at risk.  We helped save millions of pensions with your help. 
(Applause.)  
  
When the last guy was here, he looked at the world from Park Avenue. 
Well, I look at it from Scranton, Pennsylvania.  I look at it from
Claymont, Delaware.  (Applause.)  Not a joke.    
  
Folks, all my time in public life, I’ve been referred to as
“Middle-class Joe.”  I guess they thought that was a — the — somehow not
very complimentary.  Well, guess what?  That’s who I am.  It doesn’t
mean you’re not sophisticated because you’re middle class.  It means you
work like hell.  And you know what?  Your family has to work like hell
to be able to make it.  (Applause.)   
  
Well, I’m awful sophisti- — I’m awful sophisticated about one thing.  I
know who built this country.  I’ve been saying this since I ran the
first time.  Let me say it loud and clear: Wall Street didn’t build
America.  The middle class built America, and unions built the middle
class.  (Applause.)  That’s a fact.  That’s not hyperbole.  That’s a
fact.  Unions built the middle class.  
  
When I look out at this crowd, I see folks in my neighborhood when I
grew up in Scranton and Claymont.  People with physical courage and
brains.  People who busted their necks their whole lives to care for
their families.  People who get up every day and work like the devil to
pay their taxes and volunteer in their communities.  
  
You’re too modest.  You don’t talk enough about what you have to do. 
But I tell you — leaders all the time, “American union workers are the
best.”  And this is what I tell — I know every major head of state in
the — in the world.  Not a joke.  It’s because I’ve been around.  And
they look to America for foreign policy issues.  And guess what?  I make
the point: America has the best workers in the world.  That’s a fact. 
(Applause.)  
  
And you guys ought to talk about it more.  It can take four to five
years to train as an apprentice.  It’s like going back to college.  The
jobs are constantly changing.  The technology evolves.  You have to keep
stepping up.  You have to get more training.  You can’t — you — and so,
you can’t be the worst in the world.  You’re the best in the world.  No,
I — I really mean it.  
  
You know, like the sheet metal workers who used to use hand-drawn
blueprints to design ductwork in buildings now use sophisticated
computer-aided design systems so the entire project can be laid out in
3D.  It ain’t your father’s sheet metal workers.  This is a different
world, man.  
  
You do the job right and you do it on time.  And you cost less for the —
the guy you’re doing it for or the person’s outfit you do it for than if
they didn’t have labor.  
  
People are starting to understand it.  I met with the — with the — the
Business Roundtable.  They’re the big — bigshots in — in the corporate
America.  And I said — they said, “Why are you so pro-labor?”  I said,
“Why you don’t understand why I’m pro-labor?”  (Laughter.)  No, I’m
serious.  (Applause.)  
  
And I said — when I was vice president, I spoke with 364, I think it
was, CEOs of the Fortune 500 companies.  And we asked them, “What do you
most need?”  And do you know what they said?  “A better-educated
workforce.”  And I said, “Well, what the hell are you doing about it? 
You’re not doing much about it.  You’re fighting everything we’re doing
in the unions as well as on — in the Democratic Party to make people
better educated.  Why are you doing it?”  
  
Well, guess what?  All of a sudden, now you don’t see them going after
you nearly as much.  Why?  Because they know they need you.  
  
America’s support for union is higher today than any time in nearly 60
years.  (Applause.)  And I’m continuing to call on Congress to fully and
finally pass the Protect the Right to Organize — the PRO Act —
(applause) — which makes it easier to — too many companies are still
playing unfair, trying to prevent organization.  
  
The bill is named after one of the greatest leaders in the labor I’ve
ever worked with: Rich Trumka.  And guess what?  We’re going to get it
passed — (applause) — come hell or high water.

And, folks, my plan for the country is to make the economy work for
people like you.  Because when it works for people like you, it works
for everybody.

Like I said: In my first two years, I’ve created nearly 13.5 million
jobs — more jobs in two years than any president has created in a
four-year term — more.  (Applause.)  Eight hundred thousand new
manufacturing jobs.  (Applause.)  
  
Where is it written — where is it written that America will not lead the
world in manufacturing?  I don’t see it written anywhere, because we are
leading the world.  
  
Unemployment has been below 4 percent for the longest stretch in 50
years.  (Applause.)  We’ve recovered all the jobs lost during the
pandemic.  We’ve added millions more. 

People are coming off the sidelines to go to work.  More than 700,000
people joined the labor force last month, which means a higher share of
American — working-age Americans are now in the workforce than any time
in the last 20 years.  
  
Job satisfaction is higher than it’s been in 36 years, while
unemployment is down and inflation is down as well.  
  
Remember the experts said to get inflation down, we needed to — it’s
been the mantra of economists for a long time: You need to get inflation
under control, you need to lower wages, you need higher unemployment. 

Not on my watch.  (Applause.)

That’s right.  The answer was to lay people off and pay them less.  But
I never thought the problem was too many people working or working
people making too much money.  I’ve never seen that problem.  
  
We have to do more to put inflation down, but it’s down around 3
percent, about one third of what it was a year ago.  That’s near the
lowest point in two years, and wages are growing faster than
inflation.  
  
Folks, this just didn’t happen.  Together, we made it happen.

Decades of handing out excessive tax cuts to the rich and the
corporations without making the investments in America and the American
people — that had been a bust.  It’s all done — it was all done to
hollow out the middle class; blow up the deficit; ship jobs overseas;
strip the dignity, pride, and hope out of a community, one after
another, as they shut down the factory and sent it overseas because
labor was cheaper and we imported a more expensive product.

Well, guess what?  I’m pretty sure you saw in your home what I saw in
mine.  Not a whole lot of trickle-down ended up on my dad’s kitchen
table as he busted his neck.  (Applause.)  So, we’re changing that.  
  
We’re replacing trickle-down economics with what everyone on Wall Street
is referring to these days as “Bidenomics.”  And guess what?  It’s
working.  (Applause.)

It’s about building the economy from the middle out and the bottom up,
not the top down.  (Applause.)  Because I’m not — this is not a
political statement; this an economic statement.  When the middle class
does well, everyone does well.  (Applause.)

I’m a capitalist.  The poor do well.  And guess what?  You can still be
a millionaire or billionaire, except one thing: Pay your taxes. 
(Applause.)  Pay your taxes.

Bidenomics is a blue-collar blueprint for America.  It’s for you.

For example, last week we announced the new proposal — a new rule that
would extend overtime pay to as many as 3,600,0000 workers.  Now it’s
about 35 grand — 36 grand before you can get — after that, you don’t get
overtime.  Well, now it’s 53 grand, man. (Applause.) 

And guess what?  Is you got a whole lot of people working as the
executive assistants, working a hell of a lot more than 40 hours and not
getting paid overtime.  Now you’re going to get paid overtime. 
(Applause.)

It would make a big difference for a lot of families.  
  
We did something else that matters a whole lot to folks in this parking
lot.  We passed the Butch Lewis Act, which protected pensions for
millions of union workers.  (Applause.)

It’s one of the most significant achievements for union workers and
retirees in over 50 years.

And for the folks at home who don’t know why it matters, let me
explain.  Two to three million union workers, through no fault of their
own, after paying into their pension for years, faced painful cuts to
benefits they were counting on in retirement.

Why?  They were going to \[be\] left high and dry while companies they
worked for didn’t hold up their end of the bargain and finance their end
of the bargain.  We just couldn’t let that happen.  
  
And, I might add, we got it passed with not a single, solitary
Republican vote.  Not one voted to sustain these pensions.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  People worked their whole life —

No, I mean — I’m — think about it, though.  Why in the hell would they
do that?  Can you imagine if it was reversed?  Can you imagine if they
came along and said they were- —  
  
Any- — I don’t want to get going.  (Laughter.)

Democrats passed it because Democrats know the value of hard work. 
(Applause.)

We also passed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  You can’t have the
strongest economy in the world with a second-rate infrastructure.

Can you believe we used to have the best infrastructure in the world and
then we fell to number 13 in the world.  Roads, bridges, Internet — the
whole deal.  Thirteen.  The United States of America, 13th in the
world.  
  
But guess what?  Guess what?  The great real-estate builder — the last
guy here, he didn’t build a damn thing.  (Laughter and applause.)

Under my predecessor, Infrastructure Week became a punchline.   
  
On my watch, infrastructure is being a decade and it’s a headline. 
(Applause.)  
  
And, folks, we’re investing in America — in our roads, bridges, ports,
airports, clean water, high-speed Internet, and so much more.

Over $10 billion has already been committed to the state of
Pennsylvania.  (Applause.)  
  
We’ve already announced $78 million going to the city of Philadelphia to
make improvements along the approximately 12.3 miles of Roosevelt
Boulevard and North Broad Street — (applause) — the Bucks County line,
including upgrades to traffic signals, installing new transit and bike
paths, pedestrian paths.  (Applause.)  
  
We’re upgrading airports from Pittsburgh to Lehigh Valley, right here in
Philly.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Ninety-five!

THE PRESIDENT:  And — you got it.  Ninety-five is — we — we ha- — we
have — we got a — I got it, man.  I got it.  (Laughter and applause.)  
And, Bobby —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  You got it, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  And, Bobby Casey, we’re finally going to get that rail
line from Scranton to New York.  I’m going to get that done. 
(Applause.)

My grandf- — you think I’m joking.  I’m not joking.  It’s a big deal. 
It’s a big deal.  And economically, it will be a big deal. 
Economically, be a big deal.

And guess who’s going to build these projects?

AUDIENCE:  We are!

THE PRESIDENT:  You are!  Labor.  (Applause.)  Union labor.  
Sheet metal workers.  Electricians.  Operating engineers.  Ironworkers. 
Steel workers.  Laborers.  Bricklayers.  Plumbers.  Pipefitters.  Cement
masons.  Painters.

Look, we’re creating good-paying, prevailing-wage jobs, where you don’t
need a college degree to make a decent income, but you got to work as
hard to get a college degree.  
  
And, by the way, we’re going to transition to an electric vehicle future
made in America.  It will be made in America.  (Applause.)  And that
protects and expands good union jobs.  
  
Auto manufacturing has large been a middle- — largely been a
middle-class career with good pay that you could raise a family on. 
Well, that’s not going to change on my watch.  (Applause.)

Look, one of the core principles throughout everything we’ve done is
this: Make it in America with American products, with American labor. 
(Applause.)  
  
Most people don’t know there’s been a federal law on the books.  And 20
years ago, I didn’t know it either, to be honest with you. 

Since 1933, the law says that when Congress appropriates money for the
president to administer, whether it’s for an aircraft carrier or a
federal highway, the president is supposed to hire American workers and
use only American products. 

But guess what?  For too long, too many presidents didn’t have the nerve
to insist on it.  Well, I’m insisting on it.  (Applause.)  
  
When I took office, I was determined that we’d never again be in a
position where, during the pandemic, supply chains broke down and
American — American companies couldn’t get the parts and products they
needed.  So I was determined to bring the supply chains home, to invest
in America.  And guess what?  And that’s encouraging the private sector
to do the same.  
  
Since I took office, the private companies are investing their money —
$510 billion — investing in America — (applause) — creating jobs instead
of sending it overseas.  
  
For example, I met with the chairman of one of the largest semiconductor
manufacturers in the world.  And, by the way, we invented the
semiconductor.  (Applause.)  We used to have 40 percent of the market.

Well, it’s based in South Korea, this group.  It’s called SK Group. 
They’re investing $22 billion in America, building facilities to make
these chips here in America.

When I asked the CEO why — why America, here’s what he said: “Number
one, there’s no safer place in the world to have my investment than the
United States of America.”  (Applause.)  “And number two…” — this is the
God’s truth — “…you have the best workers in the world.”  (Applause.)  
  
He was right about — on both counts.  
  
The long and short of it is we’re making things here in America again
with American workers, with American products, in American factories. 
For too long, we’ve been exporting jobs.  Corporations were shutting
down factories throughout the country, from Pennsylvania to all through
the Midwest.  For communities — generations having worked in a
particular factory get shipped overseas because labor was cheaper,
depriving that county and that city of pride, sending jobs overseas, and
importing finished products from overseas.   
  
Well, we’re not doing that anymore.  We’re creating good-paying union
jobs and exporting union-made products to the rest of the world. 
(Applause.)  
  
And maybe equally important, we’re bringing back pride to those scores
of cities across America.  I believe Americans who are willing to work
hard should be able to get a job no matter where they live — in the
Heartland, small towns, big cities; raise their kids on a good paycheck
— paycheck; and keep their roots where they grew up.   
  
And even with what we’ve done — unlike the last president — in my first
two years, all this stuff — guess what?  I cut the deficit $1.7 trillion
— (applause) — cut the <s>debt</s> \[deficit\] $1.7 trillion.

And one more thing: One of the ways I was able to invest in you and
still bring down the deficit was I started making people pay their fair
share.  Fifty-five — although you may remember hearing me say this for
the longest time — fifty-five of the largest corporations in America,
the Fortune 500, paid zero in federal taxes.  Making $40 billion, they
paid zero.  
  
Well, guess what?  It’s not fair, but I changed it.  Now they’re paying
a minimum of 15 percent paying for all this stuff.  (Applause.)  
  
By the way, how many of you think the tax code is fair?   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  You got it, man.  
  
You know, the idea that over a thousand billionaires — billionaires —
billion, not million — billionaires in America, you know what they pay
in federal taxes on average?  Eight percent.  How many of you want to —
if I had a deal, said, “Okay, no matter what you do, you only have to
pay 8 percent.  Raise your hand.”  You’d take it in a heartbeat,
right?   
  
Well, they pay a lower rate than you, than teachers, firefighters, and
probably anyone in this parking lot.  It’s time we get paid — they paid
at least a minimum tax.   
  
The bottom line is this: You pay enough.  It’s time for big corporations
and the very wealthy to start paying their fair share.  (Applause.)  
  
And I made a promise when I got elected so there would be no mistakes
that no one making under $400,000 — any of you making 400 — over 400
grand here?  No one making under $400,000 will see their federal taxes
go up a single penny.  So I couldn’t be — use the malarkey that they say
I’m raising taxes on middle-class people.  (Laughter.)  
  
I made my promise, and I’ll keep it.  
  
Let me close with this.  We’ve faced some pretty tough times in recent
years.  The pandemic took more than a million — a million of our friends
and neighbors, sons and daughters.  There’s a lot of empty chairs at
Christmas and a lot of empty chairs when you sit down for Thanksgiving —
mother, father, brother, sister, husband, wife.  
  
It generated the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.  It
wasn’t that long ago that 20 million people were out of work.   
  
But you didn’t give up.  Philadelphia didn’t give up.  America didn’t
give up.   
  
As I’ve said a thousand times, there is no quit in America. 
(Applause.)  None.   
  
All I hear with my friends on the other side — what they say is wrong
with America.  They keep telling us America is failing.  They’re
wrong.  
  
I’ve got news for them.  America has the strongest economy in the world
right now, today; the lowest inflation rate among any major economy;
13.5 million new jobs.  
  
And there’s no one reason for it.  It’s not because of me, although a
part — our products have helped.  And not just the Democratic Party. 
It’s you.  I mean it sincerely.  Not — not a joke.  
  
It’s the American people — your grit, determination.  You never quit. 
Whatever we set our mind to as a country — think about this — any goal
we’ve ever set, we’ve never failed to accomplish.  That’s not going to
change now.   
  
America isn’t failing; America is winning.  And the rest of the world
knows it.  That’s why our friends and allies are looking to us.   
  
Look, I’m proud of the historic legislation my administration passed, a
lot of which wouldn’t have happened without — and so much of it affects
you — without you.  We passed the PACT Act, one of the most significant
laws ever signed for veterans exposed to toxic metals and their
families.  (Applause.)  
  
You know, I have a saying I’ve used my whole career.  We have only one
truly sacred obligation: to equip those we send into harm’s way and care
for them and their families when they come home and when they don’t come
home as well.  (Applause.)  
  
It was part of my agenda in the State of the Union.  
  
How many of you here are veterans?  Raise your hand.  We’ve got a lot of
veterans here.  (Applause.)  
  
Well, that obligation is sacred to prepare and equip you all and to deal
with you when you come home.  
  
Folks, we’ve taken the right steps not only to get our economy moving
again, but to build to the future.  And the real hero in this story is
you.  I’m not being solicitous.  
  
The American people, the people of Philadelphia, the working people of
this country — you’re the ones getting up every day, walking out that
door, and doing your work.  And I’ve long said it’s never, ever, ever
been a good bet to bet against America.  (Applause.)  And it’s not a
good bet today.  
  
We’re still a country that believes in honesty and decency and
integrity.  We’re still a country that believes in hard work and giving
everyone a fair shot because we’re still a country that believes that
every one of us is created equal.  We’re still the beacon of the free
world.  Not a joke.  
  
And it’s because small towns and rural America, suburbs, big cities all
across the country — everyday, ordinary people do the most extraordinary
things.   
  
And let me tell you: America’s best days are ahead of us.  They’re ahead
of us, not behind us.  (Applause.)  It’s about the future.  This is
about the future.  
  
And la- — I can honestly say I’ve been doing this a long while but I’ve
never been more optimistic about America’s future.  
  
We just have to remember who we are.  We are the United States of
America.  (Applause.)  There is nothing — nothing, nothing beyond our
capacity if we work together.  
  
So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  You’re the
best.  You’re the best.  You really are the best.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
10:08 A.M. EDT
