---
date: '2023-09-22'
published_time: 2023-09-22 18:33:18-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/22/remarks-by-president-biden-on-gun-safety/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Gun\_Safety"
---
 
Rose Garden

3:02 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, thank you, thank you. (Applause.) Thank you,
thank you, thank you.

Everyone should sit, except Mom and Dad. Mom and Dad, stand up. I want
everybody to see the parents of this proud, young, new congressman.
(Applause.) You did a heck of a job.

Congressman Frost, thank you for the introduction. And you’ve helped
power a movement that’s turning a cause into reality. You know, you’re a
big reason why I’m so optimistic about America’s future. So many — so
many engaged young people — so many engaged.

I remember when I was young. (Laughter.) We have something in common: I
got elected to the Senate when I was 29 years old. Only difference was
he was eligible when he got elected to take office; I had to wait 17
days to be eligible. That was 827 years ago, but it was a while.
(Laughter.)

And folks, Vice President Harris, members of the Cabinet, and so many
members of Congress who are here and the relentless leaders on this
critical issue.

You know, one of the members who couldn’t be here today is a really
important member: Senator Chris Murphy. With Chris, who, together with
Congressman Frost, introduced the bill that created a dedicated gun
violence prevention office — he couldn’t be here today.

Since the tragedy in Sandy Hook — and I remember being there. I remember
that — how I met with every one of the parents who were there. I met
with every member — every family member.

And what I do also remember is that — I remember as we were leaving, the
state police doing the investigation asked the senator if they’d meet
with me — if I could meet with them. And I said of course I would. And I
think there were about 12 to 14 of them. I walked in a room, and two of
them started crying. And they said, “We need help. We need help.” And I
looked at them; I said, “What can I do?” They said, “We need psychiatric
help. We need help. We need help.”

Anyone who doesn’t think that these kinds of engagements have a
permanent effect on young children — and, in many cases, alter their
entire lives even if they’ve never had a bullet touch them —
misunderstands. These were hard and tough cops asking me could I get
them psychiatric help.

To all the state and local leaders and advocates from all across the
country — and to the survivors and families who are with us today, many
of whom Jill and I have gotten to know —

And, by the way, our losses may be different circumstances, but I know
events like this are really hard to attend. You want to be here to
promote the change, but it brings back all the memories as if it
happened a day ago.

And I thank you, those of you who are parents, for being here —
brothers, sisters for being here. It matters. You have absolute courage;
you found purpose in your pain.

And because of all of you here today, all across the country, survivors,
families, advocates — especially young people who demand our nation do
better to protect all; who protested, organized, voted, and ran for
office, and, yes, marched for their lives — I’m proud to announce the
creation of the first-ever White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention
— the first office in our history. (Applause.)

I created — by executive order, I determined to send a clear message
about how important this issue is to me and to the country. It matters.

And here’s why: After every mass shooting, we hear a simple message —
the same message heard all over the country, and I’ve been to every mass
shooting: Do something. Please do something. Do something to prevent the
tragedies that leave behind survivors who will always carry the physical
and emotional scars, families who will never be the same, communities
overwhelmed by grief and trauma. Do something. Do something.

Well, my administration has been working relentlessly to do something.

To date, my administration has announced dozens of executive actions to
reduce gun violence — more than any of my predecessors at this point in
their presidencies. And they include everything from cracking down on
ghost guns, breaking up gun trafficking, and so much more. (Applause.)

And last year, with the help — your help, I signed into law the
Bipartisan Safer Communities Act: the most significant gun safety law in
almost 30 years. (Applause.) It strengthens background checks, expands
the use of red flag laws, improves access to mental health services, and
so much more.

This historic law will save lives. It’s a really important first step.

And, by the way, I was the guy — along with a woman in California — who
also — we once banned assault weapons and multiple magazines. We’re
going to do it again.

A call to action. A reason to hope. Because for so long, the
conventional wisdom was we’d never get any Republicans to support gun
safety legislation. But we did.

For the first time in three decades, we came together to overcome the
relentless opposition from the gun lobby, gun manufacturers, and so many
politicians opposing commonsense gun legislation. And we beat them.
(Applause.)

And we did it through a bipartisan effort that included the majority of
responsible gun owners.

We’re not stopping here. Again, it’s — I’ll say it again. I’m not going
to be quiet until we get it done: It’s time again to ban assault weapons
and high-capacity magazines. (Applause.)

If you need 80 shots in a magazine, you shouldn’t own a gun.

Because, look, last time we did it, it worked.

We also — last time, we established universal background checks and
require safe storage of firearms. It’s time. It’s time. (Applause.)

Look, while we push — we push for Congress to do more, we’re going to
centralize, accelerate, and intensify our work to save more lives more
quickly.

That’s why this new White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention — it’s
what it’s designed to do. It will drive and coordinate a government and
a nationwide effort to reduce gun violence in America.

And it will be overseen by an incredible vice president, who understands
this — (applause) — more than any vice president has. No, really. That’s
not hyperbole. That’s a fact. She’s been on the frontlines of this issue
her entire career as a prosecutor, as an attorney general, and as a
United States senator. Her deep experience will be invaluable for this
office.

And Stef — where is Stef Feldman?

THE VICE PRESIDENT: She’s right there.

THE PRESIDENT: Stef, I want you to stand up, please. Stef Feldman —
(applause) — who’s been working on this issue with me since the Sandy
Hook in 2012 — she was 13 years old when she joined me, but — (laughter)
— since 2012 — will serve as director of the office.

An office — and the office will have four primary responsibilities:

First, to expedite the implementation of the Bipartisan Safer
Communities Act and the executive actions already announced. And I mean
it: We’re going to fully implement it.

Second, coordinate more support for survivors, families, and communities
affected by gun violence, including mental health care, financial
assistance — the same way FEMA responds to natural disasters.
(Applause.) The same way. And it helps folks recover and rebuild and
alter. Look, folks, shootings are the ultimate superstorm, ripping
through communities.

Third, identify new executive actions we can take within our legal
authority to reduce gun violence.

And fourth, expand our coalition of partners in states and cities across
America because we do have partners to get more — we need more state and
local help to get these laws passed locally as well — and to strengthen
our laws and give us more hope.

Folks, to be clear, none of these steps alone is going to solve the
entirety of the gun violence epidemic. None of them. But together, they
will save lives. (Applause.) And it’s going to help — it will help rally
the nation with a sense of urgency and seriousness of purpose.

Today, guns — I never thought I’d even remotely say this in my whole
career — guns are the number one killer of children in America. Guns are
the number one killer of children in America — the United States of
America. More than car accidents, more than cancer, more than other
diseases.

In 2023 so far, our country has experienced more than 500 mass shootings
and well over 30,000 deaths due to gun violence. That’s just totally
unacceptable. It’s not who we are. And we have to act, and we have to
act now.

And let me be very clear: If members of the Congress refuse to act, then
we’ll need to elect new members of Congress that will act. (Applause.)
Democrat or Republican.

Look, folks, there comes a point where our voices are so loud and our
determination so clear that our effort can no longer be stopped. We’re
reaching that point — we’ve reached that point today, in my view, where
the safety of our kids from gun violence is on the ballot.

At the end of the day, whether they’re Democrats or Republicans, we all
want our families to be safe. We all want to go to school, houses of
worship, grocery stores, gyms, malls, movies without constant anxiety.

We all want our kids to have the freedom to learn how to read and write
in school instead of duck and cover, for God’s sake. And it matters.

So, let me close with this. Earlier this summer, I was in Connecticut at
a summit on gun safety hosted by Senator Murphy. Four students impacted
by gun violence, who are here with us today, summoned extraordinary
courage and stood and shared their stories on stage. Four of them.

They each came from different backgrounds, different parts of the
country, different shootings. But they shared a common, singular message
that one of them summed up in just a few words, and I quote, “the deadly
and traumatic price for inaction.” That’s what he talked about: the
deadly and traumatic price for inaction.

They made clear what all of you know too well — that price can no longer
be the lives of our children and the people of our country. They spoke
for an entire generation of Americans who will not be ignored, will not
be shunned, and will not be silenced. (Applause.)

And I know — I know progress is hard. I’ve been at this a long time. But
we’ve done it before, and we can do it again. If we’re here, I’m here to
tell you that you — and Vice President Harris hears you as well.

You’re right. You’re right. We’re by your side, and we’re never going to
get up — give up dealing with this problem. We’re never going to forget
your loved ones. We’re never going to get there unless we remember.

You know, I know we’ll do this because I know you: heroes. Heroes
proving that even with heavy hearts, you have unbreakable spirits. In
memory of your loved ones, you’re building a movement that endures.

Above all, you’ll never give up on the one thing we must never lose:
hope, hope, hope.

Jill and I, Kamala and Doug, our entire administration are more
determined than ever to carry forward that hope, that inspiration, that
light that you continue to give us all.

For the lives we have lost — for the lives we can save, we can do this.
We just have to keep going. We just have to keep the faith. We just have
to remember who we are.

Every time I’d walk out of my grandpop’s house up in Scranton, he’d
yell, for real, “Joey, keep the faith.” And my grandmother would yell,
“No, Joey, spread it. Spread it.” (Applause.) That’s what we have to do:
spread the faith.

And remember — remember — and I mean this sincerely: We are the United
States of America. There is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity when
we do it together. Nothing we’ve ever tried to solve, when we’ve done it
together, we haven’t succeeded.

May God bless you all. May God protect our troops. And may God protect
our children. Thank you so very much. (Applause.)

3:30 P.M. EDT
