---
date: '2023-09-11'
modified_time: 2023-09-11 12:28:56-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-11 12:28:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/11/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-vo-van-thuong-of-vietnam-at-a-state-luncheon/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President V\xF5 V\u0103n Th\u01B0\u1EDFng\
  \ of Vietnam at a State\_Luncheon"
---
 
Presidential Palace, Yellow Room  
Hanoi, Vietnam

1:26 P.M. ICT

MODERATOR: (As interpreted.) Today, on the occasion of the state visit
to Vietnam by President Joe Biden, President of the Socialist Republic
of Vietnam, His Excellency Võ Văn Thưởng, solemnly hosts the banquet
(inaudible) President Joe Biden and the high-level delegation of the
United States of America.

We are very honored to invite your Excellency, President Võ Văn Thưởng,
to deliver his welcome remarks.

PRESIDENT THƯỞNG: (As interpreted.) Honorable President Joseph Biden,
distinguished American and Vietnamese guests, on behalf of the state and
people of Vietnam, once again, I would like to warmly welcome you,
President Joseph Biden of the United States of America, to Vietnam on
your first state visit.

Your visit is truly significant. It builds on the very special character
of Vietnam-U.S. relations. You are the first U.S. president to visit
Vietnam at the invitation of the General Secretary of the Communist
Party of Vietnam, Nguyễn Phú Trọng.

During this visit, you have also joined General Secretary Nguyễn Phú
Trọng to announce the upgrade of relations to a Comprehensive Strategic
Partnership for peace, cooperation, and sustainable development. This is
truly a new page in the relationship between our two countries — an
enduring, stable long-term framework that opens up a vast space for
further development of the bond between us for decades to follow.

Mr. President, distinguished guests, a mere five months after national
independence, President Hồ Chí Minh penned a letter addressing President
Truman, expressing the desire to establish a bond of full cooperation
with the United States. As history would have it, this desire had to
confront countless turmoil and challenges — all of such we have
overcome. And today, we can speak with joy that never before has the
relationship between our two countries reached such flourishing height
as today.

From former enemies to Comprehensive Strategic Partners, this is truly a
model in the history of international relations as to how reconciliation
and relationship-building should proceed after a war. This is a result
of the efforts to walk past such challenges and vicissitudes of history
by so many generations of our country’s leaders and people.

Over the past 50 years, we have witnessed events of such significance in
the relationship and the unprecedented quantum leaps in our
relationship. There have been momentous achievements in various areas of
cooperation between Vietnam and the U.S. — from economic, trade,
investment ties and in education and training cooperation, to various
mechanisms for dialogue and joint efforts across different domains and
sectors.

Across the comprehensive areas of cooperation between us, I would like
to specifically call to attention the truly pride-worthy and striking
achievements in our cooperation in addressing war legacy issues.

Allow me to cite the dioxin remediation projects in Da Nang and Bien Hoa
airports; support given by the U.S. in various ways to Vietnamese
persons with disabilities, including Agent Orange victims of the second
and third generation; and the re- — and the removal of UXOs left behind
after the war.

And most recently, for the first time, our two countries have started
working together to conduct forensic identification of yet unidentified
remains of Vietnamese war martyrs. I would like to express my heartfelt
gratitude to generations of U.S. administrations and people — and to
you, Mr. President, and the First Lady, Dr. Jill Biden — for your active
support for Vietnam in the humanitarian field.

On our part, since 1973, Vietnam has actively conducted unilateral
searches for American MIAs. In 1988, both sides commenced the first
joint mission. After half a century, the co- — the full cooperation
between Vietnam and U.S. in this area is still growing stronger and
stronger. Many American MIAs lost in high mountains or deep oceans, even
the — on grounds hardly ever tread, have since been found — their
remains returned to their home.

Mr. President, distinguished guests, to quote Secretary General Nguyễn
Phú Trọng, “Set aside the past, overcome differences, build on
similarities, look to the future.”

You have also pledged your support for a strong, independent, resilient,
and prosperous Vietnam. I have a strong belief that building on the
length of Vietnam-U.S. relations with mutual trust and respect, and
given the new driver we have established during your visit, the
Strategic — Comprehensive Strategic Partnership for peace, cooperation,
and sustainable development between Vietnam and the U.S. will continue
to grow in strength and substance and bring concrete benefits to our two
peoples, make positive contributions to peace, friendship, cooperation
and sustainable development in the region and the world.

Let me take this opportunity to express my respectful gratitude to the
different agencies, organizations, and individuals from both countries
who, from one generation to the next, have tirelessly cultivated and
nurtured the relationship between Vietnam and the U.S.

Of these very exemplary persons, I would like to especially honor the
late Senator John McCain, former Senator Patrick Leahy, and Special
Presidential Envoy John Kerry — truly close friends of Vietnam through
the years.

Let us, in the generations to come, work together to build on these
efforts to preserve, reinforce, and grow this special relationship, take
it higher and further in the warm atmosphere of friendship and
cooperation between Vietnam and the United States of America.

Let us raise our glasses to the happiness of the American people and the
prosperity of the United States of America, to the flourishing
Comprehensive Strategic Partnership between Vietnam and the United
States of America, to the good health of President Joe Biden, and to the
good health of all present here today. (Applause.)

(President Thưởng offers a toast.)

MODERATOR: Now we have the great honor to invite Your Excellency, Mr.
Joe Biden, President of the United States of America, to respond.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Mr. President, the — the great Vietnamese poet Nguyễn
Du once wrote, “In glory they made up for their past hardships, and
their love got fresher and warmer each day.”

Mr. President, friends, it’s an honor to be here today on this historic
occasion, a day when we feel all the glory and warmth of the boundless
possibilities that lie ahead — a day that may have seemed impossible not
that long ago.

As a matter of fact, I was just in the other room with my very close and
old friend, Tom Vallely, who is the guy who put together the Fulbright
University. And he was helping me when I was a much younger man trying
to get the nomination for president.

And we were sitting in a small twin-engine plane. And I looked at him,
and I said, “Tom, why are you doing this for me?” He said, “Because I
want to fundamentally change the relationship with Vietnam.” And he had
been here as a soldier. “I want to fundamentally change that
relationship.” And he’s worked his whole career to do that.

And, you know, for — we — as we sit side by side, Mr. President, we’re
reminded of the hard work we all did to get here to overcome the
hardships of the past and seize the promises of the future — one of
greater opportunity, dignity, security, and prosperity for all our
people.

And as we trace this 50-year arc of progress between our nations,
there’s one common denominator: you, our people, our activities, our
activists, our entrepreneurs, our scholars, our veterans, our
innovators, and our leaders who never forget — like Senator, later
Secretary Kerry, who was a brave soldier who fought here but wanted,
every day since then, to make it better. Everyone in both our countries
who’s working to make sure that people, no matter who they are, can
seize potential of this moment.

I want to thank three close friends again in normalizing these
relations: John Kerry, Tommy Vallely, and a close friend of the three of
us — a guy who is not here today; a guy who, when he returned from
Vietnam, came to work for me as a military aide in the United States
Senate and then I convinced him he should run for United States Senate.
He ran in the other party. We argued like hell from that point on, but
we still loved one another. And John McCain, who I miss — we all three
of us miss dearly today.

We know where there was darkness, you all found light. Where there was
hardship, you found healing to bring us forward, to bring us together,
to bring us to this day. It’s testament to how far our countries have
come but, most importantly, how far we will go in the years ahead.

And that’s what Comprehensive Strategic Partners is about — and thank
you for inviting us to have that status — going forward together,
tackling challenges together, facing the future together.

So please join me, if you will, in — I’d like to make a toast. I quoted
a Vietnamese poet to begin with, and I’m going to quote — my colleagues
in the Senate always kidded me. I was always quoting Irish poets. I
quote them not because I’m Irish — because they’re the best poets in the
world. That’s why I quote them.

But all kidding aside. There is a great quote from a man whose wife I
got to know after he passed away, Seamus Heaney. And he wrote a poem
called “The Cure at Troy.” And this is my toast to all of you.

He said, “History teaches us, don’t hope on this side of the grave. But
then, once in a lifetime, that longed-for tidal wave of justice rises
up, and hope and history rhyme.”

Here’s to us making hope and history rhyme for all our people. God bless
you all. (Applause.)

(President Biden offers a toast.)

1:40 P.M. ICT
