---
date: '2023-09-22'
published_time: 2023-09-22 19:29:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/22/remarks-at-cancer-moonshot-roundtable-at-the-fred-hutchinson-cancer-center/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at Cancer Moonshot\
  \ Listening Session at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer\_Center"
---
 
Seattle, WA

\*\*\*

Thank you, Dr. Lynch, and the staff here at Fred Hutch for hosting me
here today.

Of all the things cancer steals from us, time is the cruelest. We can’t
afford to wait another minute for better solutions, better treatments,
better cures.

That’s why my husband, President Biden, and I reignited the Biden Cancer
Moonshot – our White House initiative to build a world where cancer is
not a death sentence. Where we stop cancer before it starts. Where we
catch it early and help people live longer, healthier, happier lives.
Where we invest in innovative research and help patients and their
families navigate this journey.

For survivors, that journey doesn’t end when they are declared “cancer
free.” Side effects from treatment and the constant fear of that next
doctor’s appointment linger through remission.

But with research and the right care for survivors, we can mitigate
those side effects and help ease those fears.

That’s what’s happening here at Fred Hutch, where researchers are
working to prevent breast cancer from coming back and metastasizing in
survivors, and where clinicians are supporting survivors with quality
care that’s designed to meet their unique needs.

There are 18 million cancer survivors across our country, and thanks to
the amazing work being done here, we are adding to that number each day.

As I’ve traveled the country and the world – I’ve seen innovative
programs and partnerships that are making progress. I’ve seen what is
possible when we invest in cutting edge research. And I’ve seen that
there is so much hope to be found.

I see that hope here today as well. Your work will change lives, and
save lives.

Through the Biden Cancer Moonshot, we are putting American innovation to
work for patients.

And together, we will make it so the word cancer loses its power, so
fewer families know the pain of losing a loved one to this disease.

That’s the reason we’re all here. That’s why I’m asking you to lean in
just a little more, to push your staffs just a little harder – for all
the families touched by cancer across the country that are in a race
against time.

That is the urgency of now.

For Joe and me, this is the mission of our lives. And we are ready and
proud to work beside you.

Now, I look forward to hearing your insights today, and I will bring
your stories back to the White House so that others can benefit from
your expertise.

Thank you.

\###

## 
