---
date: '2023-09-05'
published_time: 2023-09-05 19:11:45-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/05/remarks-by-president-biden-at-presentation-of-the-medal-of-honor-to-army-captain-larry-l-taylor/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Presentation of the Medal of Honor to Army\
  \ Captain Larry L.\_Taylor"
---
 
East Room

3:31 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Please be seated. Thank you.

What a distinguished group of Americans. Former Medal of Honor winners,
thank you for being here.

Folks, in a few days, young women and men from across the country are
going to arrive at Fort Worth, Georgia, to attend Ranger School, one of
the toughest military courses in the world. For nearly 20 hours every
day, they’ll run, march, swim, and climb some of the most challenging
obstacles under the most grueling of conditions.

But most importantly, they’ll learn how to lead, studying the stories of
our greatest nation’s warriors.

They include the story of a pilot who, 55 years ago, risked his own life
to save a group of young soldiers like them. The pilot we honor today:
Captain Larry Taylor.

The Medal of Honor is our nation’s oldest and highest recognition of
valor.

Now, when I called Larry to let him know he finally was receiving this
recognition, his response was, “I thought you had to do something to
receive the Medal of Honor.” (Laughter.) Let me say that again. He said,
“I thought you had to do something to receive the Medal of Honor.”

Well, Larry, you sure in hell did something, man. If you ask anyone
here, I’m pretty sure they’d say something — you did something
extraordinary. That includes our Secretary of the — of the — of the
Defense Austin — Secretary Austin, Secretary McDonough, the Army — the
Secretary of the Army Wormuth, Chairman Milley, and Senator Black- —
where is Senator — Senator Blackburn? — and also Senator Hagerty, who
all have joined us today.

I also want to thank the previous Medal of Honor recipients who have
come to recognize their brother in arms: Paris Davis, Walter Marm, and
James McCloughan, and Leroy Petey — Pe- — Petry, excuse me. Gentlemen,
you’re the very best the nation has to offer. We owe you.

The same goes for Sergeant David Hill — Vietnam veteran; former
firefighter; and as the last surviving member of Larry’s mission, the
driving force behind his Medal of Honor nomination.

On behalf of our nation, thank you all for being here.

And finally, Toni. Larry learned many ranks and call signs throughout
his military service — he earned them: Captain, Dark Horse, Mustang, and
probably a few we can’t say out loud. (Laughter.) Best left out of the
presidential record, I guess. (Laughs.) But I believe — I believe that
Larry is most proud of being called your husband.

And it’s an honor — it’s an honor to have you both here as we give this
heroism its full recognition that it deserves.

Born in the Volunteer State, raised by a World War Two veteran, duty
defined Larry Taylor’s life from his earliest days.

As a young man, he volunteered to join the college ROTC unit at the
University of Tennessee Knoxville. Then, after graduating in 1966, he
commissioned as an Armor Officer.

Larry had dreamed of leading in- — leading men into battle on what he
called “chariots of steel.” But it didn’t take many days on the ground
for Larry to realize he belonged in the sky. He wanted to be a pilot.
Not just any pilot. A Cobra pilot, flying the newest, fastest, deadliest
Army helicopter at the time: a gunship built for only two people and
their ammo.

So, when Larry was ordered — and when Larry was ordered — was offered a
spot to fly in the Fighting First in Vietnam, he jumped at the chance.
It was there that then-Lieutenant Taylor would go above and beyond the
call of duty, quite literally.

June 18th, 1968, it was pitch black — no moon, no stars, no light beyond
the glow of Lieutenant Taylor’s cockpit controls — when he heard a
whisper come in through his radio, “We’re surrounded. We’re surrounded.”
That’s what he heard.

The call had come from a four-man Army patrol unit just northeast of
Saigon, a unit that included Sergeant David Hill.

Earlier that day, the men had set out to recon the area. But in the
dark, the men found themselves in the middle of the Vietnam — Viet Cong
stronghold. Nearly a hundred enemy soldiers now encircled their unit.

The men picked up their radio and made a call. It was no longer a recon
mission. They needed a rescue mission. Without hesitation, Lieutenant
Taylor and his co-pilot began racing toward them. Over the radio, he
laid out the gameplan. He would use his Cobra to give the unit cover
until a rescue helicopter could extract them.

That was one — there was just one simple problem: It was pitch black.
Lieutenant Taylor couldn’t determine exactly where they were.

So, he asked his men to launch a flare — a move that would reveal their
location to him but also to the enemy. Lieutenant Taylor knew the risk,
but he was ready. Over the radio, he said, “Let’s get to work.” The
flare went up, and the flight — fight was on.

The enemy fire lit up the night. Lieutenant Taylor and his co-pilot dove
down, positioning their Cobra nearly parallel with the Viet Cong
fighters. They flew dangerously low level for more than a half an hour,
firing thousands of rounds of rockets to cover the ground — cover —
cover the ground on which the men were.

Then, Lieutenant Taylor heard a sound that only meant one thing: His
helo was hit. And then it was hit again and again and again.

At that point, according to Army standards, he could have left the
fight. But Lieutenant Taylor had his own sacred standard: Quote, “You
never leave a man on the ground,” end of quote.

He tried to find an escape route for the unit, his Cobra taking more
rounds as he did. He kept trying to radio for a rescue, knowing that he
and his men below were almost out of time and ammunition.

On his last try, he learned that any attempt to save the men had been
called off. The rescue heli- — helicopter was not coming.

Instead, Lieutenant Taylor received a direct order: “Return to base.”
His response was just as direct: “I’m getting my men out.” “I’m getting
my men out.”

Lieutenant Taylor would perform the extraction himself, a maneuver never
before accomplished in a Cobra.

Remember, the Cobra was only — a gunship only. It had no cabin for
passengers. But that was the least of his problems.

First, Lieutenant Taylor needed to give his men a way out of the rice
paddy where they had been pinned down. He needed diversion. So, despite
the fact that he had no rockets or rounds left, Lieutenant Taylor drew
the enemy fire himself. Using his landing light to trick the enemy into
thinking he still had ammo, he started making runs on the Viet Cong
fighters. The ruse worked a few times, but it was enough for the men to
make it to the extraction point.

There, still under heavy gunfire, Lieutenant Taylor landed. The men
mounted the exterior of his heli- — of his helo, clinging to the skids,
climbing on the rocket pods. Within seconds, Lieutenant Taylor was back
in the air.

But the mission wasn’t over. Lieutenant Taylor saw his fuel light
flickering. He had started off with 16- — 1,600 pounds of gas, and now
he had about 6 — not enough to make it back to base. Worse, the soldiers
he was carrying were covered in wet mud and clinging to the Cobra
against 50-knot wind — knots of wind. Even if he could make it back to
base, his men would freeze or fall first.

So, he once more risked his own safety for his fellow teammates. He
located a friendly area to set his bird down. The four men dismounted
the helo and disappeared back into the pitch-black night. No moon. No
stars. No light beyond the glow of their faces when they briefly turned
and saluted Lieutenant Taylor for saving all four of their lives.

He wouldn’t see some of these men again until 30 years later at Army
reunions. By that time, Lieutenant Taylor had long become Captain
Taylor. He had flown more than 2,000 combat missions. And he had
received a Silver Star, a Bronze Star, two Distinguished Flying Crosses,
and 43 Air Medals.

Thank, God, he’s not putting them all on his chest. He’d have trouble
standing. (Laughter.)

Incredible. No, really, think about it. It’s incredible.

But the greatest honor of all: Families showed up at these reunions,
too. They’d look for Larry. They’d hug him. They would say, “You don’t
know me, but you saved my daddy’s life.”

In a few days, young soldiers about the same age as Larry was during the
dark night in Vietnam, they’ll arrive at Ranger School. Like all of us
today, they’re inspired by his story, and they will be. But how — by how
he refused to give up. Refused to leave a fellow American behind.
Refused to put his own life above the lives of others in need.

When duty called, Larry did everything — did everything to answer. And
because of that, he rewrote the fate of four families for generations to
come.

That’s valor. That’s valor.

That’s our nation at its very best.

And that’s why it’s now my great honor to ask Lieutenant Colonel Ann
Hughes to read your Medal of Honor citation.

May God bless you all. And may God protect our troops.

LIEUTENANT COLONEL HUGHES: Attention to orders.

The President of the United States of America, authorized by Act of
Congress, March 3rd, 1863, has awarded in the name of Congress the Medal
of Honor to First Lieutenant Larry L. Taylor, United States Army, for
conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and
beyond the call of duty.

First Lieutenant Larry L. Taylor distinguished himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty while
serving with Troop Delta, 1st Squadron, 4th Cavalry, 1st Infantry
Division on June 18th, 1968, near the village of Ap Go Cong, Republic of
Vietnam.

On this date, First Lieutenant Taylor commanded a light fire team of two
Cobra helicopter gunships scrambled on a nighttime mission in response
to an urgent call for aerial fire support from a four-man, long-range
patrol team.

Upon arrival, First Lieutenant Taylor found the patrol team surrounded
and heavily engaged by a larger Viet Cong force. He immediately
requested illumination rounds and supporting artillery to assist with
identifying the enemy positions.

Despite intense enemy groundfire, he flew at a perilously low altitude,
placing a devastating volume of aerial rocket and machine gun fire on
the enemy forces encircling the friendly patrol.

For over approximately 45 minutes, First Lieutenant Taylor and his
wingman continued to make low-level, danger-close attack runs on the
surrounding enemy positions.

When enemy fire increased from the village of Ap Go Cong, he requested
artillery rounds with lower illumination altitudes be fired on that
portion of the village so that the burning rounds ignited the enemy
positions.

With both Cobra gunships nearly out of ammunition and the enemy still
closing in on the patrol team, First Lieutenant Taylor flew the patrol
team’s potential ground evacuation route, founding it — finding it
unviable based on the heavy enemy ground fire encountered.

Returning to the patrol team’s location, he continued to circle it at a
low level under intense enemy fire, employing his searchlight to make
fake gun runs on the enemy positions to distract them from the patrol
team.

Running low on fuel and with the patrol team nearly out of ammunition,
First Lieutenant Taylor decided to extract the team with his two-man
Cobra helicopter gunship — a feat never before accomplished.

He directed his wingman to fire their remaining minigun rounds on the
patrol team’s east flank. First Lieutenant Taylor then fired his own
last minigun rounds on the enemy positions, opening an avenue of
movement to the east for the patrol team.

He directed the patrol team to move 100 yards towards the extraction
point, where First Lieutenant Taylor, still under enemy fire, landed his
helicopter and instructed the patrol team to climb aboard anywhere they
could.

With the four-man, long-range patrol teams seated on rocket pods and
skids, he evacuated them to the nearest friendly location, undoubtedly
saving their lives.

First Lieutenant Taylor’s conspicuous gallantry, his profound concern
for his fellow soldiers, and his intrepidity at the risk of his life
above and beyond the call of duty are in keeping with the highest
traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon himself,
his unit, and the United States Army.

(The Medal of Honor is presented.) (Applause.)

3:46 P.M. EDT
