---
date: '2023-09-06'
modified_time: 2023-09-06 11:57:57-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-06 11:57:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/09/06/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-president-joko-widodo-of-the-republic-of-indonesia-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and President Joko Widodo of the Republic\
  \ of Indonesia Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Balai Sidang Jakarta Convention Center

Jakarta, Indonesia

PRESIDENT WIDODO:  Her Excellency, Vice President Kamala Harris, firstly
I offer my condolences regarding the wildfire disaster in Maui, Hawaii. 
I hope the missing victims can be found and the affected families can
recover and — as soon as possible.  
  
Excellency, as a comprehensive strategic partner, the U.S. support is
(inaudible) for the success of the ASEAN Summit, including ensuring the
relevance of the — this ASEAN Summit.   
  
Moreover, I also would like to discuss the strengthening of bilateral
cooperation.  But before, I invite Vice President Harris to deliver your
opening remark.

  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you, Mr. President.  It is good to see you
again.  And thank you for the warm welcome to Jakarta, Mr. President.  
  
We last saw each other in Bangkok last November at the APEC Leaders
Meeting.  And before that, it was my pleasure to join President Joe
Biden in hosting you at the historic U.S.-ASEAN Summit — Special Summit
in Washington, D.C., last May.  
  
I thank you for your leadership of ASEAN 2023.  You have made it a
priority for ASEAN to deliver concrete results with a particular
emphasis on economic growth.  And you have been a strong partner as we
work to restore Myanmar’s path to democracy.  

Today, we will continue in the important bilateral relationship that we
will strengthen as we work together and as we reinforce the
conversations that you have had with President Biden, most recently in
Bali.

Indonesia is an important partner and friend to the United States.  We
have a longstanding friendship and relationship, which has helped
promote both prosperity and security for our nations and a free and open
Indo-Pacific.  
  
Mr. President, there is an impressive amount of work underway between
our nations as we share a desire to continue to strengthen our ties.

You have made economic growth a priority, which we appreciate, and it is
a priority we share.

To that end, last year, we launched the Just Energy Transition
Partnership — a $20 billion infrastructure initiative, which will reduce
global emissions, accelerate the transition to clean energy, support
broad-based economic growth, and help American companies here in
Indonesia.

We also launched a $698 million Mille- — Millennium Challenge compact,
which will help build sustainable infrastructure and further strengthen
our economic relationship.

Moving forward, we also look forward to working with you to increase the
flow of goods and services between our nations, including through the
Indo-Pacific Economic Framework.

We will also continue to work with Indonesia to build resilient supply
chains, including for the critical minerals required to expand our clean
energy economies.

And we will support your efforts to expand Indonesia’s digital economy.

On the issue of security, we are proud to expand our defense
partnership, to support your Maritime Security Agency, and to stand with
you in defense of international rules-based order.

In conclusion, Mr. President, the United States is proud of our strong
and growing ties.  As two of the world’s largest democracies, I’m
confident our partnership will only grow stronger in the years and
decades to come.

I thank you for the welcome.

PRESIDENT WIDODO:  Thank you.  END

\###
