---
date: '2025-07-24'
modified_time: 2025-07-24 10:49:07-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-24 10:48:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/07/19853/
tags: fact-sheets
title: 'Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Secures Major Settlement with Columbia
  University'
---
 
**SECURING HISTORIC SETTLEMENT WITH COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY:** Today,
President Donald J. Trump secured a historic settlement with Columbia
University to address violations of federal civil rights laws and to
restore fairness, merit, and safety in higher education.

-   The agreement ensures Columbia will not engage in unlawful racial
    discrimination in hiring, admissions, or university programming.
    Columbia will provide access to all relevant data and information to
    rigorously assess compliance with its commitment to merit-based
    hiring and admissions. 
-   Columbia will pay the United States $200 million to settle claims
    related to discriminatory practices, marking a significant win for
    accountability in academia.
-   Columbia will also pay the largest employment-discrimination public
    settlement in almost 20 years. Over $20 million will be paid to
    resolve alleged civil rights violations against Jewish Columbia
    employees that occurred on its campus following the October 7, 2023,
    Hamas terror attacks. This is also the largest ever settlement for
    victims of anti-Semitism and for workers of any religion.
-   The agreement secures privacy, dignity, and fairness in women’s
    sports, programing, facilities, and housing.
-   The agreement mandates a comprehensive review of Columbia’s
    portfolio of programs in regional areas, starting with those
    relating to the Middle East, and fosters new faculty appointments to
    promote intellectual diversity.
-   Columbia will strengthen oversight of international students by
    reviewing admission processes, including by assessing applicants’
    reasons for wishing to study in the U.S., sharing relevant data with
    the Federal Government, and reducing financial dependence on
    overwhelming international student enrollment.
-   Columbia will enhance campus safety and ensure a safe learning
    environment by appropriately enforcing strict rules against
    disruptive protests, prohibiting masked protests, and maintaining
    trained security officers and ongoing cooperation with the New York
    Police Department.
-   The agreement establishes robust oversight, including with an
    independent Resolution Monitor and an Administrator, to ensure
    Columbia complies with the agreement and federal laws.
-   Consistent with Columbia’s announcement in March, student discipline
    and rules have been moved from an unaccountable faculty senate to
    the Office of the Provost, providing for stronger oversight,
    transparency, and accountability.
-   The agreement reinstates most terminated federal grants, restores
    Columbia’s eligibility for future grants and awards, and closes
    pending investigations into the university.

**ADDRESSING DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY:** The
Trump Administration took action to address Columbia University’s
violations of federal civil rights laws, protecting students and
upholding fairness in higher education.

-   The settlement culminates after concerning public incidents and
    subsequent civil rights investigations and actions regarding
    Columbia’s alleged discrimination on the basis of race and national
    origin.
-   Columbia’s failure to ensure a safe, non-discriminatory campus
    environment, including issues with protest policies and disciplinary
    processes, raised urgent concerns about student safety and free
    inquiry.
-   By securing this settlement, the Trump Administration is ensuring
    that Columbia upholds merit-based standards, complies with federal
    law, and fosters an environment of academic excellence and safety
    for all students.

**ADVANCING REFORMS IN HIGHER EDUCATION:** President Trump is holding
elite universities accountable, ensuring they prioritize fairness,
merit, and American values.  

-   The Administration has challenged elite universities like Harvard
    and Columbia for discriminating against student and staff, failing
    to protect students from violent anti-Semitism, and otherwise
    failing to be a responsible steward of taxpayer dollars.
-   President Trump signed a Proclamation to safeguard national security
    by suspending the entry of foreign nationals seeking to study or
    participate in exchange programs at Harvard University. 
-   The Administration successfully negotiated a resolution with the
    University of Pennsylvania to keep men out of women’s sports and
    restore the trophies and records of women.
