---
date: '2022-06-07'
published_time: 2022-06-07 17:43:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2022/06/07/bills-signed-s-1760-s-1872-s-2102-s-2514-s-2533-s-2687-s-3527-s-4089-and-s-4119/
tags: legislation
title: "Bills Signed: S. 1760, S. 1872, S. 2102, S. 2514, S. 2533, S. 2687, S. 3527,\
  \ S. 4089, and S.\_4119"
---
 
On Tuesday, June 7, 2022, the President signed into law:

S. 1760, which designates the community-based outpatient clinic of the
Department of Veterans Affairs planned to be built in Oahu, Hawaii, as
the Daniel Kahikina Akaka Department of Veterans Affairs Community-Based
Outpatient Clinic;

Thank you to Senator Hirono and Representatives Kahele and Case for
their leadership.

S. 1872, the “United States Army Rangers Veterans of World War II
Congressional Gold Medal Act,” which provides for the award of a
Congressional Gold Medal to the United States Army Rangers Veterans of
World War II, in recognition of their dedicated

service during World War II;

Thank you to Senators Ernst, and Duckworth, Representatives Crow, and
Miller-Meeks, and many others for their leadership.

S. 2102, the “Dr. Kate Hendricks Thomas Supporting Expanded Review for
Veterans In Combat Environments Act” or the “Dr. Kate Hendricks Thomas
SERVICE Act,” which expand eligibility for VA mammography screening to
veterans who served in locations associated with toxic exposures;

Thank you to Senators Boozman and Wyden and Representatives Miller-Meeks
and Brownley for their leadership.

S. 2514, which renames the Provo Veterans Center in Orem, Utah, as the
Col. Gail S. Halvorsen “Candy Bomber” Veterans Center;

Thank you to Senators Lee and Romney, and Representatives Curtis, Moore,
Owens, and Stewart for their leadership.

S. 2533, the “Making Advances in Mammography and Medical Options for
Veterans Act,” which makes a number of changes to VA’s mammography
screening and access to related medical care;

Thank you to Senators Tester, Boozman, Hirono, Collins, Coons, and
Stabenow, and Representative Brownley and Miller-Meeks for their
leadership.

S. 2687, the “Strengthening Oversight for Veterans Act of 2021,” which
temporarily authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Office of
Inspector General to issue subpoenas in certain circumstances;

Thank you to Senators Tester, Boozman, and Manchin, and Representatives
Rice and Radewagen for their leadership.

S. 3527, which authorizes VA to transfer to another property the name of
a VA property that was named in statute;

Thank you to Senators Tester and Daines for their leadership.

S. 4089, the “Veterans Rapid Retraining Assistance Program Restoration
and Recovery Act of 2022,” which restores entitlement to educational
assistance under the Veterans Rapid Retraining Program under certain
conditions;

Thank you to Senator Durbin and Representatives Danny Davis and
Underwood their leadership.

S. 4119, the “RECA Extension Act of 2022,” which extends by two years
the availability of compensation for radiation exposure related to
nuclear weapons development.

Thank you to Senators Lee, Luján, and many others for their
leadership.  
