---
date: '2025-04-07'
modified_time: 2025-04-07 13:33:17-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-07 13:33:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/04/everyday-americans-support-president-trumps-trade-action/
tags: articles
title: "Everyday Americans Support President Trump\u2019s Trade Action"
---
 
President Donald J. Trump is finally doing what politicians have refused
to do for decades — fighting back against the one-sided war waged on
American workers. As he puts into action his bold plan to reverse the
decades of globalization that has decimated our industrial base,
President Trump is putting the Forgotten Men and Women of America first.

There’s a reason groups like the [United Auto
Workers](https://www.foxbusiness.com/economy/uaw-praises-trumps-25-tariff-auto-imports-victory-autoworkers#:~:text=%22victory%20for%20autoworkers),
the [Steel Manufacturers Association](https://archive.ph/86jPd), the
[National Cattlemen’s Beef
Association](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1907576083853058302),
the [Southern Shrimp Alliance](https://archive.ph/hsUcJ), and the
[National Council of Textile Organizations](https://archive.ph/bcV8z)
have all
[praised](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/04/support-grows-for-president-trumps-america-first-reciprocal-trade-plan/)
President Trump’s policy.

**Across the country, everyday Americans, small business owners, and
industry leaders are supporting President Trump’s plan:**

[Illinois cattle farmer Alan
Adams](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1909261613183402371): “We’ve
struggled with tariffs my whole adult life in the cattle business, so we
were happy last week to hear the president last week mentioned that beef
was one of the things he wanted to have tariffs lowered. And so some of
the European countries and Australia have been difficult for us to sell
beef in — and so they get to sell beef into our country, and we’re happy
to have them compete against us, but we’d like the same chance to sell
the great taste of American beef to them.”

[Fourth-generation Louisiana shrimp producer Acy
Cooper](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1908230983733973480):
“We’ve been suffering for over 20 years … this country can’t feed
itself, this country can’t sustain its own way of life. If we get into a
war with China, one of our big importers … how are we going to feed the
people of this country? … It has to come \[from\] within this country.”

[Retired auto worker Brian
Pannebecker](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1908238114704760994):
“To see those plants close, one after another, and just sit idle and
then fall into disrepair and collapse, they become abandoned buildings…
I’m glad to see Donald Trump finally standing up saying he’s going to do
something about it.”

[Guardian Bikes CEO Brian Riley](https://archive.ph/AxFuH): “\[President
Trump’s trade agenda\] is a welcome departure from a trade and economic
policy that prioritized offshoring production and cheap consumption.”

[Paddock Chevrolet, Inc., CEO Duane
Paddock](https://abcnews.go.com/US/small-businesses-reacting-trumps-tariffs-announcement/story?id=120463296#:~:text=%22Whether%20President%20Trump,time%2C%22%20Paddock%20said.):
“Whether President Trump was a Democrat or Republican, I have to have
faith in my president and that’s what I choose to do … It’s a great
opportunity for people to get back with manufacturing and have an
opportunity to have a great middle-class life and increase their
compensation over the course of time.”
