---
date: '2025-04-15'
modified_time: 2025-04-15 11:43:40-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-15 11:43:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/04/these-sick-criminals-are-who-democrats-and-the-legacy-media-are-defending/
tags: articles
title: These Sick Criminals Are Who Democrats and the Legacy Media Are Defending
---
 
Brutal killers and rapistsâ€” all taken off our streets in just the past
week thanks to the tireless work of Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE).

If Democrats and the legacy media had their way, these sick criminals
would still be roaming free.

**Here are just a few of the depraved criminal illegal immigrants ICE
has arrested in the past several days:**

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Luis-Olmedo-QUISHPI-Poalasin.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" data-fetchpriority="high"
width="232" height="290" />
</figure>

**Luis Olmedo Quishpi-Poalasin, a 35-year-old citizen of Ecuador, was
arrested by ICE New York City.** Quishpi has convictions for forcible
rape, sexual abuse contact by forcible compulsion, rape and anal sexual
contact with a person incapable of consent, unlawful imprisonment,
forcible touching of intimate parts of another person, sexual misconduct
by vaginal sexual contact without consent, and subjecting another person
to sexual contact without consent in Brooklyn, New York.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Eduardo-GARCIA-Cortez.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" width="230" height="288" />
</figure>

**Eduardo Garcia-Cortez, a 64-year-old, citizen of Honduras, was
arrested by ICE Houston.** Garcia has a conviction for murder in Los
Angeles County, California.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Arcelio-BARRERA-Barrera.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" width="230" height="288" />
</figure>

**Arcelio Barrera, a 49-year-old citizen of Guatemala, was arrested by
ICE Chicago.** Barrera, a known member of the Paisas gang, has multiple
convictions for re-entry, assault, and arson in Prince William County,
Virginia.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Jing-Ming-LONG.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="224"
height="280" />
</figure>

**Jing Ming Long, a 50-year-old citizen of China, was arrested by ICE
Baltimore.** Long has a conviction for sex trafficking in Bel Air,
Maryland.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Jesus-Guadalupe-SALAZAR.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="231"
height="289" />
</figure>

**Jesus Guadalupe Salazar, a 23-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested
by ICE Houston.** Salazar has convictions for assault of a pregnant
woman and violence against a family member in Hidalgo County, Texas.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Jose-Luis-OROZCO-Torres.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="232"
height="290" />
</figure>

**Jose Luis Orozco Torres, a 37-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested
by ICE Los Angeles.** Orozco has a conviction for lewd or lascivious
acts with a child under 14-years-old in San Mateo, California, and
convictions for violating an order of protection, possession of a
controlled substance, and fighting in a public place in Santa Clara,
California.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Pedro-CONTRERAS-Soto.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="235"
height="294" />
</figure>

**Pedro Contreras-Soto, a 54-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested by
ICE Los Angeles.** Contreras has convictions for rape of spouse by
threat, sodomy with person under 14 years or with force, and kidnapping
in San Jose, California.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Roberto-SALVADOR-Casimiro.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="225"
height="281" />
</figure>

**Roberto Salvador-Casimiro, a 35-year-old citizen of Mexico, was
arrested by ICE Chicago.** Salvador has a conviction for predatory
criminal sexual assault of a child in Cook County, Illinois.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Alfredo-GIRON.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="234"
height="292" />
</figure>

**Alfredo Giron, a 34-year-old citizen of the Dominican Republic, was
arrested by ICE Buffalo.** Giron has a conviction for murder in New York
County, New York.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Luis-Enrique-ROGUE-Avila.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="230"
height="287" />
</figure>

**Luis Enrique Roque-Avila, a 36-year-old, a citizen of Mexico, was
arrested by ICE Denver.** Roque is a registered as a sex offender and
has convictions for sexual assault of a child and interference with
school and failure to leave in Lake County, Colorado, and a conviction
for theft in Summit County, Colorado.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Moises-Arturo-VIEYRA-Gallegos.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="229"
height="286" />
</figure>

**Moises Arturo Vieyra Gallegos, a 29-year-old citizen of Mexico, was
arrested by ICE San Francisco.** Vieyra has a conviction for possession
of child pornography in San Mateo County, California.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Jose-HERRERA-Garcia.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="228"
height="285" />
</figure>

**Jose Herrera-Garcia, a 21-year-old citizen of Colombia, was arrested
by ICE Philadelphia.** Herrera has a conviction for indecent assault of
a person less than 13-years-old in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Mark-Anthony-SCAFFE.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="233"
height="291" />
</figure>

**Mark Anthony Scaffe, a 46-year-old citizen of Jamaica, was arrested by
ICE Boston.** Scaffe has convictions for three counts of rape of a child
and two counts of indecent assault and battery on a child under
14-years-old in Boston, Massachusetts.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Patrick-Malston-Garfield.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="232"
height="290" />
</figure>

**Patrick Malston Garfield, a 43-year-old citizen of Guyana, was
arrested by ICE New York City.** Malston has convictions for
third-degree criminal sexual act with a victim less than 17-years-old
and first-degree dissemination of indecent material to minors in the
first degree in Westchester County, New York.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Esteban-PINEDA-Guillen.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="230"
height="288" />
</figure>

**Esteban Pineda-Guillen, a 34-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested
by ICE Seattle.** Pineda has multiple DUI convictions, as well as a
conviction for conspiracy to commit sexual assault in Las Vegas, Nevada.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Nelson-JUAREZ.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="234"
height="292" />
</figure>

**Nelson Juarez, a 62-year-old citizen of El Salvador, was arrested by
ICE Buffalo.** Juarez has a conviction for sexual conduct with a child
in Nassau County, New York.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Misael-De-Jesus-GRANADOS-Chavez.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="236"
height="295" />
</figure>

**Misael De Jesus Granados-Chavez, a 32-year-old citizen of El Salvador,
was arrested by ICE Atlanta.** Granados has a conviction for sexual
assault of a child in Wake County, North Carolina.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Diego-RODRIGUEZ-Perez.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="233"
height="291" />
</figure>

**Diego Rodriguez Perez, a 32-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested
by ICE Philadelphia.** Rodriguez has convictions for unlawful sexual
contact and sexual contact with a person under 18-years-old in Sussex
County, Delaware.
