---
date: '2025-04-22'
modified_time: 2025-04-22 15:08:55-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-22 15:08:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/04/on-earth-day-we-finally-have-a-president-who-follows-science/
tags: articles
title: On Earth Day, We Finally Have a President Who Follows Science
---
 
Under President Donald J. Trump, America is back — leveraging
environmental policies rooted in reality to promote economic growth
while maintaining the standards that have afforded Americans the
cleanest air and water in the world for generations.

Unlike the previous administration, which wasted billions of taxpayer
dollars on virtue signaling and ineffective grifts, the Trump
Administration’s policies are rooted in the belief that Americans are
the best stewards of our vast natural resources — no “Green New Scam”
required.

**Here are key actions President Trump is taking on the environment:**

### **President Trump is promoting energy innovation for a healthier future.**

By supporting cutting-edge technologies like [carbon
capture](https://news.bloombergtax.com/tax-insights-and-commentary/trumps-energy-emergency-sets-up-carbon-capture-as-a-solution)
and storage, nuclear energy, and next-generation geothermal, the Trump
Administration is ensuring America leads in both energy production and
environmental innovation — producing the cleanest energy in the world.
Moreover, by ending the Biden-era pause on liquefied natural gas export
approvals, the U.S. is sharing cleaner energy with allies, reducing
global emissions, and creating American jobs — building on President
Trump’s first-term successes, where the U.S. [led the
world](https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/issues/energy-environment/)
in greenhouse gas emission reductions.

### **President Trump is championing sound forest management.**

The Trump Administration’s proactive forest management policies protect
America’s forests, reduce catastrophic wildfires, and promote
sustainable land use. By streamlining regulations and
[expanding](https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/03/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-rapidly-expands-timber-production/)
responsible logging, President Trump is safeguarding millions of acres
of forestland, improving wildlife habitats, and supporting rural
economies at the same time.

### **President Trump is** [**ending**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/02/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-ends-the-procurement-and-forced-use-of-paper-straws/) **the forced use of paper straws.**

Not only are paper straw mandates flawed in their alleged scientific
backing, they’re also bad for humans and the environment. According to a
[new
report](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/National-Strategy-to-End-the-Forced-Use-of-Paper-Straws.4.10.pdf),
paper straws contain dangerous PFAS chemicals — “forever chemicals”
linked to significant long-term health conditions — that infiltrate the
water supply. Moreover, studies have found producing paper straws can
have a larger carbon footprint and require more water than plastic
straws for “approximately zero environmental impact.”

### **President Trump is cutting wasteful regulations that stifle innovation and raise costs.**

Actions like pausing restrictive emissions rules for coal plants and
revising the National Environmental Policy Act implementation have
accelerated responsible energy and infrastructure projects while
maintaining rigorous environmental standards — saving American families
thousands annually on energy bills and proving that a strong economy and
a healthy environment go hand-in-hand.

### **President Trump is protecting public lands.**

The Trump Administration has prioritized access to federal lands for
energy development while ensuring responsible management. By
[opening](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/declaring-a-national-energy-emergency/)
more federal lands and waters for oil, gas, and [critical mineral
extraction](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/03/immediate-measures-to-increase-american-mineral-production/),
the U.S. is strengthening energy security and reducing reliance on
foreign resources. Simultaneously, investments in conservation, such as
[$38
billion](https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefings-statements/president-donald-j-trump-committed-conserving-improving-americas-environment/)
in clean water infrastructure during President Trump’s first term,
continue to safeguard America’s natural heritage for future generations.

### **President Trump is pushing back on unfair trade practices that harm the environment and undercut U.S. producers and exporters.**

For years, foreign countries have taken advantage of our generosity at
the expense of American workers and the environment. Deforestation in
Brazil is at a [15-year
high](https://x.com/USTradeRep/status/1914668721949356258), China’s
[unfair, harmful fishing
practices](https://x.com/USTradeRep/status/1914668723803213963) flood
the global market with illegal fish and deplete stocks, and Mexico
[fails to deter illegal
fishing](https://x.com/USTradeRep/status/1914668727125057808) — all
while enjoying massive trade deficits with the U.S. and contributing to
global environmental degradation.

### **President Trump is cracking down on China — the most prolific polluter in the world.**

According to
[Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/business/environment/worlds-oceans-clogged-by-millions-of-tons-of-plastic-trash-idUSKBN0LG34U/),
China is “responsible for the most ocean plastic pollution per year with
an estimated 2.4 million tons, about 30 percent of the global total.” By
imposing tough trade measures and promoting American manufacturing, the
Administration is reducing reliance on China’s high-pollution
industries, ensuring the U.S. leads by example with cleaner production
and responsible global stewardship.

### **President Trump is protecting wildlife.**

By
[pausing](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/temporary-withdrawal-of-all-areas-on-the-outer-continental-shelf-from-offshore-wind-leasing-and-review-of-the-federal-governments-leasing-and-permitting-practices-for-wind-projects/)
certain wind projects, President Trump is recognizing wind turbines’
detrimental environmental impact, particularly on wildlife, which often
outweighs their benefits.
