---
date: '2025-04-02'
modified_time: 2025-04-02 21:40:02-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-02 21:40:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/04/president-trumps-bold-trade-action-draws-praise/
tags: articles
title: "President Trump\u2019s Bold Trade Action Draws Praise"
---
 
Today, President Donald J. Trump made clear to the world that the days
of economic surrender are over. After being sold out by career
politicians for generations, President Trump is enacting [fair trade
policies](https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/04/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-declares-national-emergency-to-increase-our-competitive-edge-protect-our-sovereignty-and-strengthen-our-national-and-economic-security/)
that will restore our workforce, rebuild our economy, and finally put
America First.

**The move drew immediate praise:**

[**Coalition for a Prosperous America Chairman Zach
Mottl**](https://archive.ph/uy0bN)**:** “A permanent, universal baseline
tariff resets the global trade environment and finally addresses the
destructive legacy of decades of misguided free-trade policies.
President Trump’s decision to implement a baseline tariff is a
game-changing shift that prioritizes American manufacturing, protects
working-class jobs, and safeguards our economic security from
adversaries like China. This is exactly the type of bold action America
needs to restore its industrial leadership. Today’s action will deliver
lasting benefits to the U.S. economy and working-class Americans,
cementing President Trump’s legacy as one that ushered in a new Golden
Age of American industrialization and prosperity.”  
  
[**National Cattlemen’s Beef Association SVP of Government Affairs Ethan
Lane**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1907576083853058302)**:**
“For too long, America’s family farmers and ranchers have been
mistreated by certain trading partners around the world. President Trump
is taking action to address numerous trade barriers that prevent
consumers overseas from enjoying high-quality, wholesome American beef.
NCBA will continue engaging with the White House to ensure fair
treatment for America’s cattle producers around the world and optimize
opportunities for exports abroad.”  
  
[**Steel Manufacturers Association President Philip K.
Bell**](https://archive.ph/86jPd)**:** “President Trump is a champion of
the domestic steel industry, and his America First Trade Policy is
designed to fight the unfair trade that has harmed American workers and
weakened manufacturing in the United States. The recently reinvigorated
232 steel tariffs have already started creating American jobs and
bolstering the domestic steel industry. President Trump is working to
turn America into a manufacturing powerhouse and the steel tariffs are
driving that movement. President Trump’s initial 232 steel tariffs and
the historic tax cuts led to investments of nearly $20 billion by steel
manufacturers in the United States. Since the revised tariffs took
effect, Hyundai Steel announced a $5.8 billion steel mill in Louisiana,
demonstrating that the tariffs are working to bring more steel
investments and production to the United States. The domestic steel
market is stronger when other nations are forced to compete on a level
playing field. On a level playing field, American workers can outcompete
anyone. We look forward to continuing working with President Trump and
his administration to ensure a level playing field for Americans and a
robust domestic steel industry that strengthens our national, economic
and energy security.”  
  
[**Alliance for American Manufacturing President Scott
Paul**](https://archive.ph/fmhTn)**:** “Today’s trade action prioritizes
domestic manufacturers and America’s workers. These hardworking men and
women have seen unfair trade cut the ground from beneath their feet for
decades. They deserve a fighting chance. Our workers can out-compete
anyone in the world, but they need a level playing field to do it. This
trade reset is a necessary step in the right direction.”  
  
[**National Electrical Contractors Association CEO David
Long**](https://www.necanet.org/news-media/detail/press-releases/2025/04/02/neca-applauds-president-trump-s-leadership-on-tariffs-and-the-impact-on-the-electrical-industry)**:**
“President Trump has consistently prioritized policies that put the
electrical industry as a priority, and we recognize his commitment to
strengthening our nation’s economy. As these new tariffs take effect, we
look forward to working with the Administration to ensure that
electrical contractors and the entire electrical industry can continue
powering America efficiently while navigating potential cost and supply
chain challenges.”  
  
[**Bienvenido
Empresarios**](https://www.instagram.com/bienvenido.us/p/DH9XOotBAJ-/)**:**
“As an organization committed to empowering Hispanic Americans and
strengthening our nation’s future, Bienvenido supports policies that
build a more resilient American economy, safeguard our communities, and
reassert U.S. leadership on the global stage. President Trump’s emphasis
on using economic leverage — including tariffs — reflects a broader
strategy to counter China, confront the deadly fentanyl crisis, and
bring critical industries back home. Now is a time for tough, decisive
action when national security and American livelihoods are at stake. Our
hope is that these measures lead to stronger enforcement, fairer trade,
and long-term prosperity for all Americans.”  
  
[**America First Policy
Institute**](https://x.com/A1Policy/status/1907528097471045769)**:**
“Tariffs worked then—and they’ll work again. Under President Trump,
tariffs brought back jobs, lowered inflation, and strengthened national
security. It’s not just economic policy—it’s America First in action.”  
  
[**Speaker Mike
Johnson**](https://x.com/SpeakerJohnson/status/1907538389433528633)**:**
“President Trump is sending a clear message with Liberation Day: America
will not be exploited by unfair trade practices anymore. These tariffs
restore fair and reciprocal trade and level the playing field for
American workers and innovators. The President understands that FREE
trade ONLY works when it’s FAIR!”  
  
[**Gov. Jeff
Landry**](https://x.com/LAGovJeffLandry/status/1907531587190714683)**:**
“Pro Jobs. Pro Business. Pro America.”  
  
[**Senate Majority Whip John
Barrasso**](https://x.com/SenJohnBarrasso/status/1907525354912436551)**:**
“President Trump is acting boldly to put America first. America needs
fair and free trade. We can’t allow other countries to keep abusing our
workers and job creators. It’s time we had a level playing field. I
applaud President Trump’s 100% commitment to Made in America.”  
  
[**Sen. Jim
Banks**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1907549041468015006)**:**
“The decision by President Trump today to impose reciprocal tariffs will
be so good for Indiana. … Those are the manufacturing jobs that
President Trump is bringing back from overseas.”  
  
[**Sen. Bill
Cassidy**](https://x.com/SenBillCassidy/status/1907553607974604989)**:**
“The president’s trade agenda can pave the way for stronger trade deals,
fairer rules, and real results. I am excited to work with President
Trump to make it happen. Louisiana’s workers and families deserve
nothing less.”  
  
[**Sen. Roger
Marshall**](https://x.com/RogerMarshallMD/status/1907523528485745018)**:**
“President Donald Trump is fighting for long-term solutions to put
America’s farmers and ranchers first.”  
  
[**Sen. Ashley
Moody**](https://x.com/SenAshleyMoody/status/1907561531245572447)**:**
“It’s liberation day in America! Today, @POTUS sent a message to the
world that the era of America being taken advantage of is over.”  
  
[**Sen. Markwayne
Mullin**](https://x.com/SenMullin/status/1907538204498211159)**:**
“President Trump is going to charge foreign countries roughly half of
what they \*already\* charge us to do business. Literally who can argue
with this?”  
  
[**Sen. Pete
Ricketts**](https://x.com/SenatorRicketts/status/1907537862532473274)**:**
“President Trump is delivering on his campaign promises to level the
playing field and stand up for the American people. Reciprocal tariffs
will ensure equal treatment for American businesses. @POTUS is working
to reshore jobs lost overseas and secure our supply chains. He is
working to open new markets for our nation’s agriculture products. He is
demonstrating to foreign adversaries like China that we will no longer
be taken advantage of.”  
  
[**Sen. Rick
Scott**](https://x.com/SenRickScott/status/1907545209438646383)**:**
“The days of the U.S. being taken advantage of by other countries are
OVER! Pres. Trump is making it clear that he will ALWAYS put American
jobs, manufacturing and our economy first. As Americans, let’s stand
with him and support one another by buying products MADE IN AMERICA.”  
  
[**Sen. Eric
Schmitt**](https://x.com/SenEricSchmitt/status/1907554408050868591)**:**
“President Trump is bringing America back. We won’t be ripped off by
other countries anymore. We’re bringing back manufacturing, unleashing
energy production, and paving the way for prosperity.”  
  
[**Sen. Tommy
Tuberville**](https://x.com/SenTuberville/status/1907441648931381568)**:**
“For too long, other countries have ripped us off with bad trade deals –
resulting in American jobs and manufacturing moving overseas. But change
is coming. The Golden Age of America’s economy is here. Happy Liberation
Day.”  
  
[**House Majority Leader Steve
Scalise**](https://x.com/SteveScalise/status/1907546233859706962)**:**
“The United States and American workers will no longer be ripped off by
other countries with unfair trade practices. Thank you President Trump
for putting America’s workers and innovators first with reciprocal
tariffs that level the playing field and make trade FAIR.”  
  
[**House Majority Whip Tom
Emmer**](https://x.com/GOPMajorityWhip/status/1907543707168936073): “For
too long, foreign countries have taken advantage of us at the expense of
American workers. President @realDonaldTrump says NO MORE.”  
  
[**House Republican Conference Chairwoman Lisa
McClain**](https://x.com/RepLisaMcClain/status/1907527423744422250)**:**
“Tariffs work! @POTUS has proven tariffs are an effective tool in
achieving economic and strategic objectives. The President’s long-term
strategy will pay off.”  
  
[**Rep. Elise
Stefanik**](https://x.com/RepStefanik/status/1907529437848948887)**:**
“I strongly support President Trump’s America First economic policies to
strengthen American manufacturing and create millions of American jobs.
For too long, Americans have suffered under unfair trade practices
putting America Last. We will not allow other countries to take
advantage of us and we must put America and the American worker first.”

[**Rep. Jason
Smith**](https://x.com/RepJasonSmith/status/1907477142578819201)**:** “America
shouldn’t reward countries that discriminate against American workers
and manufacturers. On Liberation Day, President Trump is correcting this
and demanding fair treatment for American producers.”  
  
[**Rep. Mark
Alford**](https://x.com/RepMarkAlford/status/1907539522180493397)**:**
“The days of the United States being taken advantage of are OVER.
Republicans are putting American workers FIRST.”  
  
[**Rep. Jodey
Arrington**](https://x.com/RepArrington/status/1907527752875467177)**:**
“For too long, our leaders have allowed other nations to rip us off
through numerous unfair trade practices resulting in suppressed wages,
lost opportunities, and unrealized economic growth. Just as he did in
his first term, President Trump is fighting to ensure an even playing
field for our manufacturers, farmers, and workers so we can unleash
American prosperity and Make America Great Again.”  
  
[**Rep. Brian
Babin**](https://x.com/RepBrianBabin/status/1907543806926532902)**:**
“Trump’s tariffs aren’t starting a trade war—they’re ending one. For
decades, other countries ripped off American workers with unfair tariffs
and barriers. Now, we’re finally fighting back.”  
  
[**Rep. Andy
Biggs**](https://x.com/RepAndyBiggsAZ/status/1907545205777092949)**:**
“Past administrations have allowed the United States to be ripped off by
allies and adversaries alike. President Trump said “NO MORE!” The Art of
the Deal.”  
  
[**Rep. Vern
Buchanan**](https://x.com/VernBuchanan/status/1907579730880246163)**:**
“For too long, unfair trade practices devastated America’s manufacturing
base and stole millions of blue-collar jobs. It’s time to level the
playing field and bring those jobs back. @POTUS is fighting for American
workers.”  
  
[**Rep. Michael
Cloud**](https://x.com/RepCloudTX/status/1907557786197594256)**:**
“America-First means putting the American people first. We will no
longer be taken advantage of as a nation and people.”  
  
[**Rep. Andrew
Clyde**](https://x.com/Rep_Clyde/status/1907562117072290032)**:** “For
far too long, the U.S. has been ripped off by countries across the globe
with unfair trade practices. Now, we’re finally leveling the playing
field. THANK YOU, President Trump, for putting American workers and
manufacturing FIRST.”  
  
[**Rep. Mike
Collins**](https://x.com/RepMikeCollins/status/1907545360412848508)**:**
“This is fair. Whether it’s our military or economy, other countries
have taken advantage of the U.S. for far too long. That time is over.”  
  
[**Rep. Chuck
Edwards**](https://x.com/RepChuckEdwards/status/1907530115413692649)**:**
“Many countries are taking advantage of the United States by imposing
tariffs against us while we don’t have reciprocal tariffs against them.
@POTUS has used tariffs to produce successful trade deals for us in his
first term, and I support his plan to use them again to create a more
level playing field and secure fairer trade deals for America. The
quicker other countries agree to fairer trade deals, the quicker the
tariffs can end.”

[**Rep. Scott
Franklin**](https://x.com/RepFranklin/status/1907600109405159726)**:**“For
years the US handcuffed itself and played nice while other countries
imposed massive tariffs and took advantage of us. We’re done putting
America last. @POTUS is leveling the playing field, ending trade
imbalances and prioritizing American workers and manufacturing again!”

[**Rep. Russell
Fry**](https://x.com/RepRussellFry/status/1907575131452399668)**:**
“HAPPY LIBERATION DAY. Thanks to @POTUS, America is DONE being taken
advantage of. A new era has begun.”  
  
[**Rep. Lance
Gooden**](https://x.com/Lancegooden/status/1907536402708943068)**:**
“For decades, Washington allowed Texans to be ripped off by foreign
countries. Those days are now over. @POTUS is committed to making
America wealthy again!”  
  
[**Rep. Marjorie Taylor
Greene**](https://x.com/RepMTG/status/1907540138575671582)**:** “If you
want to do business in America, you need to play by our rules. For too
long, American businesses, big and small, have been ripped off by bad
trade deals and unfair competition. President Trump is putting a stop to
it. He’s standing up for our workers, our companies, and our
consumers.”  
  
[**Rep. Abe
Hamadeh**](https://x.com/RepAbeHamadeh/status/1907530164483035325)**:**
“The America First Republican party is the party of the working class,
the forgotten men and women. On this Liberation Day, we further our
commitment to them, that we will reshore our manufacturing, restore fair
trade, and rebuild the greatest economy in the world.”

[**Rep. Pat
Harrigan**](https://x.com/RepPatHarrigan/status/1907601472931442757)**:**“If
you want access to the most powerful economy in the world, treat us
fairly. If not, don’t expect a free ride. That’s real leadership and
@POTUS is delivering it!”  
  
[**Rep. Andy
Harris**](https://x.com/RepAndyHarrisMD/status/1907543369171218680)**:**
“President Trump’s reciprocal tariffs will put the American worker first
and bring fairness back to international trade. America is being
respected again.”  
  
[**Rep. Diana
Harshbarger**](https://x.com/RepHarshbarger/status/1907529962124362160)**:**
“President Trump is bringing back the American Dream. Our taxpayers have
been ripped off by foreign countries for far too long, but those days
are over. President Trump is right to impose these reciprocal
tariffs.”  
  
[**Rep. Clay
Higgins**](https://x.com/RepClayHiggins/status/1907551241678278961)**:**
“@POTUS’ trade agenda puts American industry and America first. I
support the President’s action to protect our domestic producers.”  
  
[**Rep. Wesley
Hunt**](https://x.com/RepWPH/status/1907544160854552723)**:** “Today,
President Trump empowered the American middle class.  His policies on
tariffs will bring automotive manufacturing back to America.”  
  
[**Rep. Nicole
Malliotakis**](https://x.com/RepNicole/status/1907537242509226083)**:**
“Since President Trump has been elected, we’ve attracted $5 trillion in
private investment, foreign & domestic companies have announced Made in
USA manufacturing, countries have reduced tariffs or changed foreign
policies. President Trump is sticking up for American workers & farmers,
repatriating our supply chain and protecting our national security.”  
  
[**Rep. Addison
McDowell**](https://x.com/RepMcDowell/status/1907538116178563170)**:**
“My district was hit hard over the years by unfair trade deals. Finally,
we have a President who wants to put the American worker FIRST.”  
  
[**Rep. Mary
Miller**](https://x.com/RepMaryMiller/status/1907535132472340989)**:**
“America will no longer be taken advantage of! This is how you put
America First.”  
  
[**Rep. Riley
Moore**](https://x.com/RepRileyMoore/status/1907534843732242752)**:**
“For decades, foreign countries have enjoyed free access to the greatest
consumer marketplace on the face of the planet, all while still charging
our domestic producers hefty duties or imposing significant barriers to
access their markets. Today that ends. President Trump is the only
president in my lifetime to acknowledge how unfair trade has gutted the
heartland and shipped countless jobs overseas. By finally reciprocating
in-kind, we’ll force foreign competitors to the negotiating table, lower
trade barriers, and ultimately create real free and fair trade across
the board. I’m confident this move will boost our domestic manufacturing
industry and fuel demand for American products across the globe.”  
  
[**Rep. Tim
Moore**](https://x.com/RepTimMooreNC/status/1907539847461355873)**:**
“President Trump is leveling the playing field for American workers and
bringing back MADE IN AMERICA!”  
  
[**Rep. Troy
Nehls**](https://x.com/RepTroyNehls/status/1907534662626386187)**:**
“President Trump’s reciprocal tariffs make it clear that our country
will not be ripped off anymore. We are bringing back American
manufacturing and putting America First.”  
  
[**Rep. Ralph
Norman**](https://x.com/RepRalphNorman/status/1907542779107889169)**:**
“Happy LIBERATION Day … ✅Protect the American worker ✅Strengthen
manufacturing ✅Reduce unfair trade practices … Our economy will be
competitive again!!”  
  
[**Rep. Andy
Ogles**](https://x.com/RepOgles/status/1907545897736572972)**:** “He’s
resetting the negotiating table. He’s resetting the deck here to say,
‘You know what? For too long, you’ve taken advantage of our free market
and you’ve literally leached jobs away from the American people … Let’s
have a serious conversation and let’s do something that’s fair and
mutually beneficial for both sides.’”  
  
[**Rep. Guy
Reschenthaler**](https://x.com/GReschenthaler/status/1907551994551898190)**:**
“I fully support President Trump’s critical efforts to right this
generational wrong, bring manufacturing jobs home, and rejuvenate
American working families. Made in America is back.”  
  
[**Rep. John
Rutherford**](https://x.com/RepRutherfordFL/status/1907535159018012872)**:**
“Tariffs help bring American jobs back home, incentivize buying
American, AND put pressure on Canada and Mexico to stop the flow of
fentanyl and illegal immigrants from their countries into ours. Even the
Biden Admin kept or increased tariffs that President Trump imposed
during his first presidency. Under Trump, inflation stayed around 2% and
our GDP grew to 3%. Smart tariffs are a long-term investment in the
American economy that are worth the short-term cost.”  
  
[**Rep. Greg
Steube**](https://x.com/RepGregSteube/status/1907537054889549847)**:**
“What many fail to realize: Trump’s reciprocal tariffs are a
long-overdue response to years of unfair trade policies against America.
For decades, America has been ripped off by other countries who have
repeatedly slapped tariffs on our goods, blocked our products, and
flooded our markets with theirs. The numbers don’t lie–the rest of the
world has profited at the expense of American workers and businesses.
President Trump is finally putting America First by taking bold,
necessary actions that past leaders wouldn’t take.”  
  
[**Rep. Marlin
Stutzman**](https://x.com/RepStutzman/status/1907535868946165836)**:**
“If Australia doesn’t want our beef – WE DON’T WANT THEIRS! Thank you
@POTUS for opening the door of fair treatment for America’s Cattlemen”  
  
[**Rep. Tom
Tiffany**](https://x.com/RepTiffany/status/1907536585861771296)**:**
“Gone are the days of America being taken advantage of by foreign
countries. The American worker comes FIRST.”  
  
[**Rep. William
Timmons**](https://x.com/RepTimmons/status/1907539519408119849)**:**
“President Trump’s tariffs are a necessary move to protect American
workers and rebuild our economy. We are finally breaking free from
decades of unfair trade deals that gutted our industries. These tariffs
will bring jobs back to our districts, strengthen manufacturing, and
ensure our children inherit a country that is not just a consumer, but a
producer. Thank you, @POTUS.”  
  
[**Rep. Beth Van
Duyne**](https://x.com/RepBethVanDuyne/status/1907524272664305943)**:**
“For far too long, the United States has been taken advantage of by our
foreign trade partners. The American people re-elected President Trump
to bring back truly fair trade with other countries. Reciprocal tariffs
are a first step to have a level playing field for American products and
to start bringing back manufacturing to our country!”  
  
[**Rep. Daniel
Webster**](https://x.com/RepWebster/status/1907556138242941075)**:**
“President @realDonaldTrump is delivering on his mandate to restore
America’s economic strength. For too long, unfair trade deals have
hollowed out our factories and shipped American jobs overseas. By
standing up to bad actors like China and Venezuela and enforcing fair
trade, President Trump is defending American industries and putting
American workers first.”  
  
[**Rep. Tony
Wied**](https://x.com/RepTonyWied/status/1907541373126926841)**:**
“President Trump has made it clear with these reciprocal tariffs that we
will no longer allow other countries to take advantage of us. His goal
is simple: to bring jobs and manufacturing back to our country and open
up foreign markets to American products. If companies want to avoid
these tariffs, they will do business in the United States. I applaud the
President for taking a stand against years of unfair trade practices and
making sure we put American workers and consumers first. It’s time our
foreign trading partners finally live up to their end of the bargain.”  
  
[**Rep. Roger
Williams**](https://x.com/RepRWilliams/status/1907544187207073889)**:**
“For too long, America Last policies have put the U.S. auto industry at
a disadvantage. As a car dealer and small business owner, I support
@POTUS’ Executive Order to increase competition, boost revenue, and
bring back American jobs.”  
  
[**U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Jamieson
Greer**](https://ustr.gov/about/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2025/april/us-trade-representative-issues-statement-president-trumps-declaration-national-emergency)**:**
“Today, President Trump is taking urgent action to protect the national
security and economy of the United States. The current lack of trade
reciprocity, demonstrated by our chronic trade deficit, has weakened our
economic and national security. After only 72 days in office, President
Trump has prioritized swift action to bring reciprocity to our trade
relations and reduce the trade deficit by leveling the playing field for
American workers and manufacturers, reshoring American jobs, expanding
our domestic manufacturing base, and ensuring our defense-industrial
base is not dependent on foreign adversaries—all leading to stronger
economic and national security.”  
  
[**Secretary of Commerce Howard
Lutnick**](https://x.com/howardlutnick/status/1907535820464206060)**:**
“Today, the world starts taking us seriously. Our workforce will finally
be treated fairly.”  
  
[**Secretary of the Treasury Scott
Bessent**](https://x.com/SecScottBessent/status/1907548667168407972)**:**
“President Trump signed the Declaration of Economic Independence for the
American people. For decades, the trade status quo has allowed countries
to leverage tariffs and unfair trade practices to get ahead at the
expense of hardworking Americans. The President’s historic actions will
level the playing field for American workers and usher in a new age of
economic strength.”  
  
[**Secretary of Agriculture Brooke
Rollins**](https://x.com/SecRollins/status/1907543374254723103)**:**
“FARMERS COME FIRST — @POTUS is leveling the playing field, ensuring
American farmers and ranchers can compete globally again!”  
  
[**Secretary of State Marco
Rubio**](https://x.com/SecRubio/status/1907538478386028621)**:** “Thank
you, @POTUS! ‘Made in America’ is not just a tagline — it’s an economic
and national security priority.”  
  
[**Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi
Noem**](https://x.com/Sec_Noem/status/1907530478372139452)**:** “For too
long, America has been targeted by unfair trade practices that made our
supply chain dependent on foreign adversaries, eroded our industrial
base, and hurt American workers. This has gravely impacted our national
security. President Trump’s strong action will help make America safe
again. @DHS, primarily through @CBP, is ready to collect these new
tariffs and put an end to unfair trade practices. Thank you President
@realDonaldTrump for putting America FIRST.”  
  
[**Secretary of Labor Lori
Chavez-DeRemer**](https://x.com/SecretaryLCD/status/1907532382195818984)**:**
“Promises made, promises kept”  
  
[**Secretary of Energy Chris
Wright**](https://x.com/SecretaryWright/status/1907541299210637633):
“President Trump is a businessman; he’s a negotiator. The result of that
has been and will continue to be improvements for the American people.
We are in the midst of a negotiation, and he is fighting every day to
make the cost-of-living conditions better for Americans.”  
  
[**Secretary of Education Linda
McMahon**](https://x.com/EDSecMcMahon/status/1907544177123942531)**:**
“At the White House this afternoon, we celebrated Liberation Day —
setting our economy on the path of future prosperity for our children.
Business owners, workers, and taxpayers have been waiting for strong
economic leadership. @POTUS’ actions today prove we are done being taken
advantage of in international trade.”

[**Secretary of the Interior Doug
Burgum**](https://x.com/SecretaryBurgum/status/1907583243278233749)**:**
“President Trump’s Liberation Day reciprocity plan is commonsense. If
you tariff us, we’ll tariff you. This will strengthen our economy and
make America wealthy again!”  
  
[**Secretary of Transportation Sean
Duffy**](https://x.com/SecDuffy/status/1907552605363900921)**:** “Today
is the day we will liberate ourselves from unfair trade practices and
outdated ways of thinking. Tariffs are an important tool in the
President’s toolbox to stop foreign countries from ripping us off,
protect America’s workers, and restore U.S. manufacturing. I stand with
@POTUS as he finally levels the playing field. Happy Liberation Day!”  
  
[**Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Scott
Turner**](https://x.com/SecretaryTurner/status/1907552260089065597)**:**
“For four years, Americans couldn’t afford groceries, let alone a house.
This Liberation Day, @POTUS is bringing manufacturing and jobs back.
President Trump is making the American Dream achievable again!”

[**Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lee
Zeldin**](https://x.com/epaleezeldin/status/1907575096090251729)**:**
“Massive announcement by @POTUS today restoring U.S. dominance,
cementing his America First vision, and Powering the Great American
Comeback.”  
  
[**Small Business Administration Administrator Kelly
Loeffler**](https://x.com/SBA_Kelly/status/1907507698662244594)**:**
“Small businesses will no longer be crushed by foreign governments and
unfair trade deals. Instead, we will put American industry, workers, and
strength FIRST. Thank you @POTUS for bringing back Made in America!”  
  
[**National Security Advisor Mike
Waltz**](https://x.com/MikeWaltz47/status/1907538864438423932)**:**
“Economic security is national security. Thank you President Trump for
putting America first.”
