---
date: '2025-04-10'
modified_time: 2025-04-16 13:48:22-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-10 14:08:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/04/trump-effect-americans-see-first-price-relief-in-years/
tags: articles
title: 'TRUMP EFFECT: Americans See First Price Relief in Years'
---
 
After today’s inflation report showed the first consumer price decline
in years, a decrease in energy prices, and real average hourly wage
growth, one thing is clear: President Donald J. Trump’s economic agenda
is delivering for Americans.  
  
**Here’s what they’re saying:**  
  
[**Council of Economic Advisers Chair Stephen
Miran**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1910324721159110714)**:**
“That core inflation print, on an annual basis, was the lowest core
inflation print since March of 2021, so President Trump’s policies are
working at keeping inflation at bay, keeping inflation down. Between
that and what’s going on with trade — America is back.”  
  
[**Economist E.J. Antoni,
Ph.D.**](https://x.com/RealEJAntoni/status/1910327948390920307)**:**
“This is truly remarkable: Average annual inflation rate from ‘09 until
‘21 was 1.8%, then Biden drove it up to 8.6% for a year and a half, then
it rose steadily at 3.1% for the rest of his term; but now Trump is
averaging a mere 1.0% -remarkable!”  
  
[**CNBC’s Rick
Santelli**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1910316952095949210)**:**
“We were expecting the exact opposite … These are definitely low
numbers!”  
  
[**CNN’s Matt
Egan**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1910317558302941380)**:**
“This was actually a drop of .1% — that’s the first time we’ve seen that
since COVID. Year-over-year, the annual inflation rate was at 2.4%. This
was also better than expected and a 6-month low, moving in the right
direction.”  
  
[***USA
Today***](https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2025/04/10/march-cpi-report-inflation-tariffs/83019644007/)**:**
“Inflation eased more than expected to a five-month low in March as
gasoline and used car prices tumbled and rent increases softened
further…”  
  
[**Axios**](https://www.axios.com/2025/04/10/inflation-consumer-price-index-trump-tariffs)**:**
“Inflation was notably cooler than expected in March: The overall
Consumer Price Index dropped as energy prices plummeted, while the core
measure that excludes food and energy rose just slightly.”  
  
[**Bloomberg**](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2025-04-10/us-cpi-report-march-2025-key-takeaways-on-inflation-consumer-price-index)**:**
“Inflation came in notably weaker than expected for last month, with the
headline CPI falling 0.1% — thanks in part to a tumble in gasoline
prices. None of the 67 forecasters in Bloomberg’s survey had predicted a
drop.”  
  
[**CNN**](https://www.cnn.com/2025/04/10/economy/us-consumer-price-index-inflation-march/index.html)**:**
“Inflation slowed sharply in March, new data showed Thursday,
underscoring the continued strength and resilience of the economy ahead
of President Trump’s aggressive trade moves.”  
  
[**Associated
Press**](https://apnews.com/article/inflation-economy-tariffs-964784cc5697c2f0df5bb79806392e3c)**:**
“U.S. inflation declined last month as the cost of gas, airline fares,
and hotel rooms fell, a sign that price growth was cooling even as
President Donald Trump ramped up his tariff threats.”  
  
[***The Wall Street
Journal***](https://www.wsj.com/economy/cpi-inflation-march-2025-interest-rate-6327d1f8?mod=livecoverage_web)**:**
“Consumer prices declined month-over-month in March for the first time
in nearly five years, a welcome development for inflation-weary
consumers…”  
  
[**Breitbart**](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2025/04/10/consumer-prices-fell-in-march-defying-predictions-of-tarriflation/)**:**
“U.S. consumer prices fell in March, pushed down by a decline in the
price of goods and defying predictions that President Trump’s tariff
plans would push up prices. This was the first drop in consumer prices
in nearly three years and only the second decline since inflation
accelerated under Joe Biden to the worst rates in decades.”  
  
[***The Washington
Post***](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2025/04/10/inflation-consumer-prices-cooled-march/)**:**
“Inflation cooled significantly in March amid a drop in energy and
transportation prices, giving consumers a bit of a break”  
  
[**The Daily
Caller**](https://dailycaller.com/2025/04/10/trump-notches-win-as-inflation-eases-more-than-expected-in-march/)**:**
“Trump Notches Win As Inflation Eases More Than Expected In March”  
  
[**NBC
News**](https://www.nbcnews.com/business/economy/march-2025-inflation-report-economic-outlook-tariffs-what-to-know-rcna200518)**:**
“The pace of price hikes for airfare, car insurance, used vehicles and
recreation all eased in March.”  
  
[**CBS
News**](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/cpi-report-today-march-2025-inflation-what-it-means-tariffs/)**:**
“Consumer price growth cooled in March as the White House prepared
far-reaching global tariffs, with a key inflation measure falling to its
lowest level since March 2021 … On a monthly basis, prices actually fell
0.1% in March, the first monthly drop in nearly five years.”  
  
[**CNBC**](https://www.cnbc.com/2025/04/10/inflation-rate-eases-to-2point4percent-in-march-lower-than-expected.html)**:**
“Consumer price inflation eased more than expected in March as President
Donald Trump prepared to launch tariffs against U.S. trading partners”  
  
[**Reuters**](https://www.reuters.com/markets/us/us-consumer-prices-unexpectedly-fall-march-2025-04-10/)**:**
“US consumer prices post first decline in nearly five years”  
  
[**Barron’s**](https://www.barrons.com/livecoverage/cpi-report-inflation-data-march)**:**
“Inflation Cools More Than Expected”  

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/GoLzf3SXIAEJJr8.jpg"
style="width:500px" decoding="async" data-fetchpriority="high"
sizes="(max-width: 2160px) 100vw, 2160px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/GoLzf3SXIAEJJr8.jpg 2160w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/GoLzf3SXIAEJJr8.jpg?resize=240,300 240w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/GoLzf3SXIAEJJr8.jpg?resize=768,960 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/GoLzf3SXIAEJJr8.jpg?resize=819,1024 819w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/GoLzf3SXIAEJJr8.jpg?resize=1229,1536 1229w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/GoLzf3SXIAEJJr8.jpg?resize=1638,2048 1638w"
width="2160" height="2700" />
</figure>
