---
date: '2025-04-14'
modified_time: 2025-04-14 22:18:32-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-14 22:15:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/04/8716/
tags: articles
title: Remarks by Director Kratsios at the Endless Frontiers Retreat
---
 
**THE GOLDEN AGE OF AMERICAN INNOVATION**

AS PREPARED FOR DELIVERY

Endless Frontiers Retreat, Austin, Texas

April 14, 2025

THE DIRECTOR: Thank you for the kind introduction. It is a pleasure to
speak to you all this evening, here in the early light of the new Golden
Age of America.

President Trump has given all of us who serve in his administration a
monumental task—the renewal of our nation.

I know, and I think you know, too, that such a renewal will require the
reinvigoration of American science and industry. Over the last few
decades, America has become complacent, forgetting old dreams of
building a wondrous future.

But we know the American pioneer spirit still seeks the exploration of
endless frontiers. Our technologies, and what we do with them, will be
the tools with which we will make the destiny of our country manifest in
this century.

Yet this American hope in the possibility of progress and the power of
science and technology does not allow builders and innovators to retreat
from politics. Indeed, quite the opposite, which is what brings me here
today. A Golden Age is only possible if we *choose* it.

\*\*\*

There is nothing predestined about technological progress and scientific
discovery. They require the efforts and energies of men and women, the
collective choice for order and truth over disorder and opinion.

The last century was called the American Century, as—despite wars and
domestic conflict—the United States stood at the forefront of science
and technology, building the future. With the strength of our industry
and ingenuity, we created the largest middle class the world has ever
seen. As President Trump said to me in his letter laying out the science
and technology agenda of this administration, “The triumphs of the last
century did not happen by chance.”

Ours was the Atomic Age. Ours the victory in the Space Race. And ours
the invention of the Internet, collecting and connecting the
multiplicity of human knowledge.

Today we fight to restore that inheritance. As the failure of the Biden
administration’s “small yard, high fence” approach makes clear, it is
not enough to seek to *protect* America’s technological lead. We also
have a duty to *promote* American technological leadership.

\*\*\*

A gap lies between our moment and the speed of transformation America
experienced midcentury. Progress has slowed. Yes, large language models
astonish us, rockets still turn our eyes upward, and satellites envelop
the globe. But as we look forward to America’s 250th birthday
celebration next year, our progress today pales in comparison to the
huge leaps of the 20th century. Consider the country of fifty years ago.

As the nation approached its bicentennial, Americans looked forward to
electricity too cheap to meter. By the end of 1972, 30 nuclear plants
were operational, 55 were under construction, and more than 80 were
planned or ordered. That same year, the Apollo 17 astronauts became the
11<sup>th</sup> and 12<sup>th</sup> men to walk on the moon. Five years
before, the X-15 rocket plane had set a speed record for a crewed
aircraft of Mach 6.7. America was flying higher, faster, and farther
than ever before…

Today, however, energy prices still burden producers and consumers
alike, and the grid remains precarious. Over the past 30 years only
three commercial nuclear reactors have been built and 10 have been
closed. Despite spending almost twice as much on healthcare as peer
nations, we have the lowest life expectancy. Apollo 17’s steps on the
lunar surface have proved mankind’s last. The X-15’s record still
stands, and the Concorde was decommissioned more than two decades ago.
Our passenger planes are slower than they used to be. Our trains crawl
compared to those in other parts of the world. Our cars do not fly

Advances have not stopped, but something has gone wrong.  

\*\*\*

Stagnation was a choice. We have weighed down our builders and
innovators. The well-intentioned regulatory regime of the 1970s became
an ever-tightening ratchet, first hampering America’s ability to become
a net-energy exporter and then making it harder and harder to build. We
seem to have lost focus and vision, to have lowered our sights and let
systems and structures and bureaucracies muddle us along.

But we are capable of so much more.  

Our technologies permit us to manipulate time and space. They leave
distance annihilated, cause things to grow, and improve productivity.

As Vice President Vance said in a recent speech, the tradition of
American innovation has been one of increasing the capacities of
America’s workers, of extending human ability so that more people can do
more, and, more meaningful work. But unrestricted immigration, and
reliance on cheap labor both domestically and offshore, has been a
substitute for improving productivity with technology.

We can build in new ways that let us do more with less, or we can borrow
from the future. We have chosen to borrow from the future again and
again. Our choice as a civilization is technology or debt. And we have
chosen debt.

Today we choose a better way.

\*\*\*

Our first assignment is to secure America’s preeminence in critical and
emerging technologies. This administration will ensure that our nation
remains the leader in the industries of the future with a strategy of
*both* promotion *and* protection—protecting our greatest assets and
promoting our greatest innovators.

To the degree it even tried to accomplish this, the Biden administration
failed on its own terms, led by a spirit of fear rather than promise.
The old regime sought to protect its managerial power from the
disruptions of technology, while promoting social division and
redistribution in the name of equity. They secured American technology
poorly, and failed to strengthen our leadership at all.

Promoting America’s technological leadership requires three things of
government. First, we have to make the *smart* choices of creatively
allocating our public research and development dollars. Second, we have
to make the *right* choices in constructing a common-sense,
pro-innovation regulatory regime. And third, we have to make the *easy*
choice to adopt the incredible products and tools made by American
builders and to enable their export abroad.

In a moment of strategic significance, we must be more creative in our
use of public research and development money, and shape a funding
environment that makes clear what our national priorities are. Whether
in AI, quantum, biotech, or next-generation semiconductors, in
partnership with the private sector and academia, it is the duty of
government to enable scientists to create new theories and empower
engineers to put them into practice. Prizes, advance market commitments,
and other novel funding mechanisms, like fast and flexible grants, can
multiply the impact of government-funded research.

At a time defined by the desire to build in America again, we have to
throw off the burden of bad regulations that weigh down our innovators,
and use federal resources to test, to deploy, and to mature emerging
technologies. We know, for example, the greatest obstacle to limitless
energy in this country has been a regulatory regime opposed to
innovation and development. This, too, has been the chief barrier to
pushing the envelope again in transportation, whether supersonic
aircraft or high-speed rail and flying cars. The time has come to review
the rules on the books and to ask whom they really protect and what they
really cost.

For a future stamped with the American character, the federal government
must become an early adopter and avid promoter of American technology.
Our innovators make incredible breakthroughs, but consumers, government
included, require products that meet their needs, not just the wide-open
country of frontier technology. Our industrial might, unleashed at home,
and our technical achievements from AI to aerospace, successfully
commercialized, can also be powerful instruments of diplomacy abroad and
key components of our international alliances. American progress in
critical technologies will make us the global partner of choice and the
standards setter to follow if we enable and encourage American companies
to distribute the American tech stack around the world.

\*\*\*

This approach to promoting America’s technological leadership goes hand
in hand with a threefold strategy for protecting that position from
foreign rivals. First, we must safeguard U.S. intellectual property and
take seriously American research security. Second, we must prevent rival
nations from infiltrating our infrastructure and supply chains, as well
as from embedding themselves in the infrastructure of our allies. And
third, we must enforce export controls and other measures that keep
American frontier technologies out of competitors’ hands.

We face many dangers as a nation, but thanks to decades of feckless
American leaders, China in particular has grown into both a geopolitical
rival and technological competitor. This threat requires us to protect
our science and technology resources with heightened vigilance, and
defend the vital work American researchers do in public and corporate
contexts alike from misuse, theft, and disruption. To safeguard our
intellectual capital, we must restrict foreign access to sensitive data
and strengthen oversight of international collaborators.

Our infrastructure, supply chains, and those of our allies must be
secured, too. We cannot afford to remain dependent, as we are in too
many essential industries, on Chinese inputs and products, nor can we
allow our closest partners to become points of insecurity by relying on
Chinese-controlled critical infrastructure, whether in telecom, the
grid, or AI. We must establish and secure trusted supply chains,
implement public-private partnerships to enhance supply-chain
resilience, and create investment incentives to reshore more critical
manufacturing.

Finally, after thirty years of subsidizing Chinese growth, it is time
for us to stop helping a rival catch up with us in this race. Strict and
simple export controls and know your customer rules, with an
unapologetic America-first attitude about enforcing them, are central to
stopping China from continuing to build itself up at our expense. We
want peace between our countries, and that peace depends on keeping
America’s bleeding-edge technology out of our competitor’s hands.

\*\*\*

The Golden Age of American innovation is on our horizon, if we choose
it.

In a changing technological environment, the task ahead of us is to
adapt to new realities without destroying the American way of life or
dis-inheriting the American worker. We seek, in the most basic terms, to
secure our economy, restore our middle class, and uphold America as the
planet’s best home for innovators.

For many years now the temptation for the kinds of people represented in
this room—builders and discoverers—has been to withdraw from politics.
In the face of burdensome regulation and inefficient government and the
circus of election cycles, many of you have chosen retreat of various
kinds.

But there is no substitute for victory. You and your fellow Americans
cannot afford to give up on the nation. In a world so shaped by politics
as well as technology, we must take action in both of these domains. We
need all Americans to continue to rise to the occasion, to make full use
of their talents, and to build.

All of us must labor to preserve the inheritance of the American Century
to share with posterity, and to ensure that the technologies that give
shape to our world help the American people secure the blessings of
liberty we received from our forebearers. I bear that responsibility in
my role as the President’s Science and Technology Advisor. You bear it,
too, in exercising whatever powers and responsibilities you have,
whether in business, education, or the laboratory—as Americans.

It is the choices of individuals that will make the new American Golden
Age possible: the choice of individuals to master the sclerosis of the
state, and the choice of individuals to craft new technologies and give
themselves to scientific discoveries that will bend time and space, make
more with less, and drive us further into the endless frontier.
