---
date: '2025-04-03'
modified_time: 2025-04-03 22:05:07-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-03 22:03:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/04/7856/
tags: articles
title: "ONDCP Releases Trump Administration\u2019s Statement of Drug Policy Priorities"
---
 
## *The Administration will focus on six key areas in its first year*

Today, the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) is
announcing the release of the [Trump Administration’s Drug Policy
Priorities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/2025-Trump-Administration-Drug-Policy-Priorities.pdf),
a comprehensive and coordinated blueprint to reduce the devastating
impact of illicit drugs on American society. The Statement lays out the
urgent, first-year steps that must be taken to address the scourge of
illicit drug use that continues plaguing our nation and taking American
lives. The implementation of these priorities will complement President
Trump’s tireless efforts to stop Foreign Terrorist Organizations,
cartels, and drug traffickers from harming Americans, and will help
build a safer, healthier future for America.  

In the next year, the White House will work across the government to
implement the following six priorities:

1.  Reduce the Number of Overdose Fatalities, with a Focus on Fentanyl
2.  Secure the Global Supply Chain Against Drug Trafficking
3.  Stop the Flow of Drugs Across our Borders and into Our Communities
4.  Prevent Drug Use Before It Starts
5.  Provide Treatment That Leads to Long-Term Recovery
6.  Innovate in Research and Data to Support Drug Control Strategies

“Terrorists, cartels, and other drug traffickers are taking hundreds of
thousands of American lives by poisoning them for profit,” said Jon
Rice, the ONDCP Senior Official Performing the Duties of the Director.
“To meet the urgent need of this moment, the Trump Administration is
launching an unprecedented whole-of-government effort to stop these
drugs from entering our communities and hold drug traffickers
accountable. The priorities in this framework outline the first steps to
kick cartels out of our country, free Americans from the deadly grip of
addiction, and guide America back to health and safety.”

To achieve our vision of a safer, healthier future for Americans, we
will disrupt the supply chain from tooth to tail. We will continue to
take decisive action and exploit all existing authorities, both punitive
and economic, to eliminate the production and distribution networks that
allow these drugs to reach the United States. We will develop bold
policy choices, employ innovative and sophisticated technology, and
create a skilled, recovery-ready workforce to combat this crisis and
ensure the safety of all Americans. Domestically, we must acknowledge
the complexity of substance use disorder and addiction. The statistics
surrounding drug use and overdose deaths mandate a comprehensive
approach that emphasizes drug use prevention and increases access to
recovery and overdose prevention and reversal services. Recognizing that
a sustainable solution requires coordination across all levels of
government, we will collaborate with law enforcement, first responders,
healthcare providers, community-based organizations, and individuals to
ensure the health and well-being of all Americans.

The staggering loss of life caused by illicit drugs underscores the
severity of the challenge, but the Trump Administration has already
taken critical steps to confront this crisis through a series of
Executive Orders that secure our borders, combat foreign terrorist
organizations and drug trafficking organizations, and demand reform by
source countries from which illicit drugs and precursor chemicals flow
into the United States. Critically, the Trump Administration will
identify and hold accountable those responsible for exacerbating the
flow of drugs within our borders. 

While these Policy Priorities outline the broad areas of effort for the
first year, the President’s drug control policy will evolve to keep pace
with the changing landscape of illicit drug trafficking and ensure that
our borders, communities, and schools are secure from the destructive
influence of illicit drugs. 

To read the Trump Administration’s Drug Policy Priorities, click
[here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/2025-Trump-Administration-Drug-Policy-Priorities.pdf).
