---
date: '2025-04-15'
modified_time: 2025-04-15 18:55:57-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-15 18:47:48-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/04/permitting-technology/
tags: articles
title: President Trump Unleashes Permitting Technology for the 21st Century
---
 
Today, President Trump took
[action](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/updating-permitting-technology-for-the-21st-century/)
to ensure the United States is leveraging modern technology to
effectively and efficiently conduct environmental reviews and evaluate
permits. Permitting reform is a top priority for the Trump
Administration and this action will accelerate the process, improve the
transparency and predictability of project timelines, and eliminate
unnecessary delays holding back the growth of the American economy.

The Presidential Memorandum signed today calls on the Council on
Environmental Quality (CEQ), in consultation with the National Energy
Dominance Council (NEDC) and relevant permitting agencies, to issue a
plan for modernizing the technology used for Federal environmental
review and permitting processes for infrastructure projects. This plan
will guide agencies as they use technology to digitize permit
applications, expedite reviews, enhance interagency coordination on
projects, and given sponsors more transparency and predictability on
project permitting schedules. This will also help agencies share
information with state and tribal officials to make those permitting
processes easier for project sponsors.

“By leveraging 21st century technologies, the U.S. can improve the
effectiveness, efficiency, and speed of the Federal environmental review
and permitting process — and remove the layers of bureaucracy that are
stopping growth while improving the quality of the review process.
Thanks to the leadership of President Trump, CEQ will work diligently to
issue a Federal Permitting Technology Action Plan and establish a
Permitting Innovation Center that will truly enable agencies to expedite
permitting and refocus environmental analysis on the issues of greatest
importance,” **said the White House Council on Environmental Quality.**

“We need to drill more, map more, mine more, and build more — all while
innovating faster than our global competitors,” **said Secretary of the
Interior Doug Burgum.** “The Permitting Technology Action Plan will
channel our greatest asset, American innovation and technology, to
overhaul our current permitting process and power our nation faster,
better, cleaner, and more reliably than ever before. Embracing
cutting-edge development and modernizing this outdated system will pave
the way to American success.”

“With President Trump’s leadership, this administration is taking action
to fix a broken system that’s slowing down critical energy projects
across the country. Outdated permitting systems are creating costly
delays at the exact moment we need to be expanding capacity,
strengthening our energy security, and building the infrastructure that
powers American industry and lowers costs for families,” **said
Secretary of Energy Chris Wright.** “As Secretary of Energy and Vice
Chair of the National Energy Dominance Council, I welcome this decisive
action to modernize permitting technology, cut red tape, and align the
full force of the federal government behind getting these essential
projects approved and built—because energy dominance isn’t possible
without the infrastructure to support it.”

“When President Trump says American farmers and ranchers have been the
lifeblood of our economy for centuries, he means it. For too long, our
producers have experienced delays and uncertainty as they navigate a
complex permitting process that gets in the way of American innovation
and stifles energy and timber production. This historic Memorandum will
increase efficiency and transparency so farmers, foresters, and
producers can get back to the work they do every day to feed, fuel, and
clothe our nation,” **said Secretary of Agriculture Brooke Rollins.**

“It takes too long to build in America,” **said Secretary of
Transportation Sean P. Duffy.** “Ridiculous red tape and outdated
regulations add cost and delays to projects. It has to stop. Thanks to
President Trump’s leadership, we are slashing the bureaucracy and
getting back to actually building things in America again. We are doing
that by harnessing innovative technology to expedite the permitting
process.”

“I applaud President Trump for his actions to streamline environmental
reviews and permitting processes which will bolster American innovation
and grow our economy. Pillar Three of my Powering the Great American
Comeback Initiative is permitting reform, cooperative federalism, and
cross-agency partnership and under President Trump’s leadership, EPA
will leverage technology to maximize efficiency and maintain the quality
of review while expediting permits for infrastructure projects. No
longer will applicants face years-long, uncertain, and costly permitting
processes. Instead, we will safeguard our environment and incentivize
investment into our economy creating American jobs,” **said
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Lee Zeldin.**

To read the Memorandum for Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies,
[click
here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/updating-permitting-technology-for-the-21st-century/).
