---
date: '2024-05-21'
published_time: 2024-05-21 14:35:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/05/21/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-merrimack-nh/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Merrimack,\_NH"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Merrimack, New Hampshire

10:35 A.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, everybody.  All right, I just have one quick
thing at the top, and then we’ll — we’ll get at it.     
  
So, we’re on our way to New Hampshire, where the President will be
joined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough and Senators
Ha- — oh — Senators Shaheen and Hassan to deliver remarks on a key
priority of the — of his Unity Agenda: supporting our nation’s
veterans.   
  
President Biden signed the landmark bipartisan PACT Act into law almost
two years ago in August, enacting the most significant expansion of
healthcare benefits and services for toxic-exposed veterans in more than
30 years.  Thanks to this law, the President will continue — will
announce today that more than 1 million PACT Act-related claims have now
been granted.    
  
More than 888,000 veterans and survivors across all 50 states and U.S.
territories are now receiving new service-connected disabilities
benefits, and that includes thousands of veterans in New Hampshire.  
  
President Biden believes that our nation has a sacred obligation to
properly prepare and equip the troops we send into harm’s way and to
care for them and their families when they return home.  
  
And soon, you will hear directly from the President, who was — who will
obviously share more on this.  
  
Go ahead, Seung Min.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Earlier today, Israeli officials seized equipment
from the AP and took down our live shot that had been going into
northern Gaza.  How is that acceptable behavior in a democracy?  They’re
citing their new media law.  Does the administration have a reaction to
that — the Israeli government’s actions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, thanks for the question.  We’ve seen the
reporting, and obviously we’re looking into them.  And you hear this
from me and obviously the President himself when we talk about jou- —
journalism and the importance and how essential it is to the pillars of
our democracy.  And we have women and men, certainly, worldwide who —
who work very hard 24/7, obviously, to uphold those pillars of
democracy.   
  
And so, it is essential that continues, and that certainly includes
journalists at the AP.  And so, we’re looking into it.  We’ve seen the
reporting.  But we stand firm in our belief in — in making sure that
journalists have the ability and the right to do the job that they’re
—  
  
Q    Do you —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that’s incred- — incredibly important for them to
do.  
  
Q    Do you condemn that action?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I want to be really, really mindful.  I’m
going to — we’re going to — looking into it.  And obviously, this is
concerning.  And so, we want to look into it.   
  
But we’ve always been clear — the importance of the work that you all do
and the work that journalists do, and, again, how it is the pillar of
our democracy.  It is part — certainly, part of our freedom.   
  
And you hear us say this all the time.  You guys are the Fourth Estate. 
You guys hold us — hold us accountable and make sure that the facts are
out there.  And that is essential to the American people, to the world,
globally.  And so, we’re going to always continue to be steadfast on
that.  And certainly, we’re going to look into this.  And it is
concerning to hear.  
  
Q    So, if —  
  
Q    And I wanted to —  
  
Q    Oh, go ahead.  
  
Q    Sorry.  Sorry.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh —  
  
(Cross-talk.)   
  
Q    The House Republicans are preparing legislation that would impose
sanctions on the ICC after that announcement yesterday.  Obviously, the
President has condemned the ICC announcement as well.  So, is this
effort from Republican lawmakers something — something that he supports
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look —  
  
Q    — or something that he could support?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I’m just going to reiterate what the President said
yesterday.  You heard him di- — you heard from him directly when he
delivered remarks yesterday afternoon.  The ICC prosecutor’s application
for arrest warrants against Israel leaders is outrageous.  We def- —
fundamentally reject it.  So, we’re having discussions — to your
questions — with — with Hill — with the Hill on the next steps.  So, I’m
not going to get ahead of those discussions.  
  
But it doesn’t — obviously, we — you heard the President speak to this
pretty forcefully yesterday to all of you.  
  
Q    The former President had up a video — a video that referred to the
“unified Reich.”  Does the White House have any reaction to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to be really mindful.  Obviously, the
former President is a — is a candidate — presidential candidate in
2024.  So, going to be careful about responding to him directly.   
  
I will say — point you to the — point you to the campaign’s comments or
statement yesterday.   
  
I will also obviously share that the President is clearly tracking this,
and you’ll hear from him directly on this later today.   
  
What I want to say more broadly is it is abhorrent, sickening, and
disgraceful for anyone to promote content associated with Germany’s Nazi
government under Adof- — Adolf Hitler.  Just as it is disgraceful to
dine with Neo-Nazis and say there are “very fine people on both sides”
after Charlottesville.   
  
Any antisemitism dog whistle — whistling is dangerous and offensive and
profoundly un-American.  And I am pretty sure, pretty confident you will
hear from the President later today.  
  
Q    Was that in reference to Donald Trump — what you just said?  
  
Q    Where — which —  
  
Q    I’m sorry.   
  
Q    Which — which event will the President get it — at the fundraiser
or —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait, wait, say that one more time.  
  
Q    Which event will the President comment on this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I would say during his campaign event, you’ll hear
from him.   
  
Q    Karine, Prime Minister Net- —  
  
Q    On the FDC — FDIC chair — has the White House begun its search for
his replacement yet?  I mean, can you describe that search a little bit
(inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, let me just say, because I know this is the
first time we’ll — we’ll actually — you’ll hear from me on this, so a
couple things I want to say.   
  
We want to thank the Chair for his service at the agency and for moving
to swiftly implement the recent report’s recommendation.   
  
The President, of course, expects those serving in his administration to
reflect the values of decency and integrity and to protect the rights of
all employees.   
  
The President will soon put forward a new — a new nominee for FDIC Chair
who is committed to those values and to protecting consumers and our
financial system, and we expect the Senate to confirm that nominee
quickly.   
  
I don’t have — I don’t have any detail on the process.  Obviously, the
Pres- — the President is taking this very seriously and is going to do
his — obviously, everything that he normally does when he nominates
someone — someone who is  
qualified and can do the job.  
  
Q    And on Jake Sullivan’s Middle East trip.  Do you have a deeper
readout yet on how those meetings went that you can share with us?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, a couple of things.   
  
You know, you guys saw the readout from — from Jake Sullivan yesterday
on the different components of the trip, what was discussed.  Obviously,
he went to Saudi Ara- — Arabia, where he met with the Crown Pinc- —
Prince and Prime Minister of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman, to
discuss a comprehensive vision for an integrated Middle East region.  
  
What I can say about that: We have seen a lot of progress on that front,
made a lot of progress.  And we are very close to \[an\] understanding
on the major element between us. So, I think that’s important.  
  
We, of course, will also have — have to — have, then, to work on pieces
that relate to the Israelis and the Palestinians, which is a critical
component of any potential normalization deal and must be completed at
the same time.   
  
And obviously, he went to Israel — and we had a readout on that piece as
well — where he met with a number of Israeli officials, including Prime
Minister Netanyahu, to discuss the war in Gaza, including ongoing
diplomacy to secure the release of all hostages, increasing flow of
humanitarian assistance into Gaza, and our sacred objective of \[an\]
enduring defeat of Hamas.  
  
And so, it was — it was an important trip and — and constructive
meetings were had with Jake Sullivan.  
  
Q    Did you have any frustrations with the Israelis?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ve heard those reports coming out, and — and
they’re not reflective of the meeting.  
  
Just a couple of things just to — just to double down on.  So, they had
a constructive and detailed discussion on Rafah, building on previous
consultations.  And we’ll now see whether Israel takes our views and
concerns into account in how they proceed.   
  
He also had a constructive and detailed discussion about the bigger
regional picture, which I just mentioned, which I — I just laid out in —
on the Saudi Arabia components and those meetings there.  The Israeli
government is reflecting on what Jake reported, and we will discuss next
steps with them after they — they consult internally.   
  
And Jake had a series of asks on the humanitarian front.  Israel
committed to addressing all of them, and so we are already seeing some
progress.  But obviously, we’re going to keep watching.  
  
And it is important.  We have been very clear about this.  We see the
dire situation happening in Gaza.  And we — and we want to make sure
that all-important humanitarian aid continues to go into Gaza.  And we
certainly — this President and the United States has led in that
effort.  
  
Q    Following up on Gaza.  The — Prime Minister Netanyahu had an
interview with MSNBC.  He was asked about the World Food Programme’s
<s>denomination</s> \[designation\] of it as a “famine” in Gaza.  He
said that he has been — Israel has been flooding aid into Gaza.  Does
the White House agree with that characterization?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say — look, I just laid out the
conversations that Jake had with the Israeli government on a commitment
to continue to increase that humanitarian aid.   
  
I’ll give you a couple of updates on where we are.  
  
On May 19th, over 400 trucks with aid entered Gaza.  These include
trucks that have come in via the temporary pier — that you all know —
that went oper- — started its operational process just at the end of
last week.   
  
Since April 5th, more than 8,000 trucks have moved into Gaza.  
  
Between April 5th and Ap- — May 19th, an average of 180 entered into
Gaza daily.   
  
And so, while — and we understand this — while the amount of the aid
\[that\] has entered Gaza has increased in recent days, these level of
aids remains insufficient.  And so, we want to continue to press Israel
to increase the level of assistance moving into Gaza soonest to reach
those in need.  
  
Again, as I just stated — answered in my last question, this is a
President and administration that has led on this effort.  You heard
Jake Sullivan say this last week when he was at the podium: We’re trying
to do this by land, air, and sea. And so, we are committed —
committed.  
  
This is also why the hostage deal is so important, because we want to
create — make sure we create an environment that — that — with the
humanitarian aid that increases humanitarian \[aid\]; obviously, get
hostages home; and, obviously, lead to a ceasefire, which is something
that the President has been calling for.  
  
Q    Can I —  
  
Q    Go ahead, Emily.  I’ll come back.  
  
Q    Thanks.  I wanted to ask about New Hampshire.  Where we’re going
has a competitive House race in the Democratic primary.  One of the
President’s former top aides, Maggie Goodlander, is running.  She’s
married to Jake Sullivan, obviously.  Is she going to be there?  Is the
President going to endorse her?  Have he and Jake and Maggie talked
about the race?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I can’t talk about an upcoming election,
and you know this.  Hatch Act, a federal employee.  I have to be — I’m
covered by that.  I cannot speak on any — any campaign.  So, I just
don’t have anything to share beyond what I just stated.   
  
You would have to reach out to her campaign directly.  
  
Q    Just to go back to the U.S.-Saudi negotiations.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Should we expect an announcement on that agreement relatively
soon?  Or where does it stand?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what I’ve said in my answer: We’ve seen
significant progress.   
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I think that’s important.  An un- — an
understanding on the major — major elements between us.  And so, I think
that’s important.  
  
Obviously, we thought — as I stated, Jake’s trip to both — not just
Israel — obviously, Saudi Arabia was — was constructive and we’re making
progress.  
  
I don’t have a timeline to — to lay out to you right now or to read out,
but conversations continue.  And I think what you can see from this
administration is the commitment — that commitment to get there.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
Q    I wanted to — to ask a question about the upcoming state visit this
week.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    It’s the first state visit by a leader of Africa since 2008.  And
obviously, the President said he would visit the continent last year,
and that never happened.  I’m just wondering, you know, taken together,
what does that say about the U.S. and the Biden administration’s
commitment to the U.S.-Africa relationship?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I think the U.S. — the commitment to the
U.S.-African relationship is critical and important.  And you — you
know, you saw that in his — I’m trying to remember — in 2022 — right? —
in that — in that — December 2022, where he had African — leaders of
African nations, another summit that was historic, and they talked about
U.S. — U.S.-Africa relations.   
  
And the President did that because he wanted to, you know, deepen that
relationship, truly work on it in a way that — that is — you know, that
has — that has — you know, that has longstanding — longstanding
effect.  
  
As it relates to the state visit this week, we believe this is a
significant visit.  It marks the 60th anniversary of our official
relations with Kenya and the first state visit by an African leader, as
you just stated, since 2008.   
  
Kenya is a key partner on any — on an array of issues, including
security, trade, investment, health, and climate.  And we’re looking to
forward to — to hosting.  The President and the First Lady certainly
are.   
  
The visit is also emblematic of our broader commitment to deepening, as
I just stated, our partnership across — across the continent of Af- —
Africa, building on those conversations — that I just also laid out —
back — that we had back in December of 2022 with the U.S.-Africa Leaders
Summit.   
  
And so, we — we sought out a state visit not only to recognize the
strategic importance of our partnership with Kenya but also to forge new
paths ahead as we tackle common global priorities.  And I think you’ll
see that from the President on — on Thursday.  And so, we want to
continue those diplomatic relationships.  
  
Q    And what’s the reason why the First Lady is going to Andrews Air
Force Base to greet the Kenyan leader and the First Lady?  I — I think
that’s an unusual movement that we haven’t seen before.  Is there a
particular reason why the White House and the President is sending the
First Lady to JBA to greet them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I — certainly, I would refer you to the First
Lady’s Office.  I — I wouldn’t look too mu- — I wouldn’t take too much
from that.   
  
I think the — again, the First Lady and the President is very much
looking forward to — to hosting — hosting the leader and his wife.  And
I think that’s what you can ta- — you can take from that.   
  
It is — as you know, the First Lady went to Kenya when she went — when
she did a trip to — to the African continent.  And I think that that is
a relationship that continues, a friendship that continues.  So, I
wouldn’t take too much from — from her greeting them.  
  
Q    Can you preview any of the state dinner guests?  Who should we be
watching for?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.  
  
Q    Can you preview any of the state dinner guests?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to let —  
  
Q    Who should we be watching for?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to let the First Lady’s Office — (laughter)
— deal with their preview of the state dinner guests.  That — that lives
with them.  (Laughter.)  Sorry.  
  
Thanks, everybody.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  See you on the ro- — see you on the ground.  
  
10:50 A.M. EDT
