---
date: '2024-05-29'
modified_time: 2024-05-29 20:34:31-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-29 20:34:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/05/29/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-13/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

1:19 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR: Hi, everyone. Thanks so much for joining us today for our
on-the-record gaggle with Mr. John Kirby, who’s our NSC — I always mess
up your title, sir, sorry — (laughs) — communications advisor.

He’s going to start with a brief topper, and then we’ll go ahead and get
to your questions.

MR. KIRBY: Good afternoon, everybody. I do want to bring your attention
to some good news today on how we’re modernizing our military,
supporting Ukraine, and creating new American jobs.

Today, the Secretary of the Army is in Mesquite, Texas, for the opening
of a new factory that will significantly increase our country’s ability
to manufacture parts that are used to produce artillery ammunition.

Using funding that the Biden administration has requested and that
Congress has approved, including in our supplemental, the Department of
Defense has contracted with General Dynamics to stand up new production
lines as part of a national effort to significantly increase the number
of artillery shells that we produce every month.

Now, as many of you all know, artillery shells have been an absolutely
critical munition for the war in Ukraine and for our ability to provide
artillery to Ukraine alongside our allies and partners. And these
155-millimeter shells, and, of course, the guns that go with them, have
absolutely made a significant impact on Ukraine’s ability to repel
Russian attacks. They have been particularly important in the eastern
part of the country, the Donbas, open farmland, where what you want is
try to arrange behind the enemy lines. And in many cases around that
part of the country, over the last year or more, it’s literally been a
gunfight. And these 155 \[mm\] shells and those in the tubes that go
with them, they are the guns, and they matter.

When Russia invaded Ukraine back in ‘22, the United States was producing
about 14,000 155-millimeter artillery shells every month. Thanks to
investments that the President has made to increase our production in
Mesquite and at plants across the country, we’re already now more than —
have already more than doubled that number, and we expect to double it
again. We’re on track to manufacture 100,000 155-millimeter artillery
shells per month by the end of next year.

Increasing our production capability and building these new production
lines improves our own military readiness as well. And it’s critical, of
course, to support Ukraine.

Revitalizing our defense industrial base and increasing production has
been a top priority here at the White House, for the President, for
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan. And as a matter of fact, Jake
has regularly convened meetings with the Defense Department and with
industry leaders to discuss how to increase production. And at his
direction, the NSC worked with the Department of Commerce to organize
the Ukraine Defense Industrial Base Summit back in December to explore
opportunities for co-production between the United States and Ukrainian
defense industrial bases and to significantly increase weapon
production.

And of course, Jake has spent a significant amount of time over the last
two years calling on foreign counterparts, as have Secretary Blinken and
Secretary Austin and many others, to obtain commitments from our allies
and partners to send 155-millimeter artillery shells to Ukraine as we
wrap up our own production and support Ukraine’s fight for freedom.

During that six months we didn’t have a supplemental, had limited to no
ability to support Ukraine, many of our allies and partners did just
that. And 155-millimeter shells was one of the things that they kept
flowing to the Ukrainians.

So this is very good news today and indicative of the sincerity with
which we want to support Ukraine but also to support our own defense
industrial base here at home. And of course, it also helps support jobs
in places like Mesquite, Texas.

With that, we can take some questions.

MODERATOR: Awesome. First up, we will go to Zeke Miller. Zeke, you
should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Thanks, John. I was hoping you’d be able to address (inaudible) today
out of the east. First, word that Israel’s military is saying it seized
control of that Philadelphi corridor between Gaza and Egypt. Is that
consistent with what the Israelis have briefed you on about their
planning? And does that — is that consistent with the limited ground
operation that you’ve been talking about?

Separately, the Israeli national security advisor said the war will at
least last through the end of the year. Is that acceptable to the United
States?

And then lastly, do you have any updates or any additional briefings
from the Israelis to the U.S. government about the specific ammunition
used or the potential cause of that — potential secondary explosion from
that strike on Sunday that killed the civilians in Rafah? Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: There’s an awful lot there.

I can’t — as you know, I won’t, Zeke — I’m not going to talk about IDF
operations in any kind of detail. They should detail what they’re doing
on the ground. We’re not there. It’s not our op.

That said, as I said yesterday, when they briefed us on their plans for
Rafah, it did include moving along that corridor and out of the city
proper to put pressure on Hamas in the city.

So I can’t confirm whether they seized the corridor or not, but I can
tell you that their movements along the corridor did not come as a
surprise to us and was in keeping with what we understood their plan to
be — to go after Hamas in a targeted, limited way, not a concentrated
way.

So I don’t know if that answers your question or not, but that’s our
understanding.

On the defense minister’s comments about the war lasting until the end
of the year: Again, we’ll let Israeli officials speak for themselves and
for their assessments. It’s a war they’re fighting. I can tell you that
President Biden is committed to seeing that we find a way to end this
conflict and to end it as soon as practicable.

We’ve got hostages that are still in the hands of Hamas, and potentially
other groups, under horrific circumstances. We got to get them home, and
we want to get them home in a deal tied to a ceasefire — a ceasefire
that we believe, if put in place, could lead to something more
sustainable and a potential end of the conflict. And that’s where
President Biden’s head is, trying to get this hostage deal done.

And as you know, or I think you know, another proposal now is on the
table, a fresh one, and we are doing everything we can to see if we
can’t get that advanced, because it could lead to the ceasefire in a
temporary way that could also lead to something more sustained.

So, again, I’ll let the defense minister speak for his own views and
opinions. Our view and our opinion is we got to get this hostage deal
now. The time is now to do it, to get that temporary ceasefire, and to
end this conflict as soon as possible.

On your third question — third set of questions: We do not have any more
granularity today than we did yesterday about what caused the explosion
and fire that killed those innocent Palestinians in the tent compound.
We have been in touch with our Israeli counterparts, again, overnight
and today, and we’re trying to get as much information as we can. But I
couldn’t tell you honestly that we have clarity on that particular
issue. As you know, they’re investigating.

And on the specific weapon: Again, I’m going to be dramatically
disappointing to you, Zeke, and to everybody else. We’re not going to
speak to individual payload loadouts on individual Israeli aircraft. The
IDF should speak to their conduct of this particular operation, and that
would include — we would expect in their investigation include the
discussion of what was used.

Now, they’ve already said publicly that they used precision-guided
munitions. They said that those precision-guided munitions had a payload
of about 37 pounds, 17 kilos, which is a pretty small payload to be
using. And if it is true that that’s what they used, as I said
yesterday, that would certainly indicate a desire to be more deliberate
and more precise in their targeting. But again, we need to let their
investigation conclude.

MODERATOR: Great, thanks. Next up we’ll take Missy Ryan from the
Washington Post. Missy, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Yep. Thank you very much. Hi, John. Just wanted to ask again about the
pier operation, which I think you addressed a little bit yesterday at
the podium. Could you just sort of give your assessment of the
expectations for what this operation can add to the situation? I know
it’s not meant to replace the ground entries that everybody wants to
see. But given the problems and then the pause that we’re seeing after
only a week of operations, can you just sort of provide some context on
how you guys are looking at what this can add to the need in Gaza?
Thanks.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah. I mean, as we’ve always said, this is an additive
element; it’s not meant to replace the ground routes. Can’t do it. It’s
not meant to be a one-size-fits-all kind of operation. But it does have
the potential to (inaudible) the capacity of humanitarian assistance
that gets into Gaza.

And, you know, one of the goals that I know that we were trying to see
come out of the pier was — you know, a thousand pallets or so per day
was sort of an initial goal. And we believe that that’s still possible.

The important thing to remember about this temporary pier  
is that — is the word “temporary.” It’s not rooted into the seabed with
pilings, concrete. You know, it’s held in place by anchoring and by
vessels that are adjacent to it, moored to it, keeping it in place. And
it’s literally on the water, and it’s in a maritime environment. And
weather and maritime conditions absolutely play a role in the stability
of the pier and the ability of workers on that pier and truck drivers on
that pier to use it.

And in the last week or so, the weather conditions in the eastern Med
have not been conducive to safe operation of that pier. We said, even
before that pier got on site, that there were going to be challenges,
environmental challenges, dealing with it. We also said, once it got
operational, on day one, where they got 300 pallets in, that that was
just day one and that the initial operating capacity of trying to get
three times that much — you know, a thousand or so pallets a day — was
going to take some time. And you know what? It’s taken a little bit of
time. It’s hard.

This is difficult, complicated work, particularly in a maritime
environment that you can’t control. It’s not like on the ground, where
you can parcel off a piece of dirt and put a bunch of security around it
and kind of claim it and own it. This is water, and it can be an
unforgiving environment. And that’s what these guys are facing right
now. And I think we all need to keep that in mind.

Nobody said at the outset that this was going to be easy. Nobody said at
the outset that it was going to be quick. And nobody at the outset said
that it was going to be a panacea for all the humanitarian assistance
problems that still exist in Gaza. That said, it is additive. It can be
supportive. It can be operational, as we’ve seen it. And as soon as
weather conditions permit, you know, resumption of safe operations, and
I have no doubt that the Defense Department and our USAID partners will
go right at that work. It’s still work worth doing even if it’s
difficult.

Q John, can I just follow up on that?

MR. KIRBY: Sure.

Q I mean, do you feel frustrated that, you know, the administration is
kind of getting all the scrutiny over the functionality of the pier and
you guys are having to put it on ice, sort of, shortly after (inaudible)
operating capacity? Given the effort and money that was involved in
setting this thing up; given that, as you all describe it, that it’s
Israel, your ally, that is failing to properly enable the effective
entry and distribution of aid within the corridor, which is the chief
problem, do you feel frustrated by that situation?

MR. KIRBY: I think what’s a little frustrating with the pier itself,
Missy, is the expectation that there wasn’t — that it was going to be —
that it was just going to be easy. I think sometimes there’s an
expectation of the U.S. military, because they’re so good, that
everything that they touch is just going to turn to gold in an instant.
And we knew going in that this was going to be tough stuff, and it has
proven to be tough stuff. But it’s not that it can’t be overcome.

So I think if there’s any frustration it’s that people had expectations
that — the critics had expectations, not people inside the
administration, but external critics had expectations for this that we
knew at the outset were not an appropriate set of expectations. But
we’re going to keep at it. It still matters.

And as for the ground routes, look, we continue to work diligently with
our Israeli counterparts to keep crossings open and to get more aid in
through the ground routes. That’s the only way to do this in an
effective way by volume and by scale and scope, is on the ground. And
we’re going to continue to work with the Israelis to do exactly that.

We’ve had some days of good success getting hundreds of trucks in. We’ve
had other days where it is up and is successful again. This is tough
stuff. And the President is committed to doing everything we can to
increase and sustain humanitarian assistance into some people that are
hungry and thirsty and in need of medical care and attention. And that’s
what we’re going to do.

It appears — again, why wouldn’t we try this — if we had this capability
and it was available to us, we had the know-how and the expertise to do
it, why would we leave that on the sidelines? Even if it can’t replace
everything, even if we are still struggling with the Israelis from time
to time on some of these crossings, why you would leave that on the
sidelines makes no sense. It’s the same with the airdrops. We know the
airdrops are not going to be substantial enough in quantity to match
what you can do on ground routes, but that doesn’t mean you don’t do
them. You do the best you can, and you add as much capability as you
can.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Next up, we’ll go to Andrea Mitchell with NBC.
Andrea, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Hi there. Thank you very much, John. I hope you can hear me. We’re
reporting — we and maybe others are reporting that Israel says that they
made a new ceasefire offer for a  
long pause or a calming, not a permanent ceasefire. Do you have anything
on that and what the status of a possible resumption of talks might be?

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, I mentioned this a little bit ago, Andrea. There is a
fresh proposal that’s being worked. And I can tell you that the Israelis
are fully supportive of this fresh proposal and, as before, have been
willing to deal in good faith on this.

I won’t go into the details of it. I think you can understand why. But
we’re hard at work at seeing if we can’t make this other run at it work.

Q Do you know — can you give us any help on when this might get elevated
or when there might be a resumption, at a more senior level, of talks?

MR. KIRBY: No, I can’t, not because I have it and I don’t want to give
it to you. I can’t because we just don’t — we just don’t know right now.
We’re — this is, again, a pretty fresh proposal here. And again, the
Israelis have been very supportive. But there’s a lot of work now that
has to get done to see if we can’t get another round of talks going and
see where we can get this — see where we can land it.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Next up we have Trevor with Reuters. Trevor, you
should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Hey, John. Thanks for taking the question. Two for you on Gaza. You
said yesterday that Israel is not engaged in a major ground operation
because IDF has not sent a large number of troops, but we do see that
Israel sent six combat brigades, with more on the way. Potentially,
we’re talking about tens of thousands of troops. You know, by
comparison, they seized all of the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt in the ‘50s
with 10 brigades. (Inaudible) not a major operation.

And then, on the incident over the weekend, there was a report that
there was a GBU-39 that was found, (inaudible) bomb that’s made
(inaudible) United States. Is that in line with what you know? Thanks.

MR. KIRBY: Can you repeat the second half of your second question? You
said somebody with a GBU-39, and then I missed the rest.

Q Yeah, that’s a bomb that’s made in the U.S.

MR. KIRBY: No, I know what it is. No, no, I know what a GBU-39 is, but I
didn’t get the second half of your question.

Q Oh. Is that in line — are you aware that that bomb was used by Israel
in the attack on Sunday?

MR. KIRBY: Okay. All right. I’ll do these in reverse order just because
I want to.

Yeah, I mean, I know what a GBU-39 is, and I know what it can do. I know
that the Israelis have said publicly that they used precision-guided
munitions with a 37-pound, or 17-kilo, payload.

As I said yesterday, Trevor, I can’t confirm any of those details; I can
only point you to what the IDF has said. Therefore, I cannot confirm
whether or not it was a GBU-39 that delivered the payload on that bomb.
You’d have to really talk to the IDF about that.

On your first question, again, you guys are — I understand where the
questions are coming from, but you got to understand I’m not going to
confirm IDF operations or what they’re doing, so I can’t speak to combat
brigades they have in Rafah or not, or what makes up a brigade for them
and how many soldiers that is. They should speak to all that.

All I can tell you is that, as you and I are sitting here talking today,
we still have not seen a major ground operation in Rafah in the manner I
described it as yesterday, which — large amounts; you know, thousands
and thousands of troops moving in a coordinated fashion against — you
know, maneuvering against a variety of targets on the ground in a very
aggressive way. The way I described it yesterday, as you and I sit here
today, we have not seen that.

MODERATOR: All right. Thank you. Next up we’ll go to Alex Ward with
Politico. Alex, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Yeah. Thanks so much, John. Secretary Blinken was asked today about
Ukraine lifting — the U.S. lifting restrictions on Ukraine’s ability to
strike inside Russia. And he suggested the administration has always
adjusted as necessary, seeming to open the door to the possibility of a
policy change. I know you spoke a bit to this yesterday, but is the
administration reviewing this, you know, decision? Obviously, you know,
some — Emmanuel Macron came out in saying Ukraine should be able to hit.
That’s one.

And two, USAID Administrator Power today said that “Despite…” — and I’m
reading this quote — “Despite currently more limited military operations
around Rafah and the Egypt-Gaza border, the catastrophic consequences
that we have long warned about are becoming a reality.” So just checking
if the White House agrees that Israel’s campaign so far, while limited,
has led to catastrophic consequences in Rafah. Thanks.

MR. KIRBY: So, on your first question, as I said yesterday — I believe I
said yesterday — there’s no change in our policy. We do not encourage
nor do we enable attacks using U.S. weapons on Russian soil. And as the
Secretary said and as, frankly, I’ve said it too: From almost the first
week of this war, we’ve been in touch with our Ukrainian counterparts
every day about what their needs are. Some of those needs are material;
some of those needs are training; some of those needs are advice and
counsel. Whatever the needs are, we’re in touch with them, and we’re
talking to them. And those conversations continue right now.

I don’t have any changes to speak to. But as you know, Alex, our support
to Ukraine has evolved appropriately as the battlefield conditions have
evolved. And that’s not going to change. But right now, there’s also no
change to our policy.

MODERATOR: All right, thank you. Next up, we’ll go to Nadia Bilbassy.

MR. KIRBY: Well, wait a minute. I blew off your second question, didn’t
I? Sorry.

Q Yeah, on Administrator Power, yeah.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah. No, that’s all right. It wasn’t a Freudian slip. I
wasn’t trying to be, you know — I wasn’t trying to ignore it.

Look, I — we all share the concerns that Administrator Power shares and
has conveyed about the suffering inside Gaza. I just talked quite a
little bit about all the things that we’re doing on the humanitarian
assistance front to try to alleviate that.

We know there are people in desperate, desperate straits. And that is
why we’re working so hard to get this fresh proposal  
through, to get a hostage deal so we can get a ceasefire so that we can
increase the humanitarian assistance and there’s a period of calm where
there’s no fighting across all of Gaza. That’s the goal here.

So I think we’re all pulling the oars in the same direction. And we all
share the concerns, again, about the people that are in such desperate
need. And, again, that’s why we’re pursuing this path.

Q So, sorry, since you said you share those concerns, you’re in
agreement with Administrator Power that there have been catastrophic
consequences in Rafah?

MR. KIRBY: We certainly agree that there have been — I mean, yes, of
course. I don’t even — there’s no way you should even take any note that
we — of cou- — what happened over on Sunday, with the death of innocent
people in the tent, that was a catastrophe. Having, you know, more than
2 million people being displaced by conflict, a war that Sinwar started,
certainly has had catastrophic consequences on their lives, their
livelihoods, their infrastructure. I mean, my goodness, of course
there’s been catastrophe in Gaza. But that’s why we’re working so hard
to find a way through here and to eventually try to find a way to end
this conflict.

MODERATOR: All right, thank you. Now we’ll go to Nadia Bilbassy. Nadia,
you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Thank you, Jessica. John, you said yesterday that the President did
not see the videos from Rafah of the charred bodies and headless babies.
Why is that? Who is responsible to show him these videos, considering
that he talked very much about the Israeli side and the videos that he
saw, and he used them on even campaign trips?

And second, if you allow me, you stated that you support Israel to
destroy Hamas, you want to release the hostages, you said you want more
aid to Gaza, and you want more protection for civilians. I mean, isn’t
just trying to square the circle? I mean, do you see these targets
achievable without a permanent ceasefire, which Hamas (inaudible) insist
that nothing can move forward without a ceasefire?

MR. KIRBY: So what I said yesterday, Nadia, when I was asked was: Has
the President seen the images? And I said I did not know. And I do not
know today, but I can ask the question. That is what I said. I did not
say that he didn’t.

Q Thanks.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah. And on the second question, squaring the circle — man,
I’ll tell you, that’s what this whole thing is about. It’s about trying
to square all these circles. Are you kidding me? We want to see the — we
want to see the hostages out. The only way to do that is to tie it to a
ceasefire. You get a ceasefire in place for six weeks, and maybe that
can lead to something more sustainable. And with nobody shooting at
anybody, then you can get more aid in because drivers of trucks and
people that deliver aid won’t be as fearful about making those crossings
and making those routes.

So I’ll tell you, President Biden has been working hard every day to
square all these circles. And that’s absolutely what we’re going to keep
doing.

Q I mean, I don’t disagree with you. It’s the opposite, actually. But my
point here is: Without a permanent ceasefire, Hamas (inaudible) saying
nothing can go forward unless Israel stops all the operations. And the
Israelis said, we’re not going to stop the operations. So this is my
point to you: How can you achieve all of this without a permanent
ceasefire?

MR. KIRBY: We believe that if we can get the hostage deal tied to a
temporary ceasefire, that that can lead to something more enduring,
something more sustainable — a calm of greater duration — and that that
can lead to an end of the conflict. And that’s what we’re focused on.

MODERATOR: All right, thank you. Next up we’ll go to Kayla with CNN.
Kayla, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Thank you so much, Admiral. Analysis by CNN and others show debris of
a Small Diameter Bomb in the wreckage, the bomb that is made by Boeing
and would likely have been made in the United States. I know the
administration has previously halted the provision of heavy bombs. I’m
wondering whether the administration is discussing changes to the
provision of these Small Diameter Bombs.

MR. KIRBY: So, first of all, I’ve seen your reporting, and as I said
earlier, I’m in no position to confirm the weapons loadout on Israeli
aircraft. I’ll leave it to the Israelis to describe, as they shou- — as
only they can, the manner in which they conducted these strikes. So I’m
not going to confirm the reporting. You got to talk to the IDF about
that.

And as for your — the thrust of the question, which is, you know, other
policy changes with respect to weapons shipments, the only shipment that
has been paused and it remains paused is that shipment of 2,000-pound
bombs that we have talked about now for several weeks. There is no other
pause to speak to. And as the President has said, we will keep doing
what we have to do to help Israel defend itself against a still-viable
threat by Hamas.

Q And if I may, some of the munitions experts who were quoted in some of
our reporting say, “Using any munition, even of this size, will always
incur risks in a densely populated area.” Does the administration agree
with that assessment?

MR. KIRBY: I said yesterday — and please quote me from yesterday — in my
opening statement that what happened on Sunday, the tragic outcome,
underscores exactly that notion: the danger, the challenges of
conducting a military operation in a densely populated area such as
Rafah. So, yes, I agree with that, and I said so yesterday in the
briefing.

MODERATOR: All right, thank you. Next up we’ll go with Anita Powell,
VOA. Anita, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Thank you so much, John. First of all, Secretary Austin is going to
the Shangri-La Dialogue. I just want to know what message he’s taking to
the Asian partners in the region and also to China.

MR. KIRBY: Well, with the caveat that I’m no longer the Pentagon press
secretary, I would refer you to my colleagues over there to speak to his
agenda and his meetings and discussions that he’s having. It wouldn’t be
appropriate for that to come from me.

Q I’m asking on behalf of the administration. I mean, he’s the Defense
Secretary. So what message is he taking on behalf of —

MR. KIRBY: Again, I appreciate the question, but I don’t speak for the
Defense Secretary, and I really don’t want to get into the details of
his schedule. I will just tell you, and I was going to do this just a
second ago, that this is an important dialogue, Shangri-La, certainly in
an important region of the world. And it is an annual gathering that
secretaries of defense for many, many years have attended, with good
reason, because it’s an opportunity to present our case, to talk about
our national security interests and how we’re going about securing those
interests in the Indo-Pacific region, and an opportunity for leaders
there to have many individual bilateral discussions with their
counterparts to advance some of these goals.

And I know that Secretary Austin is embarking on this trip with all of
that firmly in his mind and that he’s looking forward to having those
discussions and, again, to laying out, as he has in the past, very
clearly, not only the Defense Department’s approach to the Indo-Pacific
but the entire national security establishment.

Q John, can I ask a follow-up on Ukraine please, on the peace summit? Is
President Biden concerned that if he doesn’t attend the Ukraine peace
summit, it will send the wrong message to the global community about the
importance of supporting peace in Ukraine?

And then, if he’s not going, who from the administration is? And does
the administration still feel confident in President Zelenskyy’s peace
formulation?

MR. KIRBY: Okay, those are seven questions, I think. So let me try the
first one.

I mean, I got — I have no delegation plans to speak to you today for
this peace summit. That’s point one.

Point two: No matter who represents the United States at the peace
summit, it cannot be said that the United States has not been there for
Ukraine, and that it cannot be said, number three, that President Biden
has not been there for Ukraine. I mean, from the very beginning of this
conflict, no other leader has done as much and continues to do as much
as President Biden does to make sure that Ukraine has what it needs to
defend itself against Russian aggression.

And no other leader has done as much to work with the Ukrainians, not
only for their defense needs now, but for what their defense needs are
going to be when this war is over. Whatever that border — whatever that
end of the war looks like, they’re still going to have a long border
with Russia, and it’s a border that they’re going to need to defend. And
the President has made commitments to Ukraine to be there for them long
term.

So being there means being there. And in all the ways that that matters,
the United States and President Biden has been there for President
Zelenskyy and for the people of Ukraine, and that will continue
regardless of who sits in what chair at the peace summit. And I think
that’s an important thing to remember.

I know you had another question that I think I missed. President
Zelenskyy.

Q Yeah, does the White House have confidence in President Zelenskyy’s
peace formulation? Do you support it — all 10 of its points, I believe?

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, of course we do. And we’ve been supportive of that
10-point formulation since he drafted it.

And as a matter of fact, we have been actively involved — Secretary
Blinken and Jake Sullivan, in particular — actively involved in
advancing that formula and working with other countries around the world
to see what we can do to operationalize it.

And, you know, I want to go back to what I was talking about before. I
also want to remind you that in just the last month we’ve issued five
security packages to Ukraine, three of them presidential drawdown
authority, two of them under USAI, but in the past month. Again, so
regardless of who’s in what seat at the peace summit, it can’t be said
that the United States isn’t doing everything and anything to do what we
can to support Ukraine.

I think I’m going to —

Q So just to clarify, John, does the White House have input into
Ukraine’s peace formula? Is this a dialogue between Washington and Kyiv
then?

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, of course.

MODERATOR: All right. Thanks, Anita. Next up we’ll have Zolan from the
New York Times. Zolan, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Hey there. Thanks so much for the question. I’m assuming you can hear
me, right?

MODERATOR: Yep. Loud and clear.

Q Thanks very much. John, I just wanted to follow up on an inquiry I had
yesterday in terms of — I realize that the U.S. isn’t sort of the
primary source for this, but I would assume just since the
administration for a while was calling for Israel to hold back on going
into Rafah before it had developed plans for evacuating displaced
Palestinians there, if there were any sort of now updated numbers on the
number of Palestinians who — displaced Palestinians who have fled Rafah,
where they are, and the number of Palestinians that are still in Rafah.
Thanks.

MR. KIRBY: I’m afraid I don’t have those updated for you. And I
apologize, because I did say yesterday I would try to get that for you.
So let me take that question. And that comes with my apologies. You’re
right, I did get asked, and I didn’t have the answer yesterday.

Q Appreciate that. I’ll follow up. Thanks.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah. I just don’t want to — I don’t want to be guessing on
something like that.

MODERATOR: All right, thank you. And last question we’ll go to Nick
Schifrin with PBS. Nick, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Thanks, guys. John, at the United Nations, Algeria is pushing a
resolution that would call for the end of the Rafah operations. Does the
U.S. have a position on that?

And then, a question that is perhaps more tactical than you want to
answer, but regardless of which munition the Israelis dropped, the IDF
has been specific and said that their target was 180 meters away from
the tent encampment that caught fire. Again, I know it’s a tactical
question, but is that a sufficient enough distance in your mind? Thanks.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, you’re right, that’s more tactical than I’m going to
get into, Nick. I mean, we weren’t part of this operation. We didn’t
help plan it. We didn’t help execute it. We didn’t do the targeting. And
I would refer you to what the IDF have been saying about that investiga-
— that operation. And, of course, they’re investigating it. So let’s see
what they come up with in terms of their conclusions about what could
have caused this explosion and fire. So, again, I just want to be
careful on this.

And on the resolution by Algeria, we certainly are aware of it. As a
matter of fact, we’re reviewing it. I think you can understand that I’m
not going to negotiate this thing here in public, in a gaggle. But I
would take the opportunity to note that we believe it is imbalanced and
it fails to note a very simple fact — and this is the same thing we have
objected to with previous resolutions: It does not note that Hamas is to
blame for this conflict and that the fighting in Rafah could end
tomorrow if Mr. Sinwar did the right thing and agreed to this deal and
get a ceasefire and to get the release of the hostages. And I will leave
it at that.

I do have one correction. My team is telling me that when I answered the
question about the five security packages, three were PDA, one was USAI,
one was foreign military financing. That was the source for that
package. So I apologize for the error, but I’m glad I was able to fix it
before we wrapped up the gaggle.

And then, we do have a taken question on the number of  
evacuees. We’ll do the best we can to get you an answer on that. And
again, my apologies — I should have been ready for that, given that I
took it yesterday. So, my bad. We’ll get back to you all. Have a great
day.
