---
date: '2024-05-28'
modified_time: 2024-05-29 14:56:01-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-28 14:17:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/05/28/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-5/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Communications Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:19 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ve got a couple things at the top, and then we’ll
get going.  
  
So, today, we are grieving the lives lost as the result of deadly
tornadoes that ripped through several states across Southern Plains. 
Our prayers are with the families that lost loved ones.  We wish those
who were injured a speedy recovery.  
  
These tragic storms come as communities across the South and Midwest are
still recovering from severe weather that destroyed homes, businesses,
and leveled entire communities earlier this month.   
  
As always, we remain grateful for the first responders.  
  
As the President’s statement indicated, our teams have been directly in
touch with state and local officials.  
  
The President also spoke directly with Governors Stitt, Huckabee —
Huckabee Sanders, Abbott to offer his condolences for the lives lost and
reiterate that the federal government stands ready to support as
needed.   
  
As we speak, FEMA is conducting damage assessments with their state and
local counterparts.  And tomorrow, the FEMA Administrator will travel to
Arkansas.  
  
As we turn towards recovery, we urge residents in the affected areas to
remain vigilant and continue listening to state and local officials.  
  
We also want to encourage everyone nationwide to prepare now for
potential severe weather in your area.  
  
Next, just wanted to lay this out for folks and shout this out.  We saw
a record number of travelers at airports over Memorial Day weekend.  
  
As you all know, President Biden is taking action to improve their
travel experience by taking on hidden junk fees.  
  
The Biden-Harris administration is mandating that airlines show upfront
the price of checked bags, seats, and flight changes or cancellations,
which will save consumers half a billion dollars a year.   
  
Two — two airlines, Spirit and Frontier, announced they are ending
change and cancellation fees.  
  
Our administration is also requiring airlines to provide automatic refu-
— refunds when flights are canceled or significantly changed.  
  
We are proposing that hotels and car rental companies show the full
price upfront, banning hidden fees.  
  
And we are al- — also lowering the price of gas, including by selling 1
million barrels of gasoline from the Northeast Gasoline Supply
Reserve.  
  
We know that severe weather yesterday disrupted some flights, which is
why the Department of Transportation is keeping pressure on airlines to
improve flight operations and help travelers when there are flights
delays or cancellations.  
  
With that, we have the Admiral here, from NSC, who is going to speak to
the development in the Middle East.  
  
Admiral.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Karine.  
  
Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So, I just want to — just right off the top — talk about
these — the devastating images and reports coming out of Rafah over the
weekend following an IDF strike that killed dozens of innocent
Palestinians, including children.   
  
And we’ve all seen the images.  They’re heartbreaking.  They’re
horrific.  There should be no innocent life lost here as a result of
this conflict.  
  
Israel, of course, has a right to go after Hamas, and we understand that
this strike did kill two senior Hamas terrorists who are directly
responsible for attacks against the Israeli people.  
  
But, as we’ve also said many times, Israel must take every precaution
possible and do more to protect innocent life.  
  
Now, as soon as we saw these reports over the weekend about the strike,
we reached out to the Israeli Defense Forces at various levels to gather
more information.  And we’ve been actively engaged with the IDF and with
partners on the ground to learn more about what happened.  
  
I’ll note that the Israeli Defense Forces today released initial
findings — initial findings — that point to the fire being caused by a
secondary explosion, not the initial strike.  
  
I think this speaks very clearly to the challenge of military airstrikes
in densely populated areas of Gaza, including Rafah, because of the risk
of civilian casualties, which of course happened terribly in this
case.  
  
A horrible loss of life.  
  
We’re glad the Israeli Defense Force — Forces are doing a full
investigation, which we believe is going to be very important to try to
prevent future such mishaps.  
  
With that, I can take some questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Aamer.  
  
Q    Thanks, Admiral.  Can you explain how the strike in Rafah does not
cross the lines that the President has set and many of you have repeated
that this — that the operations be targeted and limited?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We still don’t believe that a major ground operation in
Rafah is warranted.  We still don’t want to see the Israelis, as we say,
smash into Rafah with large units over — over large pieces of
territory.  
  
We still believe that.  And we haven’t seen that at this point.  But
we’re going to be watching this, of course, very, very closely.  
  
I want to just end this — this answer by making it very clear that,
regardless, every single loss of innocent life is tragic and every
single loss of innocent life should be prevented as much as possible.  
  
Q    Has the President seen the images?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know.  I can’t speak to what —  
  
Q    But he’s been briefed on them?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  He has absolutely been — he’s been kept apprised throughout
the weekend on this.  
  
Q    So, you’re saying the tent — the tent encampment that was first
struck is considered a densely populated area?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The whole area of Rafah, Ed, is densely populated.  
  
Now, there has been a million or so who have evacuated Rafah proper, but
it’s not like they’re going all that far away. The whole area is densely
populated.  
  
Q    So, how does this not violate the red line that the President laid
out?  
MR. KIRBY:  As I said, we don’t want to see a major ground operation. 
We haven’t seen that at this point.  
  
Q    How many more charred corpses does he have to see before the
President considers a change in policy?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We don’t want to see a single more innocent life taken.  And
I kind of take a little offense at the question.  
  
No civilian casualties is the right number of civilian casualties.  And
this is not something that we’ve turned a blind eye to nor has it been
something we’ve ignored or neglected to raise with our Israeli
counterparts — including, Ed, this weekend as a result of this
particular strike.  
  
Now, they’re investigating it.  So, let’s let them investigate it and
see what they come up with.  
  
Q    But the President doesn’t have, like, a personal limit to this?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President has been very clear and very direct about what
our expectations are for Israeli operations in Rafah specifically but in
Gaza writ large.  We don’t support, we won’t support a major ground
operation in Rafah.  And we’ve, again, been very consistent on that.  
  
And the President said that should that occur, then it might make him
have to make different decisions in terms of support.  We haven’t seen
that happen at this point.  
  
Q    And why not have him come out and say that himself?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President has been speaking to leaders throughout the
region on a regular basis.  He has been addressing you guys in various
fora.  You’ve got plenty of opportunities to talk to the President,
including, I might add, in a press conference last week.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    You’ve said now that you don’t think a major ground invasion is
happening in Rafah right now.  But as you know, this is a densely
populated area.  It all is.  I understand, you know, this might be a
secondary explosion.  The Israelis are describing it as a “tragic
mishap.”  But isn’t this exactly the kind of incident that you have been
concerned about this whole time?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  As I said in my opening statement, this exactly does speak
to the challenge of military operations in a densely populated area — a
challenge, I would add, Mary, that we have been sharing and — our
perspectives on with the Israelis from our own lessons learned in places
like Iraq and Afghanistan.  This incident speaks exactly to that
challenge.   
  
Q    And despite the loss of life here, do you still believe that this
strike was precise and proportional?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  There’s an investigation.  I think we’re going to let the
Israelis do their work.  I don’t think you can expect me to speak to the
details of a — of a specific strike by Israeli military forces when we
had nothing to do with that.  
  
Q    And just one more.  You know, you’ve called the strike
“devastating,” the images “heartbreaking,” but you’ve stopped short of
outright condemning this strike.  Can you explain why?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We have been, I think, very strident in our condemnations
about the deaths of innocent civilians.  These deaths are not excused
from that.  But we have to understand what happened here.  There’s going
to be an investigation.  They’ve already said it’s been — it was a
tragic mistake.  They’re looking into it.   
  
They have been able to investigate themselves and hold people
accountable in the past.  We’ll see what they do here.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Asma, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I want to be clear.  After this weekend’s strike, is it
our assumption that nothing about U.S. policy has changed or is changing
in regards to —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  As a result of this strike on Sunday, I have no policy
changes to speak to.  It just happened.  The Israelis are going to
investigate it.  We’re going to be taking great interest in what they
find in that investigation.  And we’ll see where it goes from there.   
  
Q    And I also want to ask: We saw a good amount of international
condemnation after this strike, whether it was from President Macron of
France, others in Europe.  We have not yet heard from the President
publicly at all about this strike.  Why is that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, again, I think I’ve answered his question.  With that,
you’ve heard the — the President on numerous occasions in just the last
few days about what’s going on in the Middle East and in other places
around the world.  And you’ll hear from him again.  I’m absolutely
confident in that.  
  
Q    One last question.  Is there any concern that the United States
itself is being isolated internationally as we continue to support the —
you know, the operation and you’re seeing European allies —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  One — one of the things — one of the things — and one of the
things that we’ve talked about with the — the Israelis are about the
manner in which some of these operations are being conducted is that —
is the real danger that Israel itself could become further isolated from
the international community just by dint of the manner in which they are
conducting operations.   
  
So, this is of concern, clearly, because it’s not in —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)    
  
MR. KIRBY:  — it’s not in Israel’s best interests and it’s not in our
best interests for Israel to become increasingly isolated on the world
stage.   
  
As a matter of fact, one of the things the President came into office
wanting to do — and actually, we had made some progress before the 7th
of October — was working towards a more integrated Israel into the
region.  So, it’s in our national security interests to make sure that
that doesn’t happen.   
  
The President doesn’t make decisions and he doesn’t execute on policy
based on public opinion polling or on popularity contests.  He bases his
decisions on our own national security interests — what’s at stake for
our safety and security here at home and abroad.  And what’s in the best
interests of our — of our allies and partners.  
  
Sometimes what’s in the best interest of your alliance and your
partnership is to be candid, forthright, even tough with your friend,
which we have been able to do with Israel.  
  
Q    Sorry, I just want to be clear on that.  We spoke about Israel’s
isolationism there.  I just want to be clear: Are you concerned at all
—  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I — I —  
  
Q    — or is the administration concerned at all about the United States
being out of step or isolating?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I thought I got to that in the — in the last part —  
  
Q    I’m sorry.  I missed —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — of my soliloquy.  
  
Q    No, I —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I did.  
  
Q    I’m sorry.  I did not catch that.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  You didn’t get it.  (Laughter.)  Okay.  So, I’m going to try
it again, and we’ll see if maybe — maybe take two will be better.   
  
The President is not making decisions based on popularity or public
opinion polls here or around the world.  He’s making decisions about our
national security based on those interests and what meets those
interests.  And it certainly doesn’t meet our interests.  And it doesn’t
meet our Israeli partners’ interests for them to become further
isolated.   
  
But he’s not making decisions based on that being a worry.  He’s making
decisions — he’s making decisions based on what’s in — what’s in the
best interests of the American people and our safety and security
abroad.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Aurelia.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  So, last week, from this podium, Jake Sullivan
was asked about the Rafah operation, and he said, and I’m quoting him,
“What we’re going to be looking at is whether there is a lot of death
and destruction from this operation.”   
  
So, if what happened this weekend doesn’t qualify as “a lot of death and
destruction,” how would you describe it?  And how would you quantify
what “a lot of death and destruction” in Rafah is?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We don’t — there’s not a — there’s not like a measuring
stick here or a quota.  As we’ve said many times, the — the right number
of civilian casualties is zero.  We don’t want to see any.   
  
Now we’ve seen more than about a dozen or so that we can — that we know
of, at least from the strike alone.  That’s horrific.  That’s terrible. 
We don’t want to see that.  The answer should be zero.   
  
The Israelis have said this was a tragic mistake.  They’re going to
investigate that.  We’re going to let them do that.  But we’ve also said
— and this is the other part of what Jake said is that we don’t want to
see a major ground operation in Rafah.  That would really make it hard
for the Israelis to go after Hamas without causing extensive damage and
potentially a large number of deaths.   
  
We have not seen them do that at this point, but we’re watching it very
closely.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Gabe.  
  
Q    Admiral, you said — you’ve said repeatedly that the U.S. doesn’t
want to see a major ground operation in Rafah, but Israeli tanks just
moved into Central Rafah.  How is that not a major military operation?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, again, I don’t want to talk about Israeli Defense
Force operations.  But my understanding is — and I believe the Israelis
have spoken to this — that they are moving along something called a
Philadelphi Corridor, which is on the outskirts of the town, not in the
town proper.  That’s what the Israelis have said.  
  
We’re not on the ground.  Gabe, we’re not there.  I mean, you know, I
don’t have — we don’t have troops that can look at every single soldier
and where they are.  We’re going based on what the Israelis are telling
us and what they’re saying publicly and what we’re able to discern as
best we can — as best we can.  As you and I speak here today, we have
not seen a major ground operation.   
  
And these tanks are moving along a corridor that they have told us
previously that they would use on the outskirts of the town to try to
put pressure on Hamas.  
  
Q    NBC’s crew in Gaza has described it as being central Rafah.  If it
were to be central Rafah, would that be considered a major military
operation?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  A single tank?  A single tank —  
  
Q    No, not a single tank — tanks.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — with a dozen or so guys?  I mean, we’re talking about —
you know, you’re dragging me into a hypothetical, and I hate that.  But
one tank, one armored vehicle does not constitute a major ground
operation.  
  
Now, I’m not saying that that’s what’s going on right now.  What I’m
telling you is what the Israelis have told us about what they’re doing. 
They tell us it’s on the outskirts.  A major ground operation is, you
know, thousands and thousands of troops moving in a maneuvered,
concentrated, coordinated way against a variety of targets on the
ground.  The kinds of things we’ve seen, we — we’ve done ourselves. 
That’s what we’re talking about here.  
  
Q    And then one last thing on a strike today.  Twenty-one people — at
least twenty-one people were killed in a strike that hit a tent camp in
Southern Gaza today.  What’s the U.S. response to that?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  We can’t verify those reports.  The Israelis are saying
publicly that there was no such strike, so I’d point you to them.  I
can’t speak to it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Trevor.  
  
Q    Thanks.  And just want to make this very clear between what’s
happened on Sunday — what’s happened in terms of the ongoing ground
operation since.  There is nothing that you have seen thus far that
would prompt a U.S. withdrawal of more military assistance to Israel?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I believe that’s what I’ve been saying here.  
  
Q    Okay.  Cool.  And just want to get your reaction as well to the
House Republicans asking for sanctions against the ICC or some of its
officials.  Is that something that the Biden administration is going to
support?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.  We don’t believe that sanctions against the ICC is the
right approach here.  No.   
  
Q    Why?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I mean, look, we — we obviously don’t believe the ICC has
jurisdiction.  But we certainly don’t support these — these arrest
warrants, and we have said that before.  We don’t believe, though, that
sanctioning the ICC is the answer.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nadia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Admiral, please help me to understand.  You
just said that, basically, there is no major operation that you have
seen by the Israelis in Rafah.  And you insisted that it has to be a
viable plan to evacuate all civilians, and that was considered kind of
red line, if you do- — if you don’t want to call it a red line.   
  
So, explain to me how 1 million people who are forced to leave Rafah to
no place that’s considered a safe zone with now only 400,000 left, how
could it be that different from what you said, that we oppose the plan
unless the Israelis give us, really, a viable way to make sure that
these one and a half million civilians are safe?   
  
So, 1 million, they’re not really safe, because we have seen yesterday,
they have been attacked.  They’re burned to death, with kids have no
heads — headless kids.  You’ve seen the pictures.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yes, I have.  
  
Q    And then, now, the Israelis ba- — basically, their plan is to let
these people leave but not voluntarily.  These people are forced to
leave.  So, how could be this any different from your insisting that it
has to be a good plan, a viable plan, a practical plan to make sure that
these people are going to a safe place?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I didn’t say that that — that everything that’s happening in
Rafah right now is perfect or good.   
  
Q    No, no, I’m not saying that.  (Inaudible) —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not saying that at all.  
  
Q    — after what you said before.  You said before that it has to be a
viable plan to evacuate one and a half million people.  Now we have 1
million completely in where —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, not — not all the one and a half million are out of
Rafah.  Right?  There’s still hundreds of thousands —  
  
Q    Four hundred thousand.  Yes.    
  
MR. KIRBY:  — that are still in Rafah, that are still in danger.  And we
still have not seen a plan to take care of their safety and security,
which is why nothing has changed about our view that we don’t want to
see a major ground operation in Rafah that puts those people at greater
risk.   
  
I’m not really sure where you and I are on a different page here.  
  
Q    I don’t know if you answered my question, but it’s okay.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well — well, let’s try it again.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    You said that the Israelis have to offer a viable plan to evacuate
one and a half million civilians.  Correct?  You said that many times.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We want to see a viable, credible plan for the safety and
security —  
  
Q    But now, we don’t have one and a half million.  One million already
forced to leave into places that are not considered safe.  You’re only
talking about half a million.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  They’re not —  
  
Q  And this half a million, over the next few weeks, probably will be
down to few thousand.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, what happened on Sunday was terrible and tragic.  And
you’re right.  
  
Q    (Addressing reporter.)  Can I ask my questions, please?  Do you
mind?  Thank you.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You’re — you’re right.  Not enough has been done for the
safety and security of the innocent people trying to seek refuge in and
around Rafah.  Not — I’m not pushing back on that at all.   
  
And I can’t verify where — everyone who left, where they went.  I don’t
know if all of them went to a tent compound that was set up by the
Israeli Defense Forces, or maybe they went someplace else.  Obviously,
it’s still a dangerous place, which is why what happened on Sunday is so
tragic.   
  
And we won’t wa- — we don’t want to see it happen again, which is why we
think it’s important for the Israelis to investigate this fully,
completely, and be transparent about it and, more importantly, to learn
lessons from the investigation so that this can’t happen again.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) question, please.  Please, one quick question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s do our best to respect our colleagues here.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Sure.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nadia.  
  
Q    Thanks.  So, just to clarify, how could it not —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  No, go ahead, Nadia.  You had —  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And then I’ll — and then you can go after that.  
  
Q    Just one quick question, please.  
  
The European Union are considering imposing sanctions on Israel if it
does not oblige by the ICJ order to stop the attack on Rafah.   
  
Is this something that you disagree, agree with?  Do you think there is
an isolation now or there’s a rift between you and the Europeans — the
whole of EU, because they’re the one who’s want (inaudible)?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let the Europeans speak to that.  We have no plans for
those kinds of sanctions to put in place based on the ICJ ruling, a
ruling that we do not — that, obviously, we do not con- — concur with
nor do we see that they have jurisdiction.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  So, how can the administration not want to see a major
ground operation but not have a measuring stick — you know, your words —
to actually measure what is and what isn’t a major (inaudible)?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No, the question was how many deaths.  It wasn’t a measuring
stick about what a major ground operation was.  The specific question
was: Well, how many deaths is too many?  
  
As I said, one is too many.  We don’t want to see anymore.  But what
Jake was trying to do when he came up here to explain to you what a man-
— major ground operation entails: lots of units of tens of thousands of
troops or thousands of troops moving in a coordinated set of maneuvers
against a wide variety of targets on the ground in a massive way. 
That’s a major ground operation.  Pretty simple.  
  
I mean, that — it’s not — it’s not hard to discer- — discern that.  I
think it’s very obvious what that is.  And we have not seen them move in
that way.   
  
What — what happened Sunday: tragic.  Very tragic.  It was an
airstrike.  It wasn’t the first airstrike that they had conducted in
Rafah in recent days or weeks.  Not at all.  But this one had tragic —
it had tragic results.  No question about that.   
  
Nobody was asking me about red lines a week or so ago when there were
other airstrikes in Rafah that didn’t cause civilian casualties.  This
is — this is an airstrike; it’s not a major ground operation.  It’s
different.  
  
Now, again, we’re not taking anything at face value either.  We’re not
on the ground.  So, we’re going to watch this really closely.  And we
are, as we were since Sunday, staying in touch with our IDF counterparts
to make sure we can get the answers to the questions that we have, which
are not unlike the ones you have.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Zolan.  
  
Q    I want to circle back to the President’s comments to Erin Burnett
earlier this month.  I know you’re saying “major ground operation,” but
— but he didn’t say “major ground operation.”  When he was asked to
clarify what his red lines were for withholding any sort of — or any
U.S. weapons, he said Israel had not yet moved into “population centers”
in Rafah.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Did — does the U.S. currently not consider the strike on Sunday to
have hit in a population center?  And how do you define a “population
center”?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President wasn’t moving the — the stick anywhere.  He
was talking about major ground operations in Rafah proper, which is what
we’ve been saying all along.  When he was referring to population
centers, that’s exactly what he was referring to.  
  
It — as I said in my opening statement, what happened on Sunday shows
just how difficult military operations are in a densely populated area. 
And, yes, of course, Rafah is a densely populated area.   
  
Q    It’s like — I guess there is still — I mean, you have the President
saying that he doesn’t want, you know, Israel to — to target any
population center.  We are seeing — I know you said tanks are moving
along the corridor, but we are seeing tanks in Rafah.  We’ve now seen
strikes continue to kill civilians, including children.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Just for, you know, an average American who’s watching their
taxpayer dollars go to this, you know, can you explain to them how this
isn’t a major opera- — a major military operation?  Or just maybe it
would help —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    — to explain what is a “major ground operation” when it —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Oh, man.  Look —   
  
Q    — when it comes to the Biden administration?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I thought I already did that, but I’m happy to do it
again.   
  
First of all, I am not the IDF spokesman, and this is not Tel Aviv. 
This is the White House Press Briefing Room.  And I am not, today or any
other day, going to take it upon myself to speak to Israeli military
operations — the planning, the intent, and the tactics that they’re
using.  You should be asking Admiral Hagari that question.  He’s the IDF
spokesman, not me.   
  
What I will tell you is that what we — what we have seen is essentially,
so far, what the Israelis said they were going to do.  They were going
to close down the crossing to shut off the revenue to Hamas that comes
across that crossing, at least for a while, and they were going to go
after Hamas terrorists in as precise a way as possible — that they were
not going to, quote, unquote, “smash into Rafah” with a lot of ground
forces.  
  
As you and I speak here today, that is still the case.  We have not seen
them smash into Rafah.  We have not seen them go in with large units,
large numbers of troops in columns and formations, in some sort of
coordinated maneuver against multiple targets on the ground.  That is a
major ground operation.  We have not seen that.   
  
What we’ve seen is they have targeted tunnels.  They have — they have
definitely done airstrikes — this one with tragic results, but not all
of them with tragic results.   
  
And, yes, they are moving some armored vehicles along a corridor on the
outskirts of Gaza — along a corridor, by the way, that they told us they
were going to use.   
  
So, everything we’re seeing — and we can’t see everything, but
everything that we can see tells us that they are not moving in in a
major ground operation in population centers in the center of Rafah.   
  
But as I also said in my opening statement, we’re going to watch this
hour by hour, day by day.  And we will stay in touch with our Israeli
defense counterparts about what they’re doing.   
  
Q    Just walk me — there’s been different numbers out there.  Can you
just clarify: Does the U.S. have an accurate number of Palestinians that
have fled Rafah and how many displaced Palestinians are still in Rafah? 
And for the Palestinians that fled, just where are they?  I mean —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So, I’ll —  
  
Q    — there’s no safe place to go.  So —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So, I’ll — let me go back and we’ll get you some better
numbers — the best — the best I can.  Most of the numbers that we’re
getting though — again, we’re not on the — we’re not on the ground
counting noses.  So, we have to rely on other sources, whether it’s
international organizations or the IDF.   
  
Roughly speaking, more than a million of the million and a half people
that were seeking refuge — we estimate more than a million — have fled
Rafah.   
  
Now, again, to Nadia’s question, where did they go?  I can’t tell you
every — every tent compound they went to and who’s running that.  I just
can’t do it.  But there are several hundred thousand that we still
believe are in Rafah.   
  
However, I will take the question and we’ll see if we can get a better
sense of the numbers for you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead, Niall.  
  
Q    Thank you —  
  
Q    Thanks, John.  You —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No — yeah, go ahead.  
  
Q    I just wanted to clarify an earlier answer where you were asked by
someone in the front row about a condemnation of what happened in
Rafah.  My transcription of what you said is, “We have been, I think,
very strident in our condemnation about the deaths of innocent
civilians.  These deaths are not excluded from that.”  So, you do
condemn what happened in Rafah?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We certainly condemn the — the loss of life here, but there
is an investigation going on.  And we want to make sure that the
Israelis have a chance to do that in a fair, transparent, and credible
way.   
  
Look, there —  
  
Q    They’re — they’re —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Look — I know what you — look, I know what you want me to
say, and I get it.  There should be no civilians killed.  I’m not going
to stand up here and make an excuse for any single individual civilian
being killed.  There’s no excuse for it.  It should not happen.   
  
Now, it does happen in war.  It happens sometimes deliberately.  It —
sometimes it happens by a tragic mistake.  We will find out soon what
was the case here on Sunday, and then we’ll go from there.   
  
But the —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — but no civilian casualty should be acceptable.   
  
Q    And what is the administration going to do, whether it was a tragic
mistake or deliberate in Rafah?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, let’s see what the investigation says.  
  
Q    So, you’re going to wait for the Israelis to investigate
themselves?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Let’s see what the investigation comes up with.  If we had
done this, I think we would want the benefit of having the opportunity
to investigate it and to figure out what happened.  
  
Q    But it’s not the same thing.  We’re giving them billions of dollars
in weapons.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re giving them the kinds of capabilities they need to
defend themselves.   
  
Maybe some people have forgotten what happened on the 7th of October,
but we haven’t.  Twelve hundred Israelis inn- — innocent Israelis
slaughtered, mutilated, raped, tortured.  And they’re living right next
to that kind of threat.  Still a viable threat in Rafah, by the way.   
  
If you think Hamas is just gone, they’re not gone from Rafah or from
Gaza.  And if you think they’ve abandoned their genocidal intent towards
the nation of Israel, think again.  They haven’t.   
  
So, Israel has every right to not want to live next to that kind of
threat.  And, yes, we’re going to continue to provide them the
capabilities to go after it.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Admiral, the administration has been leaning heavily in
recent months into the IDF’s assessments — investigations into — into
these attacks.  But on at least two occasions last fall, the U.S.
conducted its own investigations into a strike on a hospital or at least
gathered its own intelligence to support the claims that the Israelis
were making.  Why isn’t the U.S. conducting its own investigations
anymore or gathering its own intel?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We didn’t conduct our own investigations.  We had some
intelligence assessments that we felt comfortable with, like the
Al-Shifa Hospital many months ago, that we could — that — that gave us a
sense of our own — our own individual assessment of what happened.  Our
intelligence community was able to give us that level of knowledge and —
and awareness.   
  
But it’s —  
  
Q    So, is that simply —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — it’s case by case.  
  
Q    — not possible now?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Sometimes it is; sometimes it’s not.  I don’t know in the
case of this.  This just happened two days ago.  So, I don’t know what
we know about this that would give us some sort of independently
verifiable context about what happened.   
  
We aren’t on the ground.  We aren’t flying the aircraft.  We’re not
choosing the targets.  We’re not providing the intelligence that leads
to every target that the — the Israelis decided to hit.   
  
It is their operation, their troops involved, their capabilities, their
pilots.  They have the obligation to investigate this themselves, and
they’ll do that.  And we will take a look at it and then see what it
says.  
  
If we have some means independently of being able to verify some — some
parts of the information ourselves, then I’m sure our intelligence
community will — will do what they can to put that together for us.  But
it’s not — you shouldn’t expect that in every operation on any given day
in Gaza that we’re going to be able to just independently triangulate
every single event and — and determine for ourselves what happened.   
  
Q    And you’ve described at length what a major ground operation, in
the administration’s eyes, would look like.  But for many months, there
have been discussions behind the scenes about what the U.S. would like
to see in terms of alternatives to that major ground operation.  Were
these strikes part of those alternatives?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Some of the alternatives — I — I can’t speak, again, to
these particular strikes.  What these Israelis have said was that they
were going after Hamas operatives, and they have said that they killed
Hamas operatives in a Hamas compound.   
  
Hamas itself put out a statement celebrating the martyrdom of two of
their fighters in the strike on Sunday.  So, I don’t know how anybody
could dispute that they weren’t trying to go after Hamas in a targeted,
precise way in this regard.  As a matter of fact —  
  
Q    But why wasn’t that area —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Wait, wait, wait.  Just a second.  As a matter of fact, the
Israelis have said they used 37-pound bombs, precision-guided
munitions.  A 37-pound bomb is not a big bomb, and it is exactly the
kind of munition — if, in fact, that’s what they used — I’m not
verifying it; just saying that’s what they said — if it is, in fact,
what they used, it is certainly indicative of an effort to be discreet
and targeted and precise.   
  
Now, obviously, this had tragic results.  And obviously, that needs to
be investigated, and we need to know why.  Even using small mi- —
small-diameter precision-guided munitions, this was able to happen.  
  
But we’ll have to let the Israelis get to the bottom of that.  
  
Q    So, why not evacuate the area where the strike took place, if it
was — if it was intended to be precise?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, you’re asking me for information about their
targeting and decisions that I can’t answer.  All I can do is point you
to what they have said, which was they were going after a Hamas compound
and that it’s — as a result of that strike, in some form or fashion,
they say there were some secondary explosions that led to this fire,
that led to these deaths.   
  
I — I can’t — I just physically can’t connect those dots for you since
we weren’t involved in that operation.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s important to let them investigate it.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Marek.  Go ahead, Marek.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  I have questions on different topics.  But one
quick follow-up on Rafah.  Is there a feeling here at the White House
that Prime Ministers Netanyahu’s policies put President Biden in more
and more difficult position?  And you also.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Me?   
  
Q    Yeah.  (Laughter.)   
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m perfectly comfortable.  I’m fine.  Thank you.   
  
No, I mean, the President takes the weight of these decisions very
seriously.  He takes his obligation to Israel very seriously and the
responsibility that the United States has to help Israel defend itself
against a truly genocidal threat.  You want to talk about — you want to
throw that word “genocide” around, then read the Hamas manifesto. 
That’s there.   
  
He also takes very seriously our obligations to make sure that innocent
Palestinians don’t suffer any more from a war they didn’t start, and
they’re not responsible for this.  Mr. Sinwar started this war.  And no
other nation, no other leader is doing more than President Biden is to
get humanitarian assistance in, to try to get a hostage deal in place,
to — to try to find a way to end the conflict.  President Biden is
leading on all those scores.   
  
So, this is — these are — these are tough decisions.  It’s a tough
issue.  And — and he’s doing the best he can to act and lead according
to his principles.   
  
Q    On a different topic.  A question about suspected Russian sabotage
operation — sabotage operations in Europe, including arsons.  Just
yesterday, in response to those activities, Poland restricted movements
of Russian diplomats in Poland.  So, what’s going on there?  And what’s
your reaction?  And the — are you tracking any similar activities —
Russian activities here in the U.S.?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You talking about, like, election interference, sabotage,
that kind of thing?  
  
Q    Yeah, sabo- — yeah, those — those (inaudible).  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, we’re watching this with great concern.  I wish I
could say that it wasn’t part of the Russian playbook, but it is.  And
you don’t have to look in — too far in the distant past to see that.   
  
So, we’re working hard with our European counterparts to do everything
we can to build resilience not just for ourselves here at home but for
them overseas.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Josh.  
  
Q    Can I ask a question about the talks the President had with the
President of Mexico a month ago?  They committed to new actions on the
border.  I’m wondering if you’ve seen an impact with that and whether
you expect the election and the — you know, trans- — ultimate transition
period to have any impact on that.  In other words, a month ago, they
pledged immediate action to —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — to — to crack down on the border.  Have you seen anything from
that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We have.  We have — we have seen —  
  
Q    Can you talk about that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We have — I owe you a better answer.  I admittedly don’t
have the data in front of me.  But we have seen decreases of the numbers
of people at the — arriving at the border.  The Mexicans have stepped up
to — to stem the flow along some of those routes, particularly rail and
road routes.  And they have also done quite a bit to work with us on
cracking down on these — on these criminal gangs that are — that are
actually leading these efforts.    
  
So, I’ll get you a better answer.  But, yes, we have seen a
difference.  
  
Q    Do you expect that policy to continue past the election that’s
upcoming here on Sunday?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We have every hope and expectation that it will.  I mean,
I’ll let the Mexican people speak to their democracy and — and how and
who they want to — to govern them.  But we have — I’ll just put it this
way: We certainly have no expectation that Mexic cooperat- — Mexican
cooperation and support is going to diminish.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve got to start wrapping up.  Go ahead, Anita.  
  
Q    Thank you so much, John.  Russia’s Foreign Minister has said that
they’re considering removing the Taliban from the list of banned
organizations, which raises the possibility of Moscow recognizing the
Taliban as legitimate.  How does the U.S. feel about this move?  And
what message could it send to American rivals, such as Iran or China?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think it sends a horrible message.  The Taliban have not
met any of the commitments they said they were going to meet when they
took over.  And that — not just the way they’re treating women and girls
— the way they’re managing their own economy, the way they’re taking
care of their own people.   
  
And we are in no position nor will we be to recognize the Taliban as the
official governance of Afghanistan.  And for Russia to do so, I — I do
believe — we believe that that would send a bad message to others.  
  
Q    Will there be consequences?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I — I don’t want to get into hypotheticals at this point. 
But it’s an ill-advised course of action.  
  
Q    And then China, today, urged Israel to comply with the ICJ ruling. 
They’re, of course, a fellow member of the Security Council.  This can
be overturned by the Supreme Council.  But how does the U.S. feel about
China taking this step of basically —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Not —  
  
Q    — (inaudible)?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Not surprised.  Not surprised.  Not going to change our
approach.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Toluse, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank — thank you so much.  One question on Rafah, just sort of
following up on some of the previous questions.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Sure.  
  
Q    You’ve been very consistent today talking about a “major —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I try to be.  
  
Q    — ground operation.”  In the past, you and other administration
officials have used the term “major ground operation,” but you’ve also
used the term “major military operation.”  I’m wondering if what is
happening in Rafah right now would be considered a major military
operation, which the White House said it opposed previously?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We do not consider this a major military or a major ground
operation at this point.  But, again, we’re watching it very closely.  
  
Q    Would additional airstrikes constitute a major military operation
(inaudible)?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It would have — it would have to depend on what the size and
scale and scope that we — what we’ve seen so far.  And, again, this one
had tragic consequences, but it was in the use of munitions that they
said they used and in the targets they were going after, not unlike and
not out of character of the other airstrikes they have participated in
in Rafah in recent days and — and weeks.   
  
So, it wasn’t out of that scope.  Obviously, it had different outcome —
a different outcome here, which is incredibly tragic.  But it wasn’t of
a different sort or a different character than what we’ve seen them
do.  
  
Q    And then a separate question.  There was a readout of the call
between President Biden and President Sisi on Friday.  The call said
that there would be a major delegation going to talk about opening up
the Rafah crossing.  Can you give us a sense of who’s in the delegation,
when they’re going to be going over to (inaudible) going to be happening
this week, and what the agenda might be for that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’ll take the question.  We’ll get it back to you.  I don’t
have that for you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Jared, go ahead.  
  
Q    Can you say whether or not in the — the setbacks of the temporary
pier, are — is the U.S. going to increase airdrops for aid?  Is there a
way, a mechanism to kind of make up for — for what’s not getting into
Gaza because of the pier being out of service?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You’d have to ask the Pentagon.  I’m not aware that there’s
going to be t- — any increase in airdrops to supplement the problems
that we’ve had with weather on the temporary pier.  But the Pentagon
would know more than I would.  
  
Q    Just more broadly, does the President still believe that the
temporary pier is a viable platform to get aid into Gaza, given —    
  
MR. KIRBY:  Absolutely.  As a supplement — okay?  It was never intended
to supplant what you can do on the ground through trucks and getting
those crossings open.  We said that from the get go.  We also said it’s
going to be tough.  It’s been tough.   
  
Weather plays a role.  I mean, Mother Nature has a say here, and the
Eastern Med, even in the summertime, can be a pretty rough place.  And
that’s what’s happening right now.   
  
But can it be a force multiplier?  Can it add to?  Absolutely.  And I
think they’ve so far gotten more than a thousand metric tons in just off
the temporary pier alone, which, you know what, considering the weather,
considering the complexity of doing it that way, the multi-node stop you
have to do to move from — from ship to pier to truck to ground — I mean,
considering all that, that’s still an impress- — an impressive record so
far.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  ABC in the back, go ahead.  You, sir.  Go
ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  John, what would the consequence be if there were an
American strike on a legitimate terrorist target that ended resulting
with 45 civilian deaths and some 200 others injured?  What would that
look like, as an American response?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I can’t answer a hypothetical like that.  But we have — we
have taken — we have conducted airstrikes in places like Iraq and
Afghanistan, where tragically we caused civilian casualties.  We did the
same thing.  We owned up to it, we investigated it, and we tried to make
changes to the way — we tried to learn from it to make changes so that
that — those set of mistakes wouldn’t happen again, including as we
pulled out of Afghanistan, where we did take a trag- — we conducted an
airstrike which tragically killed a father and some of his kids.   
  
We atone for it, we learn from it, and we put in place procedures to try
to prevent that from happening again.  And that’s what our expectations
would be in this case.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Karen, you’ve got last —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Oh, okay.  Sorry.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — question.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Ukraine’s President Zelenskyy had recently said that the
ability to use Western-provided weapons to strike military targets
inside Russia is essential for their success.  He says he’s appealed to
senior U.S. officials to allow Ukraine to do this.  Is the President
considering this request?  And, if yes, what is he looking at right
now?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re aware of the interest that President Zelenskyy has
expressed in this regard.  I would tell you that there’s no change to
our policy at this point.  We don’t encourage or enable the use of
U.S.-supplied weapons to strike inside Russia.  
  
I would note that the — that the — the Ukrainians have in the past
defeated imminent air attacks, such as some of the ones that have
occurred in the last few days, on their own since the war began.  And we
will continue to talk to them nearly every day about what they need. 
And I think I’d leave it at that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you.  
  
Q    Could you just — could you take one more, Admiral?   
  
Q    Just a few more.   
  
Q    Would you take a few more, please?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, guys.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, Admiral.  Appreciate it.   
  
Okay.  Go ahead, Aamer.  
  
Q    I just had a couple of scheduling questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.  
  
Q    You mentioned the FEMA Administrator is —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — going to Arkansas.  How about the President?  Will he be visiting
any of these states that are impacted?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — I don’t have anything to preview on the
President’s schedule at this time.  Obviously, you heard me lay out what
FEMA has been able to do and how we are there for these — the states
that have been affect — impacted by this horr- — horrible storm.   
  
FEMA is on the ground.  They’re assessing what’s needed.  The President
called the governors just yesterday; we read that out.  And obviously,
we are here to assist on the federal government side and are ready —
ready to help.  And I think it’s important that the FEMA Administrator
will be on the ground in Arkansas.  
  
I — I don’t have anything on the President’s schedule to share.  
  
Q    And the — the former President’s trial is coming to an end and
there should be a verdict maybe in a matter of days.  Will the President
be commenting, delivering any sort of remarks on the verdict?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to be super mindful here, as I always am
when it comes to especially this.  It’s an ongoing case.  And also, as
you all know, obviously, the former President is a presidential
candidate.  I’m just not going to comment on that.  I’m not going to
speak to — to an ongoing case and to someone who is a candidate for
2024.  
  
Q    And then, finally —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — just on the ICC.  You mentioned that — John had said that the —
that the President would not support sanctions.  Has there been a change
of heart in the administration?  Because Secretary Blinken said last
week at a hearing that he was committed to taking action against the
profoundly wrongheaded decision.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, yeah, I — look, I was aware of — I watched,
obviously the Secretary’s hearing.  I think, look, as it relates to
legislation, as it relates to specific sanctioning, that particular
question — this is not something that the administration is going to
support.  And we’ve been also very clear that we — the President — and
I’ll reiterate what the President said.   
  
He said this just last week right before an event that was happening
right in the Rose Garden: that we fundamentally reject the ICC’s
prosecutor’s application for arrest warrants against Israeli leaders and
sanctions on the ICC, however we do not believe it is an effective or an
appropriate path forward — appropriate tool to address what our concerns
— the United States’ concerns are on the ICC.   
  
So, we’re going to work — work with Congress on other options — we’re
talking about specifically, obviously, sanctions — but on other options
to address the overreach that we see by the ICC to apply for warrants
against Israel — Israel officials.  So, we’re going to have that
conversation, continue to have that conversation with Congress.   
  
But when it comes to sanctioning the ICC, that is something that we do
not support.   
  
Q    What are the other options?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to have those conversations.  I’m not
going to — I’m not going to preview those conversations for you.  But
Congress — obviously, we’re going to work with Congress on this.   
  
Q    Do you have any update on the President’s meeting today with
Governor Moore and other officials on the rebuilding of the Key Bridge? 
Any updates on estimate of cost or —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ll have more to share later today.  I don’t
have anything for you at this time.  
  
As you just stated, Governor Moore is here and will have a — a moment
with the President.  I just don’t have anything specific on — at this
time.   
  
But I would say, more broadly, as you know, when the bridge collapsed,
we were — we were certainly engaged with the governor and local offic- —
officials within hours trying to assess and be there for the people of
Baltimore, for the people of Maryland more broadly, on what we can do to
get things moving and get that bridge going.   
  
As you know, the — Secretary Buttigieg was here.  And right before he
came out here that time, he announced tens of millions of dollars that
we were providing, you know, in emergency funds to get that going.   
  
We will have more to share, and we want to do everything that we can to
get the bridge up, to get things moving, obviously, in that area.  And
it is important that we get that done for the people of Baltimore and
for folks in Maryland.  But I just don’t have anything — specifics to
share at this time, but we certainly will have more.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The NATO Secretary-General said late last week
that he thinks Ukraine’s allies, including the United States, should
consider lifting restrictions on using weapons on targets inside of
Russia.  I just heard what Kirby said about that general issue, but is
there —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — a reason why the President’s view is different from that of the
NATO Secretary-General and the President of Ukraine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I mean, we’ve been very clear.  You heard
from John Kirby.  You’ve heard from our National Security Advisor our —
on our position on using that militar- — military assistance inside of —
that’s something — not something we want to see or something we would
obviously recommend doing.   
  
But we also believe it is important that Ukraine has everything that it
needs to defend itself, which is why the national security supplemental
that was passed was incredibly important for the brave people of Ukraine
to continue to defend their democracy.  We want to see that continue. 
And we are very appreciative of NATO and our NATO Allies and the more
than 50 countries that this President has been able to bring together
and support Ukraine in — in their — in their fight for their own
sovereign territory.   
  
I just don’t have anything beyond that.  We do not want — obviously, we
do not want this — this to escalate in any form.  But we do believe that
Ukraine needs to have everything that they need to defend themselves,
and that’s been our position.  I don’t have to — anything to share
beyond what you’ve heard from this podium.  
  
Q    And one more.  President Zelenskyy said today that if President
Biden misses this peace summit that’s being organized in Switzerland, it
would be like a “standing ovation” for Russian President Vladimir
Putin.  I know you haven’t announced anything there.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Is the President going to that?  And does he agree with Zelenskyy’s
assessment of what his absence would mean?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just a couple of things I would say there.  And as
— and you know this.  We have actively participated in each of the — of
the previous Ukraine peace summit.  That is something that this U.S. —
the U.S. government has been obviously engaged.  And we will continue to
be represented on — in the summit, including the upcoming one, although
I don’t —  
  
Q    By the President?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have anything to share with you today on
anything specific, but we’ve had active participation.  That is
something that we have been engaged in, as it relates to the summit.   
  
It’s important we continue to support Ukraine’s effort.  You just heard
me lay out why we believe it’s important to continue to — to make sure
they have all the capabilities that they need to defend themself but
also to secure a just and lasting peace.  But we also must make sure
that they have what they need to defend themselves, as I’ve said
multiple times already.  
  
And you saw what’s happened in Kharkiv this weekend.  Certainly, that is
no- — important to note: Two dozen people were killed.  And — and it was
just horrific.  And so, this is why we ne- — continue to offer that
assistance.   
  
We’re surging assistance.  On Friday, we just announced another package
to Ukraine.  That’s how quickly we’re trying to get that assistance out
there.  And this war — and we all know this, and we heard Jake say this,
you heard the Admiral say this: This war could end tomorrow if Putin
would just end the war, end his aggression against the people of
Ukraine.   
  
And so, that’s how we see it.  I’m glad that — we are all glad that
Congress passed the President’s national security supplemental.  And
we’re going to continue to do everything that we can to — to get that
assistance out there.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  This is your only scheduled televised briefing this
week, right?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, are you disappointed?  
  
Q    Yes.  (Laughter.)  Should we —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry about that.   
  
Q    When might we get a briefing, then, on the trip next week?  Do you
know?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — I have to take a look at next week.  I do
not — off the top of my head, I don’t know what next week looks like. 
But —

Q    France.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — obviously — oh, no, I know — (laughter) — France,
D-Day — but I’m just talking about the beginning of the week before we
head out to France for D-Day anniversary, im- — critical, important
anniversary.   
  
Obviously, we will continue our drumbeat of having someone from NSC here
ahead of the trip to — to take some of your questions.   
  
But you are correct.  This is the only televised briefing of the
week.   
  
Q    Given that, and given something that’s scheduled to begin on
Monday, I’m curious, how does the President plan to monitor the federal
trial of his son, which is set to begin on Monday?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — I don’t have any — obviously, anything
specific to share about that.  I’m always very mindful on speaking to
that. 

I will say what I have said many times before: The President and the
First Lady, they love their son.  They are proud of how their son has
been able to get back on his feet and continue his progress, and they
will continue to support him.  Outside of that, I don’t have anything to
share.  
  
Q    You don’t know if he’s planning to try to attend in person at
all?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — I don’t have anything to share.  As
you just stated, next week is also incredibly important foreign policy
travel, where we are going to, obviously, be in France for the
anniversary of D-Day.  So, the President looks forward to doing that, to
being in France.  Obviously, the First Lady will be going as well as
there’s a state dinner component, as you — as you know, in France.   
  
But I’m just — don’t have anything to share beyond — beyond what I’m
just laying out for you right now.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    As Ed mentioned, there’s quite a bit of travel scheduled for the
remainder of the week.  Is there a plan in place for aides to update the
President on the outcome of his predecessor’s criminal trial?  Is he
going to be watching any of the coverage of it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is f- — I mean — I mean, this is truly —
the President is focused on what’s in front of him right now, which is
dealing with — you know, dealing with what’s important for the American
people, whether it’s national security efforts or domestic policy.  And
that’s the President’s focus.   
  
I don’t have anything to read out on the President’s plan on watching a
trial.  That is just not something that he’s focused on.  He’s focused
on the American people.  And that’s what —  
  
Q    Should we expect him to respond?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — he’s been focused on three — look, I’m not going to
speak to a presidential candidate.  Obviously, the former President is a
candidate for — in 2024.  I do not speak on trials.  It’s not something
that I do from here — an ongoing trial, ongoing proceedings, legal
proceedings.  I just don’t — I don’t have a comment on that at this
time.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Are you guys here at the White House in
full-blown freakout mode?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What are you talking about? 

Q    There’s a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What are you talking about —  
  
Q    There’s a Politico story —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — Peter?   
  
Q    It sounds like Democrats outside — the quote is, “Biden’s
stubbornly — stubbornly poor polling and the stakes of the election ‘are
creating the freakout.’”   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, I’m going to be mindful.  I’m not going to
comment on 2024 election.   
  
I will say this.  The President has never forgotten where he comes —
where he came from, who he is.  He understands what the American people
are going through as they’re sitting around the kitchen table.  You ta-
— you hear the President talk about his time growing up where he watched
his family having to sit around the kitchen table making incredibly
difficult decision.   
  
And the President has always said he’s going to fight for communities
that have been forgotten.  And you see that in the policies — economic
policies that he’s put forward.  He’s going to continue to fight for the
middle class.  He’s going to continue to fight in every way that he
can. 

You heard me at the beginning talk about junk fees.  Incredibly import-
— and he’s going to continue to fight and to make sure, you know, that
corporation greed doesn’t continue to take hold.  He is — that is
something that he’s been very clear about, while Republicans are doing
the opposite.  They put out a policy where they want to give a big tax
break to the wealthiest among us — billionaires and — and corporation. 
That’s not what the President wants to do.   
  
Q    On another topic.  Why did President Biden have a private meeting
with a witness who plans to testify in court against his son?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can you say more?  
  
Q    Hallie Biden is a key government witness who allegedly disposed of
a gun that Hunter is accused of buying illegally.  President Biden —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — was at her house this week.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think the American people should also be told the
full breadth of this, not just a part of this question here. 

As you all know, the President actually spoke to this yesterday during
his Memorial — I think, impactful, powerful Memorial Day address where
he talked about — he talked about the passing — the anniversary — the
ninth anniversary of the passing of his son.  And he visited her as that
anniversary is approaching.  He visited her days before the anniversary
of the passing of his son.  
  
And she is family.  She was married, obviously, to his late son.  And I
think that is something also to mention, as you’re asking your question
to me.  
  
Q    So — so, they did not talk about her testimony?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This was not about that.  This was about, literally,
the ninth anniversary of the passing of his son —  
  
Q    One more.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that is upcoming in days, Peter.  
  
Q    We learned today there’s going to be a book coming out this summer
by Lunden Roberts.  According to the press release, the book is about
protecting the long-unacknowledged grandchild of the sitting President
of the United States.  Do you know if President Biden has met that
grandchild yet?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share.   
  
Go ahead, Marek.  
  
Q    Thank — thank you.  On Georgia.  Today, the ruling party in Georgia
overruled President Zourabichvili’s veto to so-called foreign influence
act — foreign influence bill.  What’s your reaction to d- — to this? 
And what’s —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — what’s the President — what President Biden’s message to
Georgians who want to be aligned with the West, not with Russia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we talked about this a little bit last week when
we saw the protesters — thousands of Georgians protesting.  And so, I
will say this.  We are disappointed to see the Georgian Parliament
override the Georgian President’s veto of the antidemocratic foreign
agents bill.  Although the — the vote was — was not unexpected, as I
just mentioned, we’ve all seen the tens of thousands Georgian protesting
this bill just last week, which are some of the largest protests in
Georgia’s history.  And we know that many Georgians made their
opposition very clear — very clear.   
  
This legislation will require civil society organizations to register as
agents of foreign government simply for accepting 20 percent of their
funding from <s>aboard</s> \[abroad\].  Civil society organizations play
a vital role in preserving democracies, and creating this burden
undermines their ability to do so.   
  
Stifling <s>cilver</s> \[civil\] society is what authoritarian
governments do.  And — and it is a tool to quell dissent and silent
tactics.  It is not what democracies do.   
  
So, we are disappointed to see what has occurred.   
  
Q    Are there any sanctions coming?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything — anything to — to speak to on
that at this time.  I would refer you — obviously, the State Department
just last week made some announcements, so I would refer you to the
State Department.   
  
Go ahead, sir.   
  
Q    Two questions.  So, one, do you have any updates on the
missionaries who were killed in Haiti?  You know, whether or not their —
we’ll be able to get their bodies back to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a great question.  I don’t have any updates for
you at this time.  I’m — I’m happy to go back to the team and get some
answers.   
  
Q    And then, obviously, the Chiefs are coming on Friday.  Their last
celebration was —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — disrupted by a shooting.  Does the President plan on using this
moment to talk about gun violence, particularly since we haven’t seen
any kind of legislative movement either at the federal level or even at
the state level?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I mean, look, let’s take a full look of what we
—  
  
Q    Since the shooting.  (Laughs.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, since the shooting.  Okay, I —  
  
Q    Legislative movement since the shooting.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m glad you made that point, because this President
has taken more executive actions than any modern-day president — more
than two dozen executive action on gun violence, on trying to prevent
this epidemic that we see across our country.   
  
As you know, there was a bipartisan bill that was passed about two years
ago now — or going to be two years ago.  And so, the President has been
incredibly active on this.   
  
And since the shooting, he — he did create an Office of — of Gun
Violence Prevention, which is the first his- — historic office to — to
happen, and obviously the Vice President is the head of that.   
  
But it has taken on the different executive actions that we have been
able to get through; also, components of the — of the law that was
passed in a bipartisan way to move that — to move some of those actions
forward a lot quicker and offer, obviously, assistance on the ground.   
  
And so, look, the President takes every moment that he can, when there’s
an opportunity to — to speak on gun violence prevention and to call on
Congress to take more action.   
  
I’m not going to get ahead of — of the event, as you just stated, with
the Kansas City Chiefs on Friday.  So, we will certainly have more to
share as we get closer to that day.   
  
Q    And do you know if Taylor Swift might be coming?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Ah, that’s a good question.  I think — I think the
Swifties behind these double doors are hoping that — (laughter) — that
Taylor Swift makes an ex- — appearance.  I don’t have anything for
you.   
  
Q    So, you’re not ruling it out?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughter.)  I don’t know.  I can’t speak to her
schedule.  But I know there’s a lot of interest in this building, on
this campus.   
  
Go ahead, Josh.  
  
Q    Can you give us the President’s latest thinking on the border EO
and what actions he plans to take?  You’ve taken smaller, targeted
actions in the past few weeks.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    How’s it looking?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you’re right.  The President has taken some
actions not just the past two weeks, but over the last three years to
deal with what we’re seeing at the border: a decade — decades-long issue
with a broken system at the border.   
  
As you know, just last week, the — that legislation, that bipartisan
legislation that we believed, if the President had an opportunity to
sign — sign that legislation, would have been the toughest, the fairest
piece of legislation that we have seen to deal with the border in some
time.  And so, it failed because Republicans, by their own admission,
are putting electoral politics ahead of the American people.   
  
And there were things in that legislation that would have made a
difference.  And so, it is unfortunate that that happened.  And you saw
from the President’s statement, “Congressional Republicans do not care
about securing the border or fixing America’s broken immigration
system.  If they did, they would have voted for the toughest border
enforcement in history.”  That comes directly from the President in a
statement.  
  
We will continue — to your question, we will continue to evaluate all
options at hand and looking at what we can do within our authorities,
within the President’s authorities.  Don’t have anything to announce at
this time.   
  
But it is unfortunate that Republicans who came to the table, who wanted
to work out and deal with an issue — a challenging issue, the border —
they voted against their own policies, their own interests, and put
electoral pol- — politics first.  And that is unfortunate.   
  
Q    Are you of the mind, though, that an EO — like, one sort of big
move is the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to look at —  
  
Q    — option, or a more piecemeal?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Like — like we continue to do and we have done — and
you just mentioned, just recently, we’ve taken some actions.  We are
going to look at all of our options and try to figure out what is the
right thing to do on behalf of the American people.  That is something
that the President has been consistent on and will continue to do.   
  
Go ahead, Gerren.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  A recent Bloomberg/Morning Consult poll found an
increased number of Americans in battleground states trust the Vice
President to fulfill the duties of the presidency.  I know you can’t
comment on election-related topics, but this — this poll does suggest
that the VP’s travels to battleground states have been resonating with
Americans.  Given that increased trust in her leadership, what is the
White House’s view of the Vice President’s travels to battleground
states?  Particularly her Economic Opportunity Tour, where she’s been
selling the administration’s policies to Black and brown communities, in
particular — does the White House believe that they have been effective
on the ground?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m just going to be really mindful.   As you just
stated in your question to me, you’re talking about battleground
states.  Obviously, that’s part of the 2024 election.  I’m not going to
speak to that.   
  
What I will say more broadly — and you hear us say this many times;
you’ve heard the President say this many times — he sees the Vice
President as a partner, and he feels that she’s been effective in the
work that she has done as a team.  This is the Biden-Harris
administration, and she is out there speaking directly to the American
people.   
  
And we know when we leave here — leave the bubble of Washington, D.C.,
it matters.  When we go directly to the American people, it matters. 
When we share with them what we have done these last three and a half
years, our accomplishments, or listen to them or hear how they’re
feeling about the economy, how they’re feeling about their healthcare,
it matters.  It resonates.  And that’s why the President himself enjoys
being out there and talking directly to the American people.   
  
She’s a partner.  He believes she’s effective.  She be- — he believes
that, you know, he — he — when he — when he talks about policy, when he
gets things done on the American people, he’s doing that in partnership
with the Vice President.  
  
As it relates to how voters are feeling, battleground states, I just
can’t speak to that from here.  And I —  
  
Q    Just one other question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — know you understand that.   
  
Q    Legal experts say that the Supreme Court’s ruling last week that
blocked a second Black-majority district in South Carolina can make it
harder for — to prove claims of racial gerrymandering.  It will have
long-lasting implications for Black voters.  While the President, in his
statement last week reacting to this ruling, called for the passing of
the John Lewis Act and the Freedom to Vote Act, given the makeup of this
court and other controversial rul- — rulings that this President has
condemned, does the President have faith in this Court?  Does he have
faith in the Court, and would he consider publicly supporting what some
Democrats are calling for, which is reform of the Supreme Court, whether
that be expansion of membership or term limits?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I don’t have any announcement to make at
this time on your question about reform.  But you — I think I made this
announcement last week about what the President has worked very hard to
do in partnership with the Senate — is making sure that we nominate
extraordinarily qualified men and women and — who are dedicated to the
Constitution and who represent — right? — we’re talking about
representation of a di- — the diversity of this country, the diversity
of America.  And that’s a commitment that he’s made.   
  
And just last week, we were able to announce the 200th judicial con- —
confirmation, and I was able to do that.  And that’s because the
President and his work and what he has been able to do, again, with
partnership of the Senate.  
  
It is a monu- — it was monumental news, a monumental moment.  And — and
that is for the rule of law for the American people.  We’re talking
about over 60 percent are women, and over 60 percent are people of
color.  And so, we have more work to do.  And we’ll remain, you know,
very steadfast on getting that work done.  But as far as court reform,
making any announcement, I just don’t have anything for you.   
  
AIDE:  Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  I know I have to wrap up.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  The New York Times reported over the last few weeks
that a fla- — that two different flags associated with the January 6th
attacks on the Capitol flew outside Justice Alito’s home — two different
homes.  The President — does the President believes that Justice Alito
should recuse himself from any cases related to January 6th or otherwise
take any ethical actions related to this reporting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as it relates to any ethical actions, that’s
for the courts to — they have to deal with that.  And so, any recusals,
that’s subject to the Supreme Court.  That is something for them to
decide.   
  
And as it relates to any investigations, that’s something for Congress
to decide.  And so, that is something that they need to focus on.   
  
We have said, and I have said from here, and this is something that the
President believes: When it comes to the American flag, it should be
held and — and be treated sacred — in a sacred way.  We just honored
Mem- — we just honored, you know, veterans who obviously lost their
lives.  Memorial Day was just yesterday.   
  
And so, we need to properly respect and honor those brave men and women
and — who defended — who have defended our — our country for
generations.  And so, it should be — American flag is — it should be
held sacred.  And that is our view.  
  
Anything else, obviously, that is for the court or Congress to
decide.   
  
I have to go, guys.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everybody.   
  
4:26 P.M. EDT
