---
date: '2024-05-07'
modified_time: 2024-05-08 12:04:47-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-07 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/05/07/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-61/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:42 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, good afternoon, everyone.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  Okay, I just have one thing at the top and
then we can get going. 

Do I sound okay?   
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah?

Q    Yeah. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, not a weird echo?  Sounds like a weird
echo.

Q    There is a little bit of an echo.

Q    There’s a little bit of echo. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It happens from time to time. 

All right.  So, yesterday’s Trustees Report made clear Medicare is
stronger and Social Security remains strong.  President Biden’s economic
plan has helped extend Medicare solvency by a decade. 

The President’s budget lays out his plan to further protect and
strengthen Social Security and Medicare by extending Medicare solvency
permanently by asking the wealthy to pay their fair share and extending
Social Security solvency by asking the highest-income Americans to pay
their fair share without cutting benefits or privatizing Social
Security.

House Republicans have a different agenda.  Their recent budget could
cut Social Security by $1.5 trillion; increase the retirement age to 69;
convert Medicare to a system that would raise premiums for seniors;
slash Medicare’s authority to negotiate lower prescription drug costs;
repeal the President’s $35 cap on insulin; and get rid of the $2,000
out-of-pocket cap in the Inflation Reduction Act.  Their plan would hurt
our seniors, raise costs for families, and take us backward. 

President Biden will continue to fight for America’s seniors and prevent
Republican elected officials from cutting Social Security and Medicare.

With that, Zeke. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  There have been multiple reports that the Biden
administration has slowed arms transfers to Israel, including of Joint
Direct Attack Munitions and potentially some — some other weaponry.  Can
you confirm that?  And if not, why not?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we don’t comment on specific cases.  What I can
say — and we have been saying and we will reiterate from here — is that
our commitment to Israel’s security is ironclad.  I know my colleague
from NSC was asked the same question a couple times from your
colleagues, and I — we just don’t have anything to say beyond what I
just laid out.

Q    So, is it fair to say, then, you’re trying to send a message to the
Israelis in private, but you don’t — not want to make that from here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will say is our commitment to Israel’s security
is ironclad.  I’m not going to speak to every case. 

Q    And then, in terms of the operation that we saw in Rafah over the
last 24 hours, does the President believe that that is within the bounds
— that doesn’t cross his red line that he set for an invasion of Rafah?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to be careful about red lines here.  I
know the National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, when he was here a
couple of weeks ago, had — when — had a back-and-forth with you all
about red lines.  So, just — we’re not going to get into that. 

What I will say is the Israeli government has spoken to this.  So,
obviously they can speak to their operations. 

They said it was limited.  This was about designating — making sure that
— <s>designated cut of</s> \[designed to cut off\] Hamas of their
ability to smuggle weapons, smuggle funds.  And it was a limited
operation.  Again, I would let them speak for their — for themselves. 

And what I will say is we have been very clear from here about our
concerns about a major operations.  We have been very clear from here
about protecting civilians.  There are more than 1 million civilians
that is in Rafah, a densely — a dense, populated area in Rafah, more
than 1 million, and we want to make sure that there are no civilian
casualties here.  And so, we’ve been clear about that. 

We are going to continue to monitor the situation closely to see how it
unfolds.  And certainly we will continue to speak out.

Q    And on a different topic, just briefly.  TikTok has filed a lawsuit
challenging the effort to force them to divest ownership — or ByteDance
from divesting ownership of TikTok in the U.S.  Does the White House
have any response to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ve seen the reports.  Going to be mindful here. 
They are — this is a — obviously, a litigation process here, so we’re
going to refer to Department of Justice on this one.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  On your concerns, obviously, about the — the risk to
civilians and escalating the humanitarian crisis in Gaza, I want to
follow up on something that Kirby said earlier.  He said that the U.S.
doesn’t support an Israeli operation in Rafah that results in a higher
risk to civilians and civilian casualties.  But the IDF has now closed,
you know, the border crossing in Rafah, cutting off aid.  How does that
not impact civilians?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, one of the things that we’ve been very clear about
— that the crossings that have been closed need to reopen; it is
unacceptable for them to be closed.  You have heard us say over and over
again, we need to upsurge the humanitarian aid. 

This is why the hostage deal is so important.  It would lead to a
ceasefire.  It would lead to making sure hostages, including American
hostages, come home and get that humanitarian — more — more humanitarian
aid into Gaza. 

So, Israel has committed to reopening the Kerem Shalom.  That’s a
conversation, as you all know, from the readout that the President had
with the Prime Minister of Israel, and we want to make sure that we — we
get that done.  That’s going to — we were — we’ve been told that that’s
going to happen tomorrow.  We are working to move that up. 

Fuel deliveries through Rafah should also commence tomorrow.  That’s
what we’ve been told. 

And we believe Rafah border crossing should also be quickly reopened for
the movement of humanitarian assistance.  We are insisting that there
should be no disruptions of humanitarian assistant flows.  It is
important.  We know — you all, obviously, have been reporting on this —
how dire the situation is currently in Gaza, and we want to see these
two crossings open. 

Q    And is it still your expectation that Israel will, you know, alert
the U.S. when it does plan — if it does plan to — to go ahead with a
full-scale operation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, obviously Israel is going to speak to their
own operations.  We have had continuous conversations.  You — you all
are aware of the two virtual calls — virtual meetings that the National
Security Advisor led.  And so, we’re continuing to have those
conversations, obviously, with our counterparts in Israel.

The President had a conversation with the — the Prime Minister yesterday
about the Rafah operations. 

Again, very, very clear here: We do not want to see a major operations
happening in Rafah.  We want to see a plan — a comprehensive plan on how
Israel plans to protect the 1.5 — more than 1 million civilians that are
currently seeking refuge in Rafah. 

Q    And just one more follow-up on TikTok.  They’re obviously suing the
federal government over this potential ban, but in their suit — there’s
a line in their suit where they say “the continued use of TikTok by
President Biden and members of Congress undermines the claim that the
platform poses an actual threat to Americans.” 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as it relates to the campaign and, obviously,
other congressional members, they have to speak to themselves, the
campaign has to speak to it.  But we are — and we’ve been very clear
what this law is: It is not a ban.  It is a divestment. 

I do want to be really mindful, because it — there is a legal —
obviously, it’s in litigation, and I just don’t — can’t — want to speak
to that any further. 

Q    Well, why is he still on this platform?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would ha- — I would have to refer you to the
campaign.  They can spe- —

Q    As President, will he commit to not using it again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — it is banned.  We can’t — we can’t — we can’t use
it here in the — in — in government — in federal government.

Go ahead.

Q    The President gave a speech on antisemitism today to mark Jewish
Holocaust Remembrance Day.  Are there any plans for him to give similar
remarks either about the plight of Palestinian civilians or about
Islamophobia and anti-Arab —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    — statements and violence.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just want to — obviously, today was a very
important day.  And many presidents have spoken on the Hill on this day
and delivered remarks about — about remembering the millions lost in the
Holocaust and reaffirming our commitment as a nation: Never again.  This
is not the first president to have done so, and the President wanted to
meet that moment.

And what we have seen, as well, in the past several months, as you all
know, is the rise of antisemitism here.  And we have been very clear to
call that out.  That is hate speech.  We’re going to continue to do so. 

And, you know, you’ve heard the President address the war.  And we’re —
address the — the suffering that we’re seeing in Gaza.  You’ve heard him
address that many times. 

And this also speaks to how important the hostage deal is.  We’re seeing
talks continue in Cairo.  That is important.  We’re going to — we’re
going to obviously support that process.  We want to see that hostage
deal so it could lead to a ceasefire, lead to that all-important
humanitarian aid getting into — getting into Gaza.  And let’s not forget
bringing home the hostages to their loved ones.

So, the President is going to — has spoken about what’s happening in
Gaza, has spoken about what we’re seeing there, the dire humanitarian —
the dire humanitarian situation, and calling to — for Israel to reduce,
obviously, what we see — the civilians’ lives los- — the loss of
civilians’ lives is unacceptable.

Q    But no plans for anything more formal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President has been speaking to this, has
spoken to this many times. 

I also want to just flag that the Secretary of Education put out a
letter, a “Dear Colleague” letter that went out to universities talking
about Title VI and giving examples of antisemitism but also was very
clear — was very clear about the hate that we have seen — been seeing
more broadly: antisemitism, anti-Israel, anti-Muslim, anti-Palestinian. 
We have seen that across — across campuses and across the country,
obviously, in communities, and laid out our deep concerns.

And so, that “Dear Colleague” letter came — went out today, on the same
day that the President delivered this really impactful speech on a dark
moment in time.  And so, the President has spoken about the war in Gaza
and the casualties that we have seen and will continue to do so.

Q    Question on the case of the Army Staff Sergeant, Gordon Black, who
was arrested on May 2nd in Russia.  He was not there, apparently, on
official travel.  But I’m curious, what does the Commander-in-Chief make
of yet another military service member going to a country he has been
told not to visit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I know the Admiral spoke to this yesterday.  What
I can — there’s also — what I also can confirm is that there are two
separate cases of U.S. citizens being detained in Russia.  The State
Department is actively seeking consular access to both individuals,
neither of whom were in Russia on behalf or in affiliation with the U.S.
government.  We take seriously our commitment to assist U.S. citizens
abroad and provide all appropriate assistance.

We iterate — and this is kind of to your question.  We iterate our
strong warnings about danger posed to U.S. citizens in Russia.  We have
been very clear about this.  State Department has been very clear about
this.  And we will continue to say: U.S. citizens residing or traveling
in Russia should depart immediately, as stated in our travel advisory
for Russia, and U.S. citizens should not travel to Russia at this time,
period.  And we’re going to continue to be very, very clear about that.

Any fur- — for any further details on those two cases, I would refer you
to the State Department.

Q    Why do Americans who don’t heed those warnings warrant government
assistance, if they knowingly flout them? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because it’s the President’s — he believes it’s his —
his responsibility, when — when American is held hostage or wrongfully
detained, to get them home to their families.  That is a commitment that
he has made. 

At the same time — and I can’t speak to these two cases right now. 
They’re — the State Department has to speak to them and where they are
in their process.  So, I want to be really mindful about categorizing
where they are. 

But the President is committed.  He’s committed to getting Americans
home, if they are being held hostages — hostage or if they are
wrongfully detained.  He believes that is his duty as
Commander-in-Chief, as President, to do so.  And that’s so- —

Q    Has he conveyed any concern to the Pentagon that this is a case of
yet another service member walking into another country that has hostile
relations with the United States?  Or — there was the one that went to
North Korea. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —

Q    Now, there’s this guy.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’ve been clear about all U.S. citizens not
going to Russia.  We’ve been very, very clear.  And there’s a — as I
stated, there’s a travel advisory that came out from the State
Department.  So, this is all citizens — all U.S. citizens.

I don’t — you know, not going to get into private conversations from
here.  But obviously, we are concerned, and the State Department is
actively working this.

Q    And one other.  How is the President himself personally learning
details, if any, about the trial of his predecessor?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, the President — speaking — just
looking at today, the President delivered a really impactful, important,
meaningful speech on a — on a —

Q    I get how he fills his schedule.  But how is he —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know —

Q    — learning about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.

Q    — the case himself?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — wait.  Jeez, Ed.  Give me a second.  (Laughter.) 
Give me a moment to warm up, get to your quest- — get to your question.

So, look — I mean, look, the President had a really important day.  You
just saw him do — there was a pool spray.  You saw him interact with the
Romanian President.  That was important. 

You saw him give a — deliver a really important, impactful speech on a
day that we talk about, “Never again,” on a dark time in our history —
not just here, obviously, our history more globally — and what we saw —
what we saw happen to a community, millions of people.

And so — so, look, the President is really busy.  Obviously, he probably
catches up during the day, like — like many of us here. 

But, look, the President is going to focus on the American people. 
That’s his focus.  We’re going to go —

Q    So, no sense of when he’s on the Peloton in the morning if he’s
watching the news — (laughter) — or if at night, when he’s done, he’s
going home and watching highlights?  You don’t know?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, all I can say is the President consumes the
news.  He pays attention to the news.  I cannot speak to the current
situation that is happening that many of you all are covering right now
at this moment of the former President.  Can’t speak to that.

But the President has been — I mean, he’s had — I mean, you could admit
to this, right?  He’s had a busy day.  He’s been very much focused on
what’s going on in the world. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just quickly on the two cases in Russia that we
were just talking about.  Is — has there been an official determination
that those are wrongful detention cases?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the State Department.  They will
work on — on the official determination.  Going to be really mindful
from here.  That is something that the State Department works through. 

Q    And — okay. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re trying to make sure that they have a counselor,
obviously, accessible to them.  I — they — they could speak more to
this.

Q    Okay.  And then there was an independent investigation of the FDIC
that found widespread sexual harassment and other misconduct.  Does the
White House still have confidence in the leadership of that
organization?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, I would refer you to the FDIC for
details on this.  It’s an independent agency.  As you know, the
President, of course, expects the administration to reflect the values
of decency and integrity and to protect the rights and dignity of
employees. 

My understanding is that the FDIC Chairman spoke to this.  He apologized
and has — has committed to the recommendations that have been provided
by the independent report and going to further fix the longstanding
issues, obviously, that are in the report.  But don’t have anything
beyond that.  And, you know, he — he apologized.  And so, would refer
you to them. 

Q    And then, lastly, is the White House committed to not withholding
weapons assistance from Israel that’s needed for its self-defense?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What we are committed to is Israel’s security.  That
is ironclad.  And don’t have anything beyond that.  Obviously, we’re
going to, you know, look at all options that we have, continue to have
conversations with Israel and our counterparts.  But our commitment to
Israel is ironclad, as — as far as their — Is- — Israel’s security.

Go ahead.

Q    On the hostage deal.  Is the White House’s view that, in the first
phase, all hostages who are released should be alive?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into details.  As you know, there
are talks happening in Cairo.  That is incredibly important.  And we
want to support those — those talks.  And so, don’t want to get into —
to details from here.

One thing that I can say is tha- — from the assess- — from our
assessments, it looks like the two sides should be able to come to — to
a deal here — at least close the gaps to get to a deal.  That’s our
assessment. 

I’m not going to get into details or specifics.

Q    Because — because one of the gaps seems to be that Hamas has
suggested that some of the hostage- — hostages that they would release
would be dead.  They would be bodies of hostages.  Is that something
that you think that the President would accept?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to be a super mindful.  This is — there are
conversations happening in Cairo.  I think it’s important.  We’re going
to support those talks that are currently underway.  And our assessment
is — is that — our close assessment: that the two sides’ position
suggests that they should be able to close the gap here.  And I think
that’s important. 

But it is our priority, obviously.  It continues to be the President’s
priority to get to a hostage deal, to get those hostages home to their
loved ones, to make sure that it — we get a ceasefire.  Right?  It’ll
ensure that, and it’ll ensure that we surge humanitarian assistance into
Gaza.  As we know, as you all know, it is a dire situation right now in
Gaza. 

Q    And the — the Biden administration is facing this deadline this
week on notifying Congress on whether Israel is violating international
law.  Can you say how involved or how not involved the President,
personally, has been on this process?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, the President is kept updated on all of
these — on this — on many matters, including this. 

My counterpart over at the State Departent — Department, Matt Miller,
spoke to this today about where we are in that process.  The State
Department is working very hard to get this done, to get this over to
Congress. 

I don’t have anything else to add.  But obviously, the President is kept
abreast.

Q    So, the President hasn’t gotten final word about what that decision
is yet?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They’re working — the State Department, as Mr. Miller
mentioned today during his briefing, is working very hard to get this
done.  And so, I will leave it to them.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Ukraine says that two of its colonels, part of
their state protection service, were recruited by Russia and were — are
now identified as part of a group that were planning to assassinate
President Zelenskyy.  Does the White House have a reaction to this?  And
then, broadly, how concerned is the administration about Zelenskyy’s
safety and security?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we saw — we saw the announcement.  It certainly is
very concerning news.  And obviously, we are glad that the potential
assassination attempt was averted.

I would — I don’t have anything beyond that to share. Certainly, would
refer you to the Ukrainian government.  But it is certainly concerning
news.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Cindy McCain, the head of the U.N. World Food
Programme, said over the weekend that northern Gaza is currently
experiencing “full-blown famine.”  That famine is moving southward
towards southern Gaza.  Currently, as you and Mr. Kirby have said, the
two main checkpoints for aid, Kerem Shalom and Rafah, are closed, and
the President has asked for those to be reopened. 

This is an ongoing pattern.  Israel closes crossings.  The President
asks for them to be reopened.  The crossings are eventually reopened. 
Some aid starts to flow through again.  But then, Israel cuts off the
flow of aid into Gaza once more, even though the President has said
multiple times that it is important that aid be flowing continuously. 
And he seems to keep pushing for it, only to get these one step forward,
two steps back results. 

Does the White House have any plan to convince, cajole, pressure Israel
into allowing a steady flow of aid into Gaza, other than asking nicely?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let’s just — just say — just give a little bit of
readout.  Over the past — since early April, the past several weeks, we
have seen over 5,000 trucks entered Gaza.  That includes almost 200
humanitarian and commercial trucks a day, on average, entering Gaza in
the last three weeks.  Some days, 400-plus truckloads have enter- —

Q    And some days zero —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait — wait —

Q    — because Israel closes the checkpoints.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me — let me — it is important to let the American
people know that we have seen an uptick here, and it is important. 
There are other crossings.  These are not the only two. 

But to your point, it is unacceptable that these two crossings are
closed, which is why the President called the Prime Minister directly
yesterday to — to ask and to say that the <s>Sharem</s> \[Kerem\] Shalom
crossing should be open.  We have said — I said at the top to —
answering one of your colleagues’ questions that we expect the crossing
— the Shalom — the Kerem Sha- — Shalom crossing to be open tomorrow,
including Rafah. 

It is important.  We agree it is important to get that humanitarian aid
in, and we will continue to do so, continue to — to make sure that we
get as much humanitarian aid as possible. 

That’s why we’ve been upticking our efforts.  And it is also why the
hostage deal is so important.  This is why the Cairo talks are critical
and important, which is why we’ve been supporting those — those
conversations, obviously.  We need to get to a hostage deal so we can
see a ceasefire, get

that humanitarian aid in — a surge, obviously, in that aid — and get
hostages home. 

So, that is going to be our focus.  That’s going to be our focus.

Q    At what point does the President consider other uses of American
leverage to improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have seen — and I just laid out what we have seen —

Q    I — I understand that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold — wait.  You got to let me finish here. 
(Laughs.)  You just have to, so I can — we can have a back-and-forth,
but you got to let me finish my answer. 

That’s why we’ve seen an uptick in humanitarian aid.  That’s why we have
seen an increase in humanitarian aid since early April.  That is because
of the President’s leadership. 

We need to get more in.  We know and we see and we understand the dire
situation in Gaza right now.  We got to get that in.  The hostage deal
is important.  And we’re going to continue to work on that. 

Q    You keep talking about these upticks, but there is a famine right
now. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — and I am acknowledging that there is a dire
situation in Gaza.  I am acknowledging that.  We understand that, which
is why the President has worked so hard in the last several months to
get more humanitarian aid in.  That is why we’re working around the
clock to get the hostage deal done. 

So, I think we’re kind of talking in circles here.  But the President is
committed — he is committed to getting this done.

Go ahead, Peter. 

Q    Can you, Karine, say declaratively that no one in the Biden
administration knew about the latest hostage and ceasefire deal —
proposal that Egypt and Qatar negotiated with Hamas before Hamas said
that it had accepted it yesterday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s what I can say.  Look, these are extremely
difficult prep- — this is an extremely difficult process.  It just is. 
And — and you have negotiations being conducted through intermediaries —
right? — in Doha and also in Cairo. 

And — and so, that is just where we are.  They are difficult times. 
They’re a difficult process.  And so, that’s what I can speak to. 
That’s what I can say.  An- —

Q    I guess I — I just want to get to — to the fundamental question —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — which is we all recognize these are difficult times — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — there’s been too much loss on all sides; everybody agrees.  But
in the simplest of terms, can you say declaratively that no one in this
administration was involved in some deal that was accepted by Hamas
yesterday without having been previously communicated to Israel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say: This is an extremely difficult
process.  It is.  It —

Q    Why isn’t — why — why can’t the U.S. just say declaratively from
the White House podium that the U.S. was not doing any side deals that
Israel didn’t know about?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A side deal?  There’s — no, absolutely not.  I didn’t
know that was the question.  I can say absolutely not, no.  There was no
side deal.

Q    So, what Hamas accepted yesterday is not a proposal the U.S. had
ever heard before Hamas presented it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, throughout this process — here’s what I can say:
American diplomats have been engaged with our Israeli counterparts on
this throughout this process.  There was no side deal.  I didn’t realize
that was the question you were asking me.  Absolutely not. 

These are extremely difficult process right now that is happening. 
There are intermediaries that are in Doha; obviously, today, in Cairo. 
And so, there — it is — it is not an easy process. 

Q    So, then, just to make —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Is there a side deal, to your question —

Q    So, just to make — so that we won’t use the word “side deal,”
because that — I used that word —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is —

Q    — and I don’t want to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is a no.

Q    But — so, let me ask you.  So, in the clearest of terms, there was
no one in the administration that was involved in conversations with
Egypt and Qatar and Hamas about any proposal that Hamas accepted
yesterday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No. 

Q    No.  Okay.   
  
Let me ask you: The President is going to go to a bunch of different
campuses in the near future.  He has a series of commencement
addresses.  Other members of the administration will surely do the
same. 

We heard about the President’s views of antisemitism and hate speech on
campus.  Would the President welcome peaceful protests during those
commencement ceremonies, as we’ve seen elsewhere?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But you see the President do this all the time.  It
doesn’t matter where he is, where he’s speaking.  It doesn’t matter if
it’s a commencement, it doesn’t matter if it’s at one of his events, he
welcomes peaceful protests.  And you actually have seen the President
engage in that process.  And he’s —

Q    So, if people raise Palestinian flags, as we’ve seen at the
University of Michigan —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the Pres- —

Q    — and elsewhere, he would welcome that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President —

Q    — when he’s speaking?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President has said two things — right? — and I
have said two things: We understand how deeply painful this moment is
for many, many communities here in this country, for many Americans.  We
understand that. 

And we also understand that all Americans have the right to peacefully
protest.  And we accept that right, and we understand that right.  It is
part of who we are in this country.  It’s part of our freedoms.  Right? 
It’s part of our democracy. 

And so, we understand every American has the right to peacefully
protest.

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, the Romanian President wants to run NATO.  Do you know if
that issue is coming up at all?  You know, obviously, the President
supports the Dutch leader and — along with other Western leaders, to
become the next lead- — leader of NATO. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, we’re going to have a readout later today. 
Obviously, the — the meeting is probably still in progress, as we’re
here in the press briefing room, so I’m not going to get ahead of that. 
They’ll do their readout.

But I’ll say that the President has been looking forward to hosting
President Iohannis to celebrate Romania’s 20 years as a strong and
stalwart NATO Ally and has been looking forward to recognizing this
president — President Iohannis’s leadership within NATO and the many
contributions that the — Romania has made to NATO security, particularly
in the Black Sea region, and obviously their strong support to helping
Ukraine against Russia’s aggression. 

I — I don’t want to get ahead of anything here.  So, I will let the
readout speak for itself once it comes out.

Q    Just one more on Russia.  Putin is beginning his fifth term today
as Russian president.  He claimed that Russia does not refuse dialogue
with Western states.  Does the President have any reaction to Putin,
sort of, beginning another term and — and does he see this, perhaps, as
a — an opportunity to attempt to resume direct communication with — with
Putin?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me first say and — that the U.S., as it
relates to its — to Russia’s inauguration — or Putin’s inauguration, the
U.S. directed its embassy not to attend inaug- — inauguration, as you
know, in protest, obviously, to Russia’s aggression — aggression into
Ukraine. 

So, as you also know, under Putin’s leadership, Russia launched this
brutal and unprovoked war and Russian authorities have engaged in
draconian repression at home as well as aggressive actions abroad. 

And so, I think we’ve made ourselves very clear here.  I just don’t have
anything to add.

Go ahead, Michael.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  In light of the President’s speech today, does the
administration support the Antisemitism Awareness Act that just passed
the House last week?  And would the President sign it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ve been asked this question a couple of times. 
Look, we — we appreciate Congress’s effort to deal with, obviously, an
issue — not just an issue but antisemitism, which is hate, and all — and
we have denounced that over and over again and we’ve called it
abhorrent.  And so, we appreciate that Congress is taking action here. 

I know there are other — other efforts — legislative efforts.  And so,
we’re going to let that process move forward. 

But this is a president from — you know, one of the reasons, obviously,
he decided to jump into the 2020 election is because of what he saw —
the antisemitic vile that he saw in Charlottesville, wrote about it,
decided to jump into — into the elections that — back in 2019. 

And so, he’s — he has spoken against antisemitism throughout his
career.  He’s — he’ll continue to do so.  We’re going to let Congress go
through their process. 

Go ahead.

Q    On the border — Southern border and border security.  Can you give
us an update on executive act- — actions that the President is
planning?  Are you planning a rollout of those actions in — in coming
days or weeks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Don’t have any announcement on any executive actions. 
Obviously, we look at all options.  We believe the — the challenges at
the border is a priority important to majority of Americans.  We believe
that the immigration system — it’s not even something we believe; it’s
fact — has been broken for decades now.  And that’s why the President
took action on his first day in office and put forward a comprehensive
legislation. 

Now, there is indeed a bipartisan Senate agreement that should move
forward but was held back because of the former President saying that it
would hurt him and asked Republicans to reject it.  We want to see that
move forward.  And we’re going to continue to call on Congress to move
that forward. 

We believe in order to really fix what’s happening with the immigration
system is to move forward with that piece of legislation.  The President
wants to sign it and put that into law.  It would be the — the fairest,
the toughest law if he was able to be given that opportunity — and it
would pass, obviously — for him to sign it. 

Any other actions that may come out of this administration, we always
look at all — at all potential actions that we can take.  But the number
one way we believe to move forward is to move with that bipartisan
Senate agreement. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Yeah.  What can you tell us about the President’s trip tomorrow to
Racine, Wisconsin? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll have more on that later today.  As y- — as you —
as you just mentioned, he’s going to be going to Ra- — Racine,
Wisconsin, to focus on investi- — investment — investing in America,
continuing that — kind of that dialogue directly with the American
people. 

And then the other parts of that trip is going to be campaign, so I
would refer you to them. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you so much.  So, we heard the President today speaking about
antisemitism.  But can you just clarify for us where he believes the
line is?  Is it antisemitic, in the President’s view, to say harsh — to
express harsh criticism of the Israeli government or its actions?  Like,
where is the line?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I shouldn’t have to talk about a line.  It’s
very clear, right?  It — it presents itself in the most hateful,
abhorrent way.  And antisemitism is hate speech.  It is just hate
speech. 

I’m not going to stand here and give examples.  That’s not something I’m
going to do.  But it is obvious when you have hateful rhetoric, when you
have the type of speech where you’re attacking a community, we should
call that out.  Or violent speech, violent type of rhetoric, we should
call that out. 

I’m not going to stand here and lay out a line here.  That’s not what
we’re going to do.  But it is very clear when we hear antisemitism.  It
is very clear when we hear language that is anti-Israel.  It is very
clear when we hear language that is anti-Muslim, anti-Palestinian.  It
is hate.  And the President believes, as President of the United States,
that he should call that out.  And that’s what you saw him do today. 

And we also announced some additional actions as it relates to the
National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism, because the President is
going to continue to take action, not just speak to it. 

Q    So, it speaks to the intention. 

Let me ask you also about the President’s call last week for order on
college campuses.  This moment is being compared to what happened in
1968.  But in the intervening years, American police forces have become
significantly more militarized. 

Does — did the White House provide any guidance for police departments
around the country as to what “order” means and what actions they should
and should not take?  Are you leaving them to interpret that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What we have done and been very clear here: It is up
to the university and local law enforcement on how they decide to deal
with what’s been happening on the ground.  They know better than we do
on what’s happening on the ground. 

We have been very clear: We believe all Americans should have the right
to peacefully protest within the law.  You heard that from the President
last week.  You’ve heard that from me.  You’ve heard that from others
here in this administration. 

What we don’t want to see is hate speech, violence.  That’s not what we
— we don’t believe that is part of peacefully protesting.  And so, we’re
going to continue to be clear about that. 

But we leave the actions and how universities decide how to move forward
to them.  They know what’s going on on the ground, and they know how to
move forward. 

Go ahead, Gerren.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  New York Governor Kathy Hochul made a
controversial comment yesterday at the Milken Institute Global
Conference while discussing the need to bring AI jobs to Black and brown
communities.  She said, “Right now, we have young Black kids growing up
in the Bronx who don’t even know what the word ‘computer’ is.”  What is
the White House’s respond — response to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I want to be super mindful.  I have not heard
these comments.  So, I want to make sure I go back, read the comments,
and get a sense of what was happening here.  So, I don’t want to
comment, and be really mindful speaking at this podium on behalf of this
President. 

So, I just want to go back and see exactly — I know you’re reading an
excerpt or a line from what she said, but I just want to be super, super
mindful here. 

Q    Does the White House believe it is right to ins- — to insinuate
that Black kids don’t know what the word “computer” means?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, obviously, we don’t think that is the
right way to speak about — about young people in any way, in any form. 
But I do want to be mindful and to be fair here and — and go back and
hear exactly what she said.  Just want to be mindful, speaking from here
at the podium. 

Q    Just one more question.  There was a viral video on the campus of
the University of Mississippi last week.  A Black female Gaza protester
there was — she was protesting.  There was counter protesters who were
primarily Black — white — white male students —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — one of which imitated a monkey.  Another called her “Lizzo,”
assuming — addressing her size.  The NAACP is calling for those students
to be expelled for this video. 

Has the President seen this video and what is the White House’s
reaction?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is — and I know the video that you’re
speaking to, and this is something that I can speak — speak on, which is
that the behavior captured in that — in that video is undignified, and
it’s just racist, period.  And it is beneath any- — anyone — anyone to
be sharing that kind of material.  And the actions in the video are
beneath any American.

And so, it is insulting to everyone who has to view it and — and whoever
they are.  And it is saddening.  It is incredibly saddening.  And so, we
are so much better than that.  We are.  And we owe it to one another and
ourselves to — to act like it.

Q    And just one follow-up.  Congressman Mike Collins of Georgia
reposted that video and wrote, “Ole Miss taking care of business.”  Any
reaction to him and that comment?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, and I think I just said it’s — it’s beneath any
person to be sharing that video.  It’s — it’s beneath any elected
official or a leader to be sharing that kind of material.  And — and the
actions in that video is beneath of who we are supposed to be. 

And, you know, it is — what — what we saw in that video is certainly —
it’s sickening.  It is sickening. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  So, a follow-up on the police response.  President
Biden has condemned violent protests on campus.  He didn’t address the
police response.  What do you think about the arrests of hundreds of
students?  Is that the response the White House likes to see?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry.  Can you — can you start that question
again?

Q    Yeah.  What do you think about the — the arrests of hundreds of
students on campus?  Is that the police response the White House like —
likes to see?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, I’ve spoken to — about this last week.  And
I have said that, you know, these are incredibly difficult times.  And
we understand what — what people are feeling and the pain that they’re
feeling.  And in these times, it could be — you know, it can be
incredibly difficult even for law enforcement.  And I said this last
week, and I’ll continue to say that. 

And what I will add is: It is important that all Americans — and I’ve
said this before — have the right to peacefully protest within the law,
and it should be their right to peacefully protest.  But when — when
someone is taking — unlawfully taking over a building or vandalizing,
that is not peacefully protesting.  That is just not what peacefully
protesting looks like.  And so, we’ll call that out. 

I’m not going to speak to arrests.  That is something that local
authorities can speak to directly.  Can’t speak to that. 

But we will continue to reiterate the fact that all Americans have the
right to peacefully protest within the law.

Go ahead, Aurelia. 

Q    Thank you so much.  In his remarks this morning, the President
mentioned Jewish students having been attacked, harassed, and blocked. 
Does the White House have an estimate of how many antisemitic incidents
actually took place or were reported during the protests, either like
physical abuse or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — verbal attacks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer to Department of Justice or local law
enforcement.  I don’t have a number for — to share with you at this
time. 

But, look, we’ve seen an uptick in antisemitism.  That’s what we have
seen in the last couple of months.  It is abhorrent.  We have to call
that out.  And that was part of the President’s speech as well.  We’ve
got to take action to call out hate.  And so, we’re going to continue to
do that.

As far as any numbers, would certainly refer you to local government or
the Department of Justice. 

AIDE:  Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Go ahead.  Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Hearing all of your answers on the
responsibility to call out antisemitism, when does it become the
President’s responsibility or the administration’s responsibility to
call on some of these local governments?  Because this D.C. situation at
GW — obviously, we talked yesterday about how, you know, GW asked for
police to intervene.  They ignored it.  That call has been escalated up
to the mayor.  It has still been unanswered. 

The President said today that, you know, hate speech, acts of violence,
vandalism — against the law. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And you have an encampment that we could literally walk to from
here where you had student protes- — or, excuse me, protesters who the
university has said may not even be affiliated with the school carrying
out a mock trial, calling for beheadings of school leadership. 

So, at what point is it the responsibility of the federal government to
call on some of these local entities to take action?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, when it comes to local entities, it is up to them
to take whatever action that they deem is necessary.  We’re talking
about colleges; we’re talking about universities.  It is up to them to
decide on.  We’ve been very clear.

Q    But just —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But — wait.

Q    What if they don’t, though?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait. 

Q    That’s where we are.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s been — we’ve been we’ve been very clear on that. 

When it comes to taking action, you’re talking about a president who —
who moved forward with the first-ever U.S. National Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism.  He has taken action.  We’re talking about more than 100
new actions.

And then on top of — on top of that, when he first announced it back in
May of 2023, we took some actions today. 

And so, we’re going to — and when we talk about actions, we’re talking
about the Department of Education, we’re talking about Homeland
Security, we’re talking about a whole-of-government eff- — effort to
deal with what we’re seeing, this uptick that we’re seeing in
antisemitism. 

So, there are four pillars of that.  We’re going to continue to take
actions on this.  We’re going to continue to work with u- — I’ve talked
about the Department of Education, Secretary Cardona sending out —
sending out letters — letters to his colleagues.  And in that, we have
said to them, if there are trainings that they need, if there is
assistance that they need, we are worl- — willing to work with them.

As it relates to law enforcement, that is something that colleges and
universities and local government have to decide on. 

But we’ve put forward something that no other president has ever done,
because we see what is happening in — with antisemitism.  We see that it
is something that this president needs to speak to and act on, and we’ve
done just that.

Q    And then just on the messaging around the — the administration’s
ironclad commitment to Israel.  How can the U.S. have ironclad
commitment on one hand, and then, on another hand, slow-walk arms
sales? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    I mean, the President said that the supplemental was imperative,
and now this.  How do you square that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to speak to the second part of your
question.  I just said in — earlier, answering to one of your
colleagues, not going to speak to cases.  And our — as you just stated
in your question, our commitment to Israel’s security is, indeed,
ironclad.  And we proved that.  We proved that in getting that
supplemental done.  That is going to be incredibly important to Ukraine,
to Israel, to making sure humanitarian aid gets into Gaza, gets to
Sudan, gets to Haiti and other places across the globe that need that
humanitarian aid.  All of those things are important. 

Two things could be true in the sense of having those conversations —
tough, direct conversations with our counterparts in — in Israel.  The
President having his conversation with his counterpart — obviously, the
Prime Minister — and making sure that citizens’ lives are protected —
are protected, and getting that commitment.  So, two of those things
could be true. 

I’m not going to speak to your question about arms sales.  I’m not going
to speak to that.  I’m not going to speak to cases. 

But I will continue to commit and the President is continued to commit,
as you heard from him today in his speech, that his commitment to
Israel’s security is ironclad — is ironclad.

Q    If you won’t talk to us about it, will you commit that the
administration would answer to Congress about this question of the arms
sales?  Will administration officials answer questions from lawmakers?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean, that’s — that’s up to Congress to decide
on how they want to address any questions that they have with us. 

Q    There have been requests.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve been — we’ve been — I have not seen those
requests.  What I can tell you is our commitment to Israel’s security is
ironclad, and we’ve proved that.  We’ve proved that many times over and
over since October 7th.

All right, guys.  Thank you, everybody.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thanks.

3:25 P.M. EDT
