---
date: '2024-05-09'
modified_time: 2024-05-10 11:40:08-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-09 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/05/09/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-11/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:39 A.M. EDT

      MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for joining us.  Kirby, I think,
has a few things to say at the top, and then we’ll go straight into
questions.  Thanks. 

      MR. KIRBY:  Hey, everybody.  I — I know what is on everybody’s
mind, so just give me a couple of minutes here to — to open up the
conversation. 

      The President and his team have been clear for several weeks that
we do not support a major ground operation in Rafah where more than a
million people are (inaudible) safe to go. 

      The President has said that publicly and he has communicated that
repeatedly and straightforwardly to Prime Minister Netanyahu.  We
proposed alternative methods of defeating Hamas that do not involve a
major ground operation in Rafah.  Those conversations with the Israeli
government are ongoing.  The President said yesterday that if Israel in
fact proceeds with a major ground operation in Rafah, he will not
provide certain categories of weapons to support such an operation.  The
Israeli government has understood this for some time now. 

      He also said yesterday that he will continue to ensure that Israel
has all of the military means it needs to defend itself against all of
its enemies, including Hamas.  For him, this is very straightforward. 
He’s going to continue to provide Israel with capabilities (inaudible),
but he does not want certain categories of American weapons used in a
particular type of operation in a particular place.  And again, he’s
been clear and he’s been consistent on that. 

      As the President said, Israel has not yet launched such an
operation.  So, he was talking about what would happen in the future if
they did.  That’s a choice that Israel will have to make, and it’s one
we hope they don’t. 

      We’re going to keep working with them, on our part, to develop
alternative approaches that we think will have a better chance of
strategic success, a better chance at eliminating the threat that the
Israeli people still face from Hamas. 

      The President (inaudible) we have held a shipment of high-payload
bombs, as we discussed with Israel our concerns about the use of those
kinds of bombs in dense environs. 

      More broadly, the President has tasked his team to continue to
work with Israel to refine their strategy to inflict an enduring defeat
on Hamas.  And I want to repeat that.  An enduring defeat on Hamas
certainly remains the Israeli goal, and we share that goal with them. 

      Smashing into Rafah, in his view, will not advance that objective,
will not get to that sustainable, enduring defeat of Hamas.  But there
are many things that we can do together that will, including doing
everything we can to help Israel make sure that the border between Gaza
and Egypt can’t be used for the smuggling of arms and weapons into
Hamas. 

      We could also, in fact, help them target the leaders, including
Mr. Sinwar, which we are, frankly, doing with the Israelis on an ongoing
basis. 

      We can also work towards standing up an alternative governance
structure to Hamas, because, as we’ve said many times before, whatever
post-conflict Gaza looks like, it can’t look like what it does now with
Hamas in control.

      And then also working with the Israelis to create safe spaces with
shelter, sanitation, food, water, medical facilities, and medical
supplies, and medical personnel for people that are currently in Rafah —
someplace safe where they can go.

      All those things are alternatives that we have been pursuing with
our Israeli counterparts, as opposed to some sort of major ground
operation in Rafah.

      And the last thing I’ll say before I turn it over is: Those
conversations are still happening.  They will continue to happen.  We
are still working inside the Strategic Consultative Group framework to
make sure that Israel can, again, reach its goal, reach its objectives,
but do it in a way that avoids further civilian casualties and further
loss of civilian infrastructure. 

      The arguments that somehow we’re walking away from Israel fly in
the face of the facts.  I mean, this is a president who visited Israel
within days of the October 7th attacks.  This is a president who rushed
additional military articles to Israel and, frankly, provided expertise
from our own military to go over there to help them as they thought
through their planning and their operation (inaudible).

      And this is a president who put American pilots — fighter pilots —
in the sky to help shoot down more than 300 missiles and drones fired by
Iran in mid- — mid-April.

      So the argument that somehow we’re walking away from Israel, we’re
not willing to help them defeat Hamas just doesn’t — doesn’t comport
with the facts.  And I think that’s an important thing to — to end on.

      And now we can take some questions.

      MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Trevor with
Reuters.

      Q     Hey.  Thanks for doing this.  Do you have any detail on how
long the hold on weapons that we’re seeing might last? And do you expect
that the — that we’re going to see a few more types or categories of
weapons?  You know, in the coming weeks, are you going to pause and wait
and see Israel goes into Rafah fully?

      MR. KIRBY:  To your second question, Trevor, it’s really more the
latter.  As I said in my opening statement, Israel has to make its
decisions.  We understand that, and we’ll have to make ours based on
what they do. 

      We hope they don’t make those kinds of decisions to go into Rafah,
but I think the President was crystal clear last night that if they do
smash into Rafah, go in (inaudible) in a major way, then he’s going to
have to make future decisions.  But again, we hope — we hope it doesn’t
come to that.  (Inaudible) Israel’s decision-making right now. 

      And as for your first question, I don’t have a timeline to give
you.  As I said, this was a delay, a pause in the shipment of these
2,000-pound bombs.  But as Secretary Austin said yesterday, no final
decisions have been made, and a lot is going to depend, I think — to
answer your question about the length — a lot is going to depend on what
we see Israel do in — in Rafah and in their planning for Rafah.

      MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Aamer with
the AP.

      Q     Hey, thank you both.  And I apologize — I missed a little
bit at the top, and I apologize if you answered this already.  But did
the President tell the Prime Minister about the hold-up on the bombs in
their call this week?  And has the — thus far, has the U.S. seen any
indication that this hold-up has changed Israeli calculus at all about
going into Rafah?

      MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get into the diplomatic conversations
between the President and the Prime Minister any more than we’ve already
done with respect to their calls. 

      I can tell you that — as I said in my opening statement, that the
President has repeatedly and steadfastly communicated to Prime Minister
Netanyahu our (inaudible) about the potential invasion or major ground
operations in Rafah and what that would mean for him and his own
decision (inaudible). 

      So, he — he has been very consistent with the Prime Minister, but
I won’t get into the back-and-forth on any one particular call.  I think
you can understand I’m going to protect the confidentiality of the
conversation. 

      I think it’s too soon to know, on your second question, about
whether this — this pause has changed their calculus.  We’re in touch
with the Israelis.  Again, they know where we stand on this.  They
certainly know where the President stands on this.  And they’ll have to
make their own decisions.  And — and I don’t want to get ahead of where
we are right now.

      MODERATOR:  Our next question will go to J.J. with Bloomberg.

      Q     Hey, John.  On Hezbollah.  Is there any sort of an update
you can give us on U.S. efforts to quell the fighting between Hezbollah
and Israel?  That’s my first question. 

      And then, secondly, on U.S. Steel.  There are some senators who
are calling for Biden to exercise his presidential authority to either
suspend the sale or prohibit the sale altogether of U.S. steel to
Japan’s Nippon.  Is there any reaction you’d be willing to share on
that?  And do you agree with them that the President does possess the
authority to (inaudible) the sale unilaterally?  Thank you.

      MR. KIRBY:  I don’t really have an update on Hezbollah.  I’ll tell
you what I’m going to do.  I’ll reach out and talk to some of our folks
on the NSC that are tracking that a lot more closely than I am and see
if we can’t you a better answer. 

      The only thing I would say is that we continue to strongly believe
that it’s — not Israel’s interest and not in the region’s interest for a
full-blown second front to open up there in the North and then we have
been engaged actively and energetically diplomatically with leaders in
Israel and, of course, in Lebanon to try to prevent that outcome.  That
remains priority.

      But I don’t have a specific update for you.  So, you’re just going
to have to excuse me on this one, and I’ll see if we can’t get you a
better answer.

      On the — your question (inaudible).  I still I’m not seeing this
communication(inaudible).  Again, let me — let me take that question and
come back to you. 

      The only thing I would add is the President remains determined to
make sure that U.S. Steel stays in American hands, as he has said.  And
that’s — that’s the goal he’s going to continue to pursue.

      But, as for the particulars of that pursuit, to your question,
I’ll have to get back to you. 

      Q     Okay, thanks. 

      MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

      MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Alex with
CNN.

      Q     Hi, guys.  Thanks so much for doing this.  John, how do you
think the Rafah operation so far has impacted the ceasefire talks?  Of
course, Israel argues that it adds pressure to — on Hamas.  And if you
would mind commenting on the report that in the negotiations, Israel has
wanted to wall off Rafah and be allowed to continue their operations in
Rafah while a ceasefire would happen. 

      And could you just characterize where you think the talks stand
now that we’ve seen the CIA Director and other parties leave Cairo?  Are
they still at the working level?  Do you think they have fallen apart? 
Can you speak to the biggest sticking points?

      Thanks.

      MR. KIRBY:  There’s a lot there.  Our view is that Rafah
operations — certainly any kind of major Rafah ground operation would
actually strengthen Hamas’s hands at the negotiating table, not
Israel’s.  That’s our view. 

      I — in just terms of — I think I’m — I don’t know if I understood
your second question correctly.  But you asked me something about the
Israelis wanting to wall off Rafah operations from the talks.  You mean
that — you mean that if there was a ceasefire in place that they would
still be able to operate in Rafah?  Is that what you’re asking?

      Q     Yes, that there would be a ceasefire effectively in the rest
of Gaza and Rafah.  That’s according to (inaudible).

      MR. KIRBY:  A temporary ceasefire — the ceasefire that we’ve been
working for — the ceasefire that would give us six weeks of calm is six
weeks of calm in all of Gaza.  That — that is the negotiating position
that we’ve been pursuing, and I’m not aware that the Israelis have
changed their view of that either — that if we were to get a temporary
ceasefire, it would — it would mean a ceasefire across all of Gaza,
including Rafah. 

      And then, on the status of where we are, yes, Director Burns is
departing the region as previously scheduled, but interlocutors from
other delegations are still in discussions in Cairo.  So, those talks
are still going on.  His departure does not connote the end of the
current round of negotiations. 

      And obviously, we’re going to stay in touch with those
interlocutors.  We’re not going to take our eye off of this.  We’re
going to stay engaged in the hopes that we might be able to land
something

      MODERATOR:  Thank you our next question, we’ll go to Nick with
PBS.

      Q     Hey, John, question about — a weapons question and
humanitarian question.  And I apologize, might use an acronym in the
weapons question. 

      So, the Israelis in the last few hours have been arguing this —
that they have more so-called “dumb bombs” — non-PGMs — than guidance
kits.  And because of that, pausing these weapons, especially the
mention of the JDAM kits, that will make any operation less precise than
it would have been.  So, they’re essentially blaming you for future
civilian casualties.  Can you respond to that?

      And then, today, given the lack of fuel or the impending running
out of fuel in Rafah, are you pushing Israel to allow fuel into Rafah as
the U.N. is pushing (inaudible)?  And has (inaudible) changed any kind
of discussion about humanitarian aid going into Rafah?

      Thanks.

      MR. KIRBY:  Look, I haven’t seen those comments that you’re
referring to in terms of the (inaudible) kits.  I just haven’t seen
that, so I’m not going to — I don’t want to get into a tit-for-tat with
some anonymous Israeli officials here.  And I haven’t seen their
comments or the context of it.

      The President made it clear last night that these high-payload
bombs, delivering them when we were seeing things, preps for major
operation in Rafah, and certainly rhetoric around that — that gave him
concern and gave him pause to actually pause that shipment. 

      But I think I need to leave it there because I have not seen this
comment, and I certainly don’t have some innate sense of visibility into
their inventory of, quote, unquote, “dumb bombs” and (inaudible) kits.

      But I think the larger point is, Nick, that we’ve been very clear
publicly with all of you and privately with the Israelis that we don’t
support them going into Rafah in a big way when you have more than a
million people whose — literally their lives are at risk and there’s no
place for them to go right now. 

      And as the President expressed in his interview last night, the
use of that particular type of weapons gave him great concern based on
what we were seeing and hearing coming from the Israeli side. 

      So, again, as I said in the opening statement, we’re going to be
watching what the Israelis do here and what their decision-making looks
like going forward.

      On fuel.  Fuel has been something we have consistently pressed the
Israelis to continue to get into Gaza almost from the very get-go when
they — when they shut off fuel.

      And fuel — like food, water, medicine — that has flowed in — has
flowed in at different rates and different quantities.  We need to — we
want to see it continued.  We want to see it sustained.  We want to see
it get into Gaza at a level that supports the sustenance needs for the
Gazan people. 

      So, if the answer (inaudible) fuel in — if the question is
(inaudible) then the answer is yes. 

      Q     Sorry, but — just to be specific, Rafah is obviously closed
right now.  The U.N. is saying they’re negotiating to get fuel into
Rafah right now today before it runs out in Rafah.  I was trying to be
more specific to the Rafah Crossing and fuel coming in there.

      MR. KIRBY:  We wants to see — we want to see all humanitarian
assistance continue (inaudible) over the Rafah Crossing, as soon as
possible, and that includes fuel.  So, food, water, medicine, and fuel
getting across Rafah as soon as possible.  It’s — as we’ve said before,
it’s unacceptable that the crossing is still closed.  It needs to get
open.  It needs to open right away.  And, of course, the delivery of
fuel, in addition to everything else. 

      Sorry, I misunderstood the question. 

      But the short answer to — that’s a very long-winded and word salad
answer to your question, which is: yes, we want to see fuel get into
Rafah. 

      More critically though, Nick, we want to see the Rafah Crossing
opened up now.  And then, I think I — I think I — by that word salad I
gave you, I think I answered your third one on humanitarian assistance,
but you’ve told me if I didn’t.

      Q     Well, I think just whether — whether your pausing weapons
has reduced any leverage when you pushed the Israelis to allow
humanitarian assistance in.

      MR. KIRBY:  So, I think it’s important to remember what happened
here.  Everybody keeps talking about pausing weapons shipments.  Weapons
shipments are still going to Israel.  They’re still getting the vast,
vast majority of everything that they need to defend themselves.  And
the President said so last night in that interview with Erin Burnett. 

      And we’ve also committed to and will continue to commit to
spending every dime of the supplemental request that we got from
Congress to get them the capabilities they need.  I mentioned that in my
opening statement. 

      So, there’s no — there is no weapons shipment cut-off here.  What
we have done today is pause the delivery shipment of 2,000-pound bombs,
which were — oh, by the way — budgeted for before October 7th.  We
paused that — the President paused that because of concerns that he was
having over Rafah. 

      (Inaudible) at all that this discussion with the Israelis about
Rafah and what they will do or what they won’t do or what they need to
defend themselves on humanitarian assistance.  And I would note that in
the wake of the early April phone call with Prime Minister Netanyahu, in
the wake of the World Central Kitchen bombing, the President secured for
Prime Minister Netanyahu an increase in humanitarian assistance.  And
largely speaking, that increase has been met.  They have opened up
additional (inaudible).

      And there were times in which, over the last several weeks, where
they were getting in hundreds of trucks a day.  I remember one day over
400.  So, they have made a commitment to increase that humanitarian
assistance. 

      Now, there’s been some (inaudible) here lately.  They’ve cut off
Rafah because of its operation down by the crossing.  And as I said
earlier, we want to get that open.  And at Kerem Shalom, there’s still
conflicting reports.  That crossing, we think, is technically open, but
there hasn’t been a flow.  We’re still trying to get ground
(inaudible).   And that’s concerning.  We want to see that that flow
continue right away. 

      So, I’m not diminishing the challenges of late in getting
humanitarian assistance in.  But there has been an increase, and there’s
no reason why that increase cannot continue or shouldn’t continue
regardless of the conversations we’re having about Rafah.

      MODERATOR: Thank you.  Our next question will go to Tamara with
NPR.

      Q     Hi there.  Hoping you can hear me.  A couple of questions. 
You know, a couple of days ago, you were pretty optimistic about the
ceasefire talks and the ability to break through.  Is it fair to say
you’re less optimistic now?

      And then, I was hoping to get you to expand on something you
said.  You said, “Our view is that Rafah operations — certainly, any
kind of major Rafah ground operation — would actually strengthen Hamas’s
hands at the negotiating table, not Israel’s.”  Why would that be how —
just spell that out some more.

      MR. KIRBY:  Because if I’m Mr. Sinwar, and I’m sitting down in my
tunnel, where I think that’s where he is, and I’m seeing innocent people
falling victim to major significant combat operations in Rafah, then I
have less and less incentive to want to come to the negotiating table
and deal.  I can cast Israel in the worst possible way because of the
way they’re behaving.  And I can just say, “Well, clearly they’re not
interested in a good-faith way to get to a ceasefire.  Look at what
they’re doing inside Rafah.”  It just gives him more ammunition for his
twisted narrative here.  That’s what I mean by that. 

      And, on the optimism, what I said the other day was our assessment
of the text as it was written, as it had been (inaudible), gives us
reason to believe that there should be no reason why those remaining
gaps could be closed. 

      And I won’t speak for Director Burns, but I know he went into his
discussions in Cairo with that in mind —  that the text was close enough
that those gaps could have been closed. 

      Now, clearly, they have not been closed, as you and I are
speaking, Tam.  And Director Burns is on his way back home.  That
doesn’t mean, though, that there aren’t still ongoing conversations. 
The teams are still in Cairo.  And it doesn’t mean we’re giving up
hope. 

      We still believe that that there’s a path forward, but it’s going
to take — you know, it’s going to take some leadership on both sides. 
And it’s going to take a little bit of moral courage on both sides to
finally be able to come across that table and ink this deal.

      MODERATOR: Thank you.  Our next question will go to Gabe with NBC.

      Q     Hi there, John.  Thanks.  You say that the President has
been consistent.  But the fact is the President’s comments yesterday
were much sharper than anything we’ve heard before.  So, what would you
say to critics of the war who listen to the President’s acknowledgement
that U.S. bombs have been used to kill civilians — they hear that and
they argue that there have been violations of international law?  That’s
the first question.

      And the second one is on humanitarian aid.  The U.S.-built pier in
Gaza — I know it’s not operational yet, but humanitarian aid is already
heading there from Cyprus, we understand, to be pre-positioned.  What’s
the latest on the timing of when that pier might be operational?

      Thanks, John.

      MR. KIRBY:  I would refer to the Pentagon on that.  I think
they’re briefing this afternoon, and they’re expected to talk about
this.  I don’t want to get ahead of where they are, in terms of the
timing. 

      As you know, the pier is basically constructed.  They had some
weather delays.  And now they have to — as I said earlier, once you can
do it safely, get it in place, anchored to the seabed; construct the
causeway; and then start to make sure — test it for operational
capability.

      But the Pentagon will have a much better sense on that, Gabe, than
me.  And I — I certainly don’t want to get ahead of them. 

      On your first question.  I would submit to you that you all don’t
hear the — everything that the President says to Prime Minister
Netanyahu.  And I can assure you the direct and forthright nature with
which he expressed himself and his concerns in that interview with Erin
Burnett is consistent with how he has expressed himself to Prime
Minister Netanyahu and to Israeli officials.

      Q     Thank you, John.

      MODERATOR: Thank you, our next question will go to Karen with the
Washington Post.

      Q     Thank you.  You know, in the past, we’ve asked a lot about
what assistance the United States has given (inaudible) and what
(inaudible) happening on the ground.  You just said that: What we can do
to help Israel avoid a major military operation in Rafah is to make sure
the border between Egypt and Israel can’t be used for the smuggling of
weapons into Hamas.  We can also help them target leaders, including
Sinwar, which we are doing on an ongoing basis. 

      My question is: Is this a — are these efforts an expansion on what
the United States has been doing in the past in terms of targeting?  And
what can you do to help secure the border with Egypt?

      MR. KIRBY:  For reasons I hope you understand, I’m not going to
get into the ways in which we are — specific ways in which we are
helping Israel with their counterterrorism efforts.  I think you know,
Karen, we have a long, long, and solid relationship on the
counterterrorism front with Israel, which includes intelligence-sharing
and includes operational lessons learned and other means of
cooperation. 

      I don’t want to — I don’t want you to take away from this that we
are somehow directly involved in combat operations.  We are not.  But
our support for Israel in other ways with respect to (inaudible) goals
continues, and there’s a strong foundation for that cooperation built up
over many, many years. 

      And on helping seal off the border, again, you should not take
away from that that U.S. military would be involved in anything like
that.  But that — but that we are having active conversations with the
Israelis about how they can best address that need. 

      And you can see some of the fruits of those exact discussions. 
The answer to your question in some ways is laid before your very eyes
when you look at what the Israelis are doing right now at the Rafah
Crossing. 

      And as the President said last night, that kind of operation does
not connote to us — what we’re seeing right now does not connote to us
some sort of major ground operation, but it is in keeping with the
spirit of the conversations that we’ve been having with the Israelis now
for a few weeks about how to pressure Hamas inside Rafah, how to go
after some of them there and make it harder for them to operate in Rafah
in ways that don’t require smashing in there, invading in there, major
ground operations. 

      Now, again, we’ll have to see where this goes.  The Israelis have
told us that this is exactly what they’re doing.  It’s limited.  It’s
precise.  It’s going to be a short duration.  We’ll have to continue to
monitor that.  But what you’re seeing on the ground is a piece of the
kinds of alternatives and the kinds of discussions that we’ve been
having with the Isrealis.

      Q     But my — just to clarify that, you’ve been asked many times
about whether the United States was providing targeting assistance for
Hamas leaders in Gaza, and you’ve declined to answer.  And now you’re
saying that we are providing targeting information.  And I’m asking if —

      MR. KIRBY:  No, that is not what I said.  That’s not what I said,
Karen.  I said I’m not going to get into the details for operational
security of how we assist in counterterrorism.  I’m not going to do
that.  I did not say we’re helping them with specific targeting. 

      Q     You said, “We can also help them target leaders, including
Sinwar, which we are doing on an ongoing basis.”

      MR. KIRBY:  We can help with — we can help with setting the
conditions for them to — to continue to go after Hamas leadership, And,
again, we’ve got terrific counterterrorism cooperation with them.

      MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Kelly with
News Nation.

      Q     Hi, guys.  Thanks for taking my question.  I was wondering
what would — I know the President saying that they would withhold the
offensive weapons if there is a major ground operation in Rafah.  What
would that look like?  What would be a major operation that he would
withhold this aid?

      MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I’ve been asked this question before, and I’m
not going to give you a set of criteria.  I think we all understand what
a major ground operation looks like in terms of the size of the forces
involved, the kinds of operations that that would connote: large forces,
large movements, a lot of civilian casualties, a lot of damage to
infrastructure — as opposed to more precise, more targeted, more limited
kinds of operations, quite frankly, like we are seeing right now down at
the Rafah Crossing.  And I think I’ll leave it at that.

      MODERATOR: Thank you.  Our next question will go to Alex with
Politico.

      Q     Quick question — or two of them.  One is: Since the U.S.
will still be providing, you know, billions in aid — military aid to the
Israelis, is the belief that just the threat of not sending these bombs
and artillery shells — that’s going to be enough to convince Netanyahu
not to go forward?  That’s one.

      And then, two, just sort of more broadly: Why draw the line here
at Rafah?  I get that there’s, you know, a million-plus Palestinians
that have had to go there.  But if the goal was, you know, we could —
the U.S. can help with the stopping smuggling and Sinwar and all these
things, why not withhold the bombs and artillery shells before other
cities in Gaza were flattened?

      MR. KIRBY:  I think, first, we were obviously making sure, over
the last seven months, that Israel had what it needed to deal with a
very immediate, viable threat.  And we did that. 

      And what you’re seeing out of the President’s thinking lately is —
regards the sheer size of the population that is now assembled in Rafah
and the concerns in time and space that we have when we hear the
Israelis speak about going into Rafah in a potentially big way with more
than a million people seeking refuge there. 

      And I think that’s — that’s really what’s driving this.  And
again, I would reiterate that we have been consistent in supporting
Israel and what their needs are, including now.  I mean, we’re still
supporting Israel’s defensive capabilities, making sure that they have
what they need to defend themselves.  That has not changed.

      Q     Very quickly — I mean, you mentioned the President’s mind
changed, of course, you know, as the situation in Rafah unfolded.  I
mean, what was it about the other cities that were destroyed or Israel’s
operations earlier that didn’t necessarily (inaudible)?

      I get that you (inaudible) consistent on that.  But it’s not like
there hasn’t been civilian strikes throughout.  And I get that you’ve
been helping them humanitarian aid, but this threat could have been made
much earlier.  Could it not?  I mean, that’s the part that I’m
struggling to understand.

      MR. KIRBY:  They have (inaudible).  Early on in the conflict,
Hamas didn’t feel and didn’t — hadn’t suffered the kinds of pressure and
the kinds of casualties that they have suffered now.  There has been
enormous amount of pressure put on Hamas.  They have eliminated a lot of
the leaders through the fighting that they have conducted over the last
several months.  They have decimated the ranks of many of their units. 

      Hamas is not the (inaudible) what it was six months ago and — as a
result of the pressure that the Israelis have put on it.  And this idea
that we haven’t used leverage or that we haven’t put pressure on Israel
to avoid civilian casualties until just now, again, flies in the face of
facts. 

      We have — we have absolutely been making it clear to Israel that
civilian casualties had to come down and that damage to civilian
infrastructure had to stop. 

      And they had responded to many of those — many of those concerns,
and humanitarian assistance did increase.  So, the idea that we didn’t
use leverage or that we didn’t try to get things that are better to
place before now is just not true. 

      But what you’re seeing now is a reflection of the deep concern
over Rafah specifically with, again, such a huge population — a million
and a half people — all in one very, very confined space.

      And why are they in that confined space?  Because they fled
operations further to north in Gaza City and in Khan Younis.  And that’s
what’s driving this.

      Q     So, again, just to put a finer point on it.  And I know I’m
overstepping, but it sounds like the United States assesses that Hamas
has been defeated enough that you can now make this kind of weapons
threat to the Israelis?

      MR. KIRBY:  We believe that they have put enormous amount of
pressure on Hamas, and that there are better ways to go after what is
left of Hamas in Rafah than a major ground operation.

      MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Danny with
AFP.  Danny, you should be able to unmute yourself

      Q     Sorry about that.  Thanks, Admiral.  So, you’ve said about
you know, we’ll know (inaudible) —

      MODERATOR:  Danny, you’re breaking up a little.

      Q     I’m sorry.  Let me try again.  Our correspondents on the
ground in Rafah are reporting that tanks and jets are already striking
and Rafah and there are still civilian deaths happening.  So, isn’t
there a danger that Israel just keeps pushing and pushing just sort of a
kind of red line and that civilians will continue to die, as they
already are?

      MR. KIRBY:  Of course, that’s — we’re concerned about that
potential, which is why we’ve made the decisions that we’ve made. 
(Inaudible) that we’ve had with the Israelis.  (Inaudible.)

      And it is (inaudible) towards bigger in Rafah, the preps we were
seeing (inaudible) Tel Aviv that gave the President pause and why he
expressed himself the way that he did both, again, privately to the
Prime Minister and publicly.

      Q     So, where will you draw the line, though, between the two —
you know, between the current — do you see what I mean?  I mean, where
is that line drawn?  I know you’ve been asked that question.

      MR. KIRBY:  Look, I think — I think the President made it clear
last night.  And I — there’s no way I can improve upon the way he put
it.  If they go into Rafah in a big way, he will make other decisions
about the kind of support that we are providing Israe. 

      And as I said in my opening statement, we hope it doesn’t come to
that.  We hope that Israel won’t do that.  We hope that they will do
what they’ve said they’re going to do to us and what they’ve said to us
about what they’re going to do (inaudible) Rafah, which is something of
limited scale, scope, size, and duration with respect to (inaudible)
down there. 

      It’s important right now that we see that operation come to a
close soon and that we get that crossing back (inaudible).

      Q     Thanks.

      MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

      MODERATOR:  And that seems to be all the time we have.  If you
have any questions, as always, reach out to (inaudible) and we will get
back to you as soon as we can.

      Thanks, everyone.

                                                     12:17 P.M. EDT
