---
date: '2024-05-14'
modified_time: 2024-05-14 17:04:56-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-14 17:04:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/05/14/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-united-states-trade-representative-katherine-tai/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and United\_States Trade\
  \ Representative Katherine\_Tai"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:15 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  All right, everybody.  All right. 

Good afternoon, everyone.

Q    Good afternoon.

Q    Hi.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.

Q    Hello.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s raining outside.

Okay.  So, as you just saw today, the President directed his Trade
Representative to increase tariffs under Section 301 of the Trade Act of
1974 on $18 billion of imports from China.

This action will protect American workers and businesses from China’s
unfair trade practices.  As you’ve heard the President often say,
American workers and businesses can outcompete anyone as long as the
competition is fair. 

Our U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Katherine Tai, is here to
share more on the President’s announcement and take some of your
questions. 

And with that, I will turn it over to Ambassador Tai.  Welcome to the
briefing room for the first time. 

AMBASSADOR TAI:  Thank you so much.

Well, good afternoon, everyone. 

President Biden has consistently been clear that he will take action to
defend American workers and businesses from the unfair trade practices
of the People’s Republic of China.

Today, he is once again keeping that promise. 

President Biden and bi- — and I both know that American workers and
businesses can outcompete anyone as long as the competition is fair. 

But for too long, the PRC has been playing by a different set of rules
with unfair and anticompetitive economic practices.  Those unfair
practices include forced technology transfer, including cyber hacking
and cyber theft; non-market policies, such as targeting industrial
sectors for dominance, labor rights suppression, and weak environmental
protection; and flooding markets worldwide with artificially cheap
products that wipe out the competition. 

The President’s action today is a part of his vision to rebuild our
supply chains and our ability to make things in America to lower costs,
outcompete the PRC, and encourage the elimination of practices that
undercut American workers and businesses.  We are doing that by
investing in manufacturing and clean energy here at home and raising
tariffs to protect these investments. 

I conducted a statutory review of the PRC’s forced technology transfer
and other intellectual-property-related practices, which were the
subject of the 2018 Section 301 investigation. 

In that review, I found that the PRC continues to deploy these unfair
trade practices.  And I conveyed my findings to the President in a
report, which is available on the USTR website.

It is clear that the previous administration’s trade deal with the PRC
failed to increase American exports or boost manufacturing.  In fact,
China’s exports in some critical sectors, like EVs and batteries,
actually increased. 

In response, President Biden, today, signed a memorandum directing me to
increase tariffs on critical manufacturing and mining sectors, including
steel and aluminum, semiconductors, electric vehicles, batteries, solar
cells, and certain critical minerals.  The increased tariffs are
expected to cover approximately $18 billion of trade. 

The President also directed a process to request excluding certain
production machinery from the tariffs to permit solar and clean
manufacturers to purchase equipment while diversifying their suppliers. 

Next week, I expect to issue a public notice that conveys the specific
tariff lines, tariff rates, and timing for the proposed increases, along
with the details of the machinery exclusions process. 

This strong action by the President is strategic.  As he has said, we do
not seek to constrain China’s economic development, but we will insist
on fair competition and defend American workers from the PRC’s unfair
practices. 

Today’s direction by the President defends American workers and
businesses from the PRC’s artificially cheap products, whether EVs or
steel or critical minerals or semiconductors. 

I also want to emphasize that we continue to consult with our partners
and our allies who face similar threats from the PRC’s unfair trade
practices and are also voicing their concern with those unfair practices
and taking action.  Our partners are essential to addressing the broader
threat to our working families and businesses. 

Today’s strong tariff announcement is an important part of President
Biden’s worker-centered trade policy, which is about using trade to
empower workers and making sure that they can compete fairly and thrive,
and supports the historic investments we have already made here at home.

I can now take your questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Aamer.

Q    Thank you, Ambassador.  First, there seems to be some confidence
that these tariffs won’t cause the competition to slide into conflict
with China.  If you could just explain a little bit about why you are so
confident. 

And then, secondly, BYD is looking to build EV factories in Mexico that
could flood the U.S. market.  Why isn’t the administration preemptively
announcing tariffs to hit these vehicles?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  So, you actually asked two questions.

Q    Yeah, I did.  Sorry.  (Laughter.)

AMBASSADOR TAI:  Yes.  So, let me begin with the first, which is that
we’ve been very, very clear about the strategic nature of this tariff
review process and the focus on ensuring that the actions that are
announced will be effective in leveling the playing field, giving our
workers and our businesses the chance to continue to compete and to
thrive against an onslaught of really, really challenging measures and a
challenging economic system that is coming from Beijing.

We have been clear about this with the American public. 

We have also been equally clear about this with our counterparts in
Beijing.  Every single one of us, from the President on down, over the
course of the last three years, have made clear the challenges that we
are facing, the nature of that challenge, and the need for us to act. 
Because we know what happens if we don’t act and we don’t defend: We
will see the same patterns repeated over and over again. 

So, what we are doing today should by no means be a surprise to our
counterparts in Beijing.  We have made clear this is not about
escalation.  This is about the consequences of decades of economic
policy and the need for the United States to defend our rights. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, and there was the second question.

AMBASSADOR TAI:  And the second question was on the EVs and BYD in
Mexico.  At USTR, that is exactly what we are built to worry about and
to be concerned with.  That will require a separate pathway.  This is
about imports from China.  What you’re talking about would be imports
from Mexico.  Equally important — something that we were talking to our
industry, our workers, and our partners about.  And I would just ask you
to stay tuned.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nancy. 

Q    Thanks, Ambassador.  When Trump hiked tariffs on Chinese goods, it
led to some increased prices for U.S. customers.  How can you be sure
the same thing won’t happen again?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  First of all, I think that that link, in terms of
tariffs to prices, has been largely debunked.  What I would say — what I
would say is that what the President has instructed that we do is to
focus on making our supply chains more resilient.  That means we need
more options.  That means here in America, we need to have more
manufacturing capacity.  Resilient supply chains means that we will be
able to insulate the American economy from the kinds of price spikes and
the inflationary dynamics that we have seen that have come primarily
from the supply chain challenges we’ve experienced first from the
pandemic, next from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

If you think back to March of 2020 and you think about how much a face
mask cost, it’s a trick question.  The answer is you did not have enough
money to buy a face mask because there just weren’t enough in the world
to go around.  So, it is with that in mind that these actions are being
taken.  It is, in fact, to address those types of challenges that no one
wants to experience again.

Q    The U.S. government is subsidizing the EV industry here pretty
significantly.  How is that different from what the Chinese government
is doing?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  So, if you take a look at the Chinese economic model,
what you see is a system of state support that is built to dominate and
take over entire industries.  So, this is what I mean by, “We’ve seen
the pattern” — steel and aluminum, solar panels, batteries, EVs. 

Today, China’s production capacity in steel is 55 percent of world
capacity — that’s in one country; aluminum, 60 percent; EVs, 60 percent;
solar, 80 percent; and in certain critical minerals, 85 to 95 percent. 
So, those are subsidies with an aim to cornering the world market and
achieving dominance and creating dependency. 

The types of support that we’re talking about here are defensive in
nature.  They’re about creating the space to compete, the space to
thrive, the space to survive the kind of onslaught that we are seeing
across the board.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steve.

Q    Did the President signal to President Xi in their most recent
conversation that this might be happening soon?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  So, let me put it this way.  Again, from the President
to Secretary Yellen, Secretary Blinken, in my own engagements with
counterparts from Beijing, we have been very, very clear about the
sobriety with which we approach the U.S.-China trade and economic
relationship.  It needs to be fair.

I did offer my counterpart the courtesy of a notification.  This does
not come as a surprise — should not come as a surprise to our
counterparts in Beijing.

Q    The notification — was that today or yesterday or —

AMBASSADOR TAI:  That was the — a prenotification.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thank you, Ambassador Tai.  I know that these new tariffs are seen
as more targeted and strategic, but the administration has chosen to
keep in place those Trump-era tariffs on some 300 billion dollars’ worth
of goods, which Biden himself had said in 2019 that Americans are paying
for.  So, why make that decision to keep it in place?  And aren’t you
concerned that it’s going to keep prices elevated?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  So, first of all, let me say a couple things.  In terms
of the price that Americans paid for in the previous era, some of that —
well, maybe a lot of it was about the chaos and unpredictability that it
created and the — the escalation that resulted.  All right? 

Secondly, I think what — I’m — I’m a trade lawyer by training, and, at
USTR, we are deep into the technical issues.  The Section 301-based
review that we undertook required us to look at a couple of questions. 
One of them was the effect of the practices on our economy.  And there
you have our response, which is a targeted strategic response that is
meant to work together with the investments that we’re making.

The other aspect that we had to look at was the effect of the tariffs on
changing China’s behavior with respect to the IPR abuses and the forced
tech transfer.  There, the findings in my report, which you can find on
the USTR website, right here — it’s a serious report — is that not only
have we not seen the problematic practices subside in some areas, we
have seen them get worse. 

And in that light, there is actually no reason for us and no
justification to relieving the tariff burdens on the trade with
Beijing. 

Q    And just quickly, what do you say to critics who say that by
putting these high tariffs on Chinese EVs, you’re leaving American
consumers with fewer options, more expensive cars, as China is very far
ahead in creating very cheap EV cars?

AMBASSADOR TAI:   I think what you have to do is remember and revisit
the story and the show that we have been a part of for the last several
decades, which is as you allow China to dominate the supply and the
production in these industries, your choice is actually made for you. 
You have fewer choices, and it — it lays our entire economy — from
consumers and workers, all the way up to our government — susceptible to
the kinds of coercion that we’ve seen from a government who was willing
to weaponize the dependencies that it has created when a partner does
something that it does not like politically.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  J.J.

Q    On Mexico, you said, “Stay tuned.”  Are you saying that there could
be some changes to the USMCA rules or to the — to the law that would
allow the U.S. to apply tariffs on goods from China that originate in
Mexico or other third countries?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  What I’m saying is the fact pattern that’s developing
is one that is of serious concern to us and that, at USTR, we are
looking at all of our tools to see how we can address the problem.

Q    Specifically from Mexico or from other third countries as well?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  I think just the general fact pattern.

Q    Is there anything else you can say to elaborate on the problem?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  Stay tuned.

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Ambassador.

So, this is an election year.  Why did it take three years to impose
these tariffs?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  So, this is where I put my lawyer hat back on.  Under
the 301 statute, in the fourth year of the tariffs, if there is a
stakeholder that is benefiting from the tariffs who asks us to keep
them, we keep them.  That is what happened in 2022, because the tariffs
first went on in 2018.

As a result of that, in the fall of 2022, we started a process.  We
opened up a portal — that was open, I think, in the end of ‘22 to the
very beginning of ‘23 — notice and comment.  We wanted to hear from all
of our stakeholders, their views on the tariffs, the pros and the cons,
please inform us.  That — that elicited, I think, about 1,600 comments. 
So, that’s at the beginning of 2023.

And then we started a whole-of-government interagency review within the
Biden administration.  That process has taken us to today and the
unveiling of this finalized package, which the President approved.

Q    So, it’s — it took three years to — to figure out the Chinese were
flooding the market and stealing technology?  I mean, it’s pretty
evident that they’ve been doing that all along.

AMBASSADOR TAI:  No, it took — it took a year and a half for the course
of the review.  You will see the amount of care that we put into our
investigation and our findings.  Yes, there continue to be problems. 
But then the question is: What do you do about the tariffs? 

For this administration, it is extremely important that we approach a
relationship, like the one between the U.S. and China, and these issues
around the industries and the jobs of the future with discipline. 
That’s what takes so long, is the design and the architecture of the
tariff defense system that you will see.

Q    One more quick thing on Mexico, if I could.  Are we looking at
tariffs — I mean, quotas?  The Trump administration imposed quotas on
steel and aluminum tariff — aluminums coming in from Canada and Mexico. 
Could there be the same policy related to EVs once (inaudible) comes in?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  I think I’ll just rely on the answer I provided bef- —
before, which is “stay tuned.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Anita. 

Just a couple more.

Q    Thank you, Ambassador.  It should also come as no surprise that
former President Donald Trump is very critical of the moves that
President Biden made today.  He’s just blowing up my inbox, calling this
a “weak and futile attempt,” saying, basically, it’s too little too
late.  What’s your response to that?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  I would just say that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We want to be careful — (laughs) —

AMBASSADOR TAI:  — this action —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — not to respond to — to a candidate.  That’s not —

AMBASSADOR TAI:  So — thank you.  I appreciate that.

So, I am subject to the — the Hatch Act.  I guess what I would do is
interpret your question to mean — or maybe I should ask you to rephrase
your question.

Q    Sure.  I mean, how do you respond to criticism that these tariffs
are not enough and have come too late?  And those — those are coming
clearly from former President Donald Trump.  (Laughter.)

AMBASSADOR TAI:  So, again, subject to the Hatch Act.  Let me just say,
in general, with respect to criticism that these tariffs might not be
strong, let me put it this way: We have put a lot of heart and a lot of
effort — intellectual effort, economic effort, and consultation effort —
into this package.  They are designed to be strategic and not chaotic. 
They are designed to be effective and not emotional.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Russell — Gabe.  

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Thank you, Ambassador.  Following up on my
colleague Selina’s question.  You said that the President has been
consistent on this issue, but back in 2019, when he was a candidate, he
said that “any freshman econ student could tell you that the American
people are paying his tariffs,” referring to his opponent at the time. 
And he also said that he would reverse what he called “senseless
policies.”  Why did he change his mind?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  So, I’m going to reject the assertion that he changed
his mind.  What he has been clear about is his commitment to America,
America’s workers, and America’s manufacturing capabilities and
resilience, a future for our economy that is built from the middle out
and from the bottom up. 

These tariffs are — tariffs are tools, and this is something at USTR
that we feel very strongly about, because they’re our tools.  They’re
the tools of trade.  When used strategically and smartly, they can be
powerful forces for economic strength and development, and that is what
you are seeing in this package.

Q    But previously, he called them “senseless.”  They’re no longer
senseless?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  I think you have to separate out the tool itself and
perhaps how it’s being used and whether or not they are articulated for
a particular purpose.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, (inaudible).  

Q    There will obviously be costs here.  Who are the big losers here? 
I mean, is it American importers?  I mean, there was an International
Trade Commission report last year that essentially said that.

AMBASSADOR TAI:  I would encourage you — I think the ITC report is maybe
not as long as our report.  It is long.  I would encourage you to take
another look at it, because a lot of what people think it says is not
what it said. 

In terms of the methodology that the ITC used, it is very clear that
there were positive impacts of the tariffs on the specific industries
that were being covered by it. 

Let me just back up to the frame of your question.  I think that it just
comes down to this, which is the President has committed to America’s
workers and to America’s industries and these industries of the future a
bright future.  And we are going to use all of the tools at our disposal
— trade tools in combination with the investments that we have made and
the commitment that the President has to standing up for America’s
economic interests — to make that happen.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you so much.

AMBASSADOR TAI:  Thank you very much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you. 

And it’s good to see Angela Perez in the house.  (Laughter.)

But thank you, Ambassador Tai.

Okay.  So, I just have one more thing at the top, and then we’ll — we’ll
continue with questions. 

Today, the President and First Lady are honoring the memories of the 10
lives lost two years ago in Buffalo, New York, as a result of
unacceptable racial hatred and senseless gun violence.  We also honor
the bravery of those in law enforcement who responded quickly and who
risk their lives every day to protect and serve their communities.

Today, White House Deputy Director of Office of Gun Violence Prevention
Gregory Jackson will join families of the victims and survivors of the
shooting for a ceremony of reflection in Buffalo, where he will deliver
a letter from President Biden.

In his letter, the President shares his condolences and reiterates his
commitment to combat gun violence and counter hate-fueled violence. 

The President will continue to use every tool at his disposal to end the
epidemic of gun violence affecting Buffalo and communities nationwide.

With that, Aamer.

Q    Was it appropriate for Speaker Johnson to show up at the trial with
the former President today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m — I can’t speak to — don’t want to
comment, obviously, as this is related to 2024 elections. 

And I can’t speak to the Speaker’s schedule.  That is something for him
to decide on. 

And let’s not forget, this is also connected to an independent judicial
process.  So, going to be really mindful.

And he makes his choices on what he does, you know, with — with his
business.  That is his choice to be made. 

What I can speak to is, obviously, what the President is speaking to
today as it relates to 301 tariffs, making sure that he’s protecting
American workers, protecting American businesses, making sure that when
we — that, you know, when we’re allowed to compete in a fair way, we can
thrive.  And that’s what you heard from this President.

And what we’ve learned and we’ve seen from what the — the Speaker is,
obviously, leading in — with congressional

Republicans is that they want to — they want to cut — they want to cut
Medi- — Medicare.  They want to cut — you know, they want to cut Social
Security.  They want to get th- — rid of things that the American people
truly, truly care about.

And so, our focus is going to continue to build an economy from the
bottom up, the middle out. 

And, you know, this is — this is something that we can speak to.  I
think the contrast between what we do here and what Republicans — more
broadly, Republicans in Congress — do is — I think couldn’t be more
stark.

Q    Can I ask you if there’s any administration reaction to Georgia’s
passage of the “foreign influence law” today?  And will there be any
ramifications for the U.S.-Georgia relationship if it is, in fact,
enacted?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I do have a — a statement from us on this:

We’re deeply troubled by Georgia’s Kremlin-style “foreign agents”
legislation, which just passed, as you just sta- — stated, parliament. 
And we expect the president to veto it.

While, it is unclear whether parliament will try to override a potential
veto, we have been outspoken about our concerns with the legislation,
which runs counter to democratic values and would move Georgia further
away from the values of the European Union and, let’s not forget, also
NATO.

The Georgian people have been making their views known about this
legislation, protesting in the streets, as you all have been reporting. 
This weekend, we saw some of the largest protests in Georgia’s history,
with tens of thousands of peaceful protesters undeterred by — undeterred
by intimidation tactics, telling their government to oppose this
legislation because they want Euro-Atlantic future.

We will see the parliament — what the parliament does.  But if this
legislation passes, it will compel us to fundamentally reassess our
relationship with Georgia.

Go ahead.  Go ahead, Steve.

Q    Based on what you’re seeing around Rafah, does it appear that the
Israelis are preparing to move in in a big way?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything new to share, other than
what the — Jake Sullivan, our National Security Advisor — he was here,
obviously, 24 hours ago — when he was asked about operations and our
discussions, obviously, and what we’re seeing in Rafah.  We have been
very clear about this — that we are going to continue to monitor, to
keep a close eye. 

We — he also said that what — from what we understand, what we know, the
— what we’re seeing in — in Rafah right now, according to what Israel
has shared with us, it is limited, targeted operations.  That’s what
we’ve been told. 

And we have been very clear.  We’ve been very clear about how we feel
about our concerns, privately and publicly, about a potential major
operation in Rafah.  We have been very clear about the more than 1
million people who are living — who are now seeking refuge, to be more
exact, in Rafah, and we want to make sure that their lives are
protected.  These are innocent civilian lives.  We want to make sure
that they are protected.

And so, that is — basically nothing has changed to what Jake Sullivan,
our National Security Advisor, stated right here at — at the lectern
yesterday.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  And just to follow up on Aamer.  When you say
“fundamentally reassess” relations with Georgia, what — what do you —
what does that mean?  What do you — what could that entail?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m not going to get into specifics.  I’m not
going to get into details here.  I think I laid out where we are, our
concerns.  We are deeply concerned about this.  I think the people of
Georgia have been very clear over the past couple of days: the largest
protest over the weekend that we have seen, tens of thousands — that
they have seen in — in that country. 

And so — but we want to make sure that we put out our disapproval, our
disagreement.  And, of course, we’re going to reassess our relationship
with Georgia.  I’m just not going to get into specifics, into details of
what that might look like.

Danny.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just going back to Rafah briefly.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Qatar has said that they think Israel’s military — what Israel is
doing there at the moment already is setting back the negotiations for a
ceasefire and a hostage deal.  Do you share that assessment?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look — and Jake said this yesterday: There are
multiple phases, multiple elements to — to this hostage deal that would
lead to a ceasefire, that would obviously get hostages home — some of
them American hostages — that we are working get — to get that hostage
deal — really focus — and we know how critical it is.  And also, to get
that humanitarian aid — create a situation where we can get more
humanitarian aid into — sort of, into Gaza more — obviously, Gaza, more
broadly. 

And so, look, we’re going to continue that work.  We’re going to
continue to have those conversations.  It is a dynamic situation. 

And as it relates to — to Rafah, I answered — I think Aam- — Aamer asked
me the question about what we’re seeing.  We’re monitoring the
situation.  We’ve been very clear, publicly and privately. 

Jake, when he was here, he talked about in the upcoming days having an
in-person meeting with his counterpart in — in the Israeli government. 
He’s looking forward to do that. 

We’ve been having continuous conversation with Israel about — about
Rafah operations.  It’s been constructive.  And so, we — we expect those
conversations to continue.

Go ahead.

Q    Hey.  I just wanted to — thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Just wanted to be a little more granular on Rafah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    You said the Israeli government had told you they are limited,
targeted operations.  Is the White House concerned that Israel is making
a very incremental sort of incursion into Rafah to make it harder for
you guys to say, you know, that the red line has been crossed or
approached?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to get into a red line from
here.  What I will say is: Obviously, the IDF can speak to their own
operations.  What we’ve been told, these — and as you just stated in
your question to me, these are targeted, limited operations.  And so
far, it does not appear — it does not appear to be a major ground
operation. 

And we have been worrying about that.  We’ve been very clear about
that.  You heard that from Jake Sullivan yesterday, our National
Security Advisor.  You’ve heard that many times from here from us.  We,
of course, are monitoring the situation with our con- — our longstanding
concerns over a potential — a potential major ground operation. 

And we’ve said there’s more than 1 million — 1 million Palestinians who
are seeking refuge in Rafah.  And so, we’ve been very clear — taken —
they’re taking shelter there.  That remains.  And so, we’re going to
continue to have conversations, obviously, with the Israeli government. 

Jake Sullivan spoke to this.  In the upcoming days, he’s — he is
expecting that to happen in person. 

But those conversations continue, and they have been constructive.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  A senior White House official recently met with
some students and faculty at Morehouse College.  Can you talk a little
bit about some of the concerns raised from those students and faculty
members and how the White House responded?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is — and you’re speaking about
Steve Benjamin?

Q    Exactly. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right?  Mayor Benjamin, who is also the Director of
Off- — the Office of Public Engagement.  I can confirm that he did have
a meeting at Morehouse.  I won’t get into the specifics, but he
regularly does this.  He regularly goes on the road, hears directly from
Americans, and he directly — in this — in this inst- — instance, it
would be students and faculty, obviously.  And I just don’t have
anything beyond that to share. 

The President is certainly looking forward to his commencement address
this coming Sunday at Morehouse.  He’s looking forward to speaking not
just to the students but obviously families and loved ones who were here
— who will be there to hear — you know, to celebrate the students but
also to hear from a — to hear a message from this President. 

I don’t have anything more to share, but I can certainly confirm that
Steve Benjamin was at Morehouse recently. 

Q    And how many American medical workers does the White House estimate
are currently trapped inside Gaza and unable to get out?  And is there a
plan to help them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I certainly — look, what we have said over and
over again, and we will continue to say this, that humanitarian aid
workers, obviously, are brave to do the work that they’re doing not just
in Gaza but around the world, whether it’s in Sudan, Haiti, many places
— that they actually go out there and do that brave work to offer
assistance — much needed — to folks on — on the ground.  And so, we
appreciate that.  We want to see them protected.  We want to make sure
that they have the ability to continue that work. 

I don’t have an estimate for you on — on the number of people, to your
question, but it is imperative — it is important that we see
humanitarian aid workers protected.  And those are conversations that we
continue to have with the Israeli government.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks a lot, Karine.  In regards to the President’s plans to
increase tariffs that he announced earlier today, is there an
expectation that China will retaliate?  And if indeed that happens, what
should American consumers plan for in terms of increased prices that
they pay for on a variety of Chinese goods?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I think the Ambassador addressed this question a
little bit. 

And what I will say is: There’s no need for a trade war.  There isn’t. 
And we’ve been very clear — and the Ambassador said this at the — at the
podium just moments ago, obviously — that we have been very clear about
this.  We’ve been very vocal about — about where — what the President —
how the President believes we should move forward.  He wants to do this
in a smart and strategic way.  That’s what you see.  And it’s not just
the tariffs.  It’s an investment. 

You hear talk — him talking about investing in America, making sure that
manufacturers are coming back.  We have created almost — nearly 800,000
manufacturing jobs.  So, there is an investment piece, not just a
tariffs piece. 

And the President has been also very clear: This is about American
workers.  This is about American companies.  This is about protecting
them.  And we have been also very clear that China’s policies, trade
policies have been unfair.  And we’ve had concerns. 

You heard the Ambassador talk about how you’ve seen Cabinet-level
conversations about this over — over the year.  And we’ve been also very
consistent about that.

Whether it’s Secretary Yellen, Secretary Blinken — they’ve been the most
recent — recent secretaries to have traveled to Beijing to — and this
came up — to have those conversations. 

And so, look, there’s no need — there’s no need for a trade war.  That
is not what we’re — this is not what this is about.  This is about
protecting, again, American workers.  This is about protecting American
businesses, making it more fair so that we can compete.  And we believe
that with — with a fair

scenario here that we can outcompete.

Q    I also wanted to ask you a question that you were not asked
yesterday.  It’s in regards to the Vice President’s language that she
used yesterday to young people.  I’m not going to repeat that language. 
I don’t use that language publicly, and I don’t think you want me to
repeat verbatim what she —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, it’s up to you if you want to repeat it or
not.  I can’t speak for you.  (Laughs.)

Q    I’m not going to.  So, my —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Well, there you go. 

Q    — my question — my question to is: Is that appropriate?  Were you
surprised she used that language?  Is — was this a one-off, or can we
expect similar language from the Vice President going forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, for those of you who have,

you know, covered the Vice President, knows the Vice President, she’s
passionate about what she fights for.  She is.  And I think it’s
important to have someone who’s passionate about what they’re speaking
about — about what they’re trying to lift up. 

And you’ve seen her be incredibly passionate about reproductive freedom
and what’s happening right now in this country.  And when it comes to
women’s right — a woman’s ability to choose, make really difficult
decisions on their body — you’ve seen her talk about that with ending
gun violence and encouraging young people to not let the — any obsabl- —
obstacles get in the way. 

And so, this is — we’re talking about someone who has broken ce- — glass
ceilings, right?  We’re talking about someone who can speak to, you
know, about what it’s like to go through that process. 

And so, she’s incredibly passionate.  And I will leave it there.  And,
you know — you know, I could not be more proud to — to have her as
someone that I look up to as Vice President.  And I think many people
here would say the same. 

Q    I read — I read her remarks.  I watched her remarks.  And I agree
with the sentiment that she was conveying to those young people.  Could
she have done that without dropping the F-bomb?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, she was passionate.  She’s passionate about what
she believes.  And that’s what I think you heard from this Vice
President, and I think it’s important.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  There was a lawsuit filed by a group of major
airlines against the Biden administration over a new rule requiring
transparency on checked bag fees and res- — reservation change fees.  Is
the administration concerned that this is going to delay this rule going
into effect, which is supposed to happen on July 1st?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I can’t speak to the timeline from this.  I
think that’s something the Department of Transportation can certainly
speak to that more.  This is a significant win, as we see it — this rule
for consumers.  I think that’s important — saving them half a billion —
half a billion dollars every year and bringing transparency to what has
become a fee-ridden purchasing process. 

So, it is significant.  It’s a win for the American people.  It’s a win
for consumers.  Can’t speak to the timeline.  That’s something that the
Department of — of Transportation can certainly lean into.

Q    But could a lawsuit like this be a setback for the broader agenda
of the administration: tackling hidden junk fees?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I probably should have said at the first, going to
be really mindful.  It’s a litigation.  Don’t want to speak to the
litigation.  I’m speaking more broadly. 

And so, what I can say: It’s a win for consumers.  That’s — it’s an
important rule.  It is — we’re talking about saving billions of dollars
to — to the American consumer.  And so, it is an important move forward
— step forward.  And anything else, I would certainly refer you to
Department of Transportation. 

Go ahead.

Q    Yes.  At this point, when Gaza has been practically leveled, 80
percent of the hospitals are out of service, most of the people have
been displaced, what do you think is the incentive Hamas has to keep
negotiating a ceasefire?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, it is, we believe, incredibly important and
critical to get to this ceasefire, to get to a hostage deal, to get
hostages home.  And it’s not easy, right?  You heard — you heard Jake
talk about this.  He actually quoted Senator George Mitchell — right? —
and talked about how sometimes it takes a thousand failures before you
can get to one win.  And I think that really speaks to the moment that
we’re in. 

And — and I said this before as I was asked this question: There are a
lot of dynamics here that when you’re talking about the different — the
different phases — right? — when it comes to a hostage deal.  And so,
look, it’s not going to stop us from continue to have these
conversation.  It’s not going to stop us for understanding what is at
stake here. 

We got to get these hostages home.  We got to get that humanitarian —
continuing to get that humanitarian aid in.  And we got to get to a
ceasefire.  We have to.

And, you know, Hamas, as we have stated, and you’ve heard us say over
and over again, is a terrorist organization.  This could end today if
they would let the women, the wounded, the elderly go.  It could end. 
This could end. 

So, in the meantime, you — and you heard the — you heard Jake go through
the 10 — you know, the 10 points of our — how we’re seeing and how we’re
viewing what’s happening in the Middle East.  And so, that continues. 
We’re going to — it’s not going to stop us from having this really
important, critical conversation, negotiations around the hostage deal. 
There’s so much at stake here, and it is important and critical to
continue these talks. 

Q    Follow-up.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Do you think that U.S. is safer today than it was seven months ago,
considering the rage and the questioning from countries in the
(inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.  If whose —

Q    If — if the U.S. is safer today than it was seven months ago,
considering —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I don’t have any — any changes of where
we are today.  I can’t speak to that.  What I can say is the President
is always going to put our national security first.  He’s always going —
as it relates to the American people, as it relates to us.  That’s the
lens that he moves with.  That’s how he sees things.  And I think that’s
incredibly important.  And his commitment — his commitment continues to
be so.

Go ahead.

Q    Taiwan is going to hold its inauguration next Monday.  Does the
administration expect any changes in policy with the incoming President
Lai?  And then, you know, are you seeing any signs that China may try to
use this occasion to act aggressively or in a coercive way?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I — I can’t speak for what China is
going to do or not do.  I’m not, you know, obviously, in — in the head
of President Xi.  But we’ve been — we’ve been very clear about where we
stand with our One China policy.  Nothing has changed there. 

And, look, I would have to let — let the leader of — the leader speak
for himself.  I just don’t have anything to add beyond that.  We will
see.  We will see.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Why do you think Americans are so down on
President Biden right now? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What do you mean?

Q    I know you don’t like to talk about polls like the five of six
swing states that he is losing right now to somebody who is a criminal
defendant.  But more broadly, it doesn’t seem like anything you guys are
doing is making him more popular.  Why do you think that is?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you — you mentioned a criminal defendant — your
words, not mine.  So, I want to be super mindful about how I answer this
question because, obviously, that criminal defendant is also a — in — in
the race for 2024 election.  So, going to be super mindful there. 

I will speak more broadly to what the American people are going
through.  Like, we understand.  We are sensitive enough and open-minded
enough to understand that this is — that not just this country but
globally people have had to deal with a pandemic and coming out of that
pandemic.  We understand that even — you know, you think about gas
prices and, because of Putin’s war, what that has occurred that led to a
gas prices increasing.

And the President had a lot to deal with when he walked in — a lot — a
lot of crises.  And this is a president that took that very, very
seriously and took action.  The American Rescue Plan — no Republicans
voted for that, but we ended up trying to work to get an economy that’s
fairer for all and make sure that we don’t leave people behind in
creating 15 million jobs, un- — an unemployment rate that’s under 4
percent. 

We understand that people are still feeling this.  We get that.  And
we’re not — we’re not blind to that.  That’s why you hear the President
pretty regularly announcing how he is going to lower costs for the
American people — whether it’s Big Pharma, trying to lower healthcare
costs, expanding ACA for those who truly need it, or it is making sure
that we get rid of junk fees that cost Americans a lot of money every
year. 

So, look, we know it’s going to take a little bit of time.  We get
that.  And we are going to continue to — it’s not going to stop us from
talking about it and then also not going to stop us from talking about
the contrast that we see from GOP Republican congressional members who
want to do the opposite of what the President is trying to get done:
cutting Social Security, Medicare — Medicare, Medicaid.  That is what
they’re talking about — slashing taxes for billionaires and
corporations. 

That’s not what this President wants to do.  He wants to make sure that
we’re building an economy from the bottom up, middle out. 

And, again, we get it.  We get that prices are too high for Americans. 
And that w- — that’s what we’re going to continue to do: the work.

Q    I get that you understand that people are hurting right now.  Why
is it that nothing you’re doing to address their concerns is working?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m saying is we’re going to continue to do the
work. 

I can’t speak to the polls, right?  Those are for folks who are experts
who can do a deep dive and look into that and speak to them. 

What I can speak to is: We understand what the American people is
feeling.  We understand what they’re going through.  That’s why we’re
going to continue to do the work.  301 tariff, that’s part of it —
right? — making sure that we’re protecting American workers, making sure
that we’re protecting American businesses. 

That’s the work that the President is going to focus on.  And we’re
going to continue to move in that way.

Q    So, more broadly, then —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — have you considered, in the White House, that some of President
Biden’s recent policy positions could be a turn-off to the people that
used to like him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here, I would — this is — I would disagree with
you there, because a lot of the policies that the President is pushing
forward are incredibly popular.  They are.  They are.

Student debt, even though you have Republicans who stopped the President
on moving with his plan on student debt, that’s actually very popular
with Americans.

Fighting Big Pharma, that’s popular with Americans.  Right?

Making sure that we lower costs on healthcare, that’s popular with
Americans. 

So, what the President is actually doing is popular with what majority
of Americans want to do — even in protecting reproductive rights,
something that Republicans are not on the right side of history.  You
think about what extreme — extreme elected officials want to do.  The
President wants to protect and make sure that we actually are giving a
wom- — a woman a right to make really difficult decisions on their
healthcare.

So, that part I certainly disagree with you on.

Go ahead, Jared.

Q    Is the meeting with Israelis on — on Rafah also expected to include
ongoing conversations about that shipment of 2,000-pound bombs?  Any
kind of steps or conditions you want to see, the administration wants to
see that — to move forward on a final determination?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I — those — don’t have anything for you on a
timeline or that particular conversation.

The Rafah operations — we’ve been really clear about our concerns about
that.  Any major military operations going into Rafah, we have been
clear that we do not believe that is the way — the right way to move
forward. 

And — and so, we’re going to continue to be clear.  We’re going to have
a meeting about that specifically.  As you know, National Security
Advisor stated that.  There’s been continuous conversations on this
particular issue that we believe has been constructive.  And
conversations continue. 

We’re going to monitor the situation.  I’m not going to go beyond what
we’ve just stated about where — where — our focus on the Rafah
operations and those conversations.

Go ahead.

Q    President Biden has frequently pledged that no one making under
$400,000 would see their taxes go up.  Tariffs are effectively a tax on
imports.  I’m wondering if you can commit that no American importer
making less than $400,000 would see their cost go up.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, our commitment to Americans are very clear, which
is that we are not going to tax — we do not want to see a tax increase
ov- — on Americans making over $400,000.  That — that has been our point
where we have been since the beginning of this administration.  That has
not changed.

We have to remember what these tariffs are all about is actually making
sure that we are protecting American workers, that we are protecting
American businesses. 

We have to — we cannot forget, as well, that the last — the trade deal
that the last administration, the Trump administration did not —
actually, it was a bad deal.  It was a failed deal.  It didn’t increase
our im- — American imports.  It didn’t increase manufacturing here.  And
this is —

Q    But importers of solar cells are some of the products that are part
of the announcement today.  You can guarantee that none of those
importers —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is Americans —

Q    — below a certain threshold will see any costs go up?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is Americans — Americans here — we have
been very clear that we do not want to — there — we do not want to see
taxes for them if they are making under $400,000.  That is something
that we’ve been very clear about.  

But I also do not want to — not — we should not forget why we’re doing
this today.  This is about protecting American workers.  This is about
protecting American businesses. 

What we saw from the last administration failed.  It failed.  We did not
see manufacturing go up.  We did not see im- — imports go up — exports
go up.  And so, that is also incredibly important to note. 

And we want to do this — the President wants to do this in a smart and
strategic way.  And that’s what you are seeing from this announcement
today.

Q    Karine, there’s a report that’s just out right now that Jake
Sullivan will be going to Saudi Arabia and Israel this weekend to
discuss the military operation in Rafah.  I know you mentioned that
there would be a meeting in the coming days.  Can you confirm his
travel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t confirm that at this time.

Go ahead.

Q    Hi, Karine.  Picking up on your last answer that you don’t believe
that this is a tax on Americans making under $400,000 a year.  Some
Democrats, including Jared Polis, the governor of Colorado, have come
out and said that “tariffs are a direct, regressive tax on Americans and
this tax increase will hit every family,” calling it “horrible news.” 
How do you respond to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I mean, it’s very much to what I’ve been
saying.  This is — this is truly about — what the President wanted to do
— he wanted to make sure that this was done in a smart and strategic
way.  That’s what this announcement is about.  It’s about making sure
that we address the unfair policies that we have seen from China.  And
this is what this does. 

American workers and businesses can out- — can outcompete anyone if we
actually create a competition that is fair.  And that’s what you’re
seeing from this President. 

We have been also very clear that we do not want to see a tax crease —
increase for anyone making under $400,000.  That has also been our — our
approach on this as we talk about the economy, as we talk about making
sure that we’re building an economy from the bottom up, middle out.  We
want this to make sure that we’re not leaving anyone behind. 

This is a smart and strategic approach from this President.  These
tariffs are targeted at critical industries, where his — his Investing
in America agenda is spurring a manufacturing boom.  He is coupling
investment with actions to protect American workers and to protect
businesses as well. 

That’s our approach here.  That’s how we’re going to move forward.

Q    And, Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — I know you said you couldn’t confirm Jake’s travel to Saudi
Arabia this weekend.  But would you say, across the administration, is
there an increased sense of urgency to make sure that Prime Minister
Netanyahu does not go further into Rafah?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I think there’s been a sense of urgency from
day one.  We’ve been very clear about this.  The last time the President
spoke to the Prime Minister, one of the topics that came up that we read
out to all of you was the Rafah operations. 

You’ve — you’ve heard us say over and over again about our concerns, and
we’ve been clear about our concerns privately and, certainly, publicly
about 1 — more than 1 million people.  More than 1 million Palestinian
citizens are — are now seeking refuge in Rafah.  And so, we want to make
sure that — that they are — their — you know, their lives are protected
— understanding that dismantling Hamas’s operation is actually really
important.  This is something that we believe in, that we want to see as
well.  That’s why we’ve offered our own thoughts on how to move forward
with that.

Conversations continue.  We’re going to be very clear about our concerns
here.  And — and I’ll just leave it there.

All right, everybody. 

Thanks, everyone.  I’ll see you tomorrow?  Tomorrow.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Bye, everybody.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

   2:05 P.M. EDT
