---
date: '2024-05-17'
modified_time: 2024-05-18 10:43:21-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-17 16:40:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/05/17/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-4/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Communications Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:40 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s always fun to hang out with a bunch of Gen Zers
before coming out to the podium.  I’ll just leave it there.  (Laughs.)  
  
How are you guys doing?

Q    Good.   
  
Q    Great.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
So, I’ll be — going to preview the President’s schedule for next week. 
And so, then — I think some of you are following some of this stuff, but
just to put it all in one.   
  
On Monday, the President will host a reception to commemorate Jewish
American Heritage Month.  The President, the Vice President, and the
Second Gentleman will celebrate the immeasurable impact of Jewish
values, contributions, and culture in our country, while also honoring
their resilience in the face of a long and painful history of
persecution.   
  
On Tuesday, the President will travel to New Hampshire.  After, he will
travel to Boston, Massachusetts.  I don’t have additional details to
share of these trips at this time, but please stay tuned.

On Thursday, the President and the First Lady will host President
William Ruto and the First Lady, Rachel Ruto, of the Republic of Kenya
for a state visit.  The Vice President and Second Gemen- — Second
Gentleman will also, obviously, join as well. 

The visit will strengthen our shared commitment to advance peace,
security; expand our economic ties; and deepen democratic institutions. 
The visit will re- — will affirm our strategic partnership with Kenya
and further the vision set forth at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit that
African leadership is essential to addressing global priorities.  The
Vice President will also host a state luncheon on Friday at the State
Department.

On Saturday, the President will deliver the commencement address at the
United States Military Academy’s graduation ceremony.  He previously
deli- — delivered the commencement address at West Point in 2012 and
also 2016 as vice president.

This is a special honor, and the President looks forward to celebrating
graduates and their families and thanking them for their selfless
service and defense of our nation.

Today, we are also praying for four people who tragically lost their
lives in Houston following the deadly storms that ripped through Texas
yesterday.  We are also thinking of those who were injured and the
communities that were affected by this extreme weather.   
  
We are grateful for the first responders and rescue teams who have been
working around the clock to protect the people — to protect people and
save lives.

The White House is in touch with governor’s office and the Houston
mayor, and FEMA is in touch with their state and local counterparts.   
  
As always, we stand ready to provide federal assistance as needed.  We
continue to monitor the storm’s path as it moves east, and more severe
weather is likely across the Gulf Coast today.  Residents in the
affected area as well as those in the path of the storm should heed
warnings from state and local officials.  
  
And with that, I have — we have the Admiral here today to talk about a
update in the Middle East.

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Karine.  Good afternoon, everybody.

Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So, earlier today, I think you all know, the first shipments
of humanitarian assistance arrived on the shores of Gaza through the
multinational humanitarian maritime corridor that the President
announced during his State of the Union Address.   
  
As we speak, additional aid from the United States and other countries
is arriving in Cyprus, where it will be screened by Israeli authorities
and loaded onto ships for delivery via the maritime corridor — the
temporary pier that we’ve been talking about.  And here you can see
trucks, just today — these inc- — the first truck includes palates from
the UAE, as a matter of fact, heading across that causeway — that
temporary causeway onto the beach.  
  
And once in Gaza, once on the beach, the aid will be distributed to
those in need by the United Nations.

So, in less than two months, the United States was able to assemble a
complex, multinational logistical mechanism to facilitate the delivery
of lifesaving assistance in Gaza, to galvanize commitments from partners
around the world, and to leverage the United Nations’ logistical
capabilities to facilitate the distribution of this aid inside the —
inside the — Gaza.  
  
So, this is a humanitarian effort.  And contrary to what we’ve been
seeing out there in the information space, particularly in the region,
it is designed solely — only — for the delivery of humanitarian
assistance.  There’s no other purpose for this than humanitarian
assistance.  
  
And we’re obviously grateful for all the U.S. service members and our
teams at USAID and the State Department for their tireless work over the
past few weeks to get this going.

Through the humanitarian maritime corridor, USAID plans to provide
initial contributions of more than 170 metric tons of nutrient-rich food
bars to support 11,000 of the most vulnerable children and adults;
ready-to-use therapeutic foods to treat more than 7,200 cases of severe
wasting in children; and nearly 90 metric tons of critical supplies,
such as plastic sheeting for shelter, jerry cans to hold clean water,
and hygiene kits to support more than 33,000 people.  And just today, as
you’re seeing here, we were able to get more the 300 pallets of some of
that material in there.

  
Now, today was just a start.  It was the first day.  There’s still work
that has to be done to reach what we call “initial operating
capability.”  But we hope to be able to increase the number of pallets
that get in over the coming days and keep that sustainable.  And we’ll
keep you updated, of course.  
  
All of this assi- — assistance is in addition to thousands of tons of
food and other non-food items that are being provided by a number of
international partners, including, as I said, the UAE, the United
Kingdom, EU, to name a few, as well as resources to support the overall
mission, including critical equipment to move that assistance.

We anticipate an increase in the flow of assistance from additional
countries and organizations utilizing and steadily scaling up, as I
said, the humanitarian maritime corridor every single day that goes
by.   
  
In recent days, we’ve seen some progress in the number of trucks
entering Gaza via the land crossings as well.  Yesterday, more than 360
trucks moved into Gaza.  Between April 5th and May 16th, an average of
176 trucks entered Gaza every single day.  It’s not enough.  I recognize
that.  We all recognize that.  But it’s — but it is — it is ongoing, and
we’re hoping to get it increased.  And, obviously, we’re going to
continue to work with Israel to that end.  
  
I do want to make one important point on this before I leave this
topic.  There is a robust security plan for this effort, and we remain
vigilant to potential threats to a- — to the — our service members that
are working on the pier and humanitarian aid organizations and workers
helping with the distribution and the collection at the marshalling area
on the — on the ground.   
  
It remains a top priority.  We’re going to remain laser-focused on
ensuring the safety of everybody involved in this effort.  
  
Now if I could, just quickly, shift to Ukraine.  We’re closely
monitoring Russia’s offensive in northeastern Ukraine and are working
around the clock to get weapons and equipment into the hands of
Ukrainian solders to help them repel these attacks.

Soon after the President signed the national security supplemental last
month, he authorized two military aid packages under the presidential
drawdown authority.  And late last month, the Department of Defense
announced a $6 billion package through the Ukraine Security Assistance
Initiative, which will be used to procure new equipment to strengthen
Ukraine’s defenses over the medium and long term.

And then, of course, you saw Secretary Blinken, in Kyiv this past week,
announced that the United States will provide an additional $2 billion
aid package for Ukraine’s defense under the Foreign Military Financing
program.  All of this will — I’m sorry — that aid for FMF will be used
in four ways. 

First, to help Ukraine procure weapons and equipment to repel Russia’s
invasion. 

Second, to invest in Ukraine’s defense industrial base.

Third, to help Ukraine purchase military equipment from other countries
in addition to the United States. 

And, finally, these funds may help other countries transition off
Russian systems and incentivize donations to Ukraine.

Now just one last program announcement, and then I promise I’ll shut
up.  I can announce today that our National Security Advisor, Jake
Sullivan, will travel to Saudi Arabia starting tomorrow.  He’ll be there
to meet with Prime Minister and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to
discuss bilateral and regional matters, including the war in Gaza, of
course, and ongoing efforts to achieve a lasting peace and security in
the region.

On Sunday, the next day, Mr. Sullivan will travel to Israel to meet with
senior Israeli officials, including Prime Minister Netanyahu, to
discuss, of course, the war in Gaza, including ongoing negotiations to
secure the release of all the hostages, address the humanitarian crisis,
and our shared objective for the enduring affeat — enduring defeat of
Hamas through both military pressure and a political plan.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, M.J.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Admiral.  I wanted to ask you about the
three hostages whose bodies were recovered in Gaza.  Was the U.S. given
any details, particularly about where they were recovered and how they
were recovered?

MR. KIRBY:  It’s just horrible news.  And our hearts go out to the
families who — who are having to deal with this terrible news.  I don’t
have any information that we knew ahead of time or that we had any more
— we have had since the bodies have been recovered — any additional
information or context from the Israelis on this.

Q    Okay.  The five American hostages who are still unaccounted for —

MR. KIRBY:  Correct.

Q    — is there any new intelligence about their whereabouts or their
potential wellbeing?

MR. KIRBY:  Sadly, no.  We don’t have any information that — that leads
us to a conclusion that they’re — that they’re no longer alive.  But we
just don’t have any additional context whatsoever.

Q    And just on a separate topic very quickly.  What was your reaction
to seeing Russian President Putin and Chinese President Xi exchanging
hugs?

MR. KIRBY:  Exchanging hugs?

Q    Mm-hmm.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, that’s nice for them. 

Look, you have two countries here — leaders of two countries that — that
clearly are acting in various ways around the world inimical to our
national security interests, to the interests of many of our allies and
partners.  No surprise that these two leaders continue to try to develop
this burgeoning relationship. 

But — but they’re also two leaders that don’t have a long history of
working together, and officials in both governments that — that aren’t
necessarily all that trustful of the other. 

What they have in common is a comm- — is a desire to — to challenge the
international rules-based order, challenge the network of alliances and
partnerships that United States enjoys and which President Biden has
strengthened in his time in office, and — and to try to look for ways to
bolster each other’s national security interests as well. 

So, we didn’t see anything coming out of this meeting that we weren’t
necessarily surprised by.  I wouldn’t go so far as to say we weren’t
concerned about — about this relationship and where it’s going.  Of
course we are, and we’re watching it closely.  But I’d leave it at that.

Q    Do you think that was a purposeful show of public display to send
any kind of message to the U.S. or otherwise?

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, man, I’m not good at talking about personal human bodily
affection one way or the other, so I — I think I’ll leave it to these
two gents to talk about why they thought it was good to hug one
another.  (Laughter.) 

I’ll just tell you that — that we take seriously th- — the challenges
that both countries that represent, and we take seriously this
burgeoning relationship between the two of them. 

That said, in Ukraine specifically, we haven’t seen President Xi rush to
the effort to assist the Russian Armed Forces and provide lethal
capabilities.  We are deeply concerned and have said so.  I think Karine
mentioned it yesterday, about some of these Chinese companies that are
providing microelectronics and components for Russia’s defensive sy- —
or weapons systems.  That’s — that’s a problem, and we’ve — and we’ve
raised that with the Ch- — with the Chinese as well.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Darlene.

Q    Thank you.  So, what is the status of the aid on that first truck
that went in?  Is it being distributed, or is it still waiting —

MR. KIRBY:  I was told —

Q    — to be distributed?

MR. KIRBY:  — right before coming out here that the U.N. has now taken
possession of these first — these first pallets and are getting them
ready for distribution inside Gaza.  So, look, I mean, hopefully, by the
time we’re done here, I mean, some of that stuff will actually be in —
in the mouths of some hungry people, but we’ll see. 

Q    And then one other question on Russia and Ukraine.  Russia is
pounding the Kharkiv region.  Is it time for the U.S. to revisit the
prohibition on Ukraine against using American weapons in an offensive
manner? 

MR. KIRBY:  We do not encourage nor do we enable attacks using
U.S.-supplied weapons systems inside Russian territory.  That’s the
policy.  That has not changed.

Q    Thanks.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  And thank you, Admiral.  You just spoke about
the importance of protecting humanitarian aid workers.  And it’s been a
month and a half since the IDF released a report about the World Central
Kitchen.  Has the U.S. finished reviewing that report?  And what did it
conclude?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware that we have some sort of final conclusion on
that.  But I’ll tell you, I’ll take the question, and we’ll go back and
I’ll check with my State Department colleagues.  But I’m not aware that
we’ve come to some dif- –different or final conclusion about it.

Q    When we asked you several times in the past, you said, “We’re still
reviewing the report.  It takes a long time to go through all the facts
and figures.”  So —

MR. KIRBY:  I just don’t have an update for you.

Q    Okay.  Last night, Israel’s Defense Minister said that the IDF
would send more troops into Rafah.  Do you have a response to that?

MR. KIRBY:  I — I think we’ve addressed this one already.  As always,
I’ll let the Israelis talk about their military operations and where
they put their troops.  Point one.

Point two, they have a right and a responsibility to go after Hamas,
including in Rafah.  And as I just mentioned, Jake’s going to raise this
issue when he goes to — to Israel on Sunday.  They have a right and
responsibility to do that. 

How they do that matters, and that’s part of the conversations that we
also want to have and Jake will have about going after that terrorist
capability in Rafah in a way that’s targeted, precise, and, quite
frankly, effective. 

We don’t believe — still don’t believe that the way to do it is to smash
into Rafah with a large body of armed forces on the ground in an — in an
indiscriminate and reckless manner. 

So, I can’t — I don’t — I’m not dodging the question.  I don’t know the
context with which Minister Gallant said that. 

I can just tell you that nothing has changed about our view, that we
don’t support a major ground operation or a large operation in Rafah
that would put — now it’s about a million people — at — at greater
risk. 

Q    Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  As you know, President has focused a lot on democracy —
promoting democracy globally in his three and a half years.  What is the
President’s thoughts on the election that are happening in India right
now?  Around 900 million voters going out to 1 million polling booths to
elect 545 member of parliament from thousands of candidates (inaudible)
registered political parties.

MR. KIRBY:  There’s not too many more vibrant democracies in the world
than India.  And we applaud the Indian people for — for exercising, you
know, their ability to vote and to have a voice in their — in their
future government.  And we wish them well throughout the process, of
course. 

Q    And, secondly, Prime Minister Modi is going for his third term —
seeking his third term from the people of India.  How do you see
India-U.S. relations in the 10 years of his government?

MR. KIRBY:  How do I see — I’m sorry.

Q    How do you see India-U.S. relationship in the 10 years of his
administration?

MR. KIRBY:  How do I see it over the last 10 years?

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah. 

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, I — I’ll speak to the last three, if that’s okay,
because that’s kind of where — where I’m allowed to go.  But you — you —

Q    The first three years were also — vice president.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I’m going to stick to the last three years, if you
don’t mind. 

Look, our relationship with India is extremely close and getting
closer.  You saw it in our state visit.  I mean, we launched all kinds
of new initiatives: working on critical emerging technologies together
and bolstering and ex- — expanding the relevance of the Indo-Pacific
Quad, of course, which India is a part of.  And then just the
people-to-people exchanges and the military — military cooperation that
— that we share with India. 

So, I mean, it’s a — it’s a very vibrant, very active partnership.  And
— and we’re grateful for Prime Minister Modi’s leadership.

Q    One final one.  You spoke about Quad.  Does the President really
believes that two of his Quad partners, India and Japan, are
“xenophobic”?

MR. KIRBY:  No.  I mean, look, Karine already dealt with this one.  I
mean, the President was making a broader point here about the vibrancy
of our own democracy here in the United States and how inclusive and
particip- — par- — participatory it is. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Danny.

MR. KIRBY:  That was not easy to say.

Q    Thanks, Admiral.  You mentioned that the aid coming through the
pier was going to be screened by Israeli authorities.  How confident are
you that that’s not going to cause sort of delays in terms of the aid
being held up?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    And also, if I may, how confident are you that there’s not going to
be delays at the other end when — at the pier end as well?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, I mean, it’s day one.  And as I just said, we got
indications here just before I came on out here that some of that aid
was already moving into Gaza.  That’s pretty impressive for day one —
just day one.

The inspections are actually happening in Cyprus.  And that’s — that’s a
really important component of this modular system that we’ve constructed
here.  So, the inspections are happening before the ships even leave
Cyprus and move on down to the eastern coast — I’m sorry, the Eastern
Med, off the coast of Gaza. 

So, right now, it — it seems like a very good system in place.  But,
again, it’s day one, so we’ll take a look and see how it goes. 

Q    Are those inspections being done in tandem with anyone else, such
as the United States or — 

MR. KIRBY:  The IDF is responsible for the inspection regime in Cyprus. 
And as I said, on this first day, it worked well. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    On Jake Sullivan’s travel this weekend.  Did the U.S. government
receive any assurances from Israel that it wouldn’t expand its Rafah
operation while he’s there?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll just say, without getting into our diplomatic
conversations — we’ve said this before — that we’re going to continue to
talk to the Israelis about alternatives to major ground operations in
Rafah.  That is not what they’re conducting right now.  And they have
assured us that they are willing to continue to have those discussions
with us before they make any major decisions.  And I’ll leave it at
that. 

Q    Can you share an update on the American doctors in Gaza who are
trying to get out of there and what your understanding is, what the U.S.
government assessment is of the holdup?

MR. KIRBY:  There’s no holdup.  They’re out. 

Twe- — there was 20 American doctors; 17 are out now — came out today. 
And all 17 of the — they wanted to — they wanted to leave.  I won’t
speak for the other three, but just — but I can assure you that any of
them that wanted to leave are out now. 

Q    And then, just finally, you referenced the security plan for the
port and the pier.  Secretary Austin, a couple of weeks ago, before it
was operational, said his understanding was that if U.S. troops were
fired upon that they may fire back.  Is that still your understanding of
what would happen here?

MR. KIRBY:  100 percent.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Thank you, Admiral.  When it comes to those
bodies that were recovered, the three hostages, what impact does that
have on the current ceasefire negotiations?  Does it set those talks
back?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t think we can say that right now.  First of all, our
focus — and I’m sure our Israeli counterparts’ focus, too — is on the —
on the families who are getting this horrible news.  As you know, the
talks didn’t go anywhere last week.  Unfortunately, we just didn’t get
to a successful conclusion. 

One of the things that Jake wants to cover when he goes over — back to
the region is to see what we can do to keep those talks going and get —
get some kind of resolution here.  But I don’t think — it’s difficult to
see how this grim news today is going to have a major effect on — on the
— on the hostage deal negotiations.  We really want to get this done so
that we can get six weeks of a ceasefire that can maybe lead to
something more enduring. 

Q    And part of that ceasefire deal is the release of hostages.  I know
you’ve said you don’t know how many Americans are still alive.  But is
there a broad assessment of how many hostages overall are still alive?

MR. KIRBY:  I would refer you to the Israelis for an exact number.  I
know it’s — it’s north of 100.  I’ve seen estimates of maybe 130 total. 
Not all of them — we don’t believe all of them are alive.  We don’t know
exactly what the breakdown is. 

Q    And, of course, Rafah is going to be a big point of discussion when
Sullivan is in the region.  Can you just talk about the impact that the
President’s withholding of those 2,000-pound bombs have had on the
relationship and Israeli decision-making when it comes to what we’re
seeing in Rafah right now?

MR. KIRBY:  It was not a withholding.  Just — there was a pause put in
place on a — on a shipment of 2,000-pound bombs, and that pause is still
in place.  I would remind you that other aid, other weapons and
capabilities from the United States continues to flow to Israel.  They
are not left defenseless.  And they also have — without getting into
specifics, they have inventories of existing — like similar capabilities
that they already had available to them. 

I won’t speak to their operations, but I think you can just disc- —
discern from news coverage alone that they continue to conduct
operations in Rafah and elsewhere in Gaza.

Q    So, you’re saying they already have inventories of the 2,000- —

MR. KIRBY:  I’m just saying they have —

Q    — pound bombs?

MR. KIRBY:  — existing inventories of capabilities, and more
capabilities continue to go.  I won’t get into the details of that for
their own operational security. 

But I did- — I guess I didn’t really answer your question, though, on
decision-making.  I think — well, I don’t think — we know that they know
what our concerns are with respect to Rafah and how they go into Rafah
and what that looks like.  And, again, Jake is going to go over this
weekend, and he’ll reiterate those same points.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    John, you had the assassination attempt of the Slovakian leader
this week.  What is the level of concern that this could be an indicator
of instability in Europe?  You have European Union elections coming up
in June.  There have been some attacks on German politicians that we’ve
seen.  You know, how much is this a worry of the administration across
the world?

MR. KIRBY:  You know, it’s too soon to know whether you’re seeing some
kind of a trend here, a wave of violent activity or intent with respect
to political stability in Europe.  But obviously, we’re watching this
real closely.  Certainly, we’re glad to hear that the Prime Minister
survived the attack and — and is on the mend.  We wish him a speedy
recovery.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Admiral, back to Ukraine.  Does the President hope
to attend the Ukraine peace conference next month (inaudible)? 

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything on his schedule to speak to in that
regard.

Q    I just wanted to ask you about the Strategic Consultant Group
status, when the — when they will be meeting.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, you got the National Security Advisor —

Q    Is — it will be next week?

MR. KIRBY:  — going over this weekend.  That’s — that’s a pretty good —
that’s a pretty good level of meetings here.  I don’t have another one
inside the SCG context to — to speak to today.  We’ve had a couple live
ones.  We’ve had some virtual ones.  I think that they’ll continue.  But
the next — the next consultation, if you will, is Jake’s trip this
weekend.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nadia.

Q    John, just to follow up what you told me this morning.  Were there
any conditions that Israel has imposed on certain items in this aid that
will get into Gaza?  Because, in the past, they wouldn’t allow scissors,
for example, wheelchairs, other items.  Or is it just purely food —

MR. KIRBY:  This is really focused — these — certainly today and I think
in the coming days, it’s really going to be focused on food, nutri- —
nutrition.  That’s really the focus.  And there’s been no restrictions
placed by the Israelis on that.

Q    Okay.  And then —

MR. KIRBY:  And I would — I’ve got one to add — one — one more point. 
You reminded me that — that the Israelis and the IDF, in particular,
have been enormously helpful and supportive of this effort, this
temporary pier and their role in — on the beach and on the ground in
supporting it.  They’ve been very, very helpful — extremely cooperative.

Q    And the distribution, you just said that U- — U.N. agency is going
to be in charge.  Is that — does this include UNRWA?  And second, will
be any supervision by the IDF or in the steps of distribution, not just
offloading of the pier?

MR. KIRBY:  I want to be careful here because I don’t want to violate
operational security issues.  As I said in my opening statement, the
food will be distributed by the U.N. and other aid organizations.  I’ll
let the U.N. speak to th- — how they’re going to do that.

When you get the material ashore, it goes into what we would call a
marshalling area.  So, it’s a part of the beach where it can be placed
safely until it can be then head — head out on trucks into Gaza.  And
there — I would just say that there’s an adequate security apparatus in
place for that purpose.  And I think I need to leave it at that.

Q    And finally, I just want to follow up on the hostages.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

Q    (Inaudible) that there are actually reports indicating that the —
the bodies that they recovered today, that the hostages were killed as
far as December.  It — they were not killed recently.

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have that level of information.  I don’t know. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nandita, go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Hi, Admiral.  Just quickly to follow up on the
military pier.  Are U.S. troops guarding it on the ground?

MR. KIRBY:  There is a — not on the ground.  So, as I said in my opening
statement, there are no U.S. servicemembers in Gaza.  There is a small
U.S. military component on the pier itself.  And they’re there really to
do sort of two things.  One is to provide a modicum of security for it
but also to assist with the logistics. 

I mean, you’re going to have ships pulling up to this pier — not the big
cargo ships.  They’ll — they’ll transport it to smaller ships off the
coast of Gaza.  Those smaller ships will bring the goods onto the pier,
and you’re going to need some logistical support to get it from the
ships onto the trucks.

So, there’s a small footprint of U.S. military on the pier, but they
will not — not go into Gaza.

Q    How — how many, when you — when you say “small”?

MR. KIRBY:  I think I’m going to let the Pentagon speak to the numbers. 
I don’t want to — I don’t want to violate that.  But it’s not — it’s not
a huge number.

Q    And — and why is the U.S. confident that Israel will not strike any
of the vehicles that are taking aid in?  I understand you said that
they’ve been helpful.

MR. KIRBY:  They have been extraordinarily cooperative.

Q    But have they offered explicit assurances that they will not?  I
mean, because they attacked the World Food Kitchen cars that were
carrying aid. 

MR. KIRBY:  And they investigated, and they fired people that they
thought were at fault, and they apologized for the mistake.  And they
have tried to improve their deconfliction process.  We are not worried
about the Israelis striking the convoys of trucks that are coming off of
that pier. 

They are actually participating in helping marshal that material ashore
and then get it into Gaza.  So, that’s not a concern.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Patsy.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  So, just to clarify, John, the Israelis and the
American soldiers — the small footprint of American soldiers will be
working together to marshal these shipments?

MR. KIRBY:  There is a small component of U.S. servicemembers on the
pier.  There are no Israeli Defense Forces on the pier. 

Q    And so, is there anything more that you can preview on President
Ruto’s visit next week, especially in terms of shoring up partnership
against China’s influence in the continent?

MR. KIRBY:  We’ll have more to say on the state visit as we get closer
to it.

Q    Okay.  And then just one more — one more.  And feel free if you
want to take this one, Karine.  Many of those protests and — on campus
have linked the Palestinian cause to activism of other global
injustices, including ra- — racism against African Americans. 

And so, you both have said often that the President understands the
emotions behind these protests.  But I was wondering specifically: As —
as the President is ramping up his outreach to Black voters, is he aware
of and sensitive towards the Black community and how they might see a
common parallel of injustice between themselves and Palestinians?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me — let take this.  Let’s let the Admiral finish
what he came to do.

MR. KIRBY:  That — that’s a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And then I’ll take some —

Q    Okay.

MR. KIRBY:  That’s definitely not a question for me.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  We’ll take a couple more.  Go ahead.

Q    One is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, the young lady right here.  Yeah.

Q    Oh, thank you.  John, I — you mentioned the U.S. providing some
security.  I thought the IDF was going to be providing the security, but
is there a small component of U.S. forces that are also there providing
some security for the pier?

MR. KIRBY:  There’s a small component of U.S. servicemembers on the
pier, as I said, that will be helping with force protection, of course. 
I mean —

Q    But you can’t speak to the number?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to speak to the number.  I’ll let you — the
Pentagon do that.

Q    And then, there’s still U.S. forces or U.S. troops offshore, in
addition to those on the pier?

MR. KIRBY:  There’s a — there’s — there’s a Navy component — there’s a —
there’s Navy assistance in getting the material onto smaller vessels out
further away from the pier, well off the coast, so that those smaller
vessels then can transload the material onto the pier.

I mean, you’ve seen the pictures of the pier.  It’s not practical to
bring a big freight or cargo ship up against that thing.  I mean, it’s
anchored to the seabed, but it’s temporary.  It’s not — you know,
there’s not concrete piles in there.

So, what we do is we take the stuff off the bigger ships — all well off
the coast — put it on smaller U.S. Navy vessels.  Those smaller U.S.
Navy vessels will bring it into the pier and offload it so it can get
onto trucks.

Q    And just overall, this — this area has been targeted before by a
mortar attack.  What is the administration trying to do to prevent and
deter an attack from happening again?  And — and what efforts are being
done to —

MR. KIRBY:  I mean —

Q    — protect those U.S. forces there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — part of my being up here today is a little bit of
that to make it clear what this is and what it’s not.  There’s been some
bogus stuff out there in the information environment, particularly in
the region, that this has some sort of military capacity or operational
capacity for the IDF, and it just doesn’t.  It’s nothing more than
humanitarian assistance.

And we’ve also passed that message back through the appropriate channels
to Hamas so they understand exactly what this is.

And look, showing pictures — you all can get online and see what it is. 
I mean, we’re making no secret about what this thing is and what it’s
not.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Just a couple more.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Admiral, I know this is day one — maybe closer to
hour one of this pier initiative —

MR. KIRBY:  But —

Q    — but — (laughs) — you know, even at full capacity, it’ll only be a
fraction of the amount of aid.  Is —

MR. KIRBY:  Correct.

Q    — the United States working on or negotiating, figuring out other
methods of getting additional aid in via other avenues?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, look, there’s no better way to do it than the land
crossings.  There’s just not.  And before the war, there was 500 trucks
going in a day over a course of different crossings, and we want to get
back up to that level if we can.  Now, that’s a tall order; I get that. 
And we haven’t been able to even get a sustainable 300-plus trucks in a
day.  But it’s important that Rafah open immediately. 

Other — other crossings are open, but there’s been challenges with
getting some of that aid through those crossings, particularly protest
activity on the Israeli side. And those delays, those problems have got
to be solved. 

And I have no doubt that Mr. Sullivan will raise those issues as well
when he’s over there. 

But this is meant to be additive — this temporary pier — additive, not
an alternative.  There’s just no alternative really to getting trucks in
on the ground. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Brian, you have the last one.

Q    Thanks a lot.  Hey, Admiral.  I have a question about the death
toll in Gaza.  Does President Biden have confidence in the casualty
numbers coming out of Gaza?

MR. KIRBY:  The President watches this very, very closely.  And you’ve
heard him talk about the more than 30,000 people that have been killed,
and he said the majority are women and children.  And he’s also said
that’s unacceptable. 

And as we’ve maintained time and time again, the right number of
civilian casualties ought to be zero.  But in terms of, you know, what —
what specific number we’re quoting or citing on any given day, I mean,
we’re doing the best we can working with the Israelis to — to ascertain
the scope of the civilian suffering, but it’s obviously immense. 

Q    Has his —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank —

Q    Has his confidence in the numbers coming out of Gaza increased
since late October, when he said he had “no confidence” in the numbers —

MR. KIRBY:  You — you’ve heard —

Q    — (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  — the President talk about the numbers and talk about the
concern. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  And the most important thing — aside from, obviously, how
tragic that is — is what we’re doing to alleviate and help improve
conditions in Gaza, including through this temporary pier today. 

Thanks, everybody. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, thanks, Admiral. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Okay.  Darlene, I don’t have anything
else. 

Q    Great.  Thank you.  Does the President, who is a former chairman of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, agree with the current chairman of the
Senate Judiciary Committee that Justice Alito should recuse himself from
20 cases involving the 2020 Election or January 6th, because of the
reporting of the upside-down flag flown outside of his house?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, we’ve seen the reporting, and I — I
don’t want to comment on the specific report of — on that reporting. 

What I can say more broadly is that the President believes that the
American flag is sacred — you’ve heard him say that — and is owed proper
respect and honor of the brave men and women who have defended our — our
country for generations.  And we should be respecting that flag.  We
should be making sure that it is respected in that way.  It is sacred.

As for anything else, the conduct or recusing himself, that is something
for the court to decide.  I just don’t have anything else to add. 

And just want to be very clear, the American flag is sacred.  That is
something that the President has — believes in, and you’ve heard me say
this before at this podium many times. 

Q    Can you give us a sense of how the President will use his time at
Morehouse on Sunday?  Will there be any news in the speech?  Will it be
more of a lofty “go forth and prosper” kind of speech?  Can you give us
a sense of —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    — without getting specific —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.

Q    — because I know you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.

Q    — don’t want to get ahead of the President.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I don’t want to get ahead of a president. 

No, so, look, he takes these commencement addresses incredibly
seriously.  He understands the importance of — of him being the
president and, obviously, the Commander-in-Chief and speak — when he
speaks to the — the West Point graduates later this month.  But he sees
this as an im- — an opportunity to lift up and to give important message
to our future leaders. 

I mean, these Morehouse Men who are graduating will be our future
leaders, as you heard from Mayor Benjamin when he was standing here
behind this lectern.  He talked about what it’s like to be part of —
part of that HBCU, if you ima– — if you — if you can imagine, collective
— and how important it is, and how respected that is. 

And so, look, he’ll have, I think, some important messages to share for
these future leaders.  He will have themes in his — in his remarks — in
his commencement remarks that he’ll share with them.  He’s been working
on these remarks for the past couple days, I can assure you, with his
senior advisors.  He’s taking this incredibly seriously. 

And he understands, as the President tends to do, meet the moment — the
moment that we’re in. 

I won’t get beyond that.  But I would say, “Stay tuned.”  I think it
will be a moving — a moving commencement address.  I think it will meet
the moment.  And I think you will hear directly from the President on
how he sees, obviously, the future of this country and also the
community that they represent. 

But, again, as you just stated, I’m not going to get ahead of the
President.

Go ahead, Weijia.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I’m going to try again —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  On Morehouse?

Q    Not on Morehouse.  On —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay. 

Q    — the flag.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay. 

Q    So, given the flag incident, does President Biden believe that
Justice Alito can rule in — with impartiality for all the cases
involving January 6th?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look — and this is something that I have spoken to
the President about. And it — basically, what I laid out is how he
feels: That the American Flag is sacred, and we should be respecting
that flag. 

I do not want to get into the business of the specific actions that —
that Supreme Court justices — if they should recuse themselves or not on
a — on a court.  That is something for the Court more broadly.  They
have to make that decision.  That is something that we’re not going to
step into.  We’re not going to comment from here.

But more broadly, we can say, from the reportings that we have seen,
that, you know, we believe that the American flag should be respected. 
It should be — it — this is a — if you think about the brave men and
women who have sacrificed, given their lives to protect our nation, it
is — it is — we just — that is something that we will always say and be
really, really clear about. 

I cannot speak to if he should recrus- — recuse himself, how he should
move forward in the Court.  That is for the Court to decide. 

Q    Okay.  On another topic.  Did President Biden —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You seem — look — wow, you just seem so disappointed
and like, “Ah, Karine — well, we’re going to move on.”  (Laughs.)

Q    Well, no, I mean — I understand that you can’t — that you’re not
going to engage on — on that. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry to disappoint you, Weijia.  (Laughs.)

Q    No, it’s — it’s okay. 

So, did the President see the confrontations from the House Oversight
Committee meeting yesterday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so, I have not talked to him about if he’s seen
it.  What we can say, and I think this is something the President would
agree upon, which is, you know, you — as someone who was a senator for
36 years, he believes that people should respect each other, treat with
— each other with dignity and civility.   
  
I am not going to speak to the ex- — to what happened, obviously, in
that hearing. 

But what we — what we can say, as someone who — you know, a President,
as I just stated, was a senator for some time, who — who knows how that
place works, I think you have to treat people with dignity; you have to
treat people with respect.  It is important.  It doesn’t matter which
side of the aisle you sit on.  It is important to do that because you
are there to work on behalf of the American people. 

And that’s probably all I can share at this time. 

Monica.

Q    Thank you, Karine.   
  
Q    On Morehouse.  You said the President is going to “meet the
moment.”  Does that mean he’s going to specifically address some of the
concerns that students there and faculty have raised about his handling
of the war in Gaza?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will say: Stay tuned. 

Q    Okay.  And then what was the President’s reaction to Senator Romney
saying that the President should have pardoned Donald Trump after the
Justice Department brought those indictments against him or that he
should have pressured New York prosecutors not to pursue the ongoing
hush money trial?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The current President of the United States —  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — getting involved in an ongoing le- — legal case?

Q    A current sitting senator saying that the President should have
pardoned Donald Trump.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean, we’re just going to let the process mo- —
we would never interject ourself in — in a criminal — criminal legal
proceedings.  It’s not something that we do from here. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sticky fingers.

Q    Yeah. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  That’s what you called yourself.  You said
you had sticky fingers. 

Q    Well, I kept dropping my notebook; I’m just so excited to be here
today.  (Laughter.)

There — there is a billionaire, Ray Dalio.  Quoted by the Financial
Times, he’s saying now that the chances of a civil war in this country
are around 35 to 40 percent.  Do you think the chances are that high?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I am not in a place to — to give probabilities
or — you know, I don’t — I don’t gamble.  I don’t spend my time in
Vegas, so I couldn’t speak to that. 

But what I can say is the President has been really clear about the need
to continue to fight for our democracy.  That is one of the reasons he
jumped into the election back in 2019.  What he was seeing across the
country, what was — seeing, obviously, in Charlottesville and what he
saw there — the vile, the — the hatred — and it was concerning to him. 

And so — but, you know, you move forward and — from there to January 6
of 2021 — that was a very scary time in our dem- — democracy.  That was
a stain on our democracy.  What we saw happening at the Capitol —
rioters — of 2,000 rioters wanting to turn over a free and fair
election. 

So, obviously, the President wants to continue to fight for that,
continue to fight for our democracy, fight for our freedoms, and that’s
where we’re going to continue to stand.  I can’t give probability.  I
don’t even know who this — who you’re speaking of. 

Q    Okay.  And then I have some on the big story today.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay. 

Q    What does President Biden think about the world’s number-one
golfer, Scottie Scheffler, being cuffed and then hauled in for a mug
shot for what appears to be a misunderstanding at a traffic stop?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — I’ve seen the reports of Mr. Schef- —
Scheffler’s arrest.  I just want to say that our hearts go out to the
individual that was killed — 

Q    Unrelated.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, no, let me finish — in the auto — in the auto
accident that preceded his arrest.  Obviously, someone did die.  Someone
was killed — preceded his arrest — that, obviously, he was not involved
in.  So, want to make sure that we share our condolences to that family
and their loved ones. 

Anything else, as specifics to his arrest, that would be something for
local authorities to speak to. 

Q    I think just — you guys have spent a good chunk of this week —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.

Q    — talking about how you don’t want anybody to ever go to jail again
for pos- — possessing marijuana.  Do you think that somebody who was
involved in what appears to be a misunderstanding at a traffic stop
should be facing 10 years in prison?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There — we’ve seen the reports.  There — there’s a
process there.  We have to let the legal authorities do — go to their,
you know, process and how this all works.  I can’t comment from here,
from the lectern, about something that’s being looked into by local
authorities.  I got to be mindful about that. 

But let’s not forget: Someone lost their life.  Not — obviously, that
preceded this.  But there was an individual that was killed, and there’s
a family that’s mourning a death of a loved one.  And so, we want to be
sensitive to that as well. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can we still assume that the Kansas City Chiefs
will be visiting the White House this year in celebration of their Super
Bowl victory?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is all — the team, per usual, when
there is a — a champion — a championship team, gets invited.  I don’t
have anything to add on their attendance or how that looks.  But the
team is always invited.  All — everyone on the team is invited.  I just
don’t have anything beyond that. 

Q    So, can you confirm — you said everyone on the team is obviously
invited.  Is the Chiefs’ kicker, Harrison Butker, welcome at this White
House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say — you would have to, obviously — what I
can say is we invite the entire team, and we do that always.  I don’t
have anything beyond that.

Q    Given his recent comments, is he specifically welcome at this White
— White House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We invite the team.  We invite the team.  It’s an
invat- — invitation that goes to the team.  And so, it’s up to the team
who comes and who doesn’t come.  That’s the way it usually works. 

Go ahead, Selina.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just going to take another stab at this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Which one?  Which stab?  (Laughter.)

Q    So, is the President concerned that having a Supreme Court Justice
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.

Q    — someone who is in such a high position of power, displaying a
flag in his house in such a way, that that could fuel more extremism and
division in this country?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just have to be really mindful when we’re talking
about the highest court of the land.  That is — we’re not going to step
into the re- — who should recuse themselves or not.  That is for the
courts to decide —

Q    And then —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that court to decide. 

Q    — what is the sense here about the wife’s role here?  Whether it is
a Supreme Court Justice —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — wife of a senator or a president, should she be able and entitled
to have her own political opinions and views without having them tied to
her husband or not? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any comment on his wife. 

Q    And then, just lastly —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.

Q    — the Morehouse president said that he is prepared to stop the
commencement on the spot —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — if there are disruptive demonstrations.  So, is the President
prepared that that could potentially happen in the middle of his speech?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to let the president of — of Morehouse
obviously speak to whatever procedure or whatever process that Morehouse
wants to put in place. 

Look, I mean, just to step back for a second.  You know, the President
is very much looking forward to Sunday.  It is going to be an important
moment for, obviously, the students who are graduating, the young men
who are graduating, but also their families.  This is some — this is a —
when the President does commencement address — he’s done it many times —
and I’ve said this — as senator, vice president, as president.  You all
know this.  You have covered the President for some time in his
different roles as a public — public — public person and — public
servant, to be more exact. 

And, you know — and when it comes to this difficult moment in time that
we’re in, as we speak about the protests, he understands that there’s a
lot of pain.  He understands that people have a lot of opinions, and he
respects that folks have opinions. 

And so — and you’ve also seen the President — when there has been
protests, the President has treated those peacefully protesters very re-
— respectfully — in a respectful way.  And that’s how he’s going to move
with any event that he goes forward to do, including on Sunday. 

He will respect the peaceful protesters.  It is up to Morehouse on how
they want to manage that and move forward with that.  But he’s going to
be respectful, because it’s not just the students, it’s the parents,
it’s the loved ones who want — who want to be there to celebrate —
celebrate an important moment. 

And as always, we believe all Americans have the right to peacefully
protest.  And I’ll just leave it there. 

Go ahead, Nandita.

Q    Just quickly following up on Mayor Benjamin’s appearance yesterday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.

Q    He said he traveled to Morehouse.  He spoke to students there.  He
asked them what they wanted to hear from the President. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And many of them said that they wanted to talk about the war in
Gaza.  And I’m just kind of trying to understand if the President plans
to bring that up proactively during his speech, and what is his message
going to be to — to those asking him to change his policy in the Middle
East?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple things.  When the mayor was here, he did
say he had a private conversation with students and — and others and
faculty there.  He said he wanted to keep their — their — that private
conversation in private.  So, he was very mindful in what he shared from
— from here yesterday afternoon.

Again, in asking me that question, that is previewing the President’s
remarks.  I — I am not going to preview his remarks.  I will tell you,
more broadly, at a 30,000-foot view, that the President sees this as an
important moment to give fu- — our future leaders some advice on how —
on how he sees the world or how he could give them a little bit of
advice on how to move forward in their — in their careers, in their
future. 

And so, not going to get beyond that. 

Q    Does he at least proactively want to bring up this issue,
especially because the — these students, as the mayor said, want to talk
to him about Gaza.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re going to have to — you’re going to have to tune
in.  You have to tune in.

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t know if you’re traveling with us, but you’re
going to have to tune in.

Go ahead.

Q    Who’s helping him craft his speech? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s been doing it himself along with his senior
advisors all week. 

Q    Which advisors?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The usual senior advisors.  (Laughter.) 

Q    I know — I know Mayor Benjamin was traveling.  I know the Vice
President has —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t —

Q    — talked to Morehouse students.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a list in front of — in front of me to —
to call out.  But, you know, he has about — you know, a good — more than
a handful of senior advisors.  So, you can imagine any one of them have
been in the room with him, helping him craft — craft this important —
important speech that’s happening on Sunday.  But I just don’t have a
list of names, but it is his senior advisors. 

And he’s been working on it every day.  That I can assure you. 

Q    For this week, he’s been working on it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Oh, yeah.  Oh, yeah. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s been diligently working on this and taking this
very seriously and wants to, obviously, hit the right — hit the right
tone, meet the moment. 

Q    And earlier today, at the museum, he said something interesting,
where he — he mentioned, “As soon as I came into office, I signed the
American Rescue Plan.  And I want to be political for a second, because
we’re having problems — not one Republican voted for it — not one.” 
What — what did he mean by “problems”?  Is it the message not breaking
through —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.

Q    — that — in your mind, do you think he was talking about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a good —

Q    — not enough people know about this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s an interesting catch.  I did not catch that in
his remarks.

I don’t know.  I would have to — I would have to ask the President. 

But what I will say is — and I think that I do re- — I do remember this
in his remarks, which is the American Rescue Plan, not one Republican
voted for it.  It helped turn the — the economy around.  It helped open
schools, helped start small businesses. 

And I think it was — I think he sees it as such an important — important
piece of legislation — the first one that he was able to sign into law. 
That made a difference.  That made a difference.

And I do know that he believes there are Republicans out there in
Congress who try to take credit for that really important piece of
legislation.  And he tends to call them out, as you’ve heard him do so. 
Some of them actually benefited from that — the American Rescue Plan,
which he has been very, very diligent on calling that out. 

And it was an opportunity for them to be on the right side of history,
and they were not.  And so, he tends to call that out. 

Anything beyond that, I don’t have any specifics or — or detail into
that. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Yeah.  Does the President plan to meet with any of the Morehouse
students while he’s down there, in addition to giving the speech?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ll have more to share as we get closer to
Sunday.  Don’t have anything for you at this time beyond that. 

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah.  I wanted to kind of follow up on that. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, yeah.

Q    A lot of — a lot of the messages to Black Americans that Biden is
doing over the last couple days are at — at them — you know, a speech at
Morehouse, the speech at the museum, the speech in Detroit. 

I — I wonder if you can give any, you know, sense of whether that
information flows both ways.  Is he asking questions?  Is he — are — is
— are the Divine Nine, you know, saying, “This is what we would like to
see from your presidency going forward”? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    You know, listening as opposed to speaking.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I — I know you’re saying “at them.”  I
don’t — we don’t see it “at them.”  I think the President shows up in
front of a crowd of — in front of a community and talks about how he’s
been working on their behalf, working to deliver for that community or
for all Americans. 

I think that’s important.  I think people want to hear from the
President.  They want to hear what is it that he has to say, whether
it’s about the economy, healthcare, whatever issues that’s important to
them. 

And I think the fact that the President shows up at the African American
Museum is important.  The fact that the President, you know, is here —
has in front — has — is talking to the Divine Nine, I think it’s also
very important.  Going to Morehouse, we’re talking about young men who
are going into — going into their careers, and they get to hear from the
President of the United States.  That’s actually important, I think, for
them to hear from the President. 

So, I don’t — the “at them,” I think, is kind of a little harsh there. 
I think it’s the President showing up and sharing and being very clear
about what he has done, as — as their president, to deliver. 

And — and I think to the — I think to the heart of your question, you
know, the President also loves to hear from people.  He does.  He loves
to hear from what they have to say, what they have to offer.  He’s going
to do that with the Divine Nine.  He did that yesterday with the
different plaintiffs of — of Brown v. Board.  He does that very often,
continuously, and I think it is important for him. 

The best advice, the best — you know, the best feedback that he gets is
from everyday people — you know, Americans who are out there, who have —
who are living the life — are living the lives that he’s trying to
improve.  So, he’s very much open to that. 

Go ahead, Franco.

Q    I wanted to ask about the background checks that are going to go
into effect next week — gun background checks.  There’s a number of
lawsuits from state attorney generals against them, the Second Amendment
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Which background checks are you —

Q    The gun background checks.  The —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    — they were announced earlier this spring.  Expa- — licenses of
private — private gun sales —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    — for the private market. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, I think that’s more for the Department of
Justice.  I don’t have any — anything specifics on how that’s going to
work out or the process of that.  I would have to refer you to
Department of Justice.  Don’t have anything in detail for you at this
time.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, since the announcement of the U.S. tariffs on China earlier
this week, we’ve heard from the international community, including IMF
and WTO and others, that are expressing concerns about the impact of
these tariffs on the global economy.  And I understand we heard from NEC
Director Brainard yesterday about the case she’s making for how
underpriced exports have hurt the U.S. economy specifically.  But does
the administration have any case to be made for how this is going to
help the global economy in addition to the U.S. economy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just a couple of things.  Look, he took this
action — the President did — obviously, earlier this week, when we made
the announcement on Tuesday, to make — to make sure there was a level
playing field, because he knows that Americans can — can outcompete
anyone just as long as that competition is fair, right?  And that — you
heard us say that over and over again.  You heard that from the
ambassador — Ambassador Tai. 

But China hasn’t been playing by the rules.  It’s just a fact.  Their
unfair policies undermine the global trade, not just us — Americans and
American businesses and companies — but global trade more broadly. 

And so, certainly, we’re not alone in voicing those concerns about
China’s unfair trade policies and taking action to address them.  We’re
not the only ones who have said anything about that, spoken about it, or
taken actions.  A number of advanced and emerging economies have also
expressed concerns.  Their industries also face damage from China’s
overcapacity. 

And so, the President is going to continue, as he does always, to work
with our allies to join forces to out — to outcompete China and whether
then — rather than undermining our alliances, threatening jobs, and
increasing costs for families by $1,500 with universal 10 percent
tariffs. 

And so, we are — we are going to remain an open economy — the United
States.  And so — and we’re going to do that with foreign investment and
American manufacturing almost double its — its average before the
pandemic.  Our China — our actions — pardon me — are focused on
strategic sectors and not only on China. 

So, we’re going to continue to work with our allies.  And — and so,
we’re trying to make sure that, you know, competition is fair.  And the
policies that China had were unfair and undermined global trade.  And
so, we’re addressing that.  And we’re going to continue to do that. 

Go ahead.

AIDE:  We got to wrap.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s okay.  It’s all right. 

Q    Any response from the — from the White House regarding the
sentencing of Mr. DePape in the attack on Paul Pelosi?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I know that — I saw that when I was coming out. 
I want to be really careful on that, too.  On — on the judicial — it’s a
judicial process. 

But as you heard from the President immediately after we received the
tragic news of the heartbreaking attack on Paul Pelosi, there’s
absolutely no place for political violence in America — not at all.  As
leaders, we owe it to everyone not to repeat dangerous conspiracy
theories and speak out against violence and violent rhetoric.  We’re so
grateful — and we had, obviously, the opportunity to see Paul Pelosi a
few times, most recently at the Medal of Freedom.  And you all saw him
as well. 

And obviously he has recovered.  And so, the President is grateful for
his friendship.  He’s grateful for the friendship of Speaker Pelosi. 
And we’re happy that he’s doing well. 

But I’m not going to speak to a judicial process. 

I’m being pulled, guys.  I will see you. 

Q    Karine, you haven’t answered my question, though.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my gosh.  (Laughter.) 

Q    Thank you.  So, just a follow-up —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re right.  I owe you.  I owe you an answer.  What
was the question?

Q    Yeah, just — it’s basically to follow up with what my colleagues
have asked about Morehouse.  I know you can’t preview the content of the
speech. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    But is the President mindful of how Black students who are
protesting in campus might see a parallel of their experience of
injustice between themselves and the Palestinians?  Has he received
input about this?  Is he sympathetic to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President is sympathetic to the fact that
many communities are in pain.  He has said that.  He is very sympathetic
to what people are feeling right now.  He knows that it is a difficult
time, and he respects that.  He truly does.  And — and, you know, that
is also why he also respects the fact that people have the right to
peacefully protest. 

And it is a difficult time, and we get that.  He gets that.  And, you
know, as President, he makes incredibly difficult decisions.  And — but
he also understands as president, there are people who are going to feel
pain in a different way or see actions that he’s taken differently, in
different views.  But this is what our democracy is all about, having
different opinions, having different views, and being able to express
your voice and be able to be very clear about that. 

And so, that’s why we’ve been saying — when you all have been asking
about protests and what the President’s going to do — he’s going to do
what he’s been doing for the past several months when there have been
protests — respect the protesters who are doing it peacefully —
understanding that all Americans have the right to speak their voice. 
That is part of our democracy.  That is part of who we are. 

All right.  Thanks, everybody.

END 3:36 P.M. EDT
