---
date: '2024-05-13'
modified_time: 2024-05-14 10:55:26-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-13 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/05/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-16/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:32 P.M. EDT

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Good afternoon, everyone. 

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Happy Monday.  Happy belated Mother’s Day to many of
you here.  I have two things at the top, and then I’ll turn it over to
our National Security Advisor.

So, this afternoon, the President and Vice President will host a
reception celebrating Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific
Islander Heritage Month here at the White House. 

The Biden-Harris administration has leveraged the full force of the
federal government to ensure the promise of America for all AA and NHPI
communities, including by using an executive order establishing the
President’s Advisory Commission and the White House Initiative on Asian
American\[s\], Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders.

The Biden-Harris administration has delivered the most equitable
economic recovery on record, with nearly 15 million jobs created,
including historic AA and NHPI small-business growth. 

We are also working to ensure equal access to quality education, expand
affordable healthcare for children and families, combat hate, improve
disaster recovery, preserve Indigenous heritage and lands, and protect
civil rights by advancing language access and data equity.

And you’ll hear from the President directly on this work later today.

And finally, today, the Biden-Harris administration is kicking off this
year’s Infrastructure Week.  I know you all are very excited about that.

We are celebrating the historic progress of President Biden’s Investing
in America agenda, which continues to create good-paying jobs, boost
domestic manufacturing, strengthen supply chains, and grow the economy
from the middle out and the bottom up.

While “Infrastructure Week” became an empty punchline during the prior
administration, President Biden is delivering an “Infrastructure Decade”
that will benefit communities for generations to come.

To date, our administration has announced over 56,000 infrastructure
projects across the country and delivered over $450 billion from the
Infrastructure Law. 

Today, we released an updated map showcasing thousands of projects that
are underway, as well as new state-by-state factsheets that spotlight
investments and projects across the President’s entire Investing \[in\]
America agenda. 

This Infra- — Infrastructure Week, we are also calling out Congress —
Repub- — Republicans in Congress, to be more specific, who voted against
the President’s Infrastructure Law but are now showing up at the
groundbreaking — groundbreaking events and ribbon cuttings. 

We’re also calling on congressional Republicans to extend funding for
affordability, connectivity program, which has lowered Internet bills to
enable more than 23 million households to access affordable high-speed
Internet.

Without congressional actions, millions of Americans will see their
Internet bills increase or lose Internet access at the end of the month.

With that, as you can see, our National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan,
is here to give a Middle East update.

Jake. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thank you, Karine.  And good afternoon, everyone.  Before
I take your questions, I want to step back and make some comments on the
latest developments in the Middle East. 

There has been a lot more heat than light in the recent coverage and
commentary about the war between Israel and Hamas, so I want to take a
moment today to get back to basics and lay out the administration’s
view.  Here is how we see it.

One, this is a war between the state of Israel and the terrorist group
Hamas, whose mission is to annihilate Israel and kill as many Jews as
they can.  The war began on October 7th when Hamas massacred 1,200
people and took more than 200 hostages.  There was a ceasefire in place
on October 6th.  Sinwar broke it.  The President has made clear the
United States wants to see Hamas defeated and justice delivered to
Sinwar.  There can be no equivocation on that.

Two, the Palestinian civilians caught in the middle of this war are in
hell.  The death and trauma they’ve endured are unimaginable.  Their
pain and suffering are immense.  No civilian should have to go through
that.  This is on the President’s mind every day.

Three, Israel has an unusual, even unprecedented burden in fighting this
war because Hamas uses hospitals and schools and other civilian
facilities for military purposes and has built a vast network of
military tunnels under civilian areas.  That puts innocent civilians in
the crossfire.  It does not lessen Israel’s responsibility to do all it
can to protect innocent civilians.

Four, we believe Israel can and must do more to ensure the protection
and well-being of innocent civilians.  We do not believe what is
happening in Gaza is a genocide.  We have been firmly on record
rejecting that proposition. 

Five, the United States will continue to lead international efforts to
surge humanitarian assistance throughout the Gaza Strip because innocent
civilians should never go without food, water, medicine, shelter,
sanitation, or other basic necessities.  Active diplomacy by President
Biden has made a considerable difference in getting more aid into Gaza. 
Now we are redoubling that diplomacy to press the key actors, including
Israel and Egypt.  I discussed this issue with my Israeli and Egyptian
counterparts yesterday.

Six, the United States has sent a massive amount of military assistance
to Israel to defend itself against all threats, including Hamas,
Hezbollah, and Iran and its other proxies.  We are continuing to send
military assistance, and we will ensure that Israel receives the full
amount provided in the supplemental.  We have paused a shipment of
2,000-pound bombs because we do not believe they should be dropped in
densely populated cities.  We are talking to the Israeli government
about this. 

We still believe it is — would be a mistake to launch a major military
operation into the heart of Rafah that would put huge numbers of
civilians at risk without a clear strategic gain.  The President was
clear that he would not supply certain offensive weapons for such an
operation, were it to occur.  It has not yet occurred.  And we are still
working with Israel on a better way to ensure the defeat of Hamas
everywhere in Gaza, including in Rafah.  This has been the subject of
detailed conversations between our professionals, and I discussed this
again with my Israeli counterpart just yesterday.

Seven, military pressure is necessary but not sufficient to fully defeat
Hamas.  If Israel’s military efforts are not accompanied by a political
plan for the future of Gaza and the Palestinian people, the terrorists
will keep coming back and Isra- — Israel will remain under threat.  We
are seeing this happen in Gaza City.  So, we were talking to Israel
about how to connect their military operations to a clear strategic
endgame — about a holistic, integrated strategy to ensure the lasting
defeat of Hamas and a better alternative future for Gaza and for the
Palestinian people.

Eight, Israel’s long-term security depends on being integrated into the
region and enjoying normal relations with the Arab states, including
Saudi Arabia.  The advantages of strong partnerships were on display
recently when a coalition of countries helped Israel defend itself
against Iranian missiles and drones.  We need to consider the tactical
battlefield situation in Gaza in light of the bigger strategic picture. 
We should not miss a historic opportunity to achieve the vision of a
secure Israel, flanked by strong regional partners, presenting a
powerful front to deter aggression and uphold regional stability.  We
are pursuing this vision every day.

Nine, we are urgently and relentlessly working for a ceasefire and a
hostage deal, starting with the first phase and building to an enduring
calm.  As the President said this weekend, there could be a ceasefire
tomorrow if Hamas simply released women, wounded, and elderly hostages —
all innocents. 

Israel put a forward-leaning proposal on the table for a ceasefire and
hostage deal.  The world should be calling on Hamas to come back to the
table and accept a deal.  The hostages include Americans and citizens
from around the world.  The President is determined to bring them safe-
— safely back to their loved ones.  And I met with the families of these
American hostages again just this past Friday.  They know how hard the
President is working on this.

Ten, Iran and its proxies have tried to take advantage of the war in
Gaza to launch attacks on Israel.  Hezbollah is attacking every day. 
The threat posed by Iran and its proxies to Israel, to regional
stability, and to American interests is clear.  We are working with
Israel and other partners to protect against these threats and to
prevent escalation into an all-out regional war through a calibrated
combination of diplomacy, deterrence, force posture adjustments, and use
of force when necessary to protect our people and to defend our
interests and our allies.  We will not let Iran and its proxies
succeed. 

These are President Biden’s positions.  They reflect his commitment to
getting an outcome in Gaza and across the broade- — broader Middle East
that protects Israel’s future security and paves the way for a future of
dignity and security for the Palestinian people, as well, rather than
Israel getting mired in a counterinsurgency campaign that never ends and
ultimately saps Israel’s strength and vitality. 

And this is all consistent with President Biden’s longstanding view
that, ultimately, a two-state solution is the only way to ensure a
strong, secure, Jewish, democratic state of Israel, as well as a future
of dignity, security, and prosperity for the Palestinian people.

One last thing.  No president has stood stronger with Israel than Joe
Biden.  He was the first president ever to visit Israel during wartime. 
He is protecting Israel at the United Nations.  He mobilized a coalition
to directly defend Israel against an unprecedented Iranian attack.  He
led the bipartisan effort to pass a supplemental that ensures Israel’s
defense and military edge for years to come.

His commitment to Israel is ironclad.  Ironclad doesn’t mean you never
disagree.  It means you work through your disagreements, as only true
friends can do.  That’s exactly what we’ve done for the past seven
months, and that’s what we’ll keep doing. 

And with that, I’ll be happy to take your questions.

Yeah.

Q    Thank you, Jake.  Just a week ago, the administration sounded
optimistic on the prospect of a ceasefire and hostage deal.  Now those
talks appear to have stalled.  Can you provide an update?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I have been quoting George Mitchell of late, who
negotiated peace between the warring parties in Northern Ireland.  And
Senator Mitchell said quite famously that negotiations are a thousand
days of failure and “one day of success.” 

And right now, we’re in the former days rather than the latter day.  And
this particular negotiation has had its ups and downs, its ins and outs,
its twists and turns.  And what I laid out in my opening comments
remains the case: There could be a ceasefire tomorrow if Hamas would
just go ahead and release women, wounded, and elderly.

We do believe Israel has put a good proposal on the table.  Hamas has
put a counterproposal on the table. 

The world is calling for a ceasefire.  Those who are doing so should go
to Hamas and say, “Come to the table and work until we get a deal.”  I
can’t predict when and if that will happen.  I can tell you that we
remain committed to pressing the diplomacy to achieve that outcome on
behalf of the American hostages and all the hostages and on behalf of
getting to an enduring calm in Gaza.

What exactly the next step is we will have to see.  This is a dynamic
situation that involves the diplomatic element as well as the military
element, including the recent operations that Israel has taken in
Rafah.  So, we will now have to see how things unfold in the coming
days.

Q    The White House has said that it was down to language.  What is it
down to now?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, in the end, when you’re talking about a phased
agreement that has multiple elements relating to sequencing of hostages
coming out, movement of military capabilities, surging of humanitarian
assistance, movement of civilians, all these things are quite detailed. 
And working through those details is what is going to be necessary to
get this across the finish line.

We believe there is a framework that both sides could sign up to, and
it’s really about the specifics of that framework and filling that out
that’s necessary.  Language ends up being on a page, but it is what
reflects the implementation of those details.  That’s what we’re working
with the parties — both with Israel and with Qatar and Egypt, who are in
close touch with the representatives of Hamas.  And we’ll keep you
updated as we drive to the finish line.

We are intent and determined to get all of the hostages home.  We are
intent and determined to produce a ceasefire and hostage deal.  We
believe we can achieve that.  I cannot tell you when.

Yeah.

Q    Jake, I want to ask you about Russia.  But just first on this — on
this topic.  In the readout, your call with Israeli officials yesterday,
it said that you’re going to have this meeting again in person soon.  Is
your expectation — well, one, when is your expectation that meeting will
happen?  And do you expect that there won’t be a Rafah offensive until
that meeting has taken place?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I expect it’ll happen in a matter of days, not weeks.  We
haven’t announced a specific date on the calendar.  But this isn’t going
to be long in the future.  We’re just talking about scheduling so that
we can get the teams together.  Because, of course, it’s not just me
meeting my counterpart.  It’s military intelligence and humanitarian

professionals on both sides being a part of that conversation as well. 

And what I expect is that we will have an opportunity to talk further
about the best way to ensure Hamas’s defeat everywhere in Gaza,
including in Rafah, in the context of that conversation and that that
opportunity will still be available to us when we show up for that
conversation. 

Q    And then — and then Zelenskyy’s advisor said today that this new —
these new Russian government appointments, including the defense
minister, show that Moscow is going to try to scale up its war effort
and reconfigure its economy for its defense needs.  Is that your
assessment of this shake-up as well?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, it’s an opaque system.  It’s run by one man:
Vladimir Putin.  He calls the shots.  He may move around professionals
into various roles, but at the end of the day, he seems bound and
determined to continue to try to inflict a brutal war of aggression on
Ukraine.  We’ll take whatever comes, support Ukraine alongside a
coalition of countries, and — and see what happens. 

So, I don’t have a specific comment on the nature of this change-up in
their government.  I’ve seen that speculation from the Ukrainians.  It’s
not unreasonable.  But I can’t draw any conclusions at this point. 
We’ll have to see what unfolds. 

Yeah.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  Does the U.S believe that Sinwar or other top Hamas
leaders are hiding in Rafah?  And, if not, why do the Israeli forces
continue to push further into Rafah?  What reasons are they giving you?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, I’ve seen the public reporting on this both in
Israeli press and in American press, citing intelligence officials
suggesting he’s not actually in Rafah.  I’m not going to comment from
intelligence — on intelligence operations from the podium.  So, I’m
afraid I can’t go further in trying to answer your question.

But it’s a reasonable question if, in fact, it were the case that he
weren’t in Rafah.  But I can’t confirm that one way or the other from
this podium.

Q    But what reasons are the Israelis giving for why they continue to
push forward in Rafah?  And do you get the sense that they’re taking the
U.S. warning and threat seriously?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, I think that they have taken the sustained
conversation that we have had with them about how to seek an enduring
defeat for Hamas while minimizing civilian harm — I think they have been
taking that seriously.  We’ve had multiple rounds of conversations —
professional to professional, President to Prime Minister.  We will
continue those conversations.  We have been very clear about where we
stand, and we’ve also been clear that we’re here to actually offer
constructive ideas for how to proceed with this in a way that will
ultimately achieve the objective. 

One of the points I made at the outset that I think bears repeating is
that really any military operation — a targeted operation, a larger
operation on the ground or in the air — has got to be connected to a
strategic endgame that also answered the question, “What comes next?” 

And that’s something that we’re really bearing in on with the Israeli
government and feel that there needs to be more attention on that piece
of it, lest we end up in a circumstance where Israel conducts a military
operation, kills a bunch of Hamas guys, also creates some harm to
innocent civilians caught in the crossfire, and then terrorists come
back, as we have seen them come back in Gaza City and Khan Yunis and
other places.  

We want to avoid that outcome.  We want an outcome in which the page
gets turned from Hamas’s terroristic reign over Gaza and a better future
comes for the Palestinian people and for the security of the State of
Israel.  That’s what we’re going to keep working through. 

Yeah. 

Q    Thanks, Jake.  I know you don’t — previously haven’t wanted to talk
about drawing red lines, but Israel is continuing to strike Rafah and
they’re continuing to order the evacuation of large numbers of
civilians.  So, how will you assess when it has crossed over into that —
into a full-scale offensive from the current, you know, operations that
are happening now?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We’re watching this very closely, as you are.  We’re
consulting closely with the Israelis.  We’re collecting our own
assessment of what’s happening on the ground.  The Israeli Defense
Forces have indicated to us that the operations they are currently
pursuing are targeted; they are not the kind of massive military
operation that we have talked about. 

We’ll make our own judgment on that as we see things unfolding, and it
will be based on a totality of factors.  It’s not a mathematical formula
or a mechanical determination.  It’s something we will judge based on
what we see.  And the President will then make his determinations.  We
have not seen that happen yet. 

Yes, April. 

Q    Jake, you’ve said some of the most strongest words yet about the
Palestinians — protecting them, protecting the innocent civilians, as
well as ensuring their security and aid.  What has the — your
department, the National Security Council, as well as Steve Benjamin
said to Morehouse in the lead-up to the President’s speech trying to
quell the concerns about protests during his commencement address this
weekend?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I have not spoken with the folks at Morehouse, and I’d
have to defer to Steve to relay to you what he’s said to them in their
conversations.  We’re, of course, focused on the policy as it relates to
the ongoing war and the situation in the Middle East.  I have not been
engaged in or involved in the preparations for the President’s
commencement address.

Q    But is this message important to get out right now, as there are
people who are walking out on college commencement addresses, as people
are turning their backs wearing scarves that represent Palestinians?  Is
this message important to get out for these upcoming commencement
addresses that the President is delivering? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  The President called Prime Minister Netanyahu at the
beginning of April, more than a month ago, to register his very strong
concern about the need to get more humanitarian assistance in, and he
put out a strong public statement at that time.  So, the premise of your
question that I’m now coming to speak about the issue of surging
humanitarian assistance and protecting civilians is not a premise I’m
afraid I can accept.  

The President has been very strong on this.  Secretary Blinken has been
strong on it and not just in what they say but in the work that we are
doing with Israel, with Egypt, with the United Nations, and, frankly,
through our own activities, including airdrops and the work to get this
pier in place to begin to surge humanitarian assistance in by sea. 

And when it comes to the issue of civilian harm and the question of
trying to do everything possible to reduce the amount of civilian harm
on the Strip, this is something the President has spoken to quite
actively over a sustained period of time, as well, and is directly
engaged with the Israelis on too.

Q    But you know there are people who are protesting the President’s
appearance at Morehouse because of the Palestinian issue.  What do you
say to those people directly?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I would say: Please read the remarks that I just gave to
this room today, because I think it tries to lay out —

Q    It’s not flip — it’s not a flip —

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not being flip.  I’m telling you, April, straight
up.  What I’ve just laid down here today encapsulates the President’s
position on something that is both simple and complex.  It is simple
because Hamas is an evil terrorist organization that needs to be
defeated, period.  It is complex because doing that, in the context of
what is happening in the Gaza Strip, is a complex military operation. 
And, frankly, the regional situation makes it even more complex. 

And people of good faith have very strong views on this issue.  And we
will engage with people across the — you know, across the board of — of
folks who have come to this with their own perspective, their own
worldview, and all we can do is tell them how do we see it, where do we
stand. 

And what I’ve tried to lay out for you step by step is where we stand on
a set of issues that raise questions of policy, of course, but al- — are
also deeply human.  They’re deeply human for the hostage families. 
They’re deeply human for those who lost their lives in a massacre on
October 7th and whose loved ones lost their lives.  It’s deeply human
for innocent people who are caught in the crossfire and are struggling
to get access to basic necessities. 

And we’re going to keep speaking to that as we go forward and continue
to follow what we believe is in the best interests and in — and
reflective of the values of this country. 

Q    Jake, in the back.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah. 

Q    Thanks, Jake.  The — there’s a New York Times analysis today that
showed Russian missiles breaking through Ukrainian air defenses in far
greater numbers over the past couple of months, interceptions down.  At
the same time, there’s this — apparently, you know, Russian forces
gathering and surging on this new front in the north. 

Is any of this the result of delays in getting arms to the Ukrainians,
or what accounts for this turn?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, part of it is the fact that Russia has continued to
push the envelope in terms of just the brutality and intensity of its
campaign.  It has sought more targets across a wider range of Ukraine —
most of them civilian, frankly — trying to destroy the Ukrainian
electricity grid with an even greater determination this year than they
had last year.

Part of it is about the need for us — the United States and our
coalition of countries — to surge up more air defense in so that Ukraine
has it. 

And, yes, part of it is about a six-month delay in being able to get
assistance to Ukraine.  That has put Ukraine in a hole, and we’ve made
no bones about that from this podium. 

So, we have started moving air defense to them.  We intend to move more
in.  And by “we,” I don’t just mean the U.S.  I mean our whole
coalition, with the President, Secretary Austin, myself working day in,
day out to coordinate those deliveries and to put Ukraine in a position
where it is better able to defend against what Russia is throwing at
them.  And what they are throwing at them is quite considerable. 

Yeah.

Q    Can I follow up on that?  Can you quantify how quickly is that new
— the new packages of military assistance arriving on the battlefield in
Ukraine and if the U.S. is confident that they’ll arrive in time for —
for the Ukrainians to be able to fend off advances in the Kharkiv — in
Kharkiv and other regions?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The same day that the law took effect — now two, three
weeks ago — the President signed out a billion-dollar package.  Some of
that equipment is already on the battlefield.  On Friday, he signed out
another package.  Some of that equipment will get onto the battlefield
this week.

Now, some of it has a longer lead time, in terms of our ability to ship
it, organize it, and get it in.  So, I don’t want to suggest that all
billion dollars’ worth of equipment is on the battlefield.  But what you
will see is a steady flow week by week.  It’s not like we’ve got to wait
well out into the future before stuff starts getting delivered. 

And we are going to have another what we call PDA — Presidential
Drawdown Authority — package just in the coming days, because we’re
trying to really accelerate the tempo of the deliveries, recognizing, as
I said before, the delay put Ukraine in a hole, and we’re trying to help
them dig out of that hole as rapidly as possible.

Q    Can we expect PDAs every week now or even faster?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I — how we do the drawdown is a little bit less of the
central issue than what the size of it is and what the sequence of
actual deliveries are.  So, I’m not going to suggest that there’ll be a
drawdown every week.  What I am going to suggest is that the level of
intensity being exhibited right now, in terms of moving stuff, is at a
10 out of 10. 

I spoke this morning, along with Secretary Austin and Chairman Brown,
with our counterparts in Ukraine — General Syrskyi, Minister Umerov, and
— and Andrii Yermak.  We spoke for 90 minutes.  It was a detailed
conversation about the situation on the front, about the capabilities
that they are most in need of, and a real triage effort to say, “Get us
this stuff this fast so that we can be in a position to effectively
defend against the Russian onslaught.” 

And so, at the highest levels in our government, we are engaged with the
highest levels of theirs to be able to ensure that we’re doing
everything humanly possible, both ourselves and our allies who are
surging equipment as well to get it there to the frontlines. 

Q    And can I actually follow up on an Israel question?  Sorry. 
Secretary Blinken said yesterday that Israel could be, quote, “holding
the bag on an enduring insurgency.”  I’m curious whether — would Israel
be holding that bag alone?  In other words, are you — is there any
concern or are you concerned that Israel’s ongoing prosecution of the
war using U.S. weapons is going to help Hamas cultivate kind of a new
generation of — of people who will be, you know, targeting U.S.
interests and attacking Americans?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, we have a painful experience in counterinsurgency
campaigns fighting terrorists in urban environments and populated areas,
and we know that it is not as simple as executing a military operation
and calling it a day. 

As I said in my opening comments, military operation has to be connected
to a political plan for the day after so that there is a clear
alternative and there is governance and there is security and all of the
steps you need to take to finally and fully defeat a hardened,
entrenched terrorist foe.

And, yes, one of the risks of engaging in any kind of counterinsurgency
campaign is the ability of the terrorist group to attract more recruits
and more followers as time goes on.  This is something we have talked to
the Israelis about. 

So, one of the key points that we have been reinforcing is to step back
just from a tactical military analysis of the situation and ask
strategically: How do we get to the common goal, the enduring defeat of
Hamas?  And that is going to require military pressure, yes.  But more
than just military pressure — a political plan to get there.

Q    In the back, Jake.

Q    Hi.  Thank you.  One of the big questions about Rafah is that — why
does the United States — the strongest ally of Israel, the biggest
weapons supplier — seem to have so little clout with the Netanyahu
government. 

And you said, for instance, that they need a strategic endgame.  They
don’t have one yet.  Bibi Netanyahu has said they’re going to go ahead
in Rafah no matter what.  What is the evidence that the United States
still has clout with the Netanyahu government?  Or is it just too early
to tell? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I think you can go back to the beginning and look
at the pattern of engagement of the United States and the impact that
it’s had on, for example, the flow of humanitarian assistance.  And we
believe also that in engaging Israel on the question of civilian
protection and civilian harm, they have made adjustments over the course
of time.

And then, with the question of a strategic endgame, I don’t think that’s
really a question about American influence.  That’s a question about
Israel’s strategy and what Israel chooses to do.  The Prime Minister
doesn’t have to answer to us on that.  He’s got to answer to the Israeli
people on that because he’s —

Q    Well, you’re encouraging him to do this, and he doesn’t have one
yet.

MR. SULLIVAN:  — he’s ultimately having to deliver for them the
long-term security and a clear answer to the question: How does Hamas
get defeated on an enduring basis, and what comes after?

So, I think sometimes this whole issue gets put a little bit too much
into the frame of the U.S. and Israel and not enough into the frame of
these are sovereign Israeli decisions that they’re making in a
democracy.  Their leadership is choosing how to prosecute this war. 
They are going to make those decisions.  We’re a sovereign country too. 
We’re going to make our decisions.

And as a very good friend of Israel, we are going to stand with them as
they work to defeat their determined enemy.  But we’re also going to
offer our advice and make clear where we stand on these issues as well. 

That’s the most we can do.  That’s the most you could ask of anyone. 
That’s what we will do every day.  We do believe it has borne results. 
We hope it will bear more results in the period ahead. 

Yeah.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  Another question on Secretary Blinken’s comments
yesterday.  He said that even if Israel goes further into Rafah, then
there will still be thousands of Hamas soldiers left.  So, why is then
Israel saying that they have to go into Rafah to defeat Hamas?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, I’ll leave that to the Israeli government. 

A point that we have made to them is that Israel has gone through Gaza
City.  Israel has gone through Khan Yunis.  And in both places, you’ve
seen terrorists emerge from the rubble because, from our perspective,
there’s not a sufficient integration of a military plan with a political
plan. 

We have concerns about that.  We’ve raised those concerns — not with
rancor but because we want to see a successful outcome to this war.  We
want to see Hamas defeated.  We want to see its leaders — justice
delivered to its leader, starting with Sinwar.

So, we’ll continue to talk to them about this.  But really, that
question, which is a good question, is a question best posed to the
Israelis who are formulating the military plans that they are unfolding.

Q    A quick question on China tariffs.  What is the President’s goal
with his review of those tariffs?  And do you expect any retaliation
from China if tariffs are, in fact, raised? 

    MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I will not get ahead of the President on this. 
I’ve seen, obviously, all of the reporting on it.  It — it’s no secret
that the President, this entire administration has been concerned about
unfair practices by the PRC that harm American workers and businesses,
the issue of overcapacity, the ways in which China has put in place a
series of nonmarket distorting practices and strategic sectors.  And he
has said consistently, “I’m going to stand up and push back against
that.”

And so, that’s the frame that he approaches this with.  And then I’m
going to leave the specifics to be announced in due course — I would say
in short order.

Yeah.

Q    Jake, you cited the humanitarian aid as a way to influence Israel
(inaudible) U.S.  But this — even the aid coming to Gaza has been
curtailed now.  It’s barely — it’s been blocked to barely any aid coming
in.  And also, the repeated attack by settlers and extremists in the
West Bank (inaudible) the aid in.  So, how can you make sure that
actually the U.S. has that clout that you mentioned? 

And second, if you’ll allow me, many Arab states said that (inaudible)
allies said they’re not going to take part in the day-after plan in Gaza
in any shape or form, whether it’s a force or its administration. 
Netanyahu said, too, that he doesn’t want the PA to take part or a
two-state solution. 

So, what’s your vision when it comes to the day after?  How can you push
the Israelis to materialize this into some kind of plan of action?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, on the first question, in the past few days, since
Israel took the Rafah crossing, we have seen difficulty getting aid
through either Rafah or Kerem Shalom, and this is a matter of great
concern to us.  This is something we’re working not just with the
Israeli government but the Egyptian government and the United Nations,
because it will take all three of them working together to make this
happen.

In the meantime, Israel has opened yet another crossing in the north
beyond Erez, a crossing called Zikim, and has moved flour through that
crossing.  We have managed to get some fuel in down through the south
despite all of the other difficulties. 

This is an urgent and critical situation.  We have got to get those
crossings open to get more aid in.  That has been an issue of the past
three days since these military operations, and it’s something we are
working through with all the relevant parties. 

It is a total outrage that there are people who are attacking and
looting these convoys coming from Jordan going to Gaza to deliver
humanitarian assistance.  We are looking at the tools that we have to
respond to this.  And we are also raising our concerns at the highest
level of the Israeli government, and it’s something that we make no
bones about.  This is completely and utterly unacceptable behavior.

On the day after, we are, in fact, having constructive conversations
with Arab states about it.  But what they do want to see is a political
horizon.  They want an answer to what does the long-term future look
like for the Palestinian people.  That’s something we’re talking about
with them.  That’s something we’re talking about with the Israeli
government as well.

Yes.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  Just to your — put a little bit of a point on
Nadia’s question.  Is Israel restricting the flow of humanitarian aid
into Gaza, or is it not?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, I would point you to the findings of the State
Department report that just came out over the weekend.  We believe that
there were periods over the last few weeks where there were restrictions
that had to be worked through.  But at the time we put that report
forward, we felt that there was sufficient work being done by the
Israeli government with respect to the facilitation of humanitarian aid
that we did not make a judgment that anything had to be done in terms of
U.S. assistance. 

Q    So —

MR. SULLIVAN:  That continues to be our position today.

Q    So, in plain language, they’re restricting that, but it’s okay in
the way that they’re restricting?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Those are your words.  They are certainly not my words. 
I’m not sure if that’s how you ask questions. 

But, yeah, go ahead.

Q    Jake, good afternoon.  As we sit here seven months into this war in
Gaza, how confident are you, as you stand there, that the hostages — the
remaining hostages will come home, A?  And, B, how many of them do you
believe are actually still alive? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  I cannot give you a clear number of how many are still
alive because we do not have total fidelity on that, unfortunately.  And
it’s something that we watch every single day.  We know there are
deceased hostages, and we know there are living hostages.  And we know
that with each passing day, the risk to those hostages also goes up,
which only redoubles our commitment to try to get to a ceasefire and
hostage deal as rapidly as possible.

But, unfortunately, I’m not in a position to give you fidelity on those
numbers because nobody entirely has it.  We have our analysis, our
assessments.  Some of that is driven by intelligence, so I have to be
cautious in sharing them.  But I — to look you in the eye and say, “We
know exactly how many are alive,” nobody can do that for you.

Q    And how would you describe the relationship between — right now
between President Biden and Benjamin Netanyahu?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I would describe the relationship as how it’s been for
the duration of the time that they’ve known each other.  It is
straightforward.  It is direct.  It is a relationship where the two of
them can each share — share their views and perspectives.  And that is
how it’s going to continue as we go forward.

And I’ll take one more.  Yeah.

Q    Thank you, Jake.  A quick Ukraine follow-up (inaudible).  Ukraine’s
government is desperately asking for anti-aircraft assets, including
Patriot batteries.  What’s the plan?  How are you going to get those to
them?  Through which allies or (inaudible)?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, one of the things I do every single day is talk to at
least one ally, if not multiple, about getting more Patriot batteries
into Ukraine.  And I think we recently had some good news from an ally
about getting one in.  We’re working on more.  That’s just something
that we’re going to continue to try to procure.

And beyond Patriots, we’re looking for other systems, as well, because
we believe that there are a number of allies who have capabilities they
could share and ways in which the United States could help them with
their — their air defense needs as a backfill.  That is an ongoing
conversation.  It is a — it is a matter of utmost priority.

Q    So, just to be clear, you’re looking at, like, one or two at a
time, not dozens, not a bigger number?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I mean, do- — dozens of Patriot batteries I don’t think
is the right order of magnitude for what we’re trying to get in there.

Q    And then on the Middle East.

Q    Jake, a Ukraine question.

Q    Jake, you forgot the back of the room.

MR. SULLIVAN:  All right.  I’ll — I’ll take you last.  Yeah.  Fine.

Q    Awesome.  Thank you.

Q    We’re a package deal.  (Laughter.)

Q    Egypt has said that they will support South Africa’s case at the
ICJ against Israel for genocide.  How is that affecting the negotiations
right now, the situation in general?  And, you know, what is — what is
Washington’s message to Cairo about this decision on their part?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I can’t say that it’s helpful to the discussions between
Egypt and Israel to try to sort out the humanitarian assistance and
access issues.  But I do know that Egypt, Israel, the United States, the
United Nations, we are all trying to work together to figure out a way
forward. 

So, last question.

Q    Okay.  Thank you.  You said at the start of this that you don’t
believe what’s happening in Gaza is genocide.  What criterion are you
using?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We’re using the internationally accepted term for
genocide, which includes a focus on intent.  And it’s not just me
standing here at this podium.  In the context of this International
Court of Justice case at The Hague, the United States actually made a
presentation backed up by legal analysis, which I would invite you to
read because it lays out all of —

Q    Okay.  Because I looked up —

MR. SULLIVAN:  — those criterion.

Q    — Francesca Albanese, the Special U.N. Rapporteur on human rights
in Palestine presented one in March.  Her — she presented it in Geneva. 
The three criterion she used, citing international law, three acts:
Israel’s intent to destroy national ethnic, racial, or religious groups;
serious bodily or mental harm to a group; inflicting on a group
conditions of life calculated to bring physical destruction, in whole or
in part, with imposing measures intended to prevent birth within the
group; process of erasure of the native Palestinians. 

So, those three things are happening.  How can you say genocide is not
being committed?

MR. SULLIVAN:  As I just told you, I think the best way for me to answer
that question is actually to ask you to look at the laydown that we gave
which —

Q    I just laid out — are you saying this isn’t happening? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m sorry, I thought you asked me how I can say it.  I’m
saying I’d like you to look at the United States’ —

Q    I just did. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Ca- — ca- —

Q    I’m asking: Are you saying this isn’t happening? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Ca- — do you mind if I finish answering your question
before you interrupt?

Q    I’m challenging you to say — are you saying that she’s a liar?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The United States has laid down at the International
Court of Justice in writing, in detail its position on this issue, and
I’d ask you to read it.  Thank you. 

Q    Are you saying that it doesn’t line up for them with what she’s
saying? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, Jake.  Thank you, Jake. 

Okay.  I know — folks are leaving right now.  Okay.  I have — I have an
effect on folks.  (Laughter.)

I know there is a call happening in short order.  And so — and I know
it’s about an issue that you all care about.  So, feel free to — to step
away from the briefing.  And I won’t — I won’t be up here too much
longer.  As you know, we’ll have a briefing tomorrow and the next day
and the next day and the next day. 

Go ahead, Seung Min.

Q    At a fundraiser over the weekend, the President began his remarks
by talking about Israel.  He said, “Israel said it’s up to Hamas; if
they wanted to do it, we could end it tomorrow.  It all has to do” — and
then he cut himself off and said, “I shouldn’t get into all of this.  I
don’t want to get going.”  Can you just finish his sentence for us? 
(Laughter.)  And what do you — and what he was trying to say when —
especially when he was talking about “it all has to do” with —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — I’m — obviously, I — as I say often,
certainly going to let the President speak for himself. 

Q    But he didn’t finish speaking, so can you finish?  (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know, I know.  But I — look — look, I think,
obviously, Jake Sullivan, the National Security Advisor, came here and
gave a very good and — and detailed, in-depth laydown of where we are. 
And it’s very much where the President is.  And he talked about
humanitarian aid, obviously, the importance of getting that into — into
Gaza, and — and how we want to make sure that we deal with what we’re
seeing there with the dire — dire situation in Gaza. 

Obviously, he talks about our continued support.  He talked about our
continued support for Israel’s security.  That is ironclad.  That is
what we want to make sure that, you know, they are able to defend
themselves. 

And so, I think all of that remains to be true: hostage deal, we want to
get to a ceasefire, and also create a situation where we can get more of
that humanitarian aid, bring hostages home. 

So, all of that continues to be true.  I think the words that you heard
from the President’s National Security Advisor, I think, is — is very
clear on where the President is.  I — you know, I can’t — I can’t, you
know, speak beyond — beyond that. 

And, you know, I think the — the President started out saying what was
on his mind.  But, more broadly, how — where we are with the situation
in Gaza and Israel has been very clear.  And we want to continue to — to
lay that out.  That is one of the reasons that — that Jake came out
here. 

Q    And a quick one.  The House is likely to vote on the Israel
Security Assistance Support Act later this week, which would ban the
administration from withholding military aid to Israel that have been
congressionally approved.  Is that something that — it’s obviously a
response to the President’s comments over the last week.  So, is that
something that the White House would oppose?  Are you talking to
Democrats who might be inclined to go with Republicans on this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’ll start off — I just repeated basically
what — what I wanted to say to this question, which is Pre- — this
President has been very clear.  His — his commitment to Israel’s
security is ironclad.  That has not changed. 

We share Israel’s goal of defeating Hamas and will continue to stand
with Israel to make that happen.  We’ve been very clear.

As it relates to the announcement that the President made in the
interview yes- — last week on CNN, we have paused only one shipment. 
That includes 2,000-pound bombs, which can be very destructive in
densely populated urban environments such as Rafah.  You heard,
obviously, Jake just speak to this. 

And then so, regarding this bill — as you just asked me about, Seung Min
— we strongly, strongly oppose attempts to constrain the President’s
ability to deploy U.S. security assistance consistent with U.S. foreign
policy and national security objectives.  It is — it is our objective,
as well, that we plan to spend every last cent appropriated, consistent
with legal obligations, including in the recent supplemental — that
national — national security supplemental that was just passed and the
President obviously signed.  We are committed to that — to that
supplemental.  So, that has not changed. 

Go ahead, April. 

Q    Karine, this week, President Biden is going to commemorate the
anniversary of Brown v. Board.  Does this president or — and/or this
administration believe that Brown v. Board may have been weakened by the
Supreme Court’s decision on affirmative action in college admissions? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you just stated in — in your question to me,
the President is going to commemorate the Browned — Brown v. Board, and
he’s also going to meet with the families.  That’s going to happen on
Thursday. 

On Friday, he’s going to go over to the National Museum of Af- — African
American History and Culture.  He’ll be there on Friday to give a really
important speech. 

I don’t want to get ahead of — ahead of the President.  But to your
question about the Supreme Court’s ruling in Students for Fair Admissi-
— Admini- — Admissions v. Harvard last year, the President reiterated
that his administration will fight to preserve the hard-earned progress
we have made to advance racial equity, civil rights, and expand
educational opportunity for all Americans. 

Specifically, the President called on colleges and universities, when
selecting among qualified applicants, to give serious consideration to
advers- — adversities students have overcome, including the financial
means of a student or their family; where a — a student grew up and went
to high school; and personal experience of hardship and discrimination,
including racial discrimination that a student may have faced.

As the President said last June, when this verdict came down, he
strongly disagrees with the court decision and believes that one of the
greatest strengths of America is indeed our diversity. 

The President, again, is going to speak about this on Friday, so I don’t
want to get ahead of him.  But we have made very clear how we feel about
this decision that happened almost a year ago.

Q    But does he believe that it undermines Brown v. Board, this
historic integrate — this historic ruling that integrates schools, and
we are actually seeing the segregation of schools still in this
country? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I totally agree with all the points that you
made.  I laid out what we thought about that decision that came last —
last June.  And we had said it is something that is concerning —
incredibly concerning. 

The President is going to give a speech on Friday.  I’m going to let the
President speak for himself.  He will address this.  Obviously, we are
indeed — we are indeed commemorating the landmark <s>Browd</s> \[Brown\]
v. Board of Education.  And so, that’s something.  We’re going to meet
with the families on Thursday. 

So, you see a pattern here that the President is going to meet with the
families on Thursday, he’s going to give remarks on Friday, and he will
— he will speak to this himself.  But wanted to lay down what we have
said already about — about the ruling — the Admissions ruling versus
Harvard that happened last year.  We’ve been very clear about that. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go.  And then I’ll go to you.

Q    Argentine Foreign Minister Diana Mondino is going to be in town
this week.  She’s going to meet Antony Blinken from the State
Department.  Can you confirm she has a meeting with Jake Sullivan here
at the White House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything for you.  Once we have something
to share, certainly we will share that with you all. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  So, Warren Buffett this month said that “taxes
will have to be raised to pay for the national debt.”  He said, “The
government will — may want to decrease spending.”  So, with — you know,
we’ve had announcement after announcement of taxpayer money being doled
out — we’ve seen almost weekly now.  Is the federal government spending
too much money?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say a couple things that Warren
Buffett did say that we certainly agree with, and I’ll quote him: “The
wealthy are definitely undertaxed relative to the general population,”
which is why the President has a plan to make sure that the wealthiest
among us, the billionaires and big corporations, pay their fair share. 
And we’ve been very clear about that. 

They pair th- — they pay their fair share in order to pay for — for his
investments in America and cut the deficit by $3 trillion.  And it — and
Buffett also said it doesn’t ma- — bother him to pay taxes. 

And so, it has been very clear.  The President has said that he will not
raise taxes on anyone making less than $400,000.  That is what the
President has said.  Warren Buffett pretty much agrees with us.  We
agree, obviously, with him. 

And this is very different than what Republicans want to do.  They put
out their plan.  They put out what they want to do.  They want to cut
Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, give tax breaks to billionaires and
corporations. 

We do not agree with this.  And what we want to do is continue to make
sure that we’re lowering costs for Americans, for families — whether it
is Big Pharma, fighting Big Pharma; lowering healthcare costs; making
sure that we go after corporation, as we — as we — you hear us talk
about junk fees.  Those are the ways that we want to move forward. 
That’s what our focus is.

Q    So, increase taxes to pay the debt?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — on — but let’s be really, really clear — right? —
on billionaires and big corporations, who Warren Buffett him said —
himself said — as you started asking me about Warren Buffett, he says
that they are undertaxed.  And that is something that the President
agrees on.  And he believes if we are able to do that, to tax
corporations and billionaires, that would pay for his investments in
America and cut the deficit by $3 trillion.  That is something the
President has been very clear about since day one. 

Q    One more, if I could, on China and the tariffs that are coming. 
So, in July of 2019, then-candidate Biden said the tariffs on China are
abusive policy.  Has the President changed his mind and now believes
tariffs work?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not — I’m not — I’m going to be really
mindful.  I’m going to — going to let — in due — in due order, you’ll —
you’ll hear directly from the President, directly from us.  So, don’t
want to get ahead of that. 

Jake said it really well when he was here: We have always had concerns
on China’s unfair trade policies.  We’ve been very clear about that. 
And the last administration, when they did the trade deal with China,
what it did is it failed to increase Ameri- — American exports or boost
manufacturing. 

That is not something the President wants to see.  He has been doing the
opposite: making sure that American manufacturing is created here —
right here in America.  And so, that is something that he has been very
focused.  He says he wants to protect American workers, protect
businesses — American business.  That’s what the President wants to do. 

He spoke about this when he was in Pittsburgh not too long ago, talking
about making sure that it — we see fair business practices as it relates
to American workers and American businesses.  So, don’t want to get
ahead of that.  But we’ve been very, very clear on how we move forward
on — on these types of practices — trade practices — and what we want to
see.  And that is the framework, as Jake Sullivan said here moments ago,
that we move forward with.

Q    So, he now believes tariffs work?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just going to be really mindful, not get ahead of
what we’re — what we’re about to announce soon.  And what we have been
really, really car- — clear about is protecting workers, protecting
businesses, and we have called out China’s unfair trade policies.  And
so, we’re going to continue to do that. 

Go ahead, Phil, in the back. 

Q    Thank you.  There’s new reporting in The Wall Street Journal that
found that the FD- — FDIC Director Martin Gruenberg disrespected,
disparaged, and treated unfairly officials there and that he was known
to be someone who could not control his temper.  Obviously, President
Biden said early on in his administration that he would fire on the spot
anyone who bullied or unfairly bul- — belittled a coworker.  So, has the
President seen those reports?  And if those reports prove to be
accurate, will he take action?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any personnel announcements to make
at this time.  The FDIC Administrator — Chairman, to be exact, made —
apologized and spoke to this.  And so, certainly, I would — I would send
you there.  The FDIC is an independent agency, so would refer you to
them as to anything else coming out from the FDIC on this particular
matter. 

But I just don’t have any policy — personnel announcement to make at
this time. 

Q    Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Selina.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I know you don’t want to get into the
announcement.  Can — but can you just more broadly talk about the role
that tariffs play here in trying to balance protecting American workers
versus consumers?  Because tariffs are often a tax to consumers.  So,
how can you ensure Americans that with more tariffs, it doesn’t come
with higher costs?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, going to let the announcement speak for itself,
but what I can say about what China has played — has played here in —
they’ve played by a different set of rules.  And this is what we know to
be — to be clear.  And it has been unfair and anticompetitive economic
practices. 

For example, forcing technology transfers and stealing intellectual
property; distorting market for- — forces with un- — un- — unrivaled
subsidies, barriers, and regulations; flooding markets with artificially
cheap products to wipe out the competition. 

And that’s what we have seen from China with their unfair trade
policies.  We have done the opposite here.  And what we have tried to do
is invest in our Invest in America agenda — is 3- — $860 billion
invested by the private sector in manufacturing and clean energy; nearly
800,000 manufacturing jobs created right here in the U.S. 

So, you see the President is investing — investment in America.   This
is what his agenda has been all about.  And I –as I stated moments ago,
the Trump administration, when they went forward with their trade deal,
it — what it did is it showed that — that deal with China, it failed to
increase American export and boost manufacturing.  We have tried to
change that, reverse that. 

And so, I want to be mindful.  I’m not going to get into an upcoming
potential announcement.  And so, going to be really mindful there.  But
we are all about — and this President has been very clear — protecting
American workers, protecting American businesses.  And we’re going to
continue to do that under this administration. 

Q    And can you just talk about the President’s preparations for the
upcoming commencement speech at Morehouse?   And does he plan to address
the concerns of some students and faculty who have conflicting views
about the President being there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things there. 

The President is going to continue to work on his speech with his senior
advisors.  That’s what he’s going to do all week.  He sees this moment
in — as a very pivotal moment, an important moment to a lot of these
young graduates.

Let’s not forget, some of these — some of these graduates missed out on
their graduation from high school because of the pandemic.  And this is
going to be a celebration for them — an opportunity to have a
commencement, to have a graduation that they sadly missed out on. 

So, the President has done these type of commencements.  He did two of
them last year.  He’s done them throughout his vice — as a vice
president, as a senator.  He knows how important it is not just to the
graduates but the families, the people who love them. 

And so, he will — you’ll see themes, obviously, in his commencement
speech.  He will give an uplifting — uplifting remarks on what’s to come
and what they can look forward to, but also acknowledging, you know,
what’s ahead, the difficulties that are ahead. 

And, look, as you started your question to me about what — how people
are feeling, we’ve been very clear about that too.  We understand how
deeply personal this moment is for many Americans across the country. 
We’ve been very clear about that.  We understand that. 

That’s why we’ve had conversations with members of the community that’s
affected by this.  We’ve had conversation with the Mus- — Muslim
Americans, Palestinian Americans, Arab Americans.  The President has;
White House officials here have.  They’ve traveled to — to states across
the country to have those very important conversations.  And we’ll
continue to do that. 

But also, this moment, the commencement speech, is such a celebratory
moment.  And we believe it’s important.  It’s important f- — in this
instance, Morehouse is going to hear directly from the President of the
United States.  And I think that’s — that’s a memorable moment as well. 

AIDE:  Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Where do deliberations stand on this potential
White House plan to allow a certain number of Palestinian refugees into
the U.S.?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any updates for you.  I know I’ve
been asked this question multiple times about conversations happening
here.  Don’t have anything to share. 

What I will say is — and I’ve said this many times before in the
beginning of — of what happened — occurred on October 7th.  We actu- —
we put in a plan.  The — there were about 1,800 Palestinian Americans
that were in — in Gaza, and we did everything that we can to get them
out if they choose to — if they — if that’s something that they wanted
to do.  And certainly, we were able to do that.

As it relates to a refugee program or anything in that nature, I don’t
have any announcement to make.  And — and I’ll just leave it there,
because I want to be really mindful about that —

Q    Does —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — about getting ahead of that.

Q    Does the fact that a lot of Democratic senators were sort of
lukewarm on the idea make it less likely that something like that will
happen?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I wouldn’t say that.  I wouldn’t — I wouldn’t say
that — confirm that either way.  What I will say is we’re — we don’t
have any announcement to make at this time.  And so, obviously, we’re
going to look at everything.

Go ahead.

Q    So, the U.S. has withheld bomb shipments to Israel.  And on Friday,
the State Department sent a report to Congress.  So, did the report
further support the administration’s stance?  Or are they having second
thoughts about it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say — say that one more time.

Q    So, the U.S. has withheld bomb shipments to Israel. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, just one shipment: 2,000 bombs.  Yeah. 

Q    Right.  And so, we had the St- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  2,000-pound bombs.

Q    Right.  So, we had —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And that — that is connected to what we have said and
we have made very clear about our — our public and — and — made this
publicly and privately — our concerns about a major mil- — major
military operations into Rafah. 

And so, we have been very clear about that — because of the more than 1
— 1.4 million Palestinians who are there, who are — they are seeking
refuge.  And so, we’ve been very clear about that. 

So, we have paused one — one shipment, and the — that’s what the
President spoke to last week.  That’s what Jake spoke to just moments
ago.

Q    Right.  So, the report — does it sort of further strengthen what
President is — what the President is doing?  Or is it giving him pause? 
Wh- — what did he think of the report that the State Department sent to
the Congress?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I think Jake spoke to that.  And he talked
about the findings of the report, how it wouldn’t change our policies. 
That’s number one.  And — and this is an ongoing, transparent process. 
I don’t have anything else to add beyond that. 

Look, when you think about the pause on these 2,000-pound bombs, the
reason why we paused it is because we want to be mindful — right? — we
want to — we understand that there is in — in Rafah, there are dense —
dense areas that have Palestinians who are seeking refuge.  And we want
to make sure those civilian lives — those innocent civilian lives are
protected. 

That’s why we’re — we’ve made very clear — very clear about our concerns
about a major military operations there.  That is the reason.  That is
the focus: understanding that fact.  And that is a fact.

And so, we’re going to continue to have those conversations.  You heard
Jake talk about in — in upcoming days having an — an in-person
conversation with his counterparts, continuing — continuing these —
these group meetings that they’ve been having with — that NSC has been
having with — with the ID- — IDF, the Israeli government.  And so,
that’s going to continue.

We’re going to — and we’re going to continue to be really clear about
our concerns, as we’ve been publicly as also privately. 

And so, those conversations continue.  And that’s why the President has
been very clear.  There are 1.4 million civilians — innocent civilians
that are in Rafah right now.  And we want to be really careful and
mindful.  We want to see a plan that speaks to how are we going to — how
is Israel going to make sure that those lives are protected. 

It is a pause of one shipment.  And that shipment is related to what we
believe is — could be potentially, you know, an issue here — in — in
Rafah.  Being very, very clear about that.

AIDE:  Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Some recent polls — and I know you’ve said the
President doesn’t govern looking at polls, but some have shown his
popularity eroding amongst young people and also nonwhites.  And it’s
not only related to Israel.  Is he aware of that?  Is he going to try to
refocus his messaging or tweak it to speak directly to those groups that
have felt left behind?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, and I — I — look, you know, going to be
mindful about this upcoming election.  Not going to comment about that,
the 20- — 2024 election or how these polls will affect the 2024
election.  Going to be super mindful.

But more broadly, you know, we believe that young Americans support —
support the President’s agenda more broadly — right? — in overwhelming
way.  And the President has stood on many — has stood with young
Americans on many of the issues that they care about, because you said
beyond — beyond what’s happening in the Middle East.

And so, when it comes to climate change — right? — that’s something that
he’s been very clear about and has been the most progressive president
on that particular issue.  And he’s going to continue to do that.

We understand, as well, that while the economy is turning around — and
you’ve heard me talk at the top about the 15 million j- — million jobs
created and what we’ve been able to do to turn around the economy — we
understand that prices are too high, and young people, in particular,
are feeling that.  And so, we’re going to continue to work on those
issues.  We’re going to continue to do everything that we can to lower
costs. 

I talked about the situation in the Middle East and how young Americans
are feeling about what they’re seeing in Gaza, and we understand how
painful it is — this moment is for them.  That’s why we’ve been working
so hard to try to get a deal to — that would lead us to a ceasefire, get
hostages home, and make sure that we get that humanitarian aid.  Let’s
not forget that the U.S. has led the effort in getting humanitarian
assistance into Gaza. 

And so — so, going to be super — kind of super — super mindful about the
particular polling questions.  But we do believe that, you know, we want
to make sure that we have an economy that works for young people.  We
want to make sure that we listen to young people and hear them out.  We
want to make sure that we continue to work on some of the issues that
the President has talked about, whether it’s student debt relief — this
is something that the President — it’s not going to stop him from doing
the work that he has been very clear about wanting to deliver for the
American people, including — including young Americans.  So —

Q    On his messaging to minorities?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well — and what do you mean spec- — like, what do you
mean spec- — like, specifically about that?

Q    Hispanic voters —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah. 

Q    — or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’m not going to speak to Hispanic voters or
voters —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — more — more specifically. 

But if you look at what the President has been able to accomplish for
different communities, we have seen an economy that he has created —
right? — that he’s wanted to create.  That is not a trickle-down
economy.  That — that is very much from the bottom up, middle out. 

And you’ve seen unemployment go down for the Hispanic community.  You’ve
seen wealth — when we talk about wealth gap: closing the wealth — wealth
gl- — gap and making sure that we’re creating jobs for Latino and
Hispanic communities, more specifically.  I think we’ve created more
than 4 million jobs in this administration for that particular
community. 

We’ve seen that as well for the Black community, the African American
community. 

We’ve been very consistent.  You heard me lay out what we’ve been able
to do for Asian Americans with this — with the President’s economic
policy.  So, we are very, very committed to making sure that communities
that are normally seen to be left behind are not left behind as it
relates to the President’s economic policy. 

You see that when he fights Big Pharma.  When he’s fighting Big Pharma
and lowering costs, that helps communities that you’re asking me about. 
When we’re talking about junk fees, that helps communities that you’re
asking me about. 

And so, when we’re talking about expanding ACA — we expanded that for
DREAMers, for DACA recipients.  That’s because — and you heard this
president say this last week — because he understands that DACA
recipients — many of them are part of our military, right?  They’re part
of what makes this country great. 

And so, those are actions that the President is going to continue to
take and continue to have those conversations and certainly message
that. 

I have to go.  Thanks, everybody.  I’ll see you tomorrow. 

I’ll be back tomorrow, guys.  Thanks, everyone.

Q    Thank you.

3:35 P.M. EDT
