---
date: '2023-05-25'
modified_time: 2023-05-25 14:43:27-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-25 11:34:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-first-ever-u-s-national-strategy-to-counter-antisemitism/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases First-Ever U.S. National\
  \ Strategy to Counter\_Antisemitism"
---
 
*Administration announces over 100 new actions and over 100 calls to
action to combat antisemitism, including new actions to counter
antisemitism on college campuses and online; whole-of-society strategy
includes new stakeholder commitments.*

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is releasing the first-ever [U.S.
National Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/U.S.-National-Strategy-to-Counter-Antisemitism.pdf).
This strategy includes over 100 new actions the Administration will take
to raise awareness of antisemitism and its threat to American democracy,
protect Jewish communities, reverse the normalization of antisemitism,
and build cross-community solidarity.    
  
President Biden decided to run for President after what we all saw in
Charlottesville in 2017, when Neo-Nazis marched from the shadows spewing
the same antisemitic bile that was heard in Europe in the 1930s. That is
why he has prioritized action to counter antisemitism and hate of all
kinds.  
  
The United States has recently experienced an alarming increase in
antisemitic incidents, among other acts of hatred. American Jews account
for 2.4% of the U.S. population, but they are the victims of 63% of
reported religiously motivated hate crimes, [according to the Federal
Bureau of
Investigation](https://cde.ucr.cjis.gov/LATEST/webapp/#/pages/explorer/crime/hate-crime)
(FBI).  
  
While antisemitic incidents most directly and intensely affect the
Jewish community, antisemitism threatens all of us. Antisemitic
conspiracy theories fuel other forms of hatred, discrimination, and
bias—including discrimination against other religious minorities,
racism, sexism, and anti-LGBTQI+ hate. Antisemitism seeks to divide
Americans from one another, erodes trust in government and
nongovernmental institutions, and undermines our democracy.  
  
That is why, in December, President Biden established the Interagency
Policy Committee on Antisemitism, Islamophobia, and Related Forms of
Bias and Discrimination, led by the White House Domestic Policy Council
and National Security Council. As its first order of business, President
Biden tasked this group with producing the first-ever U.S. national
strategy to counter antisemitism in the United States.  
  
This national strategy sets forth a whole-of-society plan that both
meets this moment of escalating hatred and lays the foundation for
reducing antisemitism over time. Informed by input from over 1,000
stakeholders from every sector of American society, it **outlines over
100 new actions that Executive Branch agencies have committed to take in
order to counter antisemitism**—all of which will be completed within a
year. The strategy also calls on Congress to enact legislation that
would help counter antisemitism and urges every sector of society to
mobilize against this age-old hatred, including state and local
governments, civil society, schools and academic institutions, the tech
sector, businesses, and diverse religious communities.  
  
To support the whole-of-society call to action, today the Biden-Harris
Administration also **announced commitments to counter antisemitism and
build cross-community solidarity by organizations across the private
sector, civil society, religious and multi-faith communities, and higher
education**. Today’s announcements include commitments from the
Anti-Defamation League, American Jewish Committee, Asian American
Foundation, Black Jewish Entertainment Alliance, College of William &
Mary, Council on American-Islamic Relations, Foundation to Combat
Antisemitism alongside six professional sports leagues, Interfaith
Alliance, Jewish Council for Public Affairs, National Action Network,
National Basketball Players Association, National Urban League,
Polarization & Extremism Research & Innovation Lab at American
University, Recording Academy, Religious Freedom & Business Foundation,
Sikh Coalition, Southern Poverty Law Center, and UnidosUS. The
Administration calls on additional organizations to join this existing
group in establishing their own impactful initiatives to counter
antisemitism.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration will ensure the strategy’s effective
implementation and leverage it to advance our fight against other forms
of hate. In addition, the strategy reaffirms the United States’
unshakable commitment to the State of Israel’s right to exist, its
legitimacy, and its security—and makes clear that when Israel is singled
out because of anti-Jewish hatred, that is antisemitism.  
  
To read the full strategy, all agency actions, and the Administration’s
calls to action, [click
here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/U.S.-National-Strategy-to-Counter-Antisemitism.pdf).
Among other steps, the Biden-Harris Administration will:  
  
**Pillar 1: Increase awareness and understanding of antisemitism,
including its threat to America, and broaden appreciation of Jewish
American heritage**  
  
Far too many Americans do not recognize antisemitism and understand its
threat to our society. The U.S. government will harness our collective
resources to increase education about antisemitism and its threat to
democracy, the Holocaust, and Jewish contributions to American
society.  
  
In 2024, **the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum will launch the
first-ever U.S.-based Holocaust education research center**. Once the
new center is fully operational, it will undertake systematic, rigorous,
and actionable research into teaching and learning about the Holocaust
and study the impact and effectiveness of Holocaust education in the
U.S. Agencies will also create new materials on contemporary
antisemitism and Jewish American heritage and history. **The U.S.
government will also bolster research on antisemitism**, its impact on
American society, and its intersection with other forms of hate through
funding opportunities, resources, and outreach from several agencies.  
  
Furthermore, the U.S. government will raise awareness on these topics
both inside and outside of classroom environments, including in the
workplace, in museums and libraries, and in the media. **Federal
agencies will incorporate information about antisemitic bias and
discrimination and about workplace religious accommodations into their
training programs.** Additionally, the Office of Personnel Management,
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), and Office of Management
and Budget will conduct **learning sessions for agency diversity,
equity, inclusion, and accessibility officers on antisemitism and
related forms of discrimination**, as well as workplace religious
accommodations.  
  
**Pillar No. 2: Improve safety and security for Jewish communities**  
  
All Americans deserve to practice their faith freely and live their
lives without the fear of attack or harassment. Many Jews in America do
not have that peace of mind. Violent attacks against Jews are
increasing. Verbal harassment, bomb threats, and vandalism against
Jewish people, synagogues, and community institutions remain prevalent.
A more holistic approach to improve safety and security for Jewish and
other vulnerable communities will help prevent violence against Jewish
communities in the near term and reduce the threat in the future.  
  
America cannot effectively counter antisemitism if we lack robust data
on the phenomenon, online and in our communities. **The White House
Office of Science and Technology Policy, with the DPC and National
Security Council (NSC)**, **will** launch an interagency effort to
understand and eliminate the impediments to reporting of hate
incidents.  
  
The Administration will continue to prioritize combating hate and
discrimination in all its forms, including hate crimes, and to ensure
robust engagement between law enforcement, government leaders, civil
rights organizations, and the communities they serve. Among other
actions, **the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will conduct a
series of workshops on countering antisemitic and other forms of
hate-motivated violence** against communities impacted by targeted
violence. **Department of Justice (DOJ) offices across the country will
undertake targeted engagement with community-based groups** including
youth, faith leaders, cultural leaders, and civil rights organizers from
Jewish communities and other communities victimized by hate crimes.  
  
We will join Americans in expanding community-based prevention efforts
to reach and guide individuals off the pathway to antisemitic violence.
**NSC will amplify financial, technical, and training assistance**
offered to state and local partners establishing and expanding these
community-based prevention efforts.  
  
To improve threat information sharing between law enforcement and online
platforms, **the FBI and National Counterterrorism Center will conduct
an annual threat assessment** on antisemitic drivers of transnational
violent extremism that can be shared with technology companies and other
nongovernmental partners. A declassified version of the first threat
assessment, released today, is available
[here](https://www.fbi.gov/file-repository/fbi-executive-update-antisemitism-a-persistent-driver-of-transnational-violent-extemist-narratives-and-attacks-052523.pdf/view).
And to address foreign support for antisemitism in the U.S., the NSC
will review the authorities and capabilities of federal agencies to
**target transnational networks seeking to foster antisemitism in the
U.S. and elsewhere**.  
  
**Also today, DHS and DOJ** published a [resource
guide](https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/resources/protecting-places-worship-six-steps-enhance-security-against-targeted-violence)
titled “Protecting Places of Worship: Six Steps to Enhance Security
Against Targeted Violence,” outlining actions Jewish and other
faith-based organizations and houses of worship can take to increase
security through easily implementable steps that sustain an open and
welcoming environment. And **the Administration calls on Congress to
fully fund its FY24 budget request of $360 million for the Nonprofit
Security Grant Program (NSGP)**—$55 million above the FY23 enacted
amount.  
  
**Pillar 3: Reverse the normalization of antisemitism and counter
antisemitic discrimination**  
  
One of the most alarming aspects of the current wave of antisemitism is
the extent to which it has become “normalized.” Antisemitic conspiracy
theories and content are rampant online and in public spaces.
High-profile politicians, athletes, celebrities, and others have used
their influential platforms to spread conspiracy theories and Holocaust
denialism.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration will, first and foremost, continue
**speaking out clearly and forcefully against antisemitism and those who
peddle it, and urge all sectors of society to do the same**. In
addition, the U.S. Government will take steps wherever it can to tackle
the rise of antisemitism online. **We also call on Congress to hold
social media platforms accountable** for spreading hate-fueled violence,
including antisemitism; impose much stronger transparency requirements
on online platforms; and pass legislation requiring platforms to enable
timely and robust public interest research, including on the spread of
antisemitism and other forms of hate.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration also **encourages all online platforms
to independently commit to taking several actions that will counter
antisemitism**, including: ensuring terms of service and community
standards explicitly cover antisemitism; adopting zero-tolerance for
hate speech terms of service and community standards and permanently
banning repeat offenders of these policies; investing in the human and
technical resources necessary to enable vigorous and timely enforcement
of their terms of service and community standards; improving their
capabilities to stop recommending and de-rank antisemitic and other
hateful content; increasing the transparency of their algorithmic
recommendation systems and data; treating antisemitism as a distinct
category in transparency reports; and more.  
  
The government will also **counter antisemitism in K-12 schools and on
college campuses. The Department of Education (ED) will launch an
[Antisemitism Awareness
Campaign](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/us-department-education-launches-antisemitism-awareness-campaign)
in 2023**. **Today, ED is issuing a Dear Colleague Letter to schools**,
reminding them of their legal obligation under Title VI of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 to address complaints of discrimination, including
harassment, based on race, color, or national origin, including shared
ancestry, such as Jewish ancestry, and ethnic characteristics. **Senior
ED officials, along with other federal partners and influencers, will
visit** **schools** and institutions of higher education (IHEs) that are
effectively addressing antisemitism to amplify their efforts, as well as
schools and IHEs that need help responding to an uptick in antisemitic
activity.  
  
Federal agencies also commit to using and **raising awareness about
federal laws prohibiting antisemitic discrimination** to ensure that
stakeholders understand these legal obligations and that affected
individuals know how to file complaints. For example, today, the
**Department of Housing and Urban Development issued a**
[**letter**](https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/FHEO/documents/Ensuring%20Fair%20Housing%20Amidst%20Ongoing%20Religious%20Discrimination.pdf)
**to the over 200 federally-funded Fair Housing Initiatives Programs and
Fair Housing Assistance Programs** on how to identify and counter
antisemitism, Islamophobia, and related forms of bias and discrimination
in housing. Eight agencies—the Departments of Agriculture, Labor, Health
and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, Homeland Security,
Interior, Transportation, and Treasury—will produce **fact sheets
explaining that Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act prohibits
discrimination based on shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics**,
including certain antisemitic and related forms of discrimination and
bias in federally funded programs and activities.  
  
Agencies will promote **religious communities’ equitable access to
government programs.  **The Department of Agriculture will work to
**ensureequal access to all USDA feeding programs** for USDA customers
with religious dietary needs, including kosher and halal dietary needs.
The Biden-Harris Administration will ensure that appropriate
accommodations are made for religious practices, including Jewish
observance. To this end, **the EEOC will broadly disseminate its
materials on nondiscrimination and religious accommodation**s in the
workplace to employers and employees, including federal agencies,
nongovernmental employers, and workplace Employee Resource Groups.  
  
**Pillar 4: Build cross-community solidarity and collective action to
counter hate**  
  
Any effort to counter antisemitism must be grounded in work that unites
Americans from all backgrounds and beliefs to work in common purpose to
stand united against hate. The Administration will identify and support
the scaling of the most effective cross-community, solidarity-building
efforts to counter hate, including antisemitism. The **White House
Office of Public Engagement will launch the Ally Challenge**, inviting
Americans to describe their acts of allyship with Jewish or other
communities that are not their own.  
  
To expand and mobilize multi-faith partnerships**, the White House
Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, alongside federal
agencies and diverse faith leaders,will produce a toolkit for faith
communities on standing in solidarity** with other religious communities
to counter antisemitism and other forms of hate.  
  
The strategy builds upon the Biden-Harris Administration’s strong record
of support for Jewish Americans and action to counter antisemitism:

-   In 2021, President Biden signed **Jabara-Heyer NO HATE Act and the**
    **COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act**, which enhance state and local law
    enforcement agencies’ ability to respond to hate crimes.
-   In fiscal year 2022, President Biden secured a **40% increase in the
    NSGP,** which supports the physical security of nonprofit
    organizations, including synagogues and other houses of worship.
-   In September 2022, President Biden hosted the **United We Stand
    Summit** to affirm our shared commitment across all American
    communities to fighting hate.
-   In June 2021, the Administration released the first-ever **U.S.
    National Strategy for Countering Domestic Terrorism. **
-   President Biden nominated **Ambassador Deborah Lipstadt** to serve
    as the first Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism to
    have been appointed at the Ambassador level.
-   **Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff**, the first Jewish spouse of a
    President or Vice President of the United States, has focused
    crucial attention on the rise of antisemitism. He has met with
    interfaith leaders and special envoys from around the world to
    advance the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to combat
    antisemitism and support Holocaust remembrance.
-   The **White House hosted the first** High Holiday reception,
    established the first permanent White House menorah during Hanukkah,
    and hosted the first White House reception for Jewish American
    Heritage Month.
-   Agencies around the executive branch have honored Jewish Americans’
    contributions throughout **Jewish American Heritage Month (JAHM)**
    in May. For example, the FBI held its first-ever JAHM celebration
    this year with U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland, Ambassador
    Lipstadt, and FBI Deputy Director Paul Abbate. USDA hosted a JAHM
    event focused on Jewish contributions to agriculture and the fight
    against hunger in America.  

**Among the external commitments that stakeholders have committed to
take**:

-   The **National Basketball Players Association** will launch a Global
    Leadership Fellowship will bring together NBA players, civil rights
    leaders, and human rights organizations to examine issues of race,
    antisemitism, and the historical legacy of discrimination. Combining
    travel to places like Selma, Alabama, Auschwitz, the Japanese
    Internment Camps, and Yad Vashem in Israel with small group learning
    with clergy and civil rights leaders, participating players will
    examine and challenge preconceived notions, creating a new
    perception of their society and their role in it. 
-   The **National Action Network, National Urban League, the Asian
    American Foundation,** **UnidosUS,** and the **Anti-Defamation
    League (ADL)** will co-convene local dialogues with organizations
    that serve Jewish, Black, Asian American, Latino, and other
    vulnerable communities, including Jews of Color, with the goal of
    building mutual understanding, countering extremism, and addressing
    manifestations of bigotry within, across, and impacting ethnic,
    racial, and religious communities. Their national organizations and
    local affiliates will create inclusive spaces in multiple cities for
    open and honest discussions to continue to build relationships that
    will serve as a foundation for a united front against antisemitism,
    racism, and all forms of hate.
-   Professional sports leagues and teams will come together for a
    convening hosted by the **Foundation to Combat Antisemitism** to
    discuss strategies, tools and best practices to effectively combat
    antisemitism and all forms of hate. The conversation will include
    participants from the **National Basketball Association, Women’s
    National Basketball Association, National Football League, National
    Hockey League, Major League Soccer, National Association for Stock
    Car Auto Racing (NASCAR)** and the **Eradicate Hate Global Summit
    Sports Working Group**.
-   The **Council on American-Islamic Relations** will launch a tour to
    educate religious communities about steps they can take to protect
    their houses of worship from hate incidents, such as instituting
    appropriate security measures, developing strong relationships with
    other faith communities, and maintaining open lines of communication
    with local law enforcement.  
-   The **ADL** will partner with the **Interparliamentary Task Force to
    Combat Online Antisemitism** to convene a meeting in the fall to
    examine the impact of artificial intelligence and generative
    artificial intelligence on online antisemitism. 
-   The **American Jewish Committee (AJC)** will expand its Call to
    Action Against Antisemitism in America to mobilize all sectors of
    American society to understand, respond to, and prevent
    antisemitism.
-   The **College of William and Mary** will sponsor its Dean of
    Students’ participation in a Fellowship and Summer Institute on
    Antisemitism and Jewish Inclusion in Educational Settings. They will
    also host a full-year “lunch and learn” program for faculty and
    staff designed to bridge differences and educate on topics such as
    “The Convergence of Abrahamic Major Religious Holidays: A Discussion
    of Interfaith and Religious Diversity.” William and Mary will also
    support a co-curricular series on faith in action for students,
    including field trips to the United States Holocaust Memorial
    Museum. 

<!-- -->

-   The **Interfaith Alliance** will publish a new resource guide,
    “Mobilizing Against Antisemitism,” to educate its national network
    about antisemitism and engage diverse communities in building
    partnerships to fight hate. The resource guide illustrates how
    antisemitism appears in communities across the country today and
    offers guidance on how to best challenge antisemitism through
    education, building community partnerships, and supporting the work
    of Jewish organizations. Interfaith Alliance will share this guide
    and associated training with its over 60,000 individual supporters
    and activists around the country, many of whom are leaders in their
    own congregations, and 15 state affiliates with strong state and
    local faith networks. 
-   The **Recording Academy** will host a listening session with
    Recording Academy Leadership in July 2023, specifically curated for
    creators in Jewish music. Their primary objective for this session
    is to establish a safe and inclusive environment where leaders in
    Jewish music can come together to ignite meaningful discussions and
    foster a strong sense of community. In addition, the Recording
    Academy will collaborate with the **Black Jewish Entertainment
    Alliance** to present a panel discussion commemorating the 50th
    anniversary of Hip Hop. The panel discussion aims to honor and
    celebrate Hip Hop while acknowledging the profound cultural
    collaboration between Black and Jewish leaders within the industry.
-   The **Sikh Coalition** will issue a guide for law enforcement to
    address hate crimes better. It also plans to publish guidance for
    federal policymakers to address hate in all forms against
    communities, including whole-of-society policy proposals.
-   The **Southern Poverty Law Center** and the **Polarization &
    Extremism Research & Innovation Lab at American University** will
    develop free resources against extremism and antisemitism. They are
    committed to providing these resources to the people building
    community resilience against extremism and working for a more just
    and inclusive society. 
-   The **Religious Freedom & Business Foundation**, in collaboration
    with the **ADL and AJC**, will ensure that every faith-based
    Employee Resource Group of Fortune 500 companies receives ADL and
    AJC materials on countering antisemitism and related forms of
    discrimination and bias, workplace religious accommodations, and
    Jewish culture and contributions to American and world history.
-   The **Jewish Council for Public Affairs** will build coalitions that
    bring together Jewish organizations and individuals together with
    diverse racial, ethnic, faith, and civic leaders and groups to
    combat discrimination, bigotry, and exclusion and protect democracy.
    These coalitions will provide guidance, best practices, advocacy
    tools, model legislation, and other resources to enable the 125
    local Jewish Community Relations Councils across the country to
    enlist and empower their communities in the fight against
    antisemitism, hate, and anti-democratic extremism.

\###
