---
date: '2023-05-03'
published_time: 2023-05-03 10:27:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/03/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-occasion-of-world-press-freedom-day-2023/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Occasion of World Press Freedom\
  \ Day\_2023"
---
 
Journalism is not a crime—it is fundamental to a free society. Today, as
we mark the 30<sup>th</sup> anniversary of World Press Freedom Day, we
honor all the journalists, reporters, and media workers who bravely
pursue the truth. And, we renew our pledge to hold to account all those
that seek to silence these voices essential to transparent and
trustworthy governance.   
  
As enshrined in the First Amendment of our Constitution, Congress shall
pass no law “abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press.” That’s
because a free press is a pillar of democracy. It allows our government
and our society to be self-critical and self-correcting. It educates,
illuminates, exposes, and uncovers. It serves as a guardian of truth.  
  
No journalist – American or not – should have to risk their lives and
livelihoods in pursuit of that truth. Evan Gershkovich and Austin Tice
weigh heavy on my mind today. No family should have to endure the pain
I’ve seen their families bear. But in far too many places around the
world, autocrats and their enablers continue to repress a free and
independent media—through censorship, retribution, threats, lawsuits,
harassment, disinformation, detention, and physical attacks.  
  
Courageous journalists around the world have shown time and again that
they will not be silenced or intimidated. The United States sees them
and stands with them. That’s why we’re providing more resources than
ever to support digital and physical security training for
journalists—because no reporter should fear for his or her life because
of the work they do. We’re also working with partners around the world
to launch a new fund dedicated to providing defense counsel to
journalists. And we are providing funding to the Promoting Information
Integrity and Resilience Initiative, which will help support a free and
independent media, strengthen global information integrity, and help
journalists do their jobs as safely as possible.

Today—and every day—we must all stand with journalists around the
world.  We must all speak out against those who wish to silence them.
And we must all continue to support a free press that is essential to
our democracy and democracies everywhere

\###
