---
date: '2023-05-04'
modified_time: 2023-05-04 11:18:26-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-04 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/04/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-promote-responsible-ai-innovation-that-protects-americans-rights-and-safety/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Actions to Promote\
  \ Responsible AI Innovation that Protects Americans\u2019 Rights and\_Safety"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new actions that
will further promote responsible American innovation in artificial
intelligence (AI) and protect people’s rights and safety. These steps
build on the Administration’s strong record of leadership to ensure
technology improves the lives of the American people, and break new
ground in the federal government’s ongoing effort to advance a cohesive
and comprehensive approach to AI-related risks and opportunities.  
  
AI is one of the most powerful technologies of our time, but in order to
seize the opportunities it presents, we must first mitigate its risks.
President Biden has been clear that when it comes to AI, we must place
people and communities at the center by supporting responsible
innovation that serves the public good, while protecting our society,
security, and economy. Importantly, this means that companies have a
fundamental responsibility to make sure their products are safe before
they are deployed or made public.  
  
Vice President Harris and senior Administration officials will meet
today with CEOs of four American companies at the forefront of AI
innovation—Alphabet, Anthropic, Microsoft, and OpenAI—to underscore this
responsibility and emphasize the importance of driving responsible,
trustworthy, and ethical innovation with safeguards that mitigate risks
and potential harms to individuals and our society. The meeting is part
of a broader, ongoing effort to engage with advocates, companies,
researchers, civil rights organizations, not-for-profit organizations,
communities, international partners, and others on critical AI issues.  
  
This effort builds on the considerable steps the Administration has
taken to date to promote responsible innovation. These include the
landmark [Blueprint for an AI Bill of
Rights](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ostp/ai-bill-of-rights/) and [related
executive
actions](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/10/04/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-key-actions-to-advance-tech-accountability-and-protect-the-rights-of-the-american-public/) announced
last fall, as well as the [AI Risk Management
Framework](https://www.nist.gov/itl/ai-risk-management-framework) and
a [roadmap for standing up a National AI Research
Resource](https://www.ai.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/NAIRR-TF-Final-Report-2023.pdf) released
earlier this year.  
  
The Administration has also taken important actions to protect Americans
in the AI age. In February, President Biden signed an [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/16/executive-order-on-further-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/) that
directs federal agencies to root out bias in their design and use of new
technologies, including AI, and to protect the public from algorithmic
discrimination. Last week, the Federal Trade Commission, Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission,
and Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division issued a [joint
statement](https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/EEOC-CRT-FTC-CFPB-AI-Joint-Statement%28final%29.pdf) underscoring
their collective commitment to leverage their existing legal authorities
to protect the American people from AI-related harms.  
  
The Administration is also actively working to address the national
security concerns raised by AI, especially in critical areas like
cybersecurity, biosecurity, and safety. This includes enlisting the
support of government cybersecurity experts from across the national
security community to ensure leading AI companies have access to best
practices, including protection of AI models and networks.  
  
**<u>Today’s announcements include:</u>**

-   **New investments to power responsible American AI research and
    development (R&D). **The National Science Foundation is announcing
    $140 million in funding to launch seven new National AI Research
    Institutes. This investment will bring the total number of
    Institutes to 25 across the country, and extend the network of
    organizations involved into nearly every state. These Institutes
    catalyze collaborative efforts across institutions of higher
    education, federal agencies, industry, and others to pursue
    transformative AI advances that are ethical, trustworthy,
    responsible, and serve the public good. In addition to promoting
    responsible innovation, these Institutes bolster America’s AI R&D
    infrastructure and support the development of a diverse AI
    workforce. The new Institutes announced today will advance AI R&D to
    drive breakthroughs in critical areas, including climate,
    agriculture, energy, public health, education, and cybersecurity.  
     
-   **Public assessments of existing generative AI systems.** The
    Administration is announcing an independent commitment from leading
    AI developers, including Anthropic, Google, Hugging Face, Microsoft,
    NVIDIA, OpenAI, and Stability AI, to participate in a public
    evaluation of AI systems, consistent with responsible disclosure
    principles—on an evaluation platform developed by Scale AI—at the AI
    Village at DEFCON 31. This will allow these models to be evaluated
    thoroughly by thousands of community partners and AI experts to
    explore how the models align with the principles and practices
    outlined in the Biden-Harris Administration’s Blueprint for an AI
    Bill of Rights and AI Risk Management Framework. This independent
    exercise will provide critical information to researchers and the
    public about the impacts of these models, and will enable AI
    companies and developers to take steps to fix issues found in those
    models. Testing of AI models independent of government or the
    companies that have developed them is an important component in
    their effective evaluation.
-   **Policies to ensure the U.S. government is leading by example on
    mitigating AI risks and harnessing AI opportunities.** The Office of
    Management and Budget (OMB) is announcing that it will be releasing
    draft policy guidance on the use of AI systems by the U.S.
    government for public comment. This guidance will establish specific
    policies for federal departments and agencies to follow in order to
    ensure their development, procurement, and use of AI systems centers
    on safeguarding the American people’s rights and safety. It will
    also empower agencies to responsibly leverage AI to advance their
    missions and strengthen their ability to equitably serve
    Americans—and serve as a model for state and local governments,
    businesses and others to follow in their own procurement and use of
    AI. OMB will release this draft guidance for public comment this
    summer, so that it will benefit from input from advocates, civil
    society, industry, and other stakeholders before it is finalized.

\###
