---
date: '2023-05-01'
modified_time: 2023-05-01 16:39:38-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-01 16:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/01/joint-statement-of-the-leaders-of-the-united-states-and-the-philippines/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement of the Leaders of the United\_States and the\_Philippines"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. is honored to welcome Philippine
President Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr. to Washington, DC. The leaders
recognize the remarkable ties of friendship, community, and shared
sacrifice that serve as the foundation of the U.S.-Philippines
alliance.  
  
President Biden and President Marcos welcome the historic momentum in
U.S.-Philippine relations, and resolve to continue expanding engagement
and cooperation on all issues of common concern.  In efforts to promote
inclusive and broad-based prosperity, invest in the clean energy
transition and the fight against climate change, uphold international
peace and stability, and ensure respect for human rights and the rule of
law, the United States and the Philippines will remain the closest of
allies, working together to deliver a better future for our citizens and
tackle the emerging challenges of the twenty-first century.

*<u>  
Partnering for Peace and Security: Strengthening our Alliance, Upholding
International Law, and Expanding Regional Collaboration</u>*

President Biden reaffirms the United States’ ironclad alliance
commitments to the Philippines, underscoring that an armed attack on
Philippine armed forces, public vessels, or aircraft in the Pacific,
including in the South China Sea, would invoke U.S. mutual defense
commitments under Article IV of the 1951 U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense
Treaty.  
  
The leaders welcome the identification of new sites pursuant to the
U.S.-Philippines Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement, which will
strengthen Philippine security and support the Armed Forces of the
Philippines’ modernization goals, while driving U.S. investment to local
communities across the Philippines and improving our shared ability to
rapidly deliver humanitarian assistance and disaster relief.  
  
The leaders underscore their unwavering commitment to freedom of
navigation and overflight in the South China Sea, and the importance of
respecting the sovereign rights of states within their exclusive
economic zones consistent with international law. The leaders support
the right and ability of Filipino fisherfolk to pursue their traditional
livelihoods. The leaders note the ruling of the 2016 arbitral tribunal,
constituted pursuant to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea (UNCLOS). They affirm the importance of maintaining peace and
stability across the Taiwan Strait as an indispensable element of global
security and prosperity. The leaders convey support for Ukraine’s
sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity within its
internationally recognized borders, noting that the conflict has
adversely affected food and energy security in the Indo-Pacific.  
  
The leaders welcome cooperation with partners that share the United
States’ and the Philippines’ commitment to international law and mutual
respect, and in that spirit, they reaffirm their strong support for
ASEAN centrality and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific. They look
forward to establishing trilateral modes of cooperation among the
Philippines, Japan, and the United States, as well as the Philippines,
Australia, and the United States. Furthermore, they welcome the Quad’s
commitment to support a peaceful and stable, rules-based region with
ASEAN at the center, through its efforts to advance a free and open
Indo-Pacific.

*<u>  
Delivering Prosperity and Resilience: Driving Broad-Based Economic
Growth, Accelerating the Clean Energy Transition, and Promoting the
Well-Being of Our Citizens</u>*

President Biden and President Marcos resolve to draw on the strength of
their partnership to promote enduring economic growth and prosperity in
the United States, the Philippines, and the broader Indo-Pacific region.
To that end, President Biden will dispatch a Presidential Trade and
Investment Mission to the Philippines on his behalf, to enhance U.S.
companies’ investment in the Philippines’ innovation economy, its clean
energy transition and critical minerals sector, and the food security of
its people. Furthermore, the leaders announce that the United States and
the Philippines will co-host the 2024 Indo-Pacific Business Forum – the
United States’ marquee commercial event in the region – in Manila, which
will further establish the Philippines as a key hub for regional supply
chains and high-quality investment. Additionally, the two countries will
pursue engagements with stakeholders, including in the business and
social sectors, regarding opportunities to enhance bilateral economic
engagement in a manner that is worker-centered, sustainability-driven,
fair, and transparent, focusing on sectors in which it is critical to
develop resilient supply chains and in which significant and meaningful
economic value-added and employment can be generated in the United
States and the Philippines.  
  
The leaders welcome their countries’ plans to prioritize bilateral
economic cooperation through the U.S.-Philippines Trade and Investment
Framework Agreement (TIFA). The leaders also applaud progress in
developing the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, which will deliver
concrete benefits to our workers, families, and businesses by promoting
trade, supply chain resilience, clean economy development, and
anti-corruption throughout the region. The two leaders look forward to
seeing one another again in San Francisco this November for the APEC
Economic Leaders’ Week, to advance sustainable and inclusive economic
growth in the region.  
  
Recognizing that the climate crisis poses an existential threat to the
world, and the Philippines’ particular vulnerability to the effects of
climate change, the leaders reaffirm they will undertake urgent action
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. They resolve to expand collaboration
on renewable energy production to accelerate the clean energy transition
while bringing down energy costs and expanding energy access for
families. The leaders hail progress in negotiating a U.S.-Philippines
civil nuclear cooperation agreement (“123 agreement”). The United States
and the Philippines will also pursue an ambitious program of cooperation
on wind, solar, and geothermal energy, while enhancing cooperation on
reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the waste, road, and shipping
sectors.  
  
The leaders further resolve to expand cooperation on environmental
protections, including enhanced domain awareness, marine conservation,
and protecting coastal areas from environmental degradation.
Acknowledging the paramount significance of science and technology in
propelling our countries forward, the leaders pledge to promote
increased cooperation and knowledge sharing between the United States
and the Philippines through the Science and Technology Agreement (STA),
and they welcome U.S. plans to establish an Open-RAN Interoperability
Lab in Manila. Recognizing the importance of enhancing and sustaining
joint efforts in outer space activities, the leaders also welcome their
countries’ plan to prioritize and strengthen bilateral space
cooperation, including by convening their first bilateral Civil Space
Dialogue this year.  
  
The leaders underscore the importance of strong democratic institutions,
rule of law, and respect for human rights, including freedom of
expression, press, and association, and they note the importance of
countering any form of violence in our societies, such as that against
civil society, women, children, and marginalized groups. The leaders
welcome the establishment of a bilateral Labor Working Group as part of
the U.S.-Philippines TIFA, which will provide an important opportunity
for the United States and the Philippines to work together on
implementation of internationally recognized labor rights, and to
facilitate exchange and dialogue among U.S. and Philippine governments
and labor unions, as well as employer organizations.  
  
The leaders recognize that the people-to-people ties between the two
countries are an indispensable pillar of our partnership, manifested in
their immense contributions to both the United States and the
Philippines.  The leaders note the service and sacrifice of Filipinos in
World War II, and more recently, the significant contributions of
Filipino Americans on the frontlines of the COVID-19 pandemic.  
  
Looking to the future, President Biden and President Marcos express the
utmost confidence that the special ties between their nations and their
people will only grow stronger with time, as the United States and the
Philippines continue to realize their shared vision of partnership,
peace, and prosperity.

\### 
