---
date: '2023-05-20'
published_time: 2023-05-20 09:50:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/20/quad-leaders-joint-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Quad Leaders\u2019 Joint\_Statement"
---
 
20 May 2023, Hiroshima

Today, we — Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia, Prime Minister
Narendra Modi of India, Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan, and
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. of the United States — met for the third
in-person Quad Leaders’ Summit, hosted by Prime Minister Albanese.  
  
Together, we reaffirm our steadfast commitment to a free and open
Indo-Pacific that is inclusive and resilient. The global strategic and
economic environment is changing rapidly – with direct impacts on
countries in the region. We believe we should navigate this time of
uncertainty and opportunity together, working closely with our
Indo-Pacific partners. We believe all countries have a role in
contributing to regional peace, stability, and prosperity, as well as
upholding international law, including the principles of sovereignty and
territorial integrity, and the rules-based international order. We seek
a region where no country dominates and no country is dominated – one
where all countries are free from coercion, and can exercise their
agency to determine their futures. Our four countries are united by this
shared vision.  
  
As Indo-Pacific countries, Quad partners are deeply invested in our
region’s success. Harnessing our collective strengths and resources, we
are supporting the region’s development, stability, and prosperity
through the Quad’s positive, practical agenda. Our work is guided by
regional countries’ priorities and responds to the region’s needs. We
are and will continue to be transparent in what we do. Respect for the
leadership of regional institutions, including the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF), and
the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA), is and will remain at the
centre of the Quad’s efforts.  
  
The Quad Leaders’ Vision Statement we have issued today sets out our
shared vision for the Quad and the Indo-Pacific region based on these
principles.  
  
Today we reaffirm our consistent and unwavering support for ASEAN
centrality and unity. We are committed to ensuring the Quad’s work is
aligned with ASEAN’s principles and priorities and continues to support
implementation of the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP). We
underscore ASEAN’s regional leadership role, including in the East Asia
Summit, the region’s premier leader-led forum for strategic dialogue,
and the ASEAN Regional Forum. We strongly support Indonesia’s 2023 ASEAN
Chairmanship and its Chair theme “ASEAN Matters: Epicentrum of Growth”.
We will continue to strengthen our respective relationships with ASEAN
and seek opportunities for greater Quad collaboration in support of the
AOIP.  
  
We recommit to working in partnership with Pacific island countries to
achieve shared aspirations and address shared challenges. We reaffirm
our support for Pacific regional institutions that have served the
region well over many years, foremost the PIF, and warmly welcome Cook
Islands assuming the PIF Chair in 2023. We continue to support the
objectives of the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent, and
commit to working with partners, including through Partners in the Blue
Pacific, to support engagement with these objectives. We welcome the
3rd Summit of the Forum for India-Pacific Islands Cooperation and the
U.S. – Pacific Island Forum meeting, both to be held in Papua New Guinea
in coming days. We also applaud Japan’s longstanding engagement with
Pacific island countries through the Pacific Islands’ Leaders Meeting
(PALM), and Australia’s deep and enduring commitment to the Pacific as
part of the Pacific family, including as a founding member of the PIF.  
  
In these efforts, Quad Leaders will listen to and be guided at every
step by Pacific priorities, including climate action, ocean health,
resilient infrastructure, maritime security and financial integrity. In
particular, we acknowledge climate change remains the single greatest
threat to the livelihoods, security and wellbeing of the peoples of the
Pacific and applaud Pacific island countries’ global leadership on
climate action.  
  
We remain committed to strengthening cooperation in the Indian Ocean
region. We welcome the work of IORA as the Indian Ocean region’s premier
forum for addressing the region’s challenges. We recognise India’s
leadership in finalising the IORA Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (IOIP) and
express our support for its implementation. We thank Bangladesh for its
term as IORA Chair and commit to working with Sri Lanka and India as
they assume the roles of IORA Chair and Vice Chair respectively this
year.  
  
We, the countries of the Quad, will work together to be a global force
for good. We will bring our combined resolve to support each other’s
international leadership in 2023 including Australia’s hosting of the
Quad, Japan’s G7 presidency, India’s G20 presidency and the United
States’ APEC host year.  
  
  
**The Quad’s positive, practical agenda**  
We recognise the urgent need to address the climate crisis, which poses
tremendous environmental, social, and economic challenges for our
region. Today we underline our dedication to taking significant action
on climate change – individually and collectively. We will continue to
support climate mitigation, adaptation, and resilience efforts in
alignment with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
and the Paris Agreement as well as regional architecture, including
ASEAN, the PIF, and IORA. We will continue to collaborate on green
shipping and ports, disaster risk management, exchanging climate
information, and capacity building support for Article 6 implementation
of the Paris Agreement. Under the Climate Information Services
Initiative, we plan to coordinate our collective resources to support
early warning systems in the Indo-Pacific, including through the
Pacific-led Weather Ready Pacific initiative and the longstanding
leadership of the Pacific Meteorological Council. We also intend to
provide support through global partnerships such as the Coalition for
Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) and its Infrastructure for
Resilient Islands States (IRIS) initiative.  
  
We recognise that achieving sustainable consumption and production is a
key component of global efforts to achieve the 2030 Agenda and
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), environment and climate ambitions.
We will work together to seek meaningful outcomes on climate action and
the clean economy transition in the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for
Prosperity (IPEF).  
  
The latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report makes clear
that rapid and far-reaching transitions are needed across all sectors
and systems. As we move to a net zero world, we underscore that it is
critical to strengthen our cooperation to ensure better access to
affordable, reliable and secure clean energy in the Indo-Pacific. We
will work together to increase the region’s access to climate finance
and climate smart technology. Under the Quad Climate Change Adaptation
and Mitigation Package (Q-CHAMP), launched in 2022, we continue to work
together and with Indo-Pacific partners to enhance climate and clean
energy cooperation as well as promote adaptation and resilience. In this
regard, we welcome the Sydney Energy Forum and the Quad Clean Hydrogen
Partnership meeting hosted by Australia and India respectively in July
2022.  
  
Building on those foundations, today, we are issuing a Statement of
Principles on Clean Energy Supply Chains in the Indo-Pacific, which
provide a basis for our engagement in the region on clean energy supply
chain development. The principles are designed to promote diverse,
secure, transparent and resilient clean energy supply chains and support
a sustainable, and inclusive clean energy transition. We also announce a
Clean Energy Supply Chains initiative designed to accelerate the
Indo-Pacific’s clean energy transition. Working with Indo-Pacific
partners, the initiative will facilitate research and development and
feasibility study projects to lower clean energy manufacturing and
deployment costs, enhance regional energy security, and expand and
diversify the regional production of necessary materials and
technologies.  
  
The COVID-19 pandemic has shown us how important health security is to
our societies, our economies, and the stability of our region. In 2021
and 2022, Quad partners stepped up to help meet the region’s most
pressing need, delivering more than 400 million safe and effective
COVID-19 vaccine doses to Indo-Pacific countries and almost 800 million
doses globally, bilaterally and in partnership with COVAX.  
  
Today, we announce the evolution of our Quad Vaccine Partnership into a
broader Quad Health Security Partnership. Through this partnership, we
will strengthen our coordination and collaboration in support of health
security in the Indo-Pacific. We plan to implement a suite of activities
to build the region’s capacity to detect and respond rapidly to
outbreaks of diseases with epidemic and pandemic potential. These
activities include support for health workforce development, disease
surveillance, and electronic health information systems and coordination
of outbreak responses, such as the Quad Pandemic Preparedness
Exercise.  
  
We will continue cooperation with Indo-Pacific partners to meet the
region’s infrastructure priorities. Delivering on our commitment at the
2022 Quad Leaders’ Summit, we will continue to support access to
quality, sustainable and climate-resilient infrastructure investments in
our region. We aim to ensure the investments we support are fit for
purpose, demand driven and responsive to countries’ needs, and do not
impose unsustainable debt burdens. We will build on ongoing programs for
Indo-Pacific countries including training and capacity-building focused
on digital and economic connectivity, clean energy, and climate
resilient power sector infrastructure. We continue to strengthen
capacity to manage debt issues, including under the G20 Common Framework
and promote debt sustainability and transparency.  
  
Today, we announce a new initiative to boost infrastructure expertise
across the Indo-Pacific: the ‘Quad Infrastructure Fellowships Program’.
The initiative aims to empower more than 1,800 of the region’s
infrastructure practitioners to design, build and manage quality
infrastructure in their home countries.  
  
The Quad is committed to improving the region’s connectivity through the
development of resilient infrastructure. We recognise the urgent need to
support quality undersea cable networks in the Indo-Pacific, which are
key to global growth and prosperity. Today we announce a new ‘Quad
Partnership for Cable Connectivity and Resilience’. The Partnership will
strengthen cable systems in the Indo-Pacific, drawing on Quad countries’
world-class expertise in manufacturing, delivering and maintaining cable
infrastructure.  
  
Quad partners’ export credit agencies make an important contribution to
the prosperity of the Indo-Pacific. We welcome ongoing efforts to
enhance cooperation among Quad partners’ export credit agencies:
including through a Memorandum of Cooperation between ECGC Limited of
India, Export Finance Australia (EFA), Nippon Export and Investment
Insurance (NEXI) of Japan, and Export-Import Bank of the United States
(USEXIM).  
  
We recognise the transformative power of technology, including digital
public infrastructure, to support sustainable development in the
Indo-Pacific and deliver economic and social benefits. We are stepping
up our efforts to strengthen supply chain resilience and improve the
region’s digital connectivity through access to critical and emerging
technologies and advanced telecommunications technology, including 5G
networks.  
  
Today, we announce cooperation with Palau to establish a deployment of
Open Radio Access Networks (Open RAN), the first in the Pacific. The
Quad is committed to ensuring regional countries are not left behind as
telecommunications markets and network architectures evolve. We support
access to innovations, such as Open RAN, that enable greater vendor
choice for countries to expand and modernise their telecommunications
networks. We also welcome the release of the Open RAN Security Report
which is expected to promote industry investment in approaches to
telecommunications that are demonstrably open, interoperable, trusted
and secure.  
  
The Quad International Standards Cooperation Network and the Quad
Principles on Critical and Emerging Technology Standards, released
today, reflect our support for industry-led, consensus-based
multi-stakeholder approaches to the development of technology
standards.  
  
We welcome the launch of the private sector-led Quad Investors Network
(QUIN), which aims to facilitate investments in strategic technologies,
including clean energy, semiconductors, critical minerals, and
quantum.  
We intend to support joint research to advance innovation in agriculture
through emerging technologies designed to empower farmers everywhere to
increase yield and resistance.  
  
We reaffirm our commitment to a more secure cyberspace and to fostering
an international digital economy that works for everyone. Quad partners
will continue collaborating to enhance regional capacity and resilience
to cyber incidents and threats. We welcome the first Quad Cyber
Challenge, held earlier this year to promote cyber awareness and empower
participants across the Indo-Pacific to protect themselves online. We
also welcome the Quad Joint Principles for Secure Software and the Quad
Joint Principles for Cyber Security of Critical Infrastructure, and
efforts to develop a guiding framework for ensuring supply chain
security and resilience. These principles are designed to strengthen our
region’s defences against cyber threats to the software supply chain and
critical infrastructure and services.  
  
We recognise the importance of space technologies and space-related
applications in responding to climate change and disasters, and
enhancing the sustainable use of oceans and marine resources. We
reaffirm our commitment to supporting capacity building for countries in
the region. The Quad Space Working Group will explore avenues to deliver
Earth Observation data and other space-related applications to assist
nations across the Indo-Pacific to strengthen climate early warning
systems and better manage the impacts of extreme weather events. We
commit to open sharing of civil Earth Observation data. We will continue
to consult each other and the region on the peaceful, safe and
sustainable use of outer space. We announce our intention to share
expertise and experience in space situational awareness. We commit to
strengthening our commercial space cooperation, including convening a
commercial space business forum in 2023.  
  
We are pleased the Indo-Pacific Partnership for Maritime Domain
Awareness (IPMDA), announced at the 2022 Tokyo Quad Leaders’ Summit, is
underway in its pilot phase. Through IPMDA, we are providing
near-real-time, integrated and cost-effective maritime domain data to
maritime agencies in Southeast Asia and the Pacific, and will expand
coverage to partners in the Indian Ocean region in the coming months.
This supports our regional partners in combatting a wide range of
illicit maritime activities, including illegal, unreported and
unregulated fishing, and responding to climate-related and humanitarian
events. We are committed to deepening engagement with regional partners
to support maritime safety and security and uphold international law.  
  
At the 2021 Quad Leaders’ Summit in Washington, we launched the Quad
Fellowship.  This year, we welcome the first cohort of Quad STEM
Fellows, who will begin their studies in the United States in August
2023. Our one hundred Quad Fellows from all four Quad countries
represent the best and brightest of our next generation. The diversity
and dynamism of this inaugural class will help to ensure our nations
remain at the forefront of innovation and we wish them well.  
   
  
**Global and regional issues**  
We remain fully resolved to uphold peace and stability in the
Indo-Pacific maritime domain. We strongly oppose destabilising or
unilateral actions that seek to change the status quo by force or
coercion. We emphasise the importance of adherence to international law,
particularly as reflected in the United Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea (UNCLOS), and the maintenance of freedom of navigation and
overflight, in addressing challenges to the maritime rules-based order,
including those in the East and South China Seas. We express serious
concern at the militarisation of disputed features, the dangerous use of
coastguard and maritime militia vessels, and efforts to disrupt other
countries’ offshore resource exploitation activities. We emphasise that
disputes should be resolved peacefully and in accordance with
international law, without threat or use of force.  
Together, with our global and regional partners, we will buttress
international institutions and initiatives that underpin global peace,
prosperity and development. We reiterate our unwavering support for the
United Nations (UN) Charter and the three pillars of the UN system. In
consultation with our partners, we will work collectively to address
attempts to unilaterally undermine the integrity of the UN, its Charter
and its agencies. We seek to strengthen and reform the multilateral
system so it may better reflect contemporary realities and meet
aspirations of the Indo-Pacific region. We remain committed to a
comprehensive UN reform agenda, including through expansion in permanent
and non-permanent categories of membership of the UN Security Council.
We reaffirm our commitment to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and
the achievement of its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We
underscore the importance of achieving the SDGs in a comprehensive
manner without selectively prioritising a narrow set of such goals, and
reaffirm that the UN has a central role in supporting countries in their
implementation.

We stand for adherence to international law, peaceful resolution of
disputes and respect for principles of the UN Charter, including
territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states. In this context,
today we express our deep concern over the war raging in Ukraine and
mourn its terrible and tragic humanitarian consequences. We recognise
its serious impacts on the global economic system including on food,
fuel and energy security and critical supply chains. We will continue to
render humanitarian assistance to Ukraine for its recovery. Conscious
that ours must not be an era of war, we remain committed to dialogue and
diplomacy. We support a comprehensive, just and lasting peace consistent
with the UN Charter. In this context, we concur that the use, or threat
of use, of nuclear weapons is serious and inadmissible.

We condemn North Korea’s destabilising ballistic missile launches and
pursuit of nuclear weapons in violation of multiple UN Security Council
resolutions (UNSCRs). These launches pose a grave threat to
international peace and stability. We urge North Korea to abide by all
its obligations under the UNSCRs, refrain from further provocations and
engage in substantive dialogue. We urge North Korea to resolve the
abductions issue immediately. We reaffirm our commitment to the complete
denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula consistent with relevant UNSCRs
and call on all countries to fully implement these UNSCRs. We stress the
importance of addressing proliferation of nuclear and missile
technologies related to North Korea in the region and beyond.

We remain deeply concerned by the deteriorating situation in Myanmar and
again call for an immediate cessation of violence. We call for the
release of all those arbitrarily detained, unhindered humanitarian
access, resolution of the crisis through constructive dialogue, and the
transition of Myanmar towards an inclusive democracy. We reaffirm our
consistent support to ASEAN-led efforts, including the work of the ASEAN
Chair and Office of the Special Envoy. We call for full implementation
of all commitments under the ASEAN Five-Point Consensus.

We unequivocally condemn terrorism and violent extremism in all its
forms and manifestations including cross-border terrorism. We are
committed to international cooperation and will work with our regional
partners in a comprehensive and sustained manner to strengthen
capability to prevent, detect and respond to threats posed by terrorism
and violent extremism, consistent with international law. We are
committed to working together to promote accountability for the
perpetrators of such terrorist attacks. We reiterate our condemnation of
terrorist attacks, including the 26/11 attacks in Mumbai and in
Pathankot, and our commitment to pursuing designations, as appropriate,
by the UN Security Council 1267 Sanctions Committee. We will strengthen
our cooperation through the new Working Group on Counterterrorism
announced during the Quad Foreign Ministers’ Meeting in March 2023.

We endorse the outcomes of the 3 March Quad Foreign Ministers’ Meeting
in New Delhi and the Ministers’ Joint Statement committing to deepening
practical and positive cooperation for the benefit of the Indo-Pacific
region. India will host our next in-person Quad Leaders’ Summit in 2024.

We, the Quad Leaders, remain firm in our resolve to meet the challenges
facing our region and clear in our vision for a free and open
Indo-Pacific that is stable, prosperous and inclusive. In doing so we
are committed to working in partnership with Indo-Pacific countries –
large and small – in deciding our future and shaping the region we all
want to live in.

\###
