---
date: '2023-05-31'
published_time: 2023-05-31 12:01:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/31/u-s-eu-joint-statement-of-the-trade-and-technology-council-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "U.S.-EU Joint Statement of the Trade and Technology\_Council"
---
 
31 May 2023  
Luleå, Sweden

**I. Introduction**  
   
The fourth Ministerial meeting of the Trade and Technology Council
(“TTC”) took place in Luleå, Sweden, on 31 May 2023. It was co-chaired
by European Commission Executive Vice President Margrethe Vestager,
European Commission Executive Vice President Valdis Dombrovskis, United
States Secretary of State Antony Blinken, United States Secretary of
Commerce Gina Raimondo, and United States Trade Representative Katherine
Tai, joined by European Commissioner Thierry Breton, and hosted by the
Swedish Presidency of the Council of the European Union.  
   
On this occasion, the United States and the European Union reiterated
the central role of the TTC in the broader transatlantic partnership,
the strategic nature of which was reconfirmed in the context of Russia’s
illegal and unjustifiable war of aggression against Ukraine. We reaffirm
our unwavering commitment to support Ukraine for as long as it takes.  
   
The TTC continues to contribute to a coordinated and effective response
to Russia’s war in Ukraine by the United States and the European Union,
including in areas such as sanction-related export restrictions and
combatting foreign information manipulation and interference (FIMI) and
disinformation campaigns which undermine human rights and threaten the
functioning of democracies and the well-being of societies, including in
third countries.  
   
We recognize that the changing international environment requires
enhanced cooperation and information exchange to identify and respond to
challenges affecting our economic security. We further reaffirm that the
basis of our cooperation to strengthen our economic security is rooted
in the international rules-based system. We continue to strengthen our
bilateral coordination in these areas as well as working with other
partners, including the G7, to diversify our supply chains, to address
non-market policies and practices designed to reinforce dependencies and
to increase our mutual collective preparedness, resilience, and
deterrence to economic coercion.  
   
The United States and the European Union are committed to joint
leadership in promoting and upholding an international rules-based order
grounded in shared values. We continue to cooperate in multilateral
discussions related to trade and technology in fora such as the G20 and
G7, continue our efforts to modernize global trade rules by seeking
solutions to reform the World Trade Organization (WTO) and make
substantive progress as we prepare for the 13th WTO Ministerial
Conference.  
   
Given the rapid pace of technological developments, the United States
and the European Union are committed to deepening our cooperation on
technology issues, including on artificial intelligence (AI), 6G, online
platforms and quantum. We are committed to make the most of the
potential of emerging technologies, while at the same time limiting the
challenges they pose to universal human rights and shared democratic
values. In this context, we seek to continue advancing the principles
presented in the Declaration for the Future of the Internet (DFI),
together with like-minded partners. The United States and the European
Union share a commitment to develop our workforces with the skills to
spur the next wave of economic growth.  
   
As the pressing need to tackle the challenges posed by climate change
has become a priority on both sides of the Atlantic, the United States
and the European Union are placing decarbonization efforts at the heart
of trade policy to accelerate the transition towards a net zero economy.
Via the Transatlantic Initiative for Sustainable Trade, the United
States and the European Union are strengthening engagement towards a
transatlantic green marketplace. The ongoing work on a Global
Sustainable Arrangement for Steel and Aluminum shows our resolve to rise
to this challenge with a view to achieve an ambitious outcome by October
2023. During the visit of President von der Leyen to the White House in
March, the United States and the European Union announced the beginning
of negotiations of a critical minerals agreement for the purpose of
enabling relevant critical minerals extracted or processed in the
European Union to count toward requirements for clean vehicles in the
Section 30D clean vehicle tax credit of the Inflation Reduction Act as
well as part of a broader process by the United States and the European
Union to collaborate on securing supplies of critical minerals.  
   
In addition, the United States and the European Union launched the Clean
Energy Incentives Dialogue to share information about clean energy
incentive programs on both sides of the Atlantic. It will also allow the
United States and the European Union to discuss systemic issues related
to the design and effects of incentive programs and also develop a
common understanding of market dynamics. We plan to also undertake joint
analyses of non-market policies and practices of third parties to better
understand their impact on US and EU companies.  
   
**<u>II. Key Outcomes of the Fourth TTC Ministerial meeting</u>     **

**A. Robust Transatlantic Cooperation on Emerging Technologies for Joint
U.S.-EU Leadership**

**Artificial Intelligence**  
  
AI is a transformative technology with great promise for our people,
offering opportunities to increase prosperity and equity. But in order
to seize the opportunities it presents, we must mitigate its risks.  The
United States and the European Union reaffirm their commitment to a
risk-based approach to AI to advance trustworthy and responsible AI
technologies. Cooperating on our approaches is key to promoting
responsible AI innovation that respects rights and safety and ensures
that AI provides benefits in line with our shared democratic values.  
  
Recent developments in generative AI highlight the scale of the
opportunities and the need to address the associated risks.  These
developments further highlight the urgency and importance of successful
cooperation on AI already taking place under the TTC through the
implementation of the Joint Roadmap on Evaluation and Measurement Tools
for Trustworthy AI and Risk Management, as further outlined below.  
  
The United States and the European Union decided to add special emphasis
on generative AI, including its opportunities and risks, to the work on
the Roadmap. This work will complement the G7 Hiroshima AI process.  
  
In addition, the United States and the European Union have advanced the
implementation of the [Joint Roadmap on Evaluation and Measurement Tools
for Trustworthy AI and Risk
Management](https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/2022/12/04/Joint_TTC_Roadmap_Dec2022_Final.pdf#:~:text=This%20Joint%20Roadmap%20aims%20to%20guide%20the%20development,shared%20dedication%20to%20democratic%20values%20and%20human%20rights.)
through the launch of three dedicated expert groups which focus on:

1.  AI terminology and taxonomy,
2.  Cooperation on AI standards and tools for trustworthy AI and risk
    management, and
3.  Monitoring and measuring existing and emerging AI risks. 

The groups have (i) i[ssued a list of 65 key AI terms essential to
understanding risk-based approaches to AI, along with their U.S. and EU
interpretations and shared U.S.-EU
definitions](https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/noindex/2023/05/31/WG1%20AI%20Taxonomy%20and%20Terminology%20Subgroup%20List%20of%20Terms.pdf)
and (ii) mapped the respective involvement of the United States and the
European Union in standardisation activities with the goal of
identifying relevant AI-related standards of mutual interest. Going
forward, we will continue to consult and be informed by industry, civil
society, and academia. We intend to expand shared AI terms, continue our
progress towards advancing AI standards and tools for AI risk
management, and develop a catalogue of existing and emergent risks,
including an understanding of the challenges posed by generative AI.  
  
We will continue to cooperate in multilateral discussions such as the G7
or in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
We remain, as founding members, actively involved in the Global
Partnership for Artificial Intelligence.  
  
**AI Cooperation to Address Global Challenges**  
  
On 27 January 2023, the European Commission and the United States
enhanced our ability to cooperate through the signing of an
administrative arrangement expressing our intent to support
collaboration on advanced AI research focused on five areas which
represent shared significance and benefit: extreme weather and climate
forecasting, emergency response management, health and medicine
improvements, energy grid optimization, and agriculture optimization. We
reaffirm our intent to share findings and resources in collaboration
with other international partners, including low- and middle-income
countries, to foster broad societal benefits in the selected focus
areas.   
  
We intend to start implementation of this cooperation by establishing an
internal catalogue between the European Commission and the U.S.
government’s scientific agencies, as appropriate, of relevant research
results and resources in the five focus areas. For example, for the
topic of extreme weather and climate forecasting, we intend to exchange
information on challenges in using AI for Earth Science Digital Twins,
and to identify areas of collaboration.  
  
**Standardization work on critical and emerging technologies**  
  
The United States and the European Union are advancing concrete work and
outcomes on joint technical specifications for key critical and emerging
technologies.  
  
In collaboration with the respective U.S. and EU standardization
organizations, we encourage increased development of international
standards for **additive manufacturing (3D printing) that bear three
logos (ISO, CEN, ASTM),** for example on health and safety. This would
strengthen transatlantic developments and growth in the area of additive
manufacturing where digital design guides the fabrication of complex,
three-dimensional products built up additively layer-by-layer. This area
has the potential for significant growth in the coming years enabling
innovative new designs and material compositions for manufactured parts.

The United States and the European Union are **advancing collaboration
in the promising area of digital identity** and have held a series of
U.S.-EU technical exchanges and an event to engage subject matter
experts from government, industry, civil society, and academia. By the
next U.S.-EU TTC Ministerial, and in close consultation with these
expert communities, we intend to develop a transatlantic mapping of
digital identity resources, initiatives, and use cases with the aim of
advancing transatlantic pre-standardization research efforts,
facilitating interoperability, and streamlining implementation guidance
while respecting human rights.  This work will be without prejudice to
EU and U.S. legislative work and in full compliance with applicable law
in this area.  
  
The United States and the European Union have cooperated to develop a
shared vision on a standard for charging electric heavy-duty vehicles.
This achievement is also accompanied by recommendations resulting from
the long history of scientific collaboration between the EU’s Joint
Research Centre and the U.S. Department of Energy’s Argonne National
Laboratory. We recognize the Megawatt Charging System (MCS) adoption by
IEC, SAE and ISO for the charging of electric heavy-duty vehicles, where
the alignment of our approaches to standardisation will be critical for
the roll-out of dedicated recharging infrastructure. Both sides applaud
efforts towards compatibility of physical connectors (plugs) and a
common vehicle-to-grid communication interface for all power levels,
recognizing that additional solutions may be possible among private
sector operators.  
  
We will continue to work together to develop a transatlantic test
procedure for high power-charging, up to MCS levels, assuring
interoperability and system charge performance. These efforts will
ensure that stakeholders will benefit from fully compatible technical
specifications, reducing manufacturing and deployment costs and thus
facilitating transatlantic cooperation for electromobility to become
mainstream. During our meeting in Luleå, we displayed the MCS physical
connector as well as a truck and recharging station – a visible proof of
this success. This cooperation also paves the way for possible MCS
applications in inland shipping, marine, mining, and aviation sectors
among others.  
  
By the end of 2023, we expect to have developed joint U.S.-EU policy
recommendations on accelerating access to and the **uptake of digital
tools bysmall- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)**. They will also
address the role, access to and participation of SMEs in international
standardisation activities thanks to feedback collected from SMEs
through dedicated consultations. The United States and the European
Union also plan to explore and exchange best practices on how to educate
and train technical experts in standards development, especially with a
view to the new skillsets required for critical and emerging
technologies.  
  
**E-Mobility standards and interoperability with smart grids**  
  
We also welcome the publication of U.S.-EU [joint technical
recommendations](https://www.energy.gov/ia/articles/us-eu-trade-and-technology-council-factsheet-joint-report-electro-mobility-and)
for government-funded implementation of e-vehicle charging
infrastructure which were developed in consultation with governments,
industry, and grid-service stakeholders.  
  
Transatlantic collaboration on EV infrastructure technical requirements
can more efficiently roll out publicly funded charging infrastructure,
enhance our power grids, and enable our industries to be more
competitive across global markets.  The recommendations propose 1) the
development of a joint standards support strategy; 2) support for the
development and implementation of cost-effective smart charging
infrastructure that avoids stranded assets; and 3) identification of the
pre-normative research, development and demonstration required to tackle
remaining challenges and to support consumers, industry, and the grid.

**Semiconductors**  
  
As a critical technology and essential linkage in an ever-growing range
of industries, the United States and the European Union face a shared
imperative to build resilient semiconductor supply chains.  
  
The United States and the European Union have completed a joint early
warning mechanism for semiconductor supply chain disruptions and a
transparency mechanism for reciprocal sharing of information about
public support provided to the semiconductor sector.   
  
With regard to the early warning mechanism, the United States and the
European Union have outlined the operational steps to be taken in the
event of a future disruption and have shared their assessments of the
current situation of the semiconductor value chain.  
  
The United States and the European Union have also started formal
exchanges of information on public support granted to the semiconductor
sector in their respective jurisdictions.  
  
The United States and the European Union are committed to avoiding a
race to the bottom in semiconductor public support. Therefore, a
reciprocal mechanism has been put in place for consultation at the
principals’ level to facilitate communication to head off and prevent
subsidy races. The United States and the European Union also believe
that semiconductor investments in both jurisdictions are mutually
beneficial.  Increased investment in semiconductors in Europe supports
resilience in U.S. supply chains, and increased investment in the
semiconductors in the United States similarly supports resilience in EU
supply chains. Consequently, the United States applauds the political
agreement on the EU CHIPS Act. The European Union welcomes progress in
the implementation of the U.S. CHIPS Act.  
  
The cooperation between the United States and the European Union is
reinforcing the success of our respective efforts to promote
semiconductor supply chains. Exchanges on best practices facilitated by
the TTC has informed our respective approaches and will remain a useful
tool for their implementation of efforts related to public support
frameworks, workforce development, and demand forecasts.  In particular,
the United States and the European Union have discussed common elements
of our respective public support frameworks, such as the possible use of
upside sharing/claw-back of excessive profits and requirements for
information from companies, with an aim to improve effectiveness and
share lessons learned. We share the commitment to good stewardship of
public funds, and through our cooperation aim to make each of our
respective public support programs more efficient and more effective.  
  
Going forward, we are exploring additional ways to collaborate,
including how to cooperate on incentives for research on alternatives to
the use of per- and polyfluorinated substances (PFAS) in semiconductor
manufacturing. We will also explore building a robust semiconductor
supply chain ecosystem from material inputs to packaging, including
through sharing views and exchanging information on targeted supply
chain supports.

**Quantum technologies**  
  
The United States and the European Union have established a joint Task
Force to address open questions on science and technology cooperation in
quantum technologies. The Task Force is expected to elaborate on
reciprocity for participating in the respective public R&D programs, the
applicable intellectual property rights framework, the identification of
critical components, standardisation, defining benchmarking of quantum
computers, and export control related issues as appropriate. The Task
Force is also discussing activities in Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC)
standardization and discussed potential avenues for future cooperation,
feeding into the U.S.-EU Cyber Dialogue.

**     B. Promoting sustainability and new opportunities for trade and
investment **

**Transatlantic Initiative on Sustainable Trade **  
  
The United States and the European Union, recognizing the important role
of trade policy in driving the transition towards a net-zero economy and
building on the cooperation already ongoing under the TTC, are working
together to amplify the potential of the transatlantic marketplace as a
catalyst for decarbonization and a green transition.  
  
The Transatlantic Initiative on Sustainable Trade launched at the third
U.S.-EU TTC Ministerial meeting in December 2022 offers a pathway for
dialogue that aims to: boost transatlantic trade and investment to
further the deployment of goods and services essential to the transition
to more circular and net-zero economies ; strengthen the resilience and
sustainability of key supply chains; ensure that the green transition is
fair and inclusive; and promote efforts to advance the transition to a
low-emission and green future at a global level.  
  
To guide these endeavors the United States and the European Union are
endorsing a [work
program](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/statement_23_2992).  
  
**U.S.-EU Clean Energy Incentives Dialogue**  
  
In light of the need for increased investments on both sides of the
Atlantic to build clean energy economies and industrial bases, the
European Union and United States on 10 March 2023 launched a Clean
Energy Incentives Dialogue as part of the TTC to ensure our respective
incentive programs are mutually reinforcing. We are taking steps to
avoid any disruptions in transatlantic trade and investment flows that
could arise from our respective incentives. We stress that, in driving
clean energy economy of the future, we will cooperate openly and
transparently in a coordinated manner reflecting our joint commitment
not to act at each other’s expense. We are working against zero-sum
competition to ensure that our incentives maximize clean energy
deployment and jobs. The dialogue should also address systemic issues on
design and effects of incentive programs going forward. The Clean Energy
Incentives Dialogue will also facilitate information-sharing on
non-market policies and practices of third parties to serve as the basis
for joint or parallel action and coordinated advocacy on these issues in
multilateral or other fora.

**Critical Minerals**  
  
To achieve a successful green transition, and to ensure our economic
security, the United States and the European Union recognize the need to
work together on our shared concerns around supply chains for critical
minerals, metals, and material inputs. For many critical minerals, we
note that the United States and the European Union are both reliant on
imports, often from limited sources, and that this reliance leaves us
vulnerable to disruptions such as geopolitical shocks and natural
disasters. Successfully addressing our shared concerns will require
close coordination.  
  
**Increasing the Use of Digital Tools to Enhance Trade**  
  
In consultation with stakeholders, the United States and the European
Union will continue exploring ways to increase the use of digital tools
in transatlantic trade-related transactions, as well as ways in which
the United States and the European Union may enhance cooperation on
trade facilitation to simplify and modernize export and import
processes.  
  
**Mutual Recognition Agreements and Conformity Assessment-Related
Initiatives**  
  
The United States and the European Union have extended the scope of the
U.S.-EU Mutual Recognition Agreement annex for Pharmaceutical Good
Manufacturing Practices to include veterinary medicines.  Moreover, the
United States and the European Union updated the existing U.S.-EU Marine
Equipment Mutual Recognition Agreement to keep it aligned with the
latest developments at the international level.  
  
With the goal of promoting more frictionless trade between our markets,
the United States and the European Union are working to facilitate
conformity assessment across a range of sectors, such as machinery, and
to continue exploring cooperation on horizontal approaches to conformity
assessment. For this purpose, we intend to conduct stakeholder outreach
and to facilitate regular expert meetings, including the relevant
European Commission services and U.S. agencies, as appropriate.  
  
**Trade and Labor and Sustainable Supply Chains**  
  
The United States and the European Union continue to promote sustainable
and responsible supply chains with strong protection for labor rights.
For this purpose, they had in-depth exchanges on relevant existing and
upcoming regulations and rules, and on their implementation, as well as
on approaches to support the successful development of sustainable and
responsible supply chains and support stakeholders in their efforts. On
3 March 2023 they jointly convened a roundtable with multiple
stakeholders to discuss [practical approaches to effective due diligence
implementation](https://futurium.ec.europa.eu/en/EU-US-TTC/wg10/documents/ttc-wg10-report-roundtable-due-diligence-3-march-2023),
including for the eradication of forced labor from supply chains.  

Today, the United States and the European Union also held their second
principal-level session of the Trade and Labor Dialogue (TALD) that
brought together senior representatives from labor, business, and
government from both sides of the Atlantic. The meeting offered an
opportunity to deepen discussions on the eradication of forced labor
from global trade and from global supply chains and to examine the
impact of the green transition on workers. The United States and the
European Union welcomed a new set of joint recommendations on combatting
forced labor in global supply chains that were developed by a group of
representatives of U.S. and EU labor unions and companies. We welcome
the spirit of collaboration that made these joint recommendations
possible. The United States and the European Union will discuss how
these recommendations can be taken into account and will continue
working with our labor and business stakeholders to ensure that the
TALD informs our collaboration on trade and labor issues.     
  
**Promoting Global Digital Trade Principles**  
  
The United States and the European Union reaffirm their shared interest
in a global digital trade environment that reflects our values. To that
end – and building upon work on digital trade principals such as the G7
– we intend to identify additional commonalities in current U.S. and EU
digital trade policies. We will then work jointly to promote those
principles with other trading partners with the goal of ensuring that
global trade in digital services and technology support our shared
democratic values. Within the Global Trade Challenges Working Group, the
United States and the European Union intend to exchange information on
non-market policies and practices affecting digital trade, as well as on
our respective policies linked to risks stemming from digital firms from
non-market economies.

**     C. Trade, Security and Economic Prosperity**

In a changing geopolitical environment, the United States and the
European Union reiterate their commitment under the TTC to continue
cooperation in the field of export controls and cooperation on
investment screening and to address the challenges posed by, among other
issues, non-market policies and practices and economic coercion. We also
remain committed to enhance cooperation on these matters in any relevant
fora, including the G7 and the WTO.  
  
**Cooperation on Export Controls and Sanction-Related Export
Restrictions**  
  
The TTC continues to support the unprecedented cooperation by the U.S.,
EU, and other international partners on the economic measures against
Russia and Belarus for the war in Ukraine. The TTC supports
implementation of these measures through the consistent exchange of
information on the application of controls as well as working to address
enforcement and circumvention risks. This work has delivered important
results, including identifying key categories of goods critical to
Russia’s efforts on the battlefield that the European Union, the United
States, and their partners used to interrupt diversion efforts to Russia
and further tighten enforcement through counter-evasion actions. This
cooperation also enabled the United States and the European Union to
design dedicated restrictions to prevent exports of technology found in
Iran-manufactured drones and to allow information sharing on our trade
restrictions. The United States and the European Union are coordinating
engagements with third countries to counter evasion of export
restrictions on sensitive items and are conducting coordinated capacity
building actions to enable third countries’ authorities to tackle export
control evasion and circumvention more effectively.  
  
The TTC has also supported technical consultation on regulatory
development between the United States and the European Union, including
on coordinated timing for publishing the new controls on biotechnologies
decided in the Australia Group in 2022. The TTC is also working towards
the clarification and simplification of re-export procedures for the
benefit of exporters and to develop a common understanding of how U.S.
and EU rules are applied on both sides of the Atlantic.  
  
The United States and the European Union will further consult each other
in advance of the introduction of export controls on sensitive items.  
  
The United States and the European Union will continue discussions where
appropriate, on risk assessments underlying controls on emerging
technologies with a view to enable transatlantic cooperation for the
development of such technologies and address the associated risks for
international security and human rights.  
  
Finally, as recently underscored by the G7 Non-proliferation Directors
Group, the United States and the European Union recall that export
controls remain a key non-proliferation instrument in maintaining
international security and stability and recognize the central role of
multilateral non-proliferation export control regimes in that regard.
Export controls are crucial for creating a favorable environment for
further economic growth through more secure trade and investment, and we
will continue  cooperating among ourselves and work with other states in
strengthening effective and responsible export controls to address the
challenges posed by the misuse and illicit diversion of technologies
critical for the development of weapons of mass destruction, their means
of delivery, and for advanced military technology programs by state and
non-state actors, while promoting an environment in which science,
technology and legitimate research collaboration can flourish.  
  
**Investment Screening**  
  
The United States and the European Union continued exchanges on
investment trends impacting national security risks related to specific
sensitive technologies and critical infrastructure. We look forward to
working together on deepening our understanding of the policy tools
available to address national security risks in a holistic manner. The
United States and the European Union reiterate the importance of
establishing, maintaining, and making full use of comprehensive, robust
national security-based and for the EU, public-order based investment
screening mechanisms on both sides of the Atlantic, while remaining open
for investment. The United States and the European Union welcome the
recent significant progress towards the adoption and full implementation
of investment screening mechanisms in a number of European Union Member
States without such systems. The United States and the European Union
continue to support the development and implementation of these
mechanisms, including through joint outreach to interested stakeholders
starting with the Western Balkans.  
  
**Outbound Investment Controls**  
  
The United States and the European Union recognize that appropriate
measures designed to address risks from outbound investment could be
important to complement existing tools of targeted controls on exports
and inbound investments, which work together to protect our sensitive
technologies from being used in ways that threaten international peace
and security.

The United States and the European Union have a common interest in
preventing the narrow set of technological advances that are assessed to
be core to enhancing the military and intelligence capabilities of
actors who may use these capabilities to undermine international peace
and security, from being fueled by our companies’ capital, expertise,
and knowledge.  We will uphold our efforts across the Atlantic, working
in coordination with our G7 allies to continue to coordinate, share
lessons, and seek to align our approaches where feasible to maximize the
effectiveness of our efforts*.*  
  
**Addressing Non-Market Policies and Practices**  
  
The United States and the European Union share concerns about the threat
posed by a range of non-market policies and practices of third
countries. We stand ready to address these practices, both bilaterally
and through multilateral approaches. We have exchanged views and
information regarding these types of policies and practices in the
medical devices sector in China and their adverse impact on our workers
and businesses, and we are exploring possible coordinated actions. We
also continue to exchange views and analysis on government-owned or
government-controlled investment funds. We have begun mapping out the
ecosystem supporting enterprises benefitting from these funds and are
analyzing the distortions caused by these funds.  
  
The United States and the European Union also share concerns about the
impact of non-market economic policies, on the global supply of
semiconductors, particularly in legacy chips. To avoid negative
spillover effects from excess global capacity that undermine the health
of our respective semiconductor ecosystems, the United States and the
European Union, in cooperation with like-minded partners, will exchange
information and market intelligence related to non-market policies and
practices and explore cooperative measures to address those policies and
their distortionary effects.  
  
**Addressing Economic Coercion**  
  
The United States and the European Union remain concerned with the
continued use of economic coercion, which has been deployed with
increasing frequency in recent years. This includes attempts to
undermine other governments’ legitimate policy decisions through the
use, or threat of use, of targeting of foreign firms and individuals to
prevent or interfere with the foreign government’s exercise of its
legitimate sovereign right or choices, such as through opaque regulatory
and cybersecurity reviews.  We also share deep concern, underscored by
the transatlantic business community, about actions against independent
business diligence and advisory firms that are essential for investor
confidence and the integrity of commercial transactions. Not only does
economic coercion improperly impose costs on governments for making
legitimate policy decisions, the threat of economic coercion alone
chills other such decisions, including those of small- and medium-sized
economies.    
  
Without unduly limiting trade and investment, we remain committed to
enhance cooperation in any relevant forum including the G7 Coordination
Platform on Economic Coercion, and to strengthen coordination with each
other and other likeminded partners to improve our preparedness,
resilience, deterrence, assessment and responses to economic coercion.
For that purpose, we intend to make full use of our respective tools to
counter economic coercion. We will coordinate, as appropriate, to
support targeted states, economies and entities as a demonstration of
solidarity and resolve to uphold the rule of law.  We also note in that
connection the importance of the recent progress in the European Union
on the adoption of an anti-coercion instrument.

**     D. Connectivity and digital infrastructure**

**Beyond 5G / 6G**  
  
The United States and the European Union have accelerated **cooperation
to develop a common vision and industry roadmap on research and
development for 6G wireless communication systems**. 6G is expected to
start replacing 5G as the predominant commercial cellular wireless
standard by 2030. We share the common aim to ensure these technologies
possess the capability to enable use cases of the future and are
designed based on our shared values and principles.  
  
To that end, and in consultation with stakeholders, we have developed a
[**6G**
**outlook**](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/6g-outlook).
It includes the conclusions of a transatlantic 6G workshop, guiding
principles and key themes for a common vision, and next steps.   
  
**Secure and trusted digital infrastructure and connectivity in third
countries**  
  
The United States and the European Union share the commitment to working
with third countries, particularly emerging economies, on promoting
digital inclusion and secure and trustworthy connectivity around the
world. To that end, we will organize a ‘**Digital Ministerial Roundtable
on Inclusion and Connectivity’ with participation of the Digital
Ministers of key emerging economies** to be convened in the coming
months. This roundtable will help identify common needs and challenges
around digital infrastructure and explore how the United States and the
European Union can best collaborate to support the digitalisation needs
of emerging economies. In addition, the United States and the European
Union intend to further enhance cooperation with like-minded countries,
such as the G7, to support the deployment of secure and trustworthy ICT
networks.  
  
In line with the principles set at the second U.S.-EU TTC Ministerial
meeting, and following the commitments at the third Ministerial meeting,
we are operationalising our support for inclusive ICTS projects in
Jamaica and Kenya, including by mobilizing U.S. and EU financial
instruments, as available and appropriate. Within the framework of a
memorandum of understanding signed between European Investment Bank and
the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation on 13 April 2023,
we plan to scale up our common efforts to accelerate the roll-out of
secure and resilient connectivity projects in third countries with
trusted vendors.  The United States and the European Union are
supporting new connectivity projects in Costa Rica and the Philippines.

-   **Cooperation on connectivity with Costa Rica** *–* in close
    coordination with the government of Costa Rica, we are providing
    assistance to support the rollout of secure, resilient, and
    inclusive digital connectivity under Costa Rica’s National
    Telecommunications Plan 2022-2027. Support includes U.S. and EU
    technical assistance on telecommunications security and intention to
    help finance Costa Rica’s 5G roll-out.  In addition, we are
    providing the Costa Rican government with assistance to secure its
    networks and critical infrastructure, including through the
    establishment of a sub-regional hub for cyber competences.
-   **Cooperation on connectivity with the Philippines –** in close
    coordination with the government of the Philippines, we plan to
    support their efforts to bridge digital divide<s>s</s> and provide
    trusted and resilient connectivity to its citizens.  Support
    includes technical assistance grants to support the development and
    implementation of a 5G stand-alone network as well as cybersecurity
    training and other assistance to the Philippines Department of
    Information and Communications Technology (DICT). We are also
    supporting the establishment of the national Copernicus data centre,
    which will strengthen the Philippines’ resilience to natural
    disasters and support climate change adaptation. 

In addition to these activities, the United States and the European
Union intend to further intensify coordination to ensure that third
countries have access to trusted networks (and the benefits associated
with such networks).  This will include, for instance, coordination
between a broad range of financing and assistance agencies within the
United States and the European Union, in close coordination with
European Union Member States, to come forward with relevant and
competitive financing and other assistance packages for projects with
trusted suppliers in partner countries.  
  
**International connectivity and subsea cable projects**  
  
The European Union and United States acknowledge the strategic
importance of international connectivity for security and trade. For
this purpose, we aim to advance cooperation to promote the selection of
trusted subsea cable providers for new cable projects – in particular
for intercontinental ICT cable projects that promote trustworthy
suppliers, reduce latency and enhance route diversity. We intend to
continue discussions on ensuring transatlantic subsea cables’
connectivity and security, including on alternate routes that connect
Europe, North America and Asia.

**     E. Defending human rights and values in a changing geopolitical
digital environment**

**Transparent and accountable online platforms**  
  
The United States and the European Union share the view that online
platforms should exercise greater responsibility in ensuring that their
services contribute to an **online environment that protects, empowers
and respects children and youth** and take responsible actions to
address the impact of their services on children and youths’ mental
health and development. Similarly, we share the view it is crucially
important for independent research teams to be able to investigate,
analyze and report on how online platforms operate and how they affect
individuals and society. As we enhance our bilateral work, the United
States and the European Union developed a list of [**high-level
principles on the protection and empowerment of children and youth and
facilitation of data access from online platforms for independent
research**](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/transparent-and-accountable-online-platforms)*.*  
  
**Foreign information manipulation and interference (FIMI) in third
countries**  
  
The United States and the European Union are deeply concerned about
foreign information manipulation and interference (FIMI) and
disinformation, which threatens universal values, the functioning of
democracies and the well-being of societies around the world. Russia’s
strategic and coordinated use of such activities in the preparation and
execution of its war of aggression against Ukraine, and People’s
Republic of China’s amplification of Russian disinformation narratives
about the war, are stark examples of the dangers of FIMI, and the
effects can be seen in many countries around the world, notably in
Africa and Latin-America.  
  
Strategic cooperation between the United States and the European Union
has contributed to building a common situational awareness and
understanding of the threats posed by FIMI and information operations.
Close exchanges on developing effective, timely, and human
rights-respecting responses continue. Cooperation in the TTC includes:

1.  A shared **standard for structured threat information exchange on
    FIMI** between the United States and the European Union, as well as
    the underlying common methodology for identifying, analysing and
    countering FIMI. Moving forward, the United States and the European
    Union plan to support the use of this standard by stakeholders
    across the globe.
2.  Actions to **enhance the preparedness of the multi-stakeholder
    community to step up their actions against FIMI threats**, including
    by exploring further support for capacity building in Africa, Latin
    America, and EU Neighbourhood countries.
3.  A **call for action to online platforms** operating in Africa,
    Latin-America, and EU Neighbourhood countries to ensure the
    integrity of their services and to effectively respond to
    disinformation and FIMI, building on the example of the European
    Union’s Code of Practice on Disinformation.

The United States and the European Union have issued a [**joint
statement**](https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/trade-and-technology-council-fourth-ministerial-%E2%80%93-annex-foreign-information-manipulation-and_en)
which sets out more details on the ongoing cooperation to combat FIMI in
third countries.  
  
**Protecting Human Rights Defenders online**  
  
To advance Human Rights Defenders (HRDs) protection online and offline,
we have deepened cooperation between U.S. and EU-based emergency
mechanisms and exchanged information on support strategies which seek to
prevent, curb, mitigate and eliminate the use of arbitrary and unlawful
surveillance targeting human rights defenders. HRDs play a key role in
defending human rights and fundamental freedoms for all.  Yet due to
their work, they have increasingly become the target of attacks and
rights violations and they need protection. We recall the obligations of
States to respect, protect and fulfil human rights and fundamental
freedoms, including those of HRDs. We recall the responsibility of the
private sector, including technology companies and digital platforms, to
respect human rights in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business
and Human Rights, and we call on companies to prevent the misuse of
their products and platforms, and to support victims and survivors in
their search for remedy and accountability for violations and abuses.  
  
In consultation with stakeholders, we plan to issue joint guidance by
the next ministerial meeting on how content hosting platforms can
effectively collaborate and coordinate with civil society and HRD
protection providers to identify, address, mitigate, prevent, and enable
access to remedy for digital attacks targeting HRDs.  
  
This joint work seeks to make a practical contribution to enhancing the
universal protection of human rights, which is particularly timely in
2023 when we celebrate the 75<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and the 25th anniversary of the adoption of
the UN Declaration on Human Rights Defenders.

**     F. Talent for Growth**

The Talent for Growth Task Force was launched on 27 April 2023 with the
announcement of its EU Section Members and its U.S. Section Members. We
have begun to promote the development of the talent and skills of our
working-age populations that we critically need to compete in emerging
and existing technologies. Our ambitions to lead in these technologies
cannot be achieved without expanding opportunity for people to get the
skills needed and to that end, we intend to share best practices and
serve as a catalyst for innovative skills policies. At the December 2022
TTC meeting in the Washington, D.C area., the United States and the
European Union decided to cooperate and create the Talent for Growth
Task Force, which brings together government and private sector leaders
from business, labor, and organizations that provide training. The Task
Force intends to report to the TTC Co-Chairs and address its initial
undertakings at the next TTC Ministerial meeting.  
  
**III. Conclusion**  
  
The United States and the European Union underline the importance of the
advances made across all workstreams established under the TTC. We are
committed to continue to make full use of this cooperation forum to
deepen the transatlantic partnership to respond to the challenges before
us. The co-chairs intend to meet again before the end of 2023 in the
United States to review and advance our joint work.

\###
