---
date: '2023-05-20'
published_time: 2023-05-20 04:33:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/20/g7-leaders-statement-on-economic-resilience-and-economic-security/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G7 Leaders\u2019 Statement on Economic Resilience and Economic\_Security"
---
 
    Fostering mutually beneficial partnerships and supporting resilient
and sustainable value chains remains our priority to reduce risk both
for our economies, as well as globally, and ensure sustainable
development for all. Recent events have highlighted vulnerabilities in
economies around the world to natural disasters, pandemics, geopolitical
tensions and coercion. Recalling our commitment from the 2022 G7 Elmau
Summit, we are taking additional steps today to enhance our ongoing
strategic coordination on economic resilience and economic security by
reducing vulnerabilities and countering malign practices that exploit
and reinforce them. This complements the corresponding steps we are
taking to enhance supply chain resilience as laid out in the G7 Clean
Energy Economy Action Plan. We underline the importance of cooperating
both within the G7 as well as with all our partners to enhance global
economic resilience, including by supporting a more significant role for
low and middle-income countries in supply chains in a way that also
promotes their diversification and local value creation and benefits
local workers and communities everywhere. We will address non-market
policies and practices designed to reinforce dependencies, and will
counter economic coercion. We will continue to ensure that the clearly
defined, narrow set of sensitive technologies that are crucial for
national security or could threaten international peace and security are
appropriately controlled, without unduly impacting broader trade in
technology. We affirm that our cooperation to strengthen economic
resilience and economic security will be rooted in maintaining and
improving a well-functioning international rules-based system, in
particular the multilateral trading system with the WTO at its core. To
these ends, we will work and coordinate through the G7 framework to make
year-on-year progress in a holistic manner.  
  
**Enhancing global economic resilience**

*Building resilient supply chains*

The COVID-19 pandemic and Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine has
laid bare vulnerabilities in supply chains in countries around the
world. Supply chain disruptions have had devastating impact for
developing, emerging, and advanced economies alike. We recognize that
transparency, diversification, security, sustainability, and
trustworthiness and reliability are essential principles on which to
build and strengthen resilient supply-chain networks among trusted
partner countries both within and outside the G7. We encourage all
nations to support these* principles on resilient and reliable supply
chains. *We reaffirm our strong will to support the wider international
community, particularly developing countries, in building their
resilience, including through implementing the Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment. Our partnerships honor international law,
are free and fair, and foster mutually beneficial economic and trade
relationships. Drawing lessons from recent incidents of weaponizing
energy and other economic dependencies, we stand firmly against such
behavior. We will enhance resilient supply chains through partnerships
around the world, especially for critical goods such as critical
minerals, semiconductors and batteries. We will step up our efforts to
strengthen channels of communication to address supply disruptions and
share insights and best practices, including from respective
scenario-based stress testing.

*Building resilient critical infrastructure*

We emphasize the importance of cooperating on enhancing security and
resiliency in critical infrastructure particularly in the digital
domain. We welcome projects that strengthen the resilience of the ICT
ecosystem including mobile, satellite and core networks, submarine
cables, components and cloud infrastructure. We support an innovative
and competitive digital ecosystem of trustworthy vendors, welcome
supplier diversification efforts, and continue to discuss market trends
towards open, interoperable approaches, alongside secure, resilient and
established architectures in a technology neutral way. Under the
Japanese G7 Presidency and against the background of early deployments
of Open RAN, we will continue to exchange views on open architectures
and security-related aspects and opportunities. We support open, global,
market-driven, and inclusive multi-stakeholder approaches for the
development of technical standards for telecommunications equipment and
services to enable openness and interoperability in a technology neutral
way. We discussed that such infrastructure requires a rigorous
evaluation of equipment, consistent with existing measures such as those
outlined in the Prague Proposals, and the EU’s 5G toolbox. We reaffirm
the need to assess political, economic, and other risks of a
non-technical nature posed by vendors and suppliers. We will continue
our work to build resilient critical infrastructure by sharing
information and best practices gained through our respective efforts.

**Responding to harmful practices that undermine international rules and
norms**

*Responding to non-market policies and practices to secure global
economic resilience*

We express renewed concerns about comprehensive strategies to use a
range of non-market policies and practices such as pervasive, opaque,
and harmful industrial subsidies, market distortive practices of state
owned enterprises, and all forms of forced technology transfers, as well
as other practices to create strategic dependencies and systemic
vulnerabilities. Addressing non-market policies and practices can
therefore be an integral aspect in enhancing economic resilience and
thereby economic security. In light of increased use of non-market
policies and practices to reinforce vulnerabilities, we reaffirm the
need to make effective use of existing means while developing new tools
as appropriate. We will continue to actively develop stronger
international rules and norms to tackle non-market policies and
practices that distort the level playing field, and strengthen efforts
at the WTO to better address these issues.

*Addressing economic coercion*

The world has encountered a disturbing rise in incidents of economic
coercion that seek to exploit economic vulnerabilities and dependencies
and undermine the foreign and domestic policies and positions of G7
members as well as partners around the world. We will work together to
ensure that attempts to weaponize economic dependencies by forcing G7
members and our partners including small economies to comply and conform
will fail and face consequences. We express serious concern over
economic coercion and call on all countries to refrain from its use,
which not only undermines the functioning of and trust in the
multilateral trading system, but also infringes upon the international
order centered on respect for sovereignty and the rule of law, and
ultimately undermines global security and stability. At our respective
domestic levels, we will use our existing tools, review their
effectiveness and develop new ones as needed to deter and counter the
use of coercive economic measures. Recognizing the importance of
existing joint efforts including at the WTO, we will enhance
collaboration by launching the Coordination Platform on Economic
Coercion to increase our collective assessment, preparedness, deterrence
and response to economic coercion, and further promote cooperation with
partners beyond the G7. Within this Coordination Platform, we will use
early warning and rapid information sharing, regularly consult each
other, collaboratively assess situations, explore coordinated responses,
deter and, where appropriate, counter economic coercion, in accordance
with our respective legal systems. We will also coordinate, as
appropriate, to support targeted states, economies and entities as a
demonstration of solidarity and resolve to uphold the rule of law.

*Countering harmful practices in the digital sphere*

We express concern about regulations that unjustifiably require
companies to localize data or those that allow governments to access
data without appropriate safeguards and protections. As a result of
geopolitical and geo-economic upheavals, global business value and
supply chains, especially those of our critical infrastructure, are
exposed to risks. We will therefore deepen our strategic dialogue to
seek to counter malicious practices in the digital sphere to protect
global value and supply chains from illegitimate influence, espionage,
illicit knowledge leakage, and sabotage.

*Cooperating on international standards* *setting*

We recognize the importance of technical standards in the global economy
and reaffirm our commitment to collectively support the development of
open, voluntary and consensus-based standards that will shape the next
generation of technology. These should be based on inclusive
multi-stakeholder approaches in line with our common democratic values
and principles. Reflecting on shared values and principles, we will
identify and address issues related to international standards setting,
where they arise, through information sharing and engagement in the
established standards setting processes. We will deepen our cooperation
through information sharing including with wider public and private
stakeholders in international standards setting activities, and support
effective standards setting. To this end, we reaffirm our continued
collaboration including through the Framework for G7 Collaboration on
Digital Technical Standards.

**Addressing shared concerns regarding threats to international peace
and security**

*Protecting international peace and security by preventing leakage of
critical and emerging technologies*

As we deepen research and development among G7 partners on critical and
emerging technologies, we affirm our shared responsibility and
determination to coordinate on preventing the cutting-edge technologies
we develop from being used to further military capabilities that
threaten international peace and security. To that end, we will share,
as appropriate, information and experiences to further develop common
understanding of such risks and the policy tools needed to address them,
and take further actions where necessary, including those related to
export and investment, corresponding to the circumstances of each
country. We will further strengthen multilateral efforts to cooperate in
the field of export controls to ensure gaps in our dual use technology
protection ecosystem cannot be exploited. We have a common interest in
preventing the narrow set of technological advances that are assessed to
be core to enhancing the military and intelligence capabilities of
actors who may use these capabilities to undermine international peace
and security, from being fueled by our companies’ capital, expertise,
and knowledge. We recognize that appropriate measures designed to
address risks from outbound investment could be important to complement
existing tools of targeted controls on exports and inbound investments,
which work together to protect our sensitive technologies from being
used in ways that threaten international peace and security. As we
continue to work to make our economic security toolkits fit for today’s
challenges, we will provide clarity to the private sector regarding
these common goals. We will also continue to coordinate, share lessons,
and seek to align our approaches where feasible to maximize the
effectiveness of our efforts.

\###
