---
date: '2023-05-20'
published_time: 2023-05-20 06:25:40-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/20/fact-sheet-partnership-for-global-infrastructure-and-investment-at-the-g7-summit/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment at the G7\_\
  Summit"
---
 
At the 2023 G7 Summit in Hiroshima, Japan, G7 leaders affirmed their
commitment to identify new opportunities to scale the Partnership for
Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII), President Biden and the
G7’s flagship infrastructure initiative which has attracted major
investors to better respond to the global demand for high quality
infrastructure financing, in low- and middle-income countries.  
  
Since its launch, G7 Leaders have, through PGII, started to work towards
the goal to mobilize hundreds of billions of dollars in infrastructure
financing – delivering energy, physical, digital, health, and
climate-resilient infrastructure. This work is done with a real focus on
advancing gender equality and equity, raising labor and environmental
standards and promoting transparency, governance, and anti-corruption
measures.   
  
During the Summit, [G7
Leaders](https://www.mofa.go.jp/ic/dapc/page4e_001405.html) were joined
by leaders and senior officials of Australia, Comoros, Cook Islands,
India, Indonesia, Vietnam, the Republic of Korea, and the World Bank.
They were also joined by private sector executives of Citi, Global
Infrastructure Partners, Japan Foreign Trade Council, and Nokia to
reaffirm their commitment to opening a serious, sustainable channel for
unlocking public and private capital for these projects in the
developing world.  
  
Together, they identified methods to further mobilize infrastructure
investment, with a particular focus on leveraging private capital to
maximize the project pipeline. The leaders also showcased how PGII is
connecting and catalyzing like-minded countries, the private sector,
multilateral development banks, and development finance institutions to
drive investment in quality global infrastructure.  
  
**The United States announced a series of new PGII announcements to
build out transformative economic corridors through PGII and drive
infrastructure investments that can boost and connect economic
development across multiple countries and sectors.**

-   To date, the United States has** mobilized $30 billion** through
    grants, federal financing, and leveraging private sector investments
    towards PGII.   
     
-   President Biden also **announced new projects** and highlighted the
    impact of several projects announced since PGII’s launch at the 2022
    G7 Summit, showcasing how the U.S. Government (USG) is collaborating
    with partners to develop **transformative ecosystems of
    infrastructure investment** that support inclusive growth, benefit
    partners’ economic security, diversify our global supply chains, and
    create new opportunities for American workers and businesses.   
     
-   **U.S. private sector representatives** from** Citi** and **Global
    Infrastructure Partners** delivered remarks and highlighted key
    flagship projects worth $4 billion that demonstrate how PGII aims to
    mobilize the private sector as drivers of quality global
    infrastructure and investment. GIP also expects to deploy over $20
    billion in projects that will advance PGII over the next 10
    years.    
     
-   The incoming **White House Senior Advisor to the President for
    Energy and Investment,** **Amos Hochstein,** will join the newly
    designated group of **G7 senior government officials **who will
    provide strategic direction to drive PGII investments with partners,
    including the private sector.  
     
-   The United States will seek to launch an annual **Investor
    Forum** to enable the USG to more comprehensively de-risk capital,
    play a matchmaking role between investors and opportunities that
    advance PGII, and hear feedback on how it can continue to refine the
    PGII model to maximize its effectiveness.

**President Biden also announced new PGII projects that reflect how the
USG is working with partners to better mobilize capital for
infrastructure in emerging markets.**  
  
**Investments in Key Economic Corridors: **Creating and strengthening
economic corridors that connect economies through key transportation
infrastructure; making clean electricity more affordable, reliable and
available to all; bringing information and communications technology
(ICT) network solutions to rural communities; integrating agricultural
hubs to increase regional food security, improve access to health care;
and aggregating demand for clean energy solutions to fuel these
corridors and service local communities.   
  
As an example, the United States is supporting the development of
the **Lobito Corridor** with an initial investment in a rail expansion
that may become the primary open access transportation infrastructure
connecting the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Zambia with
global markets through Angola.  PGII is actively pursuing additional
opportunities to connect the initial Lobito Corridor investments across
the continent, to Tanzania and, ultimately, the Indian Ocean.  
  
*Initial investments include:*

-   ***Rail Consortium:  ***The U.S. International Development Finance
    Corporation (DFC) is currently performing due diligence for a
    potential financing package of $250 million to finance the Lobito
    Atlantic Railway Corridor – an open access rail line from Lobito
    Port in Angola to the DRC border. This deal would be the DFC’s first
    investment in rail on the continent. This project is the first step
    to connect and develop trading and economic activity from Angola to
    the DRC, that can help promote greater investments in agriculture,
    digital infrastructure, and expanded access to electricity.    
     
-   ***Solar Deployment:*** The Export-Import Bank of the United States
    (U.S. EXIM) approved for Congressional notification an initial $900
    million in financing for two solar projects that were announced at
    the 2022 G7 Summit by the Government of Angola, U.S. firm
    AfricaGlobal Schaffer, and U.S. project developer Sun Africa.
    Together, the projects will generate over 500 megawatts of renewable
    power; provide access to clean energy resources across Angola; help
    Angola meet its climate commitments; and support exports of U.S.
    solar panels, connectors, switches, sensors, and other equipment.  
     
-   ***Digital:  ***Under PGII, the USG will work to construct data
    centers throughout Africa. This week, DFC announced it is using its
    $300 million loan facility to Africa Data Centers (ADCs), Africa’s
    largest network of interconnected data facilities, to construct a
    first-of-its kind data center in Ghana. Africa accounts for less
    than one percent of total available global data center capacity
    despite being home to 17 percent of the world’s total population.
    This investment builds on the Vice President’s recent trip to Ghana
    and is laying the groundwork for a digital revolution on the
    continent by increasing access to cloud-based technologies, bringing
    down the cost of internet, which facilitate greater access to women,
    and making the continent a more competitive destination for
    industry.  
     
-   DFC, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
    and the U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) are supporting
    investments in digital infrastructure and improved access to digital
    services in Angola and the DRC. Expanding on the DFC’s existing
    financing for telecom provider Africell in the DRC, Sierra Leone,
    and the Gambia, U.S. EXIM is continuing its due diligence for a new
    transaction supporting the expansion of wireless services, and USAID
    is announcing a digital payments initiative with Africell in Angola.
    Together, these projects aim to provide fast and reliable internet
    to individuals and companies across the Lobito Corridor and expand
    access to mobile money services in rural areas.  
     
-   In the DRC, USTDA and USAID are providing early-stage support to
    advance the expansion of last-mile connectivity with Jenny Internet,
    fiber network expansion to connect more than 30 towns with Bandwidth
    and Cloud Services Group, expansion of rural internet connectivity
    for half a million people with DRC-based internet service provider
    Global Broadband Solution SARL, and piloting of U.S. firm Parallel
    Wireless’ Open Radio Access Networks equipment with Vodacom DRC in
    five villages.     
     
-   ***Project Preparation:*** USTDA is providing feasibility studies in
    Kenya to expand and improve healthcare access in partnership with
    the Kenya Hospital Association; deploy affordable fixed wireless
    internet across the region; revive Kenya’s natural insecticide
    industry while supporting small-scale farmers; and develop a
    50-megawatt wind and battery storage plant bringing projects that
    will bring 50 megawatts of new clean energy capacity to the
    country.  
     
-   ***U.S. EXIM Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with
    Tanzania:*** During the Vice President’s recent trip to the region,
    U.S. EXIM and the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
    announced a MOU to facilitate up to $500 million in U.S. export
    financing to Tanzania. The MOU will support PGII projects and
    investments by deepening the commercial relationship between the two
    countries and exports in a variety of sectors, including
    infrastructure, transportation, digital technology, climate and
    energy security, and power generation and distribution projects.  
     
-   ***Clean Energy Supply Chains:  ***The United States facilitated a
    strategic partnership between Life Zone Metals and TechMet, a
    leading critical minerals company supported by a DFC equity
    investment. DFC is the company’s second largest shareholder. During
    the Vice President’s trip, Life Zone Metals announced a Framework
    Agreement with the Tanzanian Government to open a new multi-metals
    processing facility that will use innovative, low-emission
    technology to process nickel and other critical minerals mined in
    Tanzania, targeting delivery of battery grade nickel to the global
    market as soon as 2026. The partnership will also work to identify
    additional opportunities across the region for critical mineral
    inputs to the new facility. These efforts are aimed at building and
    expanding resilient, transparent supply chains for clean energy
    technology that are based on extensive local engagement, respect for
    the environment and conservation, and safe, high-integrity labor
    practices.

**Supporting Small Modular Reactor (SMR) progress:** PGII supports the
development and deployment of full clean energy supply chain solutions
at a global scale. Part of those efforts include small modular reactors,
which offer a lower initial capital investment, greater scalability,
potential for enhanced safety and security, and siting flexibility for
locations unable to accommodate more traditional larger reactors.
Deployment of advanced SMRs can help drive sustainable and inclusive
economic growth. *Initial investments include:*

-   **Indonesia:** Since launching the Just Energy Transition
    Partnership (JETP) at the 2022 G20 Summit, the United States
    announced a joint U.S.-Indonesia partnership to support Indonesia as
    a first mover in the region on SMR deployment in ASEAN markets,
    using safe and secure American technology from U.S. company NuScale
    Power. The pilot includes: (1) an additional $1 million in targeted
    support from the Department of State to establish technical and
    regulatory capability to develop an SMR program, and (2) a USTDA
    $2.4 million SMR feasibility study. DFC has also signed a Letter of
    Interest to support SMR development in Indonesia. The United States
    continues to support clean energy supply chains and deployment in
    Indonesia as part of PGII, including both through the JETP and other
    on-going engagements.  
     
-   **Romania**: Building on previous U.S. Government support to develop
    Romania’s first-of-a-kind SMR plant using U.S. firm NuScale Power
    technology and Fluor Corporation engineering and construction
    services, the U.S. EXIM issued a Letter of Interest for potential
    support for up to $99 million to RoPower Nuclear S.A. for design
    studies – alongside expressions of interest from public and private
    partners from Japan, Republic of Korea, and United Arab Emirates –
    together amounting to up to $275 million in early-stage support.
    These commitments, along with new pledges by Romania, support
    procurement of long lead materials, completion of the Front-End
    Engineering and Design (FEED) analysis, provision of project
    management experts, and regulatory site activities. In addition, the
    DFC and the U.S. EXIM also issued letters of interest for potential
    support of up to $1 billion and $3 billion, respectively, for
    project deployment. When built, the SMR will pave the way for new
    innovative energy technologies, accelerate the clean energy
    transition, create thousands of jobs, and strengthen European energy
    security while upholding the highest standards for nuclear safety,
    security, and nonproliferation.

*Additional notable PGII investments this year include:*  
  
**Expanding Digital Access in Costa Rica: **The United States is working
with the Government of Costa Rica on enhancing digital security and
connectivity in the country. Initial PGII investments include: 

-   ***Cybersecurity assistance: ***The Department of State will provide
    approximately $25 million in funding to strengthen Costa Rica’s
    cyber defense capabilities, including training operations, hardware,
    software and long-term capacity building.    
     
-   ***Technical Assistance: ***USTDA is providing technical assistance
    to the Costa Rican Electricity Institute to develop a monitoring and
    diagnostic system to enhance the utility’s management of its power
    generation, transmission, and distribution assets.   
     
-   ***Financing support for 5G expansion: ***U.S. EXIM has issued a
    letter of interest to provide financing to support the Costa Rican
    Electricity Institute’s 5G development. 

**Ecuador Yilport Port: **Two weeks ago, DFC announced that it committed
$150 million in financing to Yilport Terminal Operations to expand and
modernize the Puerto Bolívar container port in Ecuador. The port sits
near Ecuador’s major agricultural zones that produce over 50 percent of
the country’s total agricultural output and employ nearly 10 percent of
the population. Port expansion and supporting investment in cold storage
will enhance Ecuador’s agricultural sector, diversify and strengthen
global food security, and sustain and create local jobs. It is also
projected to catalyze up to $750 million of foreign direct investment.  
  
**Additional Commitments from the Private Sector**: Investment in global
infrastructure will require more than just the resources of the USG and
G7 partners. Through PGII, the United States welcomes public and private
sector stakeholders leveraging their expertise and networks to advance
complex transactions and strategic joint ventures to drive quality
infrastructure investments in low- and middle-income countries.   
  
For example, **Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP)** highlighted
roughly $2.5 billion of investments that were recently announced or
completed and align with PGII, advancing high quality infrastructure
assets in the energy, transportation, digital, and water and waste
sectors, including:  

-   The construction of over 1 gigawatt of power in Brazil and plans to
    invest over $5 billion through Atlas Renewable Energy over the next
    five years to bring online more than 5 gigawatts of new renewable
    capacity across the region.    
     
-   Financial close of the Gudadur 176 MW solar-wind hybrid renewable
    energy project with Vena Energy in the Indian state of Karnataka,
    which will generate enough clean energy to power 500,000 households
    yearly.   
     
-   Support for the addition of 10,000 telecom towers for Ascend Telecom
    in India that will help provide passive telecommunication
    infrastructure services to all four of India’s mobile network
    operators.  

Additionally, to facilitate investment that is critical to the
transition to a globally connected, digitized, and sustainable
economy, **Citi **is deploying innovative financing models such as green
bonds and revolving credit facilities. Citi highlighted roughly $1.6
billion of investments that were recently announced or completed and
align with PGII, including:  

-   Supporting, with IDB Invest, a Sustainability-Linked Bond as part of
    a $450 million financing package to increase digital access and
    broadband quality in Costa Rica, that will help close the digital
    divide.    
     
-   Launch of Indonesia’s state-owned geothermal developer first green
    bond worth approximately $400 million, helping to lead in green
    energy and expand geothermal operations in Indonesia.   
     
-   A sustainability-linked revolving credit facility of $125 million
    that will support Airtel Africa’s operations and investments in the
    Democratic Republic of Congo, Gabon, Kenya, and Nigeria. To increase
    social impact, the facility supports digital inclusion and gender
    diversity investments with a concentration on rural regions and
    women.    
     
-   Construction of a $346 million Wind Farm complex in Brazil, which
    will provide clean energy and help reduce the carbon footprint of
    the local aluminum industry.  

\###
