---
date: '2023-05-04'
published_time: 2023-05-04 10:45:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/04/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-conflict-in-sudan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Conflict in\_Sudan"
---
 
The violence taking place in Sudan is a tragedy—and it is a betrayal of
the Sudanese people’s clear demand for civilian government and a
transition to democracy.  I join the peace-loving people of Sudan and
leaders around the world in calling for a durable ceasefire between the
belligerent parties.  This violence, which has already stolen the lives
of hundreds of civilians and began during the holy month of Ramadan, is
unconscionable.  It must end.

Since the earliest moments of this conflict, the United States has
facilitated the safe departure of thousands of people – Americans and
others – by land, sea, and air and conducted intensive negotiations to
de-escalate violence. Our diplomatic efforts to urge all parties to end
the military conflict and allow unhindered humanitarian access continue,
as do our efforts to assist those remaining Americans, including by
providing them information on exit options. The United States is already
responding to this unfolding humanitarian crisis and stands ready to
support enhanced humanitarian assistance when conditions allow.

The United States stands with the people of Sudan—and we are acting to
support their commitment to a future of peace and opportunity.  Today, I
issued a new Executive Order that expands U.S. authorities to respond to
the violence that began on April 15 with sanctions that hold individuals
responsible for threatening the peace, security, and stability of Sudan;
undermining Sudan’s democratic transition; using violence against
civilians; or committing serious human rights abuses. 

The Sudanese people suffered thirty years under an authoritarian
regime—but they never gave up on their commitment to democracy or their
hope for a better future.  Their dedication brought down a dictator,
only to endure a military takeover in October 2021, and now more
violence among factions fighting for control.  

\###
