---
date: '2023-05-20'
published_time: 2023-05-20 02:31:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/20/australia-united-states-joint-leaders-statement-an-alliance-for-our-times/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Australia-United\_States Joint Leaders\u2019 Statement \u2013 An Alliance\
  \ for our\_Times"
---
 
We, Prime Minister Albanese and President Biden, meet at a uniquely
consequential time for our Alliance, the Indo-Pacific, and the world.

Our partnership reflects more than one hundred years of trust, respect,
friendship and shared sacrifice. Our relationship is founded on a shared
commitment to supporting an open, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific,
and a peaceful, inclusive and rules-based international order based on
respect for international law and the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of states. It is anchored in shared values of democracy, the
rule of law, and the protection and promotion of human rights.

Today we renew these bonds as we enhance the Alliance to respond to
evolving challenges.

**Addressing Climate and Biodiversity Action, and Clean Energy
Transition**

Today we have signed a statement of intent to advance our climate
cooperation through the Australia-United States Climate, Critical
Minerals, and Clean Energy Transformation Compact. We are taking urgent
action to elevate global climate ambition, accelerate the global clean
energy transition, and support mitigation, adaptation and resilience
efforts in the Indo-Pacific and beyond. The Compact affirms the position
of climate and clean energy as the third pillar of the Alliance,
alongside our defence and economic cooperation.

Under the Compact, Australia and the United States intend for our
private sectors, resources, and industrial strength to drive innovation
and accelerate the establishment of a responsible, secure, and inclusive
global clean energy economy. We intend to coordinate to spur the
diversification and expansion of clean energy supply chains, address the
growing energy demands of the Indo-Pacific, and enhance the
Indo-Pacific’s role as a primary driver of global prosperity. The
newly-established Australia-U.S. Forum on Clean Energy Industrial
Transformation and Taskforce on Critical Minerals will allow both our
countries to deepen cooperation to deliver sustainable, resilient, and
secure critical minerals and clean energy to the world and reduce
emissions.

Our countries are committed to halting and reversing environmental
degradation, including via environmental economic accounting and
reporting, nature-based solutions, preventing pollution, and protecting
and restoring biodiversity on both land and in water. The United States
applauds Australia in creating Environment Protection Australia, its
national environment protection agency, and plans to support efforts to
share information and best practices through a forthcoming memorandum of
understanding between our environmental agencies.

The United States and Australia share a proud tradition of working
together to improve ocean health and using science for sustainable
development and conservation of the ocean. This collaboration is being
enhanced through a new arrangement to advance Pacific Ocean exploration
and mapping between the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, Geoscience Australia, and the Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research Organisation. These three leading science
agencies are working together in consultation with Pacific islands
countries to conduct new hydrographic mapping activities, provide
technical exchange and expertise of ocean characterisation, and conduct
joint exploration expeditions and campaigns across the Pacific to
accelerate our understanding of the ocean to advance climate solutions,
the new blue economy, and stewardship priorities.

**Building our Defence Capability**

We welcome the progress being made to provide Australia with a
conventionally-armed, nuclear‑powered submarine capability, and on
developing advanced capabilities under the trilateral AUKUS partnership
to deter aggression and sustain peace and stability across the
Indo-Pacific. We are prioritising improving information sharing and
technology cooperation mechanisms required to advance our defence and
security collaboration, including through AUKUS.

The President plans to ask the United States Congress to add Australia
as a “domestic source” within the meaning of Title III of the Defense
Production Act. Doing so would streamline technological and industrial
base collaboration, accelerate and strengthen AUKUS implementation, and
build new opportunities for United States investment in the production
and purchase of Australian critical minerals, critical technologies, and
other strategic sectors.

We also acknowledge the work under way to implement Australia-United
States Enhanced Force Posture Cooperation, including accelerating
Japan’s involvement in force posture related activities.

**Harnessing Emerging Technologies**

Australia and the United States stand ready to seize the opportunities
of quantum and advanced technologies, building upon our Joint Statement
of Collaboration on Quantum, signed in November 2021, and the release of
Australia’s National Quantum Strategy. We are determined to deepen
cooperation on initiatives to be delivered in the coming year, and to
work bilaterally and with partners to drive innovation and responsible
norms and standards for emerging technologies as we lead the quantum
revolution.

The United States also appreciates the collaboration with Australian
counterparts on promoting telecommunications supplier diversity,
including Open Radio Access Networks (Open RAN), given its strong
potential to advance resilience, competitiveness, and diversity
priorities shared by many bilateral and multilateral partners with
regard to telecoms network infrastructure.

We acknowledge the importance of facilitating the free flow of data
across borders through an open, global, interoperable, reliable, and
secure Internet and reiterate our shared commitment to participating in
multilateral fora such as the Global Cross-Border Privacy Rules Forum,
which was established to support the free flow of data and effective
data protection and privacy globally.

**Reaching New Frontiers in Space**

Space collaboration is a rich opportunity to build high-skilled,
well-paying jobs and increase investment between our countries.
Australia and the United States have reached agreement in principle,
subject to final domestic authorisations, on the Technology Safeguards
Agreement, to allow for the controlled transfer of sensitive US launch
technology and data while protecting US technology consistent with US
non‑proliferation policy, the Missile Technology Control Regime and US
export controls.

As founding signatories to the Artemis Accords, and building on more
than 60 years of cooperation in lunar exploration, we intend to
establish a new Australia-based ground station supporting NASA’s Artemis
program that will provide near-continuous communications support to
lunar missions.

**Securing Peace and Future Prosperity**

We are committed to upholding a global order based on international law,
including the fundamental principles of sovereignty and territorial
integrity. We condemn in the strongest possible terms Russia’s illegal
and immoral invasion of Ukraine. Russia’s war violates international
law, including the UN Charter, and is driving global food and energy
insecurity – the effects of which are reverberating in the Indo-Pacific
region. We once again call on Russia to immediately, completely, and
unconditionally withdraw its forces from within the internationally
recognised borders of Ukraine. As part of our continuing, coordinated
actions to impose costs on Russia for its appalling actions in Ukraine,
Australia and the United States both imposed a further tranche of
sanctions and trade measures on Russian entities and individuals on 19
May whilst at the G7 Summit.

We reiterate our commitment to the global non-proliferation regime,
including the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, as the
cornerstone of the non-proliferation and disarmament regime. We
reaffirmed our commitment towards the ultimate goal of a world without
nuclear weapons.

Both leaders applauded Japan’s hosting of the G7 Summit in Hiroshima,
and its contribution to promoting an inclusive and rules-based
international order.

The Quad Leaders’ Summit in Hiroshima will demonstrate the Quad’s
enduring contribution to the development, stability, and prosperity of
the Indo-Pacific through its positive, practical agenda. We look forward
to the next Quad Leaders’ Summit being held in India. We strongly
support India’s G20 presidency under the theme of ‘One Earth, One
Family, One Future’ and its overarching focus on sustainable
development, in addressing the most pressing global challenges together.

We are working through the Pacific Islands Forum and other long-standing
Pacific regional institutions to listen to and partner with the
countries of the Pacific to meet the region’s needs. We intend to pursue
joint financing to help modernise and secure infrastructure in the
region, including by working with regional organisations and mechanisms
like the Pacific Region Infrastructure Facility and other initiatives
such as the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment that
promote and maintain high standards, including on labour and
environmental practices. Australia welcomes the US commitment to explore
new grant funding for infrastructure projects in the Pacific, and its
intent to further develop sovereign financing capacity to meet critical
infrastructure needs in the Pacific. Australia welcomes the US
commitment through USAID to pre-position disaster response stores with
Australia’s managed supplies in Brisbane and Papua New Guinea to improve
response times.

The United States Coast Guard plans to deploy a US Coast Guard Cutter to
the Pacific in early 2024, to provide an enduring humanitarian presence
in the region, complementary to Australia’s Pacific Support Vessel. We
welcome the growing partnership between the United States Coast Guard,
the Australian Defence Force, and Australian Border Force with Pacific
partners to enhance the maritime security of the Blue Pacific and
address the challenge of illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing.
This includes through the delivery of training coordinated with
Australia’s Pacific Maritime Security Program. We are committed to
exploring options to support enhanced US Coast Guard engagement in the
region, including logistics.

We reiterate our enduring commitment to deepen our respective engagement
with Southeast Asia. As Comprehensive Strategic Partners of ASEAN, we
reaffirm our commitment to ASEAN centrality and ASEAN-led regional
architecture. We express our strong support for Indonesia’s priorities
as the 2023 ASEAN Chair, including its leadership of the East Asia
Summit in Jakarta this year. We look forward to furthering trilateral
cooperation with regional partners, including both Japan and the
Philippines.

We emphasise the importance of all states being able to exercise rights
and freedoms in a manner consistent with international law as reflected
in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, including
freedom of navigation and overflight. We strongly oppose destabilising
actions in the South China Sea, such as the militarisation of disputed
features, the dangerous use of coast guard vessels and maritime militia,
and efforts to disrupt other countries’ offshore resource exploitation.
We are also concerned about the People’s Republic of China’s excessive
maritime claims that are inconsistent with international law and
unilateral actions that may raise tensions in the region. We resolve to
work with partners to support regional maritime security and uphold
international law.

We reaffirm the importance of maintaining peace and stability across the
Taiwan Strait and our shared opposition to unilateral changes to the
status quo. We call for the peaceful resolution of cross-strait issues
through dialogue without the threat or use of force or coercion.

**Building Cyber Capacity and Protecting Children Online**

The United States and Australia recognise the importance of supporting
the Pacific to adopt and adapt to new digital technologies, and to
manage the risks that accompany these, in order to ensure a more
peaceful, prosperous, and resilient region. We commit to working
together on cyber security capacity building objectives, approaches, and
policies in the Pacific, and to listen to Pacific partner countries’
priorities to inform future cooperation.

Online child sexual exploitation and abuse is increasingly prevalent,
commodified, organised, and worsened by the speed, scale, and scope of
digital technologies. We are steadfast in combatting all forms of child
exploitation and abuse in our communities, online and internationally.
For this reason, we have decided to take steps to establish the
Australia-United States Joint Council on Combatting Online Child Sexual
Exploitation. The Council will develop and facilitate the implementation
of a joint, multidisciplinary work plan which includes cooperation in
the Indo-Pacific; driving a trauma-informed and victim and
survivor-centred approach; research and development; operational
opportunities; policy and legislation; prevention, awareness, and
outreach; and Safety by Design.

**Fostering Free and Fair Trade and Strengthening Economic Resilience**

We are committed to the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the shared
values upon which it is based, including fair competition, openness,
transparency and the rule of law. We intend to work together to improve
the system through reform, including so that it can better achieve the
WTO’s foundational objectives and help address global challenges. We
reaffirm the commitment of Ministers at the Twelfth Session of the WTO
Ministerial Conference to work towards necessary reform of the WTO to
improve all of its functions, including to conduct discussions with the
view to having a fully- and well-functioning dispute settlement system
accessible to all members by 2024.

We also plan to work with the Pacific to help maintain access to
enduring banking services, including correspondent banking relationships
which are vital to facilitate trade, remittances, and investment.

We reaffirm our ongoing efforts to strengthen our shared economic
security, including via the Australia-United States Strategic Commercial
Dialogue, which will convene in Detroit later this week. We look forward
to seeing one another again in San Francisco this November for the APEC
Economic Leaders’ Week, to advance sustainable and inclusive economic
growth in the region. We also look forward to working together to
deliver tangible benefits under the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for
Prosperity by the end of this year.

*\###*
