---
date: '2023-05-17'
modified_time: 2023-05-17 12:10:48-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-17 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/17/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-27/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals as members of the United States Holocaust Memorial
Council:

-   Kevin Abel
-   Michael S. Beals
-   Theodore E. Deutch
-   Kimberly Marteau Emerson

<!-- -->

-   Alexander P. Heckler
-   Danielle Borrin Hertz
-   Jonathan Lavine
-   Harry Evans Sloan
-   Alan D. Solomont
-   Gary Phillip Zola

**<u>United States Holocaust Memorial Council</u>**

The United States Holocaust Memorial Council was established by Congress
in 1980 to lead the nation in commemorating the Holocaust and to raise
private funds for and build the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.
Once the Museum opened in 1993, the Council became the governing board
of trustees of the Museum, an independent establishment of the United
States government operating as a public-private partnership that
receives some federal funding to support operations of the Museum
building.

**Kevin Abel**

Kevin Abel was a candidate for Congress seeking the Democratic
nomination in Georgia’s 6<sup>th</sup> Congressional District in 2018.
Prior to his entry into politics, he was President of Abel Solutions, a
company that he founded in 1995 with his wife Cindy and ran for more
than 20 years in Alpharetta before selling to Applied Technical Services
in 2015.

A native of South Africa, Abel came to the United States with his family
in 1979. He then attended the University of Texas at Austin, where he
received his Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in 1987. He
has served on numerous boards including New American Pathways, the
Technology Association of Georgia, The Davis Academy, the Georgia
Chapter of the Arthritis Foundation, and the Metro Atlanta Chamber of
Commerce.

In 2019, Abel was elected by a delegation in the Georgia Legislature to
represent the 6<sup>th</sup> Congressional District on the State
Transportation Board where he served until April 2023. In January 2023,
Abel founded Mobility Atlanta to advance transit projects in the
metropolitan Atlanta region by expanding opportunities for local, state,
and federal funding. Abel is a 2006 graduate of Leadership Atlanta. He
is a former finalist for the Atlanta Small Business Person of the Year
Award and was previously named to the Georgia Trend 40 under 40 list.
Abel and his wife Cindy are empty nesters living in the suburbs of
Atlanta. They have three young adult children, Danielle, Juliana, and
Eric.

**Michael S. Beals**

Rabbi Michael Beals has been with Congregation Beth Shalom since August
2004. He is a 1997 graduate of the Jewish Theological Seminary. Beals is
also a graduate of the University of Judaism in Los Angeles with an M.A.
in Hebrew Letters, The American University in Washington, D.C. with an
M.A. in International Relations, as well as the University of California
at Berkeley with a B.A. in Political Science. He received the Raoul
Wallenberg Fellowship at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. Beyond his
accomplished education, Beals has also worked in a variety of roles from
serving as a management analyst developing multicultural training
programs to working with the youth and older populations in programs of
music therapy, Shabbat programming, and providing pastoral counseling
and support for the sick and elderly and to the families that support
them.

During Beals’ tenure, Congregation Beth Shalom’s Hebrew School has
grown, they have established a nationally recognized Keruv Initiative to
welcome and support interfaith families, and re-established an active
and involved Sisterhood and Men’s Club. Also during his tenure, the
Congregation has transformed its 1950s spiritual home to a modern,
accessible, spiritual center. Governor John Carney appointed Beals to be
the Director of his Delaware Council of Faith-Based Partnerships. He is
a former President of the Delaware Association of Rabbis and Cantors and
a regular contributor to the Delaware statewide monthly Jewish magazine,
*jVOICE*, and the radio program The Rabbi Speaks on WDEL. Beals makes
his home in Delaware with his wife, Elissa, and his children, Ariella
and Shir. Their family also includes dogs and cats.

**Theodore E. Deutch**

Ted Deutch assumed the role of CEO of American Jewish Committee in
October 2022 after 16 years of distinguished service in the United
States House of Representatives and Florida State Senate. In Congress,
Deutch was a founding co-chair of the House Bipartisan Task Force for
Combating Antisemitism and served as Chairman of the House Ethics
Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East,
North Africa, and Global Counterterrorism. He was also the co-chair of
the Congressional Study Group on Germany, a position he used to advocate
for Holocaust survivors with the German Chancellor and members of the
Bundestag. As a Florida State Senator, Deutch authored the
first-in-the-nation law to cut off state funds to companies advancing
Iran’s nuclear weapons program.

Prior to holding public office, Deutch practiced law in Cleveland and
Boca Raton. He has long championed the priorities of the Jewish
community, from his summers at Camp Ramah to his Israel activism at the
University of Michigan, where he chaired the Hillel Governing Board. He
later served as a lay leader with the Jewish Federations of Cleveland
and South Palm Beach County and as a member of both UJA’s National Young
Leadership Cabinet and AIPAC’s National New Leadership Network. Born and
raised in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, Deutch is the youngest son of the
late Jean and Bernard Deutch. He and his wife, Jill, live in Boca Raton,
Florida and have three adult children, Gabby, Serena, and Cole.

**Kimberly Marteau Emerson**

Kimberly Marteau Emerson is a lawyer, civic leader, and human rights
advocate. She currently serves on the Board of Trustees of Bard College
in Annandale-on-Hudson, and is Chair of the Board of Governors of Bard
College Berlin. She also serves the Board of Directors of Human Rights
Watch, and on the Advisory Boards of the USC Center on Public Diplomacy,
the Thomas Mann House, and United Way in Germany. Emerson served in the
Clinton Administration as spokesperson and public liaison for U.S.I.A.
From 2013 to 2017, she worked in Berlin alongside her husband, U.S.
Ambassador to Germany John B. Emerson (retired) to drive projects on
multiple platforms, including the Embassy’s efforts to combat
anti-Semitism and its integration efforts during the 2015 refugee
crisis. She has twice been an election observer in Nigeria, and worked
on relief projects, among others, in Lesbos, Greece, during the
2015/2016 crisis, and in Sri Lanka post-Tsunami. She has received
several awards for her civic engagement, including annual or special
awards from the American Jewish Committee, People for the American Way,
the Music Center of Los Angeles County, the LA Children’s Chorus, and
United Friends of the Children. She holds a B.A. from UCLA, a J.D. from
UC Hastings College of the Law, and a D.E.S.U. from l’Université de
Droit d’Aix-Marseille.

**Alexander P. Heckler**

Alexander P. Heckler is a dedicated attorney, entrepreneur, and
philanthropist committed to making a positive impact on society through
his work and charitable endeavors. As the Founder and Managing Partner
of LSN Partners, a leading consulting firm, and LSN Law, a public policy
and procurement law firm, Heckler has spent decades helping clients
excel and improve local communities and states across the nation.
Heckler is a longtime Democratic Party activist, fundraiser, and
strategist. He holds leadership roles in several national and local
political, professional, and charitable organizations, including Beyond
Differences, a California-based non-profit that aims to promote
inclusivity and reduce social isolation among young people through
student-led initiatives. Heckler is also a proud member of the Young
President’s Organization, Americas Gateway Chapter.

Heckler is steadfast in combating anti-Semitism and takes great pride in
his Jewish heritage. He supports pro-Israel and Zionist organizations
and actively champions Jewish education, culture, and community-building
initiatives. Heckler is a graduate of Brandeis University, where he and
his wife launched a scholarship in the name of his mentor, former Texas
Governor Ann Richards, for students who aim to pursue a professional
career in public service. Heckler received his Juris Doctorate from the
University of Miami School of Law. He is a devoted husband and father
and lives in Miami Beach with his wife, Tiffany, and two daughters.

**Danielle Borrin Hertz**

Based in New York City, Danielle Borrin Hertz leads strategic
initiatives for JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s national market leadership team
program, which helps local leaders drive business growth, advance DEI
and employee engagement initiatives, and champion its corporate
responsibility efforts with internal and external stakeholders. Prior to
this position, she oversaw the firm’s global suite of workplace giving
programs and disaster relief response and built a comprehensive
nonprofit board service program. Hertz also served as the program
manager for the Global Cities Initiative, a joint project of JPMorgan
Chase and the Brookings Institution.

Prior to joining JPMorgan Chase, she served as the Director of
Intergovernmental Affairs and Deputy Director of Public Engagement for
then-Vice President Biden as well as Associate Director of the White
House Office of Public Engagement, serving as the first liaison to the
Jewish community of the Obama-Biden Administration. She was a delegate
to the 2009 Prague Conference on Holocaust Era Assets and planned the
first-ever White House reception in honor of Jewish American Heritage
Month, among dozens of policy and social engagements between national
and grassroots leaders and senior Administration officials. Previously,
she was Deputy Press Secretary in the Office of Senator Biden and a
finance assistant for Unite Our States PAC.

Born and raised in Atlanta, Hertz received her B.A. from Washington
University in St. Louis. She resides in the Bronx with her husband and
two children – proud descendants of Holocaust survivors – where they are
members of the Hebrew Institute of Riverdale. She volunteers with the
Leffell School in White Plains.

**Jonathan Lavine**

Jonathan Lavine is Co-Managing Partner of Bain Capital, a leading global
private investment firm working across five continents and approximately
$165 billion in assets under management. He first joined Bain Capital in
1993 and founded Bain Capital Credit and Special Situations in 1998.
Lavine and his wife, Jeannie, formed the Crimson Lion / Lavine Family
Foundation which delivers financial resources to a wide variety of
nonprofit organizations focused in the areas of education, community and
public service, health and welfare, discrimination, and poverty.

Lavine currently serves as Chair of the Trustees of Columbia University
and Chairman Emeritus of the City Year Board of Trustees. He has been
recognized for his service to numerous organizations including being
named the 2017 recipient of Columbia University’s Alexander Hamilton
Medal, the highest honor awarded to a member of the college community
for distinguished service. He has received Columbia/Barnard Hillel’s
Seixas Award, Voices for National Service Citizen Service Award, and the
New England Anti-Defamation League’s Distinguished Community Service
Award. In 2016, Lavine was appointed a Member of the United States
Holocaust Memorial Museum Council by President Obama. The Lavines were
among the lead sponsors of documentarian filmmaker Ken Burns’ series
*The U.S. and the Holocaust*. Lavine graduated from Columbia College,
Phi Beta Kappa and *magna cum laude*, and holds an M.B.A. with
Distinction from Harvard Business School. He and his wife Jeannie have
two daughters.

**Harry Evans Sloan**

Harry Evans Sloan is a former Chairman and CEO of MGM Studios and a
Founder and leading investor in the media, entertainment, and technology
industries. Since leaving MGM in 2011, Sloan has co-founded seven
special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs), raising over $5 billion
in proceeds. These SPACs have completed business combinations from
sports betting giant DraftKings to Ginkgo Bioworks, the leading
synthetic biotechnology company.

Active in the public service sector, Sloan was appointed by President
Reagan to the President’s Advisory Council on Trade and Policy
Negotiations in 1987. Today, Sloan is a Trustee of The McCain Institute
and serves as a Board member for the Pacific Council on International
Policy. Sloan is an Associate Professor at the UCLA Anderson School of
Management and serves on the Board of Visitors of UCLA Anderson and the
UCLA School of Theatre, Film and Television. He is also a member of the
President’s Advisory Council at USC as well as the Law School Board of
Counsellors.

Earlier in his career, Sloan founded and led New World Entertainment and
SBS Broadcasting. He was a founding investor/Board Member of
Zenimax/Bethesda Game Studios and serves currently on the Board of
Directors of Ginkgo Bioworks, as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors
of DraftKings, and is a Board member of Lionsgate Entertainment. Born in
Southern California, Sloan was raised in a working-class Jewish family.
Sloan earned a degree from UCLA and graduated from Loyola Law School.

**Alan D. Solomont**

Ambassador Alan D. Solomont is the Dean Emeritus of Tufts University’s
Jonathan M. Tisch College of Civic Life. He served as the United States
Ambassador to Spain and Andorra during the Obama-Biden Administration
from 2009 to 2013. Prior to that, he was chairman of the bipartisan
Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community
Service. First appointed by President Clinton, he was re-appointed by
President Bush, and became board chairman after the election of
President Obama.

Solomont continues to promote ties between the United States and Spain
as chairman of the Spain-U.S. Chamber of Commerce and as a board member
of the U.S.-Spain Council. Active for many years in the Democratic
Party, Solomont was the Party’s National Finance Chairman in 1997-1998.
He is a past Chairman of the Board of Combined Jewish Philanthropies of
Greater Boston and was, for many years, a board member of the New Israel
Fund. He is currently the national board chair of J Street. Solomont’s
professional career was in the field of eldercare. A past Watson Fellow,
he is a graduate of Tufts University and the University of
Massachusetts, Lowell, and has received honorary degrees from both
institutions, as well as from Suffolk University and Hebrew College. He
is married to Susan Lewis Solomont. They have two grown daughters and
reside in Weston, Massachusetts.

**Gary Phillip Zola**

Dr. Gary Phillip Zola is the Executive Director of The Jacob Rader
Marcus Center of the American Jewish Archives and the Edward M. Ackerman
Family Distinguished Professor of the American Jewish Experience &
Reform Jewish History at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of
Religion in Cincinnati, Ohio. Zola is a highly regarded historian of
American Jewry who specializes in the history of the American Jewish
experience. He is the author of numerous volumes, including *We Called
Him Rabbi Abraham: Lincoln and American Jewry* (2014). President Obama
appointed Zola on three separate occasions to serve as a member of the
U.S. Commission for the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad. In
April of 2023, the Urban League of Greater Southwestern Ohio named Zola
one of its “Lion Honorees” – distinguished community leaders who have
demonstrated a lifelong commitment to serving the community. In 2018,
Thomas More University conferred a Doctor of Humane Letters degree,
*honoris causa*, on Zola for his “dedication to the principles that are
the foundation of our nation.” 

\###
