---
date: '2023-05-20'
modified_time: 2023-05-20 03:47:16-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-20 02:32:25-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/20/australia-united-states-statement-of-intent-climate-critical-minerals-and-the-clean-energy-transformation/
tags: statements-releases
title: "United\_States \u2013 Australia Statement of Intent: Climate, Critical Minerals,\
  \ and the Clean Energy\_Transformation"
---
 
The United States and Australia recognize that climate change is a
threat to global stability, security, and prosperity, including in the
Indo-Pacific. The United States and Australia affirm that accelerating
the global clean energy transformation is pivotal to keeping the 1.5
degrees Celsius goal within reach and creating an inclusive, clean
energy economy.

The United States supports Australia’s actions towards becoming a
renewable energy powerhouse globally and in the Indo-Pacific, supplying
essential materials and products fundamental to meeting global climate
goals. Similarly, Australia welcomes the United States’ actions to
transform its domestic energy and industrial base to lead to the
establishment of a global clean energy economy, leveraging its
technological innovation to global benefit.

Through the United States’ Inflation Reduction Act and Australia’s
Powering Australia Plan, both countries are accelerating global climate
action to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. The United States and
Australia commit to support a stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific through
a fair and equitable energy transformation, enhancing economic
opportunities in the region through shared approaches to the
diversification of clean energy supply chains in the Indo-Pacific.

The United States and Australia support a global energy transformation,
including in the Indo-Pacific, that realizes the economic opportunity in
climate action through good, well-paying jobs while protecting the
environment, accelerating the transition to net zero, and delivering
affordable energy to businesses and households. The United States and
Australia underscore our commitments to an inclusive transition that
leaves no one behind, underpinned by close collaboration with those
disproportionately impacted by the effects of climate change, such as
Pacific Island countries and other affected communities including women,
children, Indigenous peoples, and persons with disability.

In this context, the United States and Australia intend to enhance our
cooperation under a new Climate, Critical Minerals, and Clean Energy
Transformation Compact (Compact), establishing climate, clean energy,
and a shared energy industrial base as a central pillar of the United
States-Australia Alliance. Together, the United States and Australia
will deliver sustainable, resilient, and secure critical minerals and
clean energy technology to the world.

The Compact is a framework to advance ambitious climate and clean energy
action this decade both at home and abroad. This includes coordinating
policies and investments to support the expansion and diversification of
end-to-end clean energy supply chains, accelerating the development of
markets for emerging technologies and critical minerals, and meeting the
growing energy and adaptation needs of the Indo-Pacific to enhance the
region’s role as a driver of resilient and sustainable global
prosperity. The Compact recognizes the interrelationship between
critical minerals and the clean energy transformation in creating
sustainable markets that will provide the inputs necessary to reduce
emissions.

While the United States and Australia are urgently decarbonizing our
economies to reduce emissions, both countries acknowledge that
communities at home and across the Indo-Pacific region are already
experiencing the consequences of climate-related extreme weather events
and natural disasters. The United States and Australia are unwavering in
our commitments to support global climate mitigation, adaptation, and
resilience efforts, and are deepening coordination to address the needs
of those who are most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change,
including Pacific Island countries.

We direct our Governments to report back to us on progress under the
Compact by the end of 2023.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR. ANTHONY ALBANESE  
President of the United States of America Prime Minister of Australia

May 20, 2023  
Hiroshima, Japan
