---
date: '2023-05-20'
published_time: 2023-05-20 02:32:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/20/australia-united-states-climate-critical-minerals-and-clean-energy-transformation-compact/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Australia-United\_States Climate, Critical Minerals and Clean Energy Transformation\_\
  Compact"
---
 
Australia and the United States commit to enhance bilateral cooperation
under a Climate, Critical Minerals and Clean Energy Transformation
Compact (the Compact), establishing climate and clean energy as a
central pillar of the Australia-United States Alliance. Australia and
the United States recognise the importance of addressing the climate
crisis as a critical component of the bilateral relationship. The
Compact is a framework which is designed to advance ambitious climate
and clean energy action this decade, at home and abroad. The framework
intends to coordinate policies and investments to support the expansion
and diversification of responsible clean energy and critical minerals
supply chains, accelerate the development of markets for established and
emerging technologies, meet the growing energy and adaptation needs of
the Indo-Pacific, and enhance the region’s role as a driver of resilient
and sustainable global prosperity.

Under the leadership of Australia’s Department of Climate Change,
Energy, Environment and Water and the U.S. National Security Council,
Australia and the United States have decided to establish a dedicated
forum on Clean Energy Industrial Transformation to set the core
objectives of this Compact. Through this mechanism, the relevant
departments and agencies from both countries intend to coordinate the
implementation of our respective clean energy supply chain strategies
and develop a new action plan by the end of 2023 to encourage stronger
industrial collaboration and accelerate progress towards our ambitious
climate goals. Both countries are determined to, within 12 months,
identify concrete actions toward the objectives laid out in this
Compact. As objectives are met and new challenges arise, this Compact
should serve as an enduring and evolving mechanism to deepen our
cooperation on integrating diverse, responsible, and innovative supply
chains, accelerating the net-zero transition, and driving climate
ambition and action in the Indo-Pacific and beyond. This work also
intends to build on the efforts that will be carried out through a new,
ministerial-level Dialogue between the Australian Minister for Climate
Change and Energy and the U.S. Secretary of Energy in support of the
Compact, Australia-U.S. Net Zero Technology Acceleration Partnership,
U.S.-Australia Energy Security Dialogue, and other existing bilateral
avenues of engagement.

Underscoring the central role of critical minerals to the clean energy
transformation, Australia and the United States are also establishing
the ministerial-level Australia-United States Taskforce on Critical
Minerals (the Taskforce), to be led by principals from the U.S. National
Security Council and Australia’s Department of Industry, Science and
Resources, with engagement from key stakeholders across industry and
relevant government agencies. This Taskforce should report to our
leaders, signalling our intent to deepen bilateral collaboration on the
critical minerals and materials that are vital to clean energy as well
as defence supply chains. The Taskforce is also intended to work with
industry leaders to develop and expand reliable, responsible and secure
global access to critical minerals, strengthening global supply of
critical minerals through the development of a shared energy industrial
base.  
  
**<u>Coordinating Supply Chains and Accelerating Market Development and
Investment to Support the Clean Energy Economy</u>**  
The Compact affirms our commitment to enhancing individual action and
deepening bilateral and multilateral cooperation to expand and diversify
sources of clean energy and its inputs. In doing so, Australia and the
United States intend to reduce the cost of clean energy technologies for
the world and lay the foundation for the global clean energy economy.
Our ambitious agenda calls for an unprecedented expansion in renewable
energy generation, clean energy technologies manufacturing, and critical
minerals supply year-on-year. The close collaboration required to
achieve this economic and energy system transformation goes beyond
technology and encompasses standards, workforce, training, and community
engagement.  
Under the Compact, Australia and the United States intend to:

-   **Accelerate the expansion and diversification of end-to-end clean
    energy supply chains. **We intend to identify areas where Australia
    and the United States can coordinate the development of our
    respective clean energy industrial bases, including but not limited
    to solar, wind, storage, and clean hydrogen materials and
    technologies. Both countries intend to use domestic financial
    instruments and incentives to foster greater integration of
    responsible clean energy supply chains and encourage investors to
    regard our two countries as leading destinations in which to build
    the future global clean energy industrial base. We also intend to
    align our efforts in the Indo-Pacific to expand clean energy
    manufacturing and clean energy exports in support of the region’s
    clean energy transformation goals, including in our work together
    through the Quad, other multilateral fora, and particularly with
    developing countries.  
-   **Promote responsible, sustainable, and stable supply of critical
    minerals. **We intend to share information to enable each country to
    coordinate the supply of critical minerals essential to the global
    energy transformation, identify risks and market distortions that
    impact on critical minerals markets and consider mitigation options,
    and cooperate in identifying innovative solutions, including
    standards and investment needed to deliver more responsible and
    efficient minerals mining and processing.  Efforts should serve to
    build on existing work in multilateral forums, such as the Minerals
    Security Partnership, Conference on Critical Materials, and Minerals
    and the Energy Resource Governance Initiative.
-   **Drive the development of emerging battery technologies** to help
    ensure our nations can lead energy storage as we diversify our
    energy sources. Australia and the United States recognize the
    importance of further technical engagement and coordination on
    battery interoperability, international standards, regulations and
    battery tracing and recyclability, including to drive offtake
    agreements for the battery sector.
-   **Support the development of emerging markets for clean hydrogen and
    its derivatives** in our respective countries and across the
    Indo-Pacific, including through dedicated conversations on
    coordinating our approaches to fostering dynamic, clean hydrogen
    industries that utilize research and development, incentives, and
    public-private partnerships. Both countries will coordinate
    approaches on clean hydrogen research, innovation, deployment,
    markets, and supply chains, including through multilateral platforms
    in which the United States and Australia play leadership roles.

To achieve these objectives, we intend to:

-   **Engage** **our critical minerals and clean energy industries** to
    identify and address financial and non-financial barriers to
    accelerating and expanding development and deployment in our
    respective countries. This is aimed at enhancing two-way investment
    flows between the financial sectors of both countries. Discussions
    should include government financing bodies including but not limited
    to the U.S. Export-Import Bank and Export Finance Australia. This
    work seeks to support the expansion of emerging industries,
    availability of critical minerals, and cost reductions of clean
    energy in our countries and globally.
-   **Collaborate on projects and standards** for clean energy supply
    chains to support implementation of our domestic policy agendas,
    including in connection to the Inflation Reduction Act and the
    Powering Australia Plan, and boost the production of high-quality
    and sustainable clean energy products that are competitive in global
    markets. Reflecting our mutual interest in growing global trade
    according to our shared values, Australia and the United States
    intend to share information and investigate collaboration on
    environmental and labour standards and greater bilateral and
    regional economic integration.
-   **Promote robust emissions accounting methodologies **for key
    sectors and products like clean hydrogen, hydrogen derivatives, and
    green metals, including steel and aluminium, with a view to align
    standards subject to our respective domestic requirements.
-   **Assess our clean energy job projections** and workforce
    requirements to identify areas where additional skills and training
    support is necessary to advancing our agenda. This assessment is
    meant to inform the development of a Jobs and Skills Partnership for
    Clean Energy Technologies and complement relevant multilateral
    programs, such as through the Quad, to ensure we are continuing to
    support workforce development in critical minerals and critical
    technologies sectors into the future.

**<u>Supporting Climate Mitigation, Adaptation and Resilience in the
Indo-Pacific and Beyond</u>**  
Australia and the United States intend to work together bilaterally and
in international fora to elevate global ambition in line with our goals
to limit global average temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius and
support adaptation and resilience in the Indo-Pacific and beyond.
Australia and the United States affirm a shared view of climate change
as a growing threat to national and regional security. Both countries
intend to deepen cooperation on climate security, including by
strengthening information sharing and dialogue among defence, diplomacy,
and development counterparts. They will also work to exchange best
practices and engage partners, including through holding the first
meeting this summer of the Senior Officials Working Group on Climate
Security Risk established under AUSMIN 2022.       
The United States welcomes Australia’s bid to host the United Nations
Climate Change Conference of the Parties in 2026 (COP31) in Partnership
with the Pacific islands to elevate the unique challenges faced by the
Indo-Pacific and amplify Pacific voices for whom climate change is an
existential threat. Both countries pledge to collaborate on COP
initiatives to deliver decarbonisation solutions that accelerate the
global energy transition, reduce global emissions, and enhance
resilience and adaptation. Both countries intend to follow through on
enhanced actions put forth during this year’s [Major Economies
Forum,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/21/chairs-summary-of-the-major-economies-forum-on-energy-and-climate-held-by-president-joe-biden-2/) including
in the areas of decarbonizing shipping, ending deforestation, phasing
down hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), and advancing carbon management, as well
as other initiatives such as the Clean Energy Demand Initiative.

Both countries intend to strive to enhance access to climate finance for
Small Island Developing States, including by working together with
Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) to enhance MDBs’ investments in
Pacific island countries. Australia and the United States recognise the
urgency of enhancing efforts to avert, minimize, and address loss and
damage associated with the adverse impacts of climate change, and are
committed to work closely together, and with partners in our region to
implement the decision at COP27 to establish new funding arrangements
including a new fund.

Recognising the disproportionate impacts of climate change on Pacific
island countries, Australia and the United States commit to supporting
Pacific-led initiatives to enhance climate change mitigation,
adaptation, and resilience efforts, working closely with regional
partners to help ensure these efforts respond to the needs of the
Pacific Island people. Australia and the United States commit to work
with partners in the context of the Climate Information Services
Taskforce and Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure under the
Quad and the Access to Climate Finance Working Group under the Partners
in the Blue Pacific, to improve Pacific Island countries’ ability to
access data and finance for adaptation and resilience. Australia and the
United States intend to support the preparatory work for the Pacific
Resilience Facility as a Pacific Island-led and member-owned Facility
that will build climate and disaster resilience.

Australia and the United States commit to collaborate on addressing
domestic and regional risks and facilitating responses to significant
hazards, including those driven by climate change, by working through
the Resilience and Emergency Management Five Working Group and the new
Memorandum of Understanding between Australia’s National Emergency
Management Agency and the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency.

This Compact represents the political commitments of both Governments
and does not give rise to rights and obligations under international
law.

\###
