---
date: '2023-05-14'
modified_time: 2023-05-14 05:55:26-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-14 08:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/14/icymi-president-joe-biden-op-ed-im-doing-everything-i-can-to-reduce-gun-violence-but-congress-must-do-more/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI: President Joe\_Biden Op-Ed: \u201CI\u2019m doing everything I can to\
  \ reduce gun violence, but Congress must do\_more\u201D"
---
 
Today, in a new op-ed, President Biden announced that the Biden-Harris
Administration is taking new action to implement the Bipartisan Safer
Communities Act and maximize the benefits of the law, reducing gun
violence and saving lives.  
  
The op-ed also honors the lives of those killed one year ago in the
Buffalo, New York shooting, and the Uvalde, Texas shooting which came
less than two weeks later.  
  
Last year, President Biden carried their message back to Washington, and
signed into law the most significant gun safety legislation in nearly 30
years. But Congress still must take additional action to save lives.  
  
As the President writes, “I have already taken more executive action to
reduce gun violence than any other president, and I will continue to
pursue every legal and effective action. But my power is not absolute.
Congress must act, including by banning assault weapons and
high-capacity magazines, requiring gun owners to securely store their
firearms, requiring background checks for all gun sales, and repealing
gun manufacturers’ immunity from liability. We also need more governors
and state legislators to take these steps.”  
  
*Read the full piece below:*  
**[USA Today: President Biden: I’m doing everything I can to reduce gun
violence, but Congress must do
more](https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2023/05/14/biden-congress-act-gun-violence/70208852007/)**  
\[President Biden, 5/14/23\]  
  
One year ago today, an individual who had posted a white supremacist
manifesto, armed with an AR-15 style firearm, [killed 10 Black
Americans](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2023/05/10/buffalo-mass-shooting-poet-jillian-hanesworth-inspired/70205361007/) and
injured three others [at a supermarket in Buffalo, New
York](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2023/05/10/buffalo-mass-shooting-poet-jillian-hanesworth-inspired/70205361007/).
Ten days later, another lone gunman, again armed with an AR-15 style
firearm, killed 19 children and two teachers at an elementary school in
Uvalde, Texas.  
  
Jill and I [visited both
communities](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2022/05/29/uvalde-texas-school-shooting-updates-biden/9977046002/),
spending hours with hundreds of family members who lost pieces of their
soul and whose lives will never be the same. They had [one message for
all of
us](https://www.cnn.com/2022/05/29/politics/joe-biden-uvalde-texas-visit/index.html):
Do something. For God’s sake, do something.  
  
I carried their message back to Washington, which finally broke the
congressional logjam. Congress passed the [Bipartisan Safer Communities
Act](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2023/03/14/joe-biden-seeks-more-gun-background-checks-through-executive-action/11467380002/),
the most significant gun safety legislation in nearly 30 years.  
  
At the bill signing, in front of families from Buffalo, Uvalde and too
many other communities affected by gun violence, I said the new law
was [real
progress](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/07/11/remarks-by-president-biden-at-an-event-commemorating-the-passage-of-the-safer-communities-act/).
It strengthens firearms background checks for young people, expands the
use of red flag laws to temporarily remove firearms from those who are a
danger to themselves or others, helps prevent domestic abusers from
purchasing guns and makes historic investments in [mental
health](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/2938) to
address the grief and trauma resulting from gun violence.   
  
I also urged Congress to take this victory as a call to action, an
opening to do more to reduce gun violence.   
  
We need to do more. In the year after the Buffalo tragedy, our country
has experienced more than 650 mass shootings and well over 40,000 deaths
due to gun violence, [according to one
analysis](https://www.gunviolencearchive.org/).   
  
Just last weekend, an assailant in tactical gear and armed with an AR-15
style weapon [killed eight individuals, including
children](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/graphics/2023/05/08/allen-mall-shooting-could-make-2023-deadliest-year-on-record-graphics/70194760007/),
at a shopping mall in Allen, Texas. Guns are the number one killer of
children and teens in America.   
  
I have already taken more meaningful executive action to reduce gun
violence than any other president, and I will continue to pursue every
legal and effective action. But my power is not absolute. Congress must
act, including by banning assault weapons and high-capacity magazines,
requiring gun owners to securely store their firearms, requiring
background checks for all gun sales, and repealing gun manufacturers’
immunity from liability. We also need more governors and state
legislators to take these steps.  
  
The [majority of
Americans](https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2021/04/20/amid-a-series-of-mass-shootings-in-the-u-s-gun-policy-remains-deeply-divisive/#share-of-americans-who-favor-stricter-gun-laws-has-declined-since-2019) –
even the majority of gun owners – want Congress to take some commonsense
action to reduce gun violence. But too many congressional Republicans
are doing the bidding of gun manufacturers instead of their
constituents.   
  
So, one year after the Buffalo tragedy, how do we seize the momentum of
the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act and spur Congress to do more? We
need to pursue three steps:

1.  Fully implement the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act to show
    congressional Republicans that commonsense laws save lives
2.  Take additional action to maximize the benefits of the law
3.  Build an even bigger, unrelenting coalition demanding that Congress
    pass additional commonsense gun safety legislation.

My Administration is aggressively implementing the Bipartisan Safer
Communities Act. The Justice Department is now running enhanced
background checks on individuals under age 21 trying to purchase a
firearm.  
  
These enhanced checks have already stopped more than 160 firearms from
getting into potentially dangerous hands, according to data from the
Justice Department. Justice has also used the Act
to [charge](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-charges-against-alleged-gun-trafficker) more
than 60 defendants with gun trafficking and illegally purchasing
firearms for another person, seizing hundreds of firearms that could
have ended up in the hands of criminals.  
  
Justice awarded more than $230 million for states to expand the use of
red flag orders and other interventions to temporarily remove firearms
from someone who is a danger to themselves or others. The Departments of
Health and Human Services and Education, combined, have already
delivered more than $1.5 billion to states and communities to make our
schools safer, improve access to mental health services, and help young
people deal with the trauma and grief resulting from gun violence.  
  
This includes funding that the Department of Education projects will put
an additional 14,000 mental health professionals in our schools, and to
boost the skills of school staff to better meet students’ mental health
needs.  
  
The bottom line is this: the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act is saving
lives.  
  
Today, I am announcing more than ten actions my Administration is taking
to maximize the benefits of the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. These
actions are the result of the Executive Order I signed on March 14,
2023.  
  
For example, the White House and Department of Justice will soon convene
state legislators and governors’ offices, urging them to enact laws
allowing the federal background check system access to all records that
could prohibit someone under age 21 from purchasing a firearm. The
Departments of Health and Human Services and Education are creating new
resources to help health care providers and educators understand the
impact of gun violence trauma on communities, and how the Act’s funding
can be used to address that trauma.  
  
Across the Administration, we are doubling down on efforts to make sure
schools and communities know about the resources available through the
Act, and to encourage more communities to use the funding to replicate
strategies others are using to successfully reduce gun violence.  
  
Now, we must build an even bigger, unrelenting coalition demanding that
Congress pass additional gun safety legislation. To that end, I will
invite to the White House law enforcement leaders supportive of an
assault weapons and high-capacity magazine ban.  
  
When I helped secure [a 10-year ban on assault weapons in
1994](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/06/04/biden-assault-weapons-ban/),
law enforcement’s support was key to our success. Once again, I am
asking law enforcement leaders to mobilize their colleagues all across
the country to urge Congress to ban assault weapons. I know the brave
Americans who serve in law enforcement are tired of being outgunned by
criminals with AR-15 style firearms, losing officers in the line of
duty, and carrying the trauma of these attacks for the rest of their
lives.   
  
America doesn’t have to be a place where our children learn how to duck
and cover from a shooter, or scan a movie theater or restaurant for
their exit options.  
  
Gun violence is mobilizing an entire generation of young people. But we
cannot sit back and pass this problem off to the next generation to
solve. If we wait, too many of them will never have the chance to grow
up. They deserve better than that, as do all of the gun violence
survivors and victims’ families asking Congress to do more.  
  
For God’s sake, do something.

\###
