---
date: '2023-05-18'
modified_time: 2023-05-17 22:55:51-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-18 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-tackle-nations-mental-health-crisis/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Actions to Tackle\
  \ Nation\u2019s Mental Health\_Crisis"
---
 
***Actions include $200 million to scale up 988 suicide and crisis
lifeline and new resources for school-based mental health services***

This [Mental Health Awareness
Month](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/28/a-proclamation-on-national-mental-health-awareness-month-2023/#:~:text=During%20National%20Mental%20Health%20Awareness,there%20for%20them%20every%20day.),
we honor all those experiencing mental health challenges and celebrate
the mental health professionals, families, and caregivers who support
them. It is clear that our country is facing an unprecedented mental
health crisis impacting people of all ages. In 2021, two in five
American
adults [reported](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/covid19/pulse/mental-health.htm)
experiencing symptoms of anxiety and depression and forty-four percent
of high school students
[reported](https://www.cdc.gov/nchhstp/newsroom/fact-sheets/healthy-youth/sadness-and-violence-among-teen-girls-and-LGBQ-youth-factsheet.html) struggling
with persistent feelings of sadness or hopelessness, exacerbated by the
COVID-19 pandemic, social media, and gun violence. The Biden-Harris
Administration is firmly committed to addressing this crisis.

As part of his Unity Agenda, President Biden released a [comprehensive
national
strategy](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/01/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-announce-strategy-to-address-our-national-mental-health-crisis-as-part-of-unity-agenda-in-his-first-state-of-the-union/) to
transform how mental health is understood, accessed, treated, and
integrated in and out of health care settings. Across the federal
government, thanks to the President’s American Rescue Plan (ARP) and
Bipartisan Safer Communities Act (BSCA), the Administration has already
invested unprecedented levels of funding to expand access to mental
health services. The President’s [FY24
budget](https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/fy-2024-budget-in-brief.pdf)
goes further, proposing tens of billions more to transform behavioral
health services for all Americans.   
  
Today, which is recognized as Mental Health Day of Action, and
throughout Mental Health Awareness Month, the Biden-Harris
Administration is announcing additional critical actions to advance the
President’s mental health strategy across its three key objectives:
strengthening the mental health workforce and system capacity,
connecting more Americans to care, and creating a continuum of
support.  
  
**<u>Strengthen the Mental Health Workforce and System Capacity</u>**  
Addressing the mental health crisis requires that we confront the severe
shortage of mental health professionals and strengthen the capacity of
the behavioral health care system. As a result, the Biden-Harris
Administration is taking new actions this month to:

**Increase the size and diversity of the behavioral health workforce**.
Thanks to the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act (BSCA), the Department of
Education (ED) has awarded more than $280 million in funding to bolster
the pipeline of mental health professionals serving in schools and
expand school-based mental health services and supports. Earlier this
week, ED announced [$95
million](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/today-biden-harris-administration-announcing-more-95-million-awards-across-35-states-increase-access-school-based-mental-health-services-and-strengthen-pipeline-mental-health-professionals-high-needs-school-districts-t)
of this total was awarded in grants across 35 states to increase access
to school-based mental health services and strengthen the pipeline of
mental health professionals in high-needs school districts. Grantees
from ED’s mental health programs project that these funds will create
more than 14,000 new mental health professionals in U.S. schools –
including school psychologists, counselors, social workers. This month,
ED also announced [new
funding](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/05/03/2023-09412/applications-for-new-awards-mental-health-personnel-technical-assistance-center)
for a center that will provide technical assistance to grantees working
to address the critical need in prekindergarten-12 schools for
school-based mental health service providers. This summer, the Health
Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) will announce a new
Behavioral Health Workforce Education and Training (BHWET) funding
opportunity for approximately $8.4 million to support 16 awards to
recruit and train providers to provide behavioral support to children
and adolescents.

**Expand access to peer support**. A peer worker is someone with lived
experience with a mental health and/or substance use condition, and who
works with other people with similar conditions in a wide range of
non-clinical activities including advocacy, navigation and linkage to
resources, sharing of experience, social support, and more. In the
coming weeks, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration (SAMHSA) will release the National Model Standards for
Peer Support Certification. The new standards are designed to improve
consistency across peer certifications and promote quality of the
growing number of peer workers across the nation. ** **

**Enhance crisis response**. To ensure those in crisis have access to
services, SAMHSA announced the availability of more than [$200
million](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2023/05/17/hhs-announces-additional-200-million-funding-988-suicide-crisis-lifeline.html)
for states, territories, call centers, and Tribal organizations to
continue strengthening 988 operations. Through the SAMHSA supported 988
Suicide and Crisis Lifeline, the network receives approximately 100,000
calls, chats, and texts each week. Later this month, SAMHSA will also
announce more than $9 million in awards in [cooperative agreements for
community crisis response
partnerships](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.samhsa.gov%2Fgrants%2Fgrant-announcements%2Fsm-22-016&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7Cf766ef2c9b48434113fe08db55543c7c%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638197592780520798%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=9cRunfCc%2FCOjYFpjOp%2FHekOx4NwoIxMLnCwljzXpi5E%3D&reserved=0).
This funding will support mobile crisis response teams to ensure adults
and youth experiencing mental health crises in high-need communities
receive faster access to trained mental health professionals.  

**Expand proven models of care.** To build capacity to meet the mental
health needs of Americans, the Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) awarded [15 one-year state planning
grants](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.hhs.gov%2Fabout%2Fnews%2F2023%2F03%2F16%2Fhhs-awards-cchbc-planning-grants-to-15-states-help-address-ongoing-mental-health-crisis.html&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7Cf766ef2c9b48434113fe08db55543c7c%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638197592780520798%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=HIjMUKFAl%2FqnTIsjatQnQqPr9hBRPiEe09C2yndfhtc%3D&reserved=0)
to help states develop the necessary capacity to compete to participate
in the Certified Community Behavioral Health Center (CCBHC) Medicaid
Demonstration. CCBHCs provide 24/7, comprehensive behavioral health care
– including crisis care – to the most vulnerable Americans regardless of
their ability to pay. Thanks to BSCA, we are working to expand these
clinics and help more states enter the program. 

**<u>Connect More Americans to Care</u>**  
Even when services are available, barriers like cost, cultural bias, and
inconvenience often prevent people from accessing the care they need. On
average, it takes [11 years](https://www.nami.org/mhstats) after the
onset of mental health symptoms for someone to seek treatment. To help
remove these barriers, the Biden-Harris Administration is
taking new actions to:

**Make it easier to find help**. It is simply too hard to know where to
start when you or a loved one experiences a mental health challenge.
That’s why HHS launched
[FindSupport.Gov](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.samhsa.gov%2Ffind-support&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7Cf766ef2c9b48434113fe08db55543c7c%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638197592780520798%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=U61Faq%2B58kdXjTJpiIFpRqgyXXwxJOSaf2UEm%2FUQz9o%3D&reserved=0),
a brand-new, easy-to-access, free-of-charge, and user-friendly online
resource for all Americans to learn how to get support for mental
health, drug, and alcohol issues.

**Provide mental health services in schools**. To help address student
mental health needs, today, CMS released an updated [Medicaid School
Claiming and Administrative
Guide](https://www.medicaid.gov/medicaid/financial-management/downloads/sbs-guide-medicaid-services-administrative-claiming.pdf)
and ED released a proposed rule that would revise processes on Medicaid
billing under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, both of
which are intended to make it easier for schools to provide health
services to students with Medicaid. In addition, the Department of the
Interior’s (DOI) Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) initiated a
[Behavioral Health and Wellness Program](https://biebhwp.com/) to
provide indigenous focused, evidence-based, and trauma-informed
behavioral health and wellness services and resources, including an
expanded tele-behavioral health BIE specific 24/7 crisis hotline, to
students and staff at all BIE-funded schools, colleges, universities,
dormitories, and programs.

**Support mental health of workers**. Work related stress and burnout
can lead to mental health challenges for America’s working families. To
help address workplace mental health, earlier this month, the Department
of Labor (DOL) launched a [Mental Health at Work
Initiative](https://www.dol.gov/general/mental-health-at-work#:~:text=Under%20federal%20law%2C%20workers%20with%20mental%20health%20conditions,can%20help%20them%20perform%20and%20keep%20their%20job.)
to promote key resources in support employees and employers. The
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) also rolled out the
[Workplace Stress Toolkit](https://www.osha.gov/workplace-stress) to
provide guidance and tips for employers, training resources, and
outreach materials to reduce stress and burnout among workers.

**Reduce stigma for service members and veterans**. Service members and
veterans are at increased risk for mental health challenges. Earlier
this month, the Department of Defense (DoD) issued a new policy that
makes it easier for Service members to seek support by self-initiating a
referral for a mental health evaluation through a commanding officer or
supervisor. This policy, based on the [Brandon
Act](https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/3386278/brandon-act-aims-to-improve-mental-health-support/),
allows Service members to seek confidential help, reducing stigma
associated with mental health issues. This month, the Department of
Veterans Affairs (VA) is also leveraging its [Today I
Am](https://www.maketheconnection.net/mental-health-month/) Campaign, to
showcase veterans’ stories of getting help to inspire other veterans to
proactively seek support and resources.

**Deliver mental health services to caregivers.** To help address the
stress of family caregiving, this month, VA launched a [pilot
program](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/18/executive-order-on-increasing-access-to-high-quality-care-and-supporting-caregivers/)
to provide mental health services to caregivers enrolled in the Program
of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers. This new program will
address the unique mental health needs of veteran caregivers by
providing evidence-based services centered around couples, family
therapy, and the individual needs of the caregiver.

**Reduce disparities in maternal mental health.** Too often, postpartum
depression and anxiety go undiagnosed. This month, HRSA will announce
awards for more than $65 million to 25 HRSA-funded health centers to
implement innovative approaches to improve maternal health outcomes and
reduce disparities for women from underserved backgrounds by supporting
health centers to partner with patients and the community to develop and
pilot innovative, patient-centered, scalable models of care delivery
that address the clinical and health-related social needs of health
center patients at highest risk of maternal morbidity and mortality.
HRSA also just marked the one-year anniversary of the maternal mental
health hotline.  The 24/7 hotline, 1-833-TLC-MAMA, provides support
before, during and after pregnancy and is currently staffed by more than
three dozen call-takers, including nurses, doulas, and lactation
consultants. During the first year, the hotline received more than
12,000 calls and texts. 

**Promote behavioral health equity.** Earlier this month, SAMHSA
launched a [Behavioral Health Equity
Challenge](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.samhsa.gov%2Fabout-us%2Fwho-we-are%2Foffices-centers%2Fobhe%2Fequity-challenge&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7Cf766ef2c9b48434113fe08db55543c7c%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638197592780520798%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=wvr8820QOfCOTwkks9NG4Fw2jkjRstnt7w%2F%2FYj3cnG4%3D&reserved=0)
which will provide up to ten awards to community-based organizations for
innovative outreach and engagement strategies that help members of
underserved racial and ethnic communities engage in culturally and
linguistically responsive services across the continuum of care for
behavioral health, including mental health promotion, substance misuse
prevention, and treatments and supports that foster recovery.

**<u>Create Healthy and Supportive Environments</u>**

In addition to investments in the health care system, we must also build
environments that promote wellness and recovery and prevent mental
health challenges from occurring in the first place. This month, the
Biden-Harris Administration is taking new actions to:

**Improve youth resilience.** Unlike ever before, our kids are facing
the consequences of multiple crises at once, from COVID-19 to gun
violence among other key issues. HHS announced the new [Children and
Youth Resilience Prize
Challenge](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.acf.hhs.gov%2Fmedia%2Fpress%2F2023%2Fmedia%2Fhhs-launches-children-and-youth-resilience-challenge&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7Cf766ef2c9b48434113fe08db55543c7c%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638197592780520798%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=wNKOv0NWYmR5naGss2RK2WdRcyzK2PpaOx%2BQMlf2MTQ%3D&reserved=0),
which will award $1 million to innovative community-led solutions to
promote resilience in children and adolescents affected by the COVID-19
pandemic and other disasters.

**Promote the importance of social connection.** Social isolation and
loneliness are far too common. People from all walks of life have been
forced to grapple with increase social isolation and loneliness,
especially due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier this month, the U.S.
Surgeon General released a new
[Advisory](https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/surgeon-general-social-connection-advisory.pdf)
on Addressing Loneliness and Promoting Social Connection. And, CDC also
launched a [new
website](https://www.cdc.gov/emotional-wellbeing/features/power-of-connection.htm)
for adults, which provides key suggestions on how to combat loneliness
by improving social connectedness.

**Invest in early childhood mental health.** Like with physical health,
it is important for us to start taking care of the mental health of our
children as early in their lives as possible. Later this month, SAMHSA
will award $9.7 million in grants through the infant and early childhood
mental health program to improve outcomes for children from birth up to
12 years of age via improved interventions and treatment services.

**Improve suicide prevention efforts.** Beyond scaling up 988, the
Administration is also taking additional actions to better prevent
suicide. The Indian Health Service (IHS) will implement a system-wide
suicide prevention training for all staff to increase recognition and
response to suicide within American Indian and Alaska Native
populations. Later this month, SAMHSA will award $6 million in suicide
prevention grants across multiple programs to support states and tribes
with implementing youth suicide prevention and early intervention
strategies in schools, institutions of higher education, juvenile
justice systems, substance use and mental health programs, foster care
systems, and other child and youth-serving organizations.

**Launch public call-to-action to support research.** This month, the
White House Office of Science and Technology Policy
[called](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ostp/news-updates/2023/05/05/a-call-to-action-during-mental-health-awareness-month/)
on non-profit organizations, advocacy groups, academic institutions,
companies, and other research funders to share their actions and
collaborations to help advance national mental health research
priorities. This builds on the first-of-its-kind [White House Report on
Mental Health Research
Priorities](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/White-House-Report-on-Mental-Health-Research-Priorities.pdf),
which outlined a set of critical and timely needs and opportunities in
mental health research.

**Improve employee wellness.** Americans spend much of their lives
working, so it is critical that we foster healthy mental health
practices even at work. Later this month, the Administration’s Office of
Personnel Management (OPM) will release an Employee Wellness Program
Guidance for agencies on best practices for providing wellness services
to federal employees. The Administration also launched an interagency
Mental Health and Well-being Community of Practice to continue to
identify best practices and develop a government-wide toolkit for
agencies containing metrics, data, insights, and options for agencies to
use to understand and promote employee well-being and mental health.

**Expand access to recovery.** Treatment works and recovery is possible,
and the Administration is committed to supporting all living in
recovery. In the coming weeks, SAMHSA will announce $5.4 million in
grant awards for building communities of recovery to support
mobilization and connection of community-based resources to increase
access to and quality of long-term recovery support for people with
substance use disorders and co-occurring substance use and mental health
disorders.

\###
