---
date: '2023-05-25'
published_time: 2023-05-25 06:34:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/25/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-third-anniversary-of-george-floyds-murder/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Third Anniversary of George Floyd\u2019\
  s\_Murder"
---
 
The day before her father’s funeral, George Floyd’s young daughter
Gianna told me, “Daddy changed the world.” Three years after her
father’s murder, my answer to Gianna remains the same: he has.  
  
George Floyd’s murder exposed for many what Black and Brown communities
have long known and experienced — that we must make a whole of society
commitment to ensure that our Nation lives up to its founding promise of
fair and impartial justice for all under the law. The injustice on
display for the world to see sparked one of the largest civil rights
movements in generations — with calls from all corners to acknowledge
and address the challenges in our criminal justice system and in our
institutions more broadly.  
  
A year ago today, Kamala and I stood next to the family of George Floyd,
civil rights leaders, and law enforcement officials to sign my executive
order, which applies key elements of the George Floyd Justice in
Policing Act to federal law enforcement: banning chokeholds, restricting
no-knock warrants, establishing a database for police misconduct, and
other measures to advance effective and accountable policing that builds
public trust and increases public safety. Across our Administration, we
have made significant progress in fulfilling the requirements of my EO,
making policing safer, more equitable, and more effective.   
  
But we know that implementing real and lasting change at the state and
local levels requires Congress to act. I urge Congress to enact
meaningful police reform and send it to my desk. I will sign it. I will
continue to do everything in my power to fight for police accountability
in Congress, and I remain willing to work with Republicans and Democrats
alike on genuine solutions.  
  
Equal justice is a covenant we each have with one another. Today, three
years after George Floyd’s murder, let us build on the progress we have
made thus far and recommit to the work we must continue to do every day
to change hearts and minds as well as laws and policies.  
  
As a Nation, may we ensure that George Floyd’s legacy and the legacy of
so many others we also honor every day are not solely about their
deaths, but what we do to honor their memory.

\###
