---
date: '2023-05-12'
published_time: 2023-05-12 17:15:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/12/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-president-pedro-sanchez-of-spain/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with President Pedro Sanchez\
  \ of\_Spain"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. welcomed President Pedro Sanchez of Spain
to the White House today to reaffirm the close partnership between the
United States and Spain. The leaders underscored our unwavering support
for Ukraine in the face of Russia’s brutal war, including through
continued security, economic, and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine, as
well as the imposition of measures to impose economic costs on Moscow.
The leaders noted the recent signing of the expanded Agreement on
Defense Cooperation between the United States and Spain, which
facilitates the presence of additional U.S. warships in Spain and
enhances NATO’s collective security. The two leaders discussed ongoing
efforts to advance prosperity, security, shared values, and the
rules-based international order, including as Spain assumes the
Presidency of the Council of the European Union this July. The leaders
committed to deepen economic cooperation in the Americas, including
through the Inter-American Development Bank. President Biden also
thanked Spain for its recent commitment to expand safe, humane, and
regular migration pathways for individuals from Latin America.

The two Presidents also discussed avenues to broaden the scope of our
cooperation. The United States and Spain intend to work rapidly toward
achieving our shared goals to address the climate crisis. They will
intensify cooperation on early warning systems, ocean protection, and
drought resilience, and continue our strong collaboration on energy
security. President Biden applauded Spain’s decision to join the Net
Zero Government Initiative, which commits countries to net zero
emissions in government operations by 2050. The leaders underscored the
importance of strengthened cooperation on sustainable and inclusive
infrastructure development, and in this context, President Biden
welcomed Spain joining the Blue Dot Network’s Executive Steering
Committee. The leaders pledged to deepen cooperation in science and
technology, including through the Artemis Accords on responsible use of
outer space and a new partnership between NASA and the Spanish space
agency. The two Presidents tasked their teams with pursuing negotiations
on an agreement related to further cleanup efforts at the site of a 1966
air accident in Palomares, Spain.

*\###*
