---
date: '2023-05-25'
modified_time: 2023-05-25 16:25:30-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-25 16:25:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/25/readout-of-white-house-listening-session-on-automated-worker-surveillance-and-management/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Listening Session on Automated Worker Surveillance\
  \ and\_Management"
---
 
On Tuesday, the White House convened a listening session with workers,
researchers, labor and civil rights leaders, and policymakers on the use
of automated technologies by employers to surveil, monitor, evaluate,
and manage their workers.  
  
During the session, workers representing diverse sectors of the
economy—including call centers, trucking, warehousing, home health care,
and app-based ride sharing—shared their stories about how the use of
these technologies impacted them. Workers raised concerns about health,
safety, privacy, fair pay, labor organizing, collective bargaining, and
reasonable accommodations for disabilities.  
  
The listening session was attended by officials from the White House
Domestic Policy Council (DPC), Office of Science and Technology Policy
(OSTP), and Office of Management and Budget (OMB), as well as the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC), and the National Labor Relations Board
(NLRB).  
  
Tuesday’s listening session followed a [Request for
Information](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2023/05/01/hearing-from-the-american-people-how-are-automated-tools-being-used-to-surveil-monitor-and-manage-workers/)
(RFI) released by the Biden-Harris Administration earlier this month to
advance understanding of the design, deployment, prevalence, and impacts
of automated technologies that monitor and track workers. Responses to
this RFI will be used to inform new policy responses; share relevant
research, data, and findings with the public; and amplify best practices
among employers, worker organizations, technology vendors, developers,
and others in civil society.  
  
The stories workers shared included a warehousing professional who
explained that his employer uses automated technology to track how
quickly he moves packages—setting quotas he must meet or face
discipline, and making him feel like a machine. He and his coworkers
face strong pressure to meet those productivity targets by harming their
health—such as by skipping meals or breaks—yet many fear to speak out
for concern that their employers will retaliate based on data collected
on them.  
  
A home health care professional described how her employer’s electronic
verification system makes it harder to give her clients the care they
need. The system requires her to clock in and out through a phone
system—and because she cannot easily clock in or out while providing
care, she has worked for hours at a time that are not counted towards
her pay. A driver for app-based transportation services explained how
apps continuously track his location, speed, phone use, and more—but
provide no transparency about how this data affects drivers’ pay or ride
offers.  
  
A package delivery driver described how automated surveillance
technologies—including cameras, sensors, and handheld devices—have
become widespread, and can trigger disciplinary action despite being
unreliable. A call center professional shared that AI-based conversation
management tools frequently give inaccurate prompts that she is required
to use, preventing her from properly supporting customers. While other
workers are often afraid to speak out for fear of retaliation, she felt
comfortable expressing her concerns through her labor union, which
advocates for data transparency, and prevents employers from
disciplining or firing workers without cause.

\###
