---
date: '2023-05-15'
published_time: 2023-05-15 10:33:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/15/president-biden-announces-intent-to-nominate-dr-monica-bertagnolli-as-director-of-the-national-institutes-of-health/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Intent to Nominate Dr. Monica Bertagnolli as Director\
  \ of the National Institutes of\_Health"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced his intent to nominate Dr. Monica
Bertagnolli as Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the
world’s preeminent biomedical research organization. Dr. Bertagnolli is
a world-renowned surgical oncologist, cancer researcher, educator, and
physician-leader who has the vision and leadership needed to deliver on
NIH’s mission to seek fundamental knowledge and promote human
health.    
  
**Statement from President Biden:** “Dr. Bertagnolli has spent her
career pioneering scientific discovery and pushing the boundaries of
what is possible to improve cancer prevention and treatment for
patients, and ensuring that patients in every community have access to
quality care.  
  
As Director of the National Cancer Institute, Dr. Bertagnolli has
advanced my Cancer Moonshot to end cancer as we know it. She has brought
together partners and resources from different sectors to launch
groundbreaking efforts in cancer prevention and early detection, a
national navigation program for childhood cancers, and additional
programs to bring clinical trials to more Americans.  
  
Dr. Bertagnolli is a world-class physician-scientist whose vision and
leadership will ensure NIH continues to be an engine of innovation to
improve the health of the American people.”  
  
**<u>Dr. Monica Bertagnolli, Director of the National Institutes of
Health</u>**  
  
Dr. Bertagnolli is currently Director of the National Cancer Institute
(NCI), the first woman to serve as NCI Director. She previously served
as the Richard E. Wilson Professor of Surgery in the field of surgical
oncology at Harvard Medical School, a surgeon at Brigham and Women’s
Hospital, and a member of the Gastrointestinal Cancer Treatment and
Sarcoma Centers at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.  
  
Throughout her career, Dr. Bertagnolli has been at the forefront of
clinical and research oncology and championed collaborative initiatives
to transform the data infrastructure for clinical cancer research. She
served as group chair of the Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology, a
National Clinical Trials Network member organization, and was the Chief
Executive Officer of Alliance Foundation Trials, LLC, a not-for-profit
corporation that conducts international cancer clinical trials and
focuses on the inclusion of rural communities in clinical studies.  
  
Dr. Bertagnolli is a member of the National Academy of Medicine, a past
president and chair of the board of directors of the American Society of
Clinical Oncology, and has served on the board of directors of the
American Cancer Society and the Prevent Cancer Foundation.   
  
The daughter of first-generation Italian and French Basque immigrants,
Dr. Bertagnolli grew up on a ranch in southwestern Wyoming. She
graduated from Princeton University with a Bachelor of Science in
Engineering degree and attended medical school at the University of
Utah. She trained in surgery at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and was a
research fellow in tumor immunology at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.

\###
