---
date: '2023-05-02'
published_time: 2023-05-02 21:07:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/02/readout-of-inaugural-meeting-of-the-u-s-canada-energy-transformation-taskforce/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Inaugural Meeting of the U.S. \u2013 Canada Energy Transformation\_\
  Taskforce"
---
 
Today, U.S. Special Presidential Coordinator Amos Hochstein and Deputy
Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland co-hosted the inaugural meeting of the
U.S. – Canada Energy Transformation Taskforce. The Taskforce is a key
outcome of President Biden’s March 23-24 visit with Prime Minister
Trudeau in Ottawa. The Taskforce will work with departments and agencies
across both governments to accelerate cooperation on critical clean
energy opportunities and supply chains, including but not limited to,
securing and strengthening renewable energy and electric vehicle supply
chains, critical minerals, grid integration and resilience, current and
next generation civil nuclear technologies, and other areas that advance
our collective energy security, and to avoid and reduce disruptions to
our integrated and complementary supply chains.  
  
At the Taskforce meeting, the United States and Canada affirmed their
commitments to our shared priorities to deploy clean energy solutions at
scale, electrify our economies, and support the development of critical
mineral and electric vehicle supply chains that will fuel the future
North America automotive industry. The co-chairs further refined
strategic priorities and next steps for the year-long Energy
Transformation Taskforce.

\###
