---
date: '2023-05-26'
published_time: 2023-05-26 19:00:06-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/26/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-call-with-president-giammattei-of-guatemala/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Call with President Giammattei of\_\
  Guatemala"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris spoke today with President Alejandro
Giammattei of Guatemala.  The Vice President and President Giammattei
discussed joint efforts to manage migration in a humane and orderly
fashion, including by creating new opportunities for legal pathways and
putting in place robust border security measures. The Vice President
noted progress made to address the drivers of migration through the
implementation of the U.S. Strategy to Address the Root Causes of
Migration from Central America, which she leads. The implementation of
the Strategy includes today’s announcement of $44.5 million in U.S.
Government funding to combat gender-based violence in the region. The
Vice President updated President Giammattei on efforts to create
economic opportunities in Guatemala through the partnership she has led
with the private sector that has generated more than $4.2 billion in
private sector investments in northern Central America, which is
creating jobs, connecting people to the internet, and bringing them into
the formal financial system. In advance of Guatemala’s June
25<sup>th</sup> general elections, the Vice President re-affirmed the
Biden-Harris Administration’s support for free, fair, inclusive and
peaceful elections and a transparent electoral process.

\###
