---
date: '2023-05-05'
published_time: 2023-05-05 16:18:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/05/readout-of-white-house-convening-on-advancing-clean-buildings/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Convening on Advancing Clean\_Buildings"
---
 
Yesterday, the White House convened 24 Governors’ offices to discuss how
the Biden-Harris Administration can amplify states’ efforts to lead on
commercial and residential building decarbonization policies that lower
utility bills, improve climate resilience, and reduce emissions. In
attendance were Ali Zaidi, the National Climate Advisor, Brenda Mallory,
Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), and senior
officials from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA).  Participants discussed pathways to accelerate progress
through federal-state partnership, the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL), and technical support from the
DOE and EPA. Additionally, the Institute for Market Transformation
highlighted that there are 2.1 million energy efficiency jobs in America
per 2022 DOE US Energy and Jobs Report.  
  
President Biden’s Investing in America agenda is growing the American
economy from the bottom up and middle-out—creating a manufacturing and
innovation boom powered by good-paying jobs and building a clean-energy
economy that will tackle the climate crisis and make our communities
more resilient. To achieve these goals, President Biden set a target to
reduce emissions 50-52% below 2005 levels by 2030 and achieve net-zero
emissions economy-wide by no later than 2050. Building emissions account
for almost 40% of United States greenhouse gas emissions. In addition to
needing to reduce emissions, President Biden is also focused on lowering
energy costs for Americans. Two-thirds of low-income U.S. households
have high energy burdens. States are at the forefront of advancing
building decarbonization, and have an opportunity to reduce emissions,
lower energy costs for American families, improve resiliency and create
jobs through building policies and federal-state partnerships.  
  
Administration officials highlighted how states are uniquely positioned
to cut building related emissions using financial tools available to
them as part of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation
Reduction Act and are setting the pace for progress by advancing
creative policy pathways and innovative programs. The State of Maine
highlighted how they are bringing heat pumps to rural underserved
communities, which has resulted in lower energy bills for Maine families
and cleaner air.  They also shared that starting in 2024, Maine Housing
will be financing Passive House Certified affordable housing, which uses
upwards of 40-60% less energy than code-built buildings, at minimal
additional cost.  The group discussed how Louisiana is investing in
energy and building codes to increase climate resiliency in the face of
catastrophic hurricanes and flooding, while reducing emissions and
cutting utility costs for households.  
  
The White House officials closed the meeting by thanking states for
their efforts.  DOE, EPA, and HUD shared technical resources that will
be available to states and communities to support their efforts to
reduce energy waste in the building sector and create jobs.  

  
\###
