---
date: '2023-05-29'
published_time: 2023-05-29 12:46:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/29/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-enactment-of-ugandas-anti-homosexuality-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Enactment of Uganda\u2019s Anti-Homosexuality\_\
  Act"
---
 
The enactment of Uganda’s Anti-Homosexuality Act is a tragic violation
of universal human rights—one that is not worthy of the Ugandan people,
and one that jeopardizes the prospects of critical economic growth for
the entire country. I join with people around the world—including many
in Uganda—in calling for its immediate repeal. No one should have to
live in constant fear for their life or being subjected to violence and
discrimination. It is wrong.

Since the Anti-Homosexuality Act was introduced, reports of violence and
discrimination targeting Ugandans who are or are perceived to be LGBTQI+
are on the rise. Innocent Ugandans now fear going to hospitals, clinics,
or other establishments to receive life-saving medical care lest they be
targeted by hateful reprisals. Some have been evicted from their homes
or fired from their jobs.  And the prospect of graver threats—including
lengthy prison sentences, violence, abuse—threatens any number of
Ugandans who want nothing more than to live their lives in safety and
freedom.

This shameful Act is the latest development in an alarming trend of
human rights abuses and corruption in Uganda.  The dangers posed by this
democratic backsliding are a threat to everyone residing in Uganda,
including U.S. government personnel, the staff of our implementing
partners, tourists, members of the business community, and others. As
such, I have directed my National Security Council to evaluate the
implications of this law on all aspects of U.S. engagement with Uganda,
including our ability to safely deliver services under the U.S.
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and other forms of
assistance and investments. My Administration will also incorporate the
impacts of the law into our review of Uganda’s eligibility for the
African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA).  And we are considering
additional steps, including the application of sanctions and restriction
of entry into the United States against anyone involved in serious human
rights abuses or corruption.

The United States shares a deep and committed partnership with the
people of Uganda.  For more than 60 years, we have worked together to
help millions of Ugandans live healthier, more productive lives.

Our programs have boosted economic growth and agricultural productivity,
increased investments in Ugandan businesses, and strengthened our trade
cooperation.  In total, the U.S. Government invests nearly $1 billion
annually in Uganda’s people, business, institutions, and military to
advance our common agenda.  The scale of our commitments speaks to the
value we place on this partnership—and our faith in the people of Uganda
to build for themselves a better future. It is my sincere hope that we
can continue to build on this progress, together, and strengthen
protections for the human rights of people everywhere.

\###
