---
date: '2023-05-23'
modified_time: 2023-05-22 21:34:03-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-23 06:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-actions-to-protect-youth-mental-health-safety-privacy-online/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Actions to Protect\
  \ Youth Mental Health, Safety & Privacy\_Online"
---
 
The United States is experiencing an unprecedented youth mental health
crisis. More than half of
parents [express](https://www.psychiatry.org/newsroom/news-releases/new-apa-poll-shows-sustained-anxiety-among-americans-more-than-half-of-parents-are-concerned-about-the-mental-well-being-of-their-children) concern
over their children’s mental well-being, and there is now undeniable
evidence that social media and other online platforms have contributed
to our youth mental health crisis. The number of children and
adolescents with anxiety and depression
has [risen](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/09/01/back-to-school-hhs-announces-40-point-22-million-in-youth-mental-health-grants-awarded-in-august-plus-47-point-6-million-in-new-grant-funding.html) nearly
30% in recent years. Between 2011 and 2021, the number of teens and
young adults with depression more than doubled. According to the CDC, in
2021, 42% of high school students reported experiencing persistent
feelings of sadness, including 57% of girls and 69% of LGBQ+ students,
and nearly 1 in 3 high school girls reported having seriously considered
suicide. Children are subject to the platforms’ excessive data
collection, which they use to deliver sensational and harmful content
and troves of paid advertising. And online platforms often use
manipulative design techniques embedded in their products to promote
addictive and compulsive use by young people to generate more revenue.
[Social media use in schools is affecting students’ mental health and
disrupting
learning](https://www.washingtonpost.com/education/2023/05/09/school-cellphone-ban-yondr/?utm_campaign=wp_post_most&utm_medium=email&utm_source=newsletter&wpisrc=nl_most&carta-url=https%3A%2F%2Fs2.washingtonpost.com%2Fcar-ln-tr%2F39f5b8d%2F645a6c24a61bab12f75b91da%2F63b4a00c97d8ef7db533a80a%2F9%2F72%2F645a6c24a61bab12f75b91da).
Advances in artificial intelligence could make these harms far worse,
especially if not developed and deployed responsibly. Far too often,
online platforms do not protect minors who use their products and
services, even when alerted to the abuses experienced online.

President Biden has made tackling the mental health crisis a top
priority, and he continues to call on Congress to pass legislation that
would strengthen protections for children’s privacy, health and safety
online. Today, during Mental Health Awareness Month, the Biden-Harris
Administration is announcing additional actions to safeguard children’s
privacy, health, and safety from online harms. These actions build upon
the U.S. Surgeon-General’s [new Advisory on Social Media and Youth
Mental
Health](/Users/AJPascal/Work%20Folders/Desktop/AJP%20Policy/Tech/surgeongeneral.gov/ymh-social-media),
which describes the current evidence of the impacts of social media on
children and adolescents, and states that we cannot conclude social
media is sufficiently safe for children. The new Administration actions
include:

-   **The Department of Health and Human Services**, through the
    Assistant Secretary of Substance Use and Mental Health
    Administration and **in close partnership with the Department of
    Commerce, will lead an interagency Task Force on Kids Online Health
    & Safety** to advance the health, safety and privacy of minors
    online with particular attention to preventing and mitigating the
    adverse health effects of online platforms on minors. It will
    identify current and emerging risks of harm to minors associated
    with online platforms, as well as potential health benefits of using
    online platforms. It will recommend measures and methods for
    assessing, preventing, and mitigating such harms; develop a research
    agenda regarding online harms and health benefits to minors; and
    recommend best practices and technical standards for transparency
    reports and audits related to online harms to the privacy, health,
    and safety on children and teenagers.  
      
    This year, the Task Force will review the status of existing
    industry efforts and technologies to promote the health and safety
    of children and teenagers vis-à-vis their online activities,
    particularly with respect to their engagement in social media and
    other online platforms. It will also review and compile best
    practices to assist parents and legal guardians in protecting the
    privacy, health and safety of their children who use online
    platforms. By Spring 2024, the Task Force will develop voluntary
    guidance, policy recommendations, and a toolkit on safety-, health-
    and privacy-by-design for industry developing digital products and
    services.  
      
    -   The Task Force will include senior representatives from the
        Department of Education, the Department of Justice, the
        Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Trade Commission,
        the National Telecommunications and Information Administration
        and the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the
        Office of the Surgeon-General, the Centers for Disease Control
        and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, the Office of
        the Assistant Secretary for Health, the Office of the Assistant
        Secretary for Children and Families, the Domestic Policy
        Council, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the
        National Economic Council, and the Gender Policy Council.
    -   The Task Force will consult with a diverse array of experts and
        stakeholders, including: health professionals, including
        specialists in child development; child advocacy center
        professionals; privacy, civil liberties, and civil rights
        experts; parents, children and teenagers; scholars, civil
        society, and technologists and engineers with expertise in
        mental health and the prevention of harms to minors, behavioral
        economics and harm avoidance, teens use of social media, and
        persuasive design; elementary and secondary school educators and
        administrators; representatives of online platforms, including
        product designers, and other industry as appropriate; state
        attorneys general; representatives of communities of socially
        disadvantaged individuals; and U.S. international partners.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Education** will promote and enhance the privacy
    of minor students’ data and address concerns about the monetization
    of that data by commercial entities, including by planning to
    commence a rulemaking under the Family Educational Rights and
    Privacy Act (FERPA). To further advance these objectives, following
    publication of final FERPA regulations, the Department of Education
    will update its model FERPA notification and consent forms to ensure
    that they are clear and concise and will also provide best practice
    guidance to schools and school districts regarding FERPA and
    contracting with third-party vendors.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Education**, in consultation with the Department
    of Health and Human Services, the Surgeon-General, the Centers for
    Disease Control and Prevention, and the Federal Trade Commission,
    will issue this year resources, model policies and voluntary best
    practices for school districts on the use of internet-enabled
    devices (both personal and school-provided) and services in
    elementary and secondary schools in order to promote and encourage
    local policies that improve digital health, safety, and citizenship
    practices and academic outcomes; and the acquisition of safe,
    healthy, and developmentally-appropriate digital literacy skills and
    habits for P-12 students.

<!-- -->

-    **The Department of Commerce** will promote efforts to prevent
    online harassment and abuse of children and youth through increased
    awareness of services and support for youth victims of online
    harassment and abuse, using funding made available by the Digital
    Equity Act, and will encourage state broadband administrators and
    other state digital equity leaders to pursue ways of preventing
    online harassment of children and youth as they craft their digital
    equity plans in connection with the State Digital Equity Capacity
    Grant Program.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Homeland Security, with the Department of
    Justice,** will work with the National Center for Missing and
    Exploited Children (NCMEC) to create combined image repositories
    used to identify victims, as well as detect and investigate offenses
    involving child sexual abuse material. This work will complement the
    efforts by NCMEC to empower young people with a tool to help remove
    or stop the sharing of private images or videos taken of them before
    the age of 18, through the recently launched Take It Down platform.

These actions build on the Biden-Harris Administration’s record of
action to address the harms America’s children and youth face online.
Last year, **the Department of Health and Human Services** established a
new [Center of Excellence on Social Media and Mental
Wellbeing](https://www.samhsa.gov/coe-social-media-mental-wellbeing) to
improve the mental health of children and teens by reducing the risks
and leveraging the benefits of social media. **The National Institutes
of Health** are investing further in research to better inform our
understanding of the harms and identify solutions through the* *Children
and Media Research Advancement Act. Through the [**White House Task
Force to Address Online Harassment and
Abuse**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/03/executive-summary-initial-blueprint-for-the-white-house-task-force-to-address-online-harassment-and-abuse/),
federal agencies are acting to prevent and address image-based sexual
abuse, cyberstalking, and child sexual exploitation. **The FTC** is
[considering rulemaking to tackle commercial
surveillance](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2022/08/ftc-explores-rules-cracking-down-commercial-surveillance-lax-data-security-practices),
and is also undertaking a review of its Children’s Online Privacy
Protection Act (COPPA) Rule, which protects kids’ data privacy. **The
FTC** also recently reached a [landmark settlement with a popular gaming
platform](https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/blog/2022/12/245-million-ftc-settlement-alleges-fortnite-owner-epic-games-used-digital-dark-patterns-charge)
over allegations it violated COPPA, that required a payment by the
company of more than $500 million, banned its use of dark patterns, and
required the company to adopt privacy-protective default settings for
kids and teens.

\###
