---
date: '2023-05-20'
published_time: 2023-05-20 19:24:18-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/20/what-they-are-reading-in-the-states-biden-harris-administration-continues-to-invest-in-america-with-new-initiatives/
tags: statements-releases
title: "What They Are Reading in the States: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Continues\
  \ to Invest in America with New\_Initiatives"
---
 
Across the country, local news outlets are highlighting how President
Biden’s Investing in America agenda is delivering for Americans across
the country.  
  
This week the Biden-Harris Administration announced new efforts to
shelter the homeless, expand broadband access, and prepare America’s
workforce to fill good-paying jobs in regions all across the country.  
  
  
*See below for a sampling of what Americans are reading:*  
  
***Addressing Unsheltered Homelessness with the ALL Inside
Initiative***  
  
**Chicago Sun Times:** [**Chicago to work with Biden administration on
plan to fight
homelessness**](https://www.chicagotribune.com/politics/ct-chicago-biden-homelessness-initiative-20230518-o5o4lgofjbftxfqo2khqvztptq-story.html)  
The White House on Thursday announced a two-year, multiagency federal
partnership with Chicago aimed at curbing unsheltered homelessness,
placing a federal official within city government to organize response
plans and help coordinate sources for additional federal funding.
Chicago was one of six locations selected for the “ALL INside” program,
an offshoot of President Joe Biden’s December federal strategic plan
aimed at reducing homelessness nationally by 25% by 2025.  
  
**Dallas Morning News:** [**Dallas among five cities targeted in new
federal initiative to fight
homelessness**](https://www.dallasnews.com/news/politics/2023/05/19/dallas-among-five-cities-targeted-in-new-federal-initiative-to-fight-homelessness/)  
Dallas is one of five cities, plus California, about to get more federal
assistance in tackling homelessness, White House officials announced
Thursday. President Joe Biden’s domestic policy director Susan Rice and
Veterans Affairs Secretary Denis McDonough hosted an event launching the
new “All INside” initiative, part of a plan that has a goal of reducing
homelessness nationally 25% by 2025.  
  
**KJZZ (NPR Phoenix, AZ):** [**Phoenix area selected for new White House
homelessness
initiative**](https://kjzz.org/content/1847189/phoenix-area-selected-new-white-house-homelessness-initiative)  
The White House ALL INside initiative will embed a federal official in
the Phoenix area and in the other participating regions. The goal is to
streamline the process of getting federal aid for city or state-level
homelessness programs. The program is part of the White House’s
strategic plan for homelessness which has a goal of reducing
homelessness by 25% nationwide by 2025.  
  
**LAist:** [**White House Picks LA For National Plan To Reduce
Homelessness**](https://laist.com/news/housing-homelessness/white-house-los-angeles-biden-bass-homelessness-housing-inside-safe-california)  
The White House has chosen the city of Los Angeles as one of six sites
across the country to participate in a new federal initiative to reduce
homelessness in the U.S. by 25% over the next two years. As part of the
plan, the Biden administration will embed a federal official in each of
the local governments.  
  
**Seattle Times:** [**White House announces initiative to reduce
homelessness in
Seattle**](https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/homeless/white-house-announces-initiative-to-reduce-homelessness-in-seattle/)  
President Joe Biden’s administration wants to accelerate efforts to get
unsheltered people in Seattle into permanent housing as part of a
federal initiative to reduce homelessness by 25% in two years, the White
House announced Thursday. Through the initiative, ALL INside, the U.S.
Interagency Council on Homelessness will partner with Seattle and five
other cities and states: California, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles and
the Phoenix metropolitan area.  
  
***American Rescue Plan Investments in Community Facility Projects in
Delaware***  
  
**Delaware Business Times:** [**Delaware gets $65M+ from ARPA for
nonprofit service
centers**](https://delawarebusinesstimes.com/news/delaware-arpa-service-centers/)  
Delaware will receive $65.9 million from the American Rescue Plan Act’s
Capital Projects Fund to support building new and expanding existing
community service centers around the state. The fund created by the
Biden administration’s ARPA in 2021 supports the expansion of high-speed
broadband internet access, both through the physical expansion of cable
networks to communities and through the development of centers where the
public can access it.  
  
**Delaware News Journal:** [**These Delaware nonprofits ‘came up big’ in
pandemic. Now $65 million heading their
way**](https://www.delawareonline.com/story/news/politics/2023/05/16/american-rescue-plan-act-boosts-delaware-community-groups/70218046007/)  
The money comes from a capital projects fund that is part of the
American Rescue Plan Act, President Biden’s nearly $1.9 trillion “build
back better” program passed in 2021. The Capital Projects Fund has so
far focused on awarding states money to deliver affordable and reliable
internet. Broadband availability has been a point of emphasis for the
Biden administration after the pandemic laid bare its importance in
remote work and learning.  
  
***Funding for Tribal Land Internet Access Through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law***  
  
**Alaska Native News:** [**First Lady Jill Biden and Secretary Deb
Haaland Visit Bethel
Wednesday**](https://alaska-native-news.com/first-lady-jill-biden-and-secretary-deb-haaland-visit-bethel-wednesday/67854/)  
During her visit, Biden is highlighting the  Tribal Broadband
Connectivity Program (TBCP) and the $386 million in grants to 21
projects throughout Alaska with $125 million in funding to two broadband
infrastructure deployment projects in the Y-K Delta: the Airraq Network
and the Alaska FiberOptic Project.  
  
**Richmond times-Dispatch:** [**Chickahominy tribe receives $500,000
grant for high-speed internet
plan**](https://richmond.com/news/state-and-regional/govt-and-politics/chickahominy-tribe-receives-500-000-grant-for-high-speed-internet-plan/article_59f945c4-f4be-11ed-a763-bfac80676c6d.html)  
The Chickahominy Indian Tribe will receive a $500,000 federal grant to
plan a way to bridge the “digital divide” and expand the availability of
high-speed internet in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. The
program has received more than 300 applications from 450 tribes.  
  
***Highlighting the One Year Impact of the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law***  
  
**The Center Square:** [**Report: Hawaii has received $1.2 billion from
the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law**](https://www.thecentersquare.com/hawaii/article_7c0e0eb0-f36a-11ed-826e-2352fdf01b86.html)  
Hawaii has used $1.2 billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law on
roads, providing internet service to thousands and updating the state’s
airports and ports, according to a report released Monday from The White
House. About 44,000 Hawaii residents are benefiting from low-cost high
speed internet , according to the report. The state received about $5
million of its $100 million allocation in 2022 and this year.  
  
**Daily Journal:** [**Over $40M in federal-aid highway fund commitments
recognized**](https://www.daily-journal.com/news/local/kankakee/over-40m-in-federal-aid-highway-fund-commitments-recognized-during-infrastructure-week/article_5ab18746-f4f1-11ed-a234-8ba5d05520e9.html)  
Following Infrastructure Week, local leaders have acknowledged the
$41.46 million in federal-aid highway fund commitments made in Illinois.
Credit for the funding is being given to the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law.  
  
**The Enquirer Gazette:** [**Biden infrastructure program so far has
sent $2.6 billion to
Maryland**](https://www.somdnews.com/enquirer_gazette/news/briefs/biden-infrastructure-program-so-far-has-sent-2-6-billion-to-maryland/article_af1d3837-3168-52e2-8332-85ea05e7a318.html)  
President Joe Biden’s infrastructure program so far has funneled $2.6
billion over the last two years to projects in Maryland, according to
White House data. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, signed by Biden in
November 2021, has been touted as a once-in-a-generation piece of
legislation and the president is highlighting it as one of his key
accomplishments as he makes his bid for reelection.  
  
***Connecting Hardworking Americans to Good Paying Jobs Through
Workforce Hubs Initiative***  
  
**Atlanta Business Chronicle:** [**White House to launch workforce hub
in
Augusta**](https://www.bizjournals.com/atlanta/news/2023/05/16/white-house-to-launch-workforce-hub-in-augusta.html)  
The Biden administration selected Augusta for a hub, along with Phoenix,
Columbus, Pittsburgh and Baltimore. The cities will serve as a model,
with the goal of replicating programs in other states, White House
officials said.  
  
**Chamber Business News:** [**Biden Administration to support workforce
in Phoenix, Tempe as ASU is selected to lead clean energy
project**](https://chamberbusinessnews.com/2023/05/18/biden-administration-to-support-workforce-in-phoenix-tempe-as-asu-is-selected-to-lead-clean-energy-project/)  
The Biden administration this week announced new strategies to train and
connect workers across the country to jobs resulting from passage of the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the CHIPS and Science Act, with a
special focus on investments in Phoenix and Tempe.  
  
**Cleveland.com:** [**Columbus to be new federal ‘workforce hub,’ White
House
announces**](https://www.cleveland.com/news/2023/05/columbus-to-be-new-federal-workforce-hub-white-house-announces.html)  
Columbus will be among five new “Workforce Hubs,” where the Biden
administration will partner with state and local officials, employers,
unions, community colleges, high schools, and other stakeholders to
develop training programs to meet the region’s demands for labor.  
  
**Pittsburgh Post-Gazette:** [**The White House calls Pittsburgh ‘a hub
for innovation’ as it moves to boost
investment**](https://www.post-gazette.com/news/politics-nation/2023/05/16/pittsburgh-workforce-hub-white-house/stories/202305160061)  
The city of Pittsburgh was one of five sites that the Biden
administration designated Tuesday as workforce hubs to encourage more
public and private investment in new and innovative industries. The
funding came from the bipartisan infrastructure law and another measure
to encourage development of advanced manufacturing such as computer
chips.  
  
**Spectrum:** [**White House to unveil advanced manufacturing jobs
training, hiring
strategy**](https://www.ny1.com/nyc/all-boroughs/news/2023/05/16/biden-manufacturing-jobs-training-hiring)  
The Biden administration is pledging to encourage employers, unions, and
other industry stakeholders to expand offerings for apprenticeships,
pre-apprenticeships, and career and technical education programs in
advanced manufacturing fields, with a focus on access in
underrepresented communities.  
  
**WBAL (NBC Baltimore, MD):** [**Biden administration selects Baltimore
as 1 of 5 ‘Workforce
Hubs’**](https://www.wbaltv.com/article/baltimore-workforce-hub/43906701)  
The White House is investing in Baltimore in an effort to boost the
skilled workforce. Baltimore is among five cities that the Biden
administration is labeling “Workforce Hubs.” The administration said it
will partner with state and local officials, high schools, community
colleges and unions to help Americans access jobs.

\###
