---
date: '2023-05-16'
modified_time: 2023-05-15 21:33:42-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-16 07:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/what-they-are-saying-bipartisan-leaders-applaud-president-bidens-nominations-for-federal-reserve-board-of-governors/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Bipartisan Leaders Applaud President\_Biden\u2019s Nominations\
  \ for Federal Reserve Board of\_Governors"
---
 
On Friday, President Biden was proud to announce his nomination of Dr.
Philip Jefferson for Vice Chair and Dr. Adriana Kugler to serve as a
Member on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Dr.
Jefferson and Dr. Cook will continue to bring valuable insight,
expertise, and continuity to the Fed at a critical time for our economy
and families across the country.  
  
The President also announced that he will renominate Dr. Lisa Cook, who
the Senate just confirmed last year, for an additional full term as a
Member. Dr. Kugler is a highly qualified and respected economist with
deep expertise in labor markets, worker mobility, and youth
employment.  
  
These nominees understand that this job is not a partisan one, but one
that plays a critical role in pursuing maximum employment, maintaining
price stability, and supervising many of our nation’s financial
institutions. The President is confident these nominees will help build
upon the historically strong economic recovery we have had under his
Administration.  
  
*See below for what they are saying:*  
  
**Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown, Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:** “These historic nominees have
built their careers by putting workers and communities at the center of
our economy. Like so many of the public servants we’ve confirmed to lead
our economy over the last two years, Dr. Jefferson, Dr. Cook, and Dr.
Kugler – who would be the first Latina to sit on the Fed – reflect the
vibrant diversity of our country, and the people who make it work,” said
Brown. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to confirm these
nominees quickly.”
\[[Statement](https://www.banking.senate.gov/newsroom/majority/brown-applauds-federal-reserve-nominees),
5/12/23\]  
  
**New Jersey Senator Bob Menendez:** “For years, I have been a fierce
advocate for greater diversity and inclusion in every industry and
across the federal government — including at the Federal Reserve. I have
fought to ensure that institutions like the Federal Reserve better
reflect America with the goal of effectuating policies to encourage
broad based economic growth for all communities. By elevating Philip
Jefferson to serve as Vice Chair, re-nominating Lisa Cook to the Board
of Governors, and nominating Adriana Kugler as the first Hispanic to
ever serve on the Board of Governors, President Biden is signaling that
the hopes and dreams of Black and Latino Americans are central to the
promise of America. Simply put, we are witnessing history unfold in real
time. With today’s announcement, we are ushering in a new chapter at the
Federal Reserve, which for 109 years has never had Latinos or Latinas in
the upper echelons of its leadership. We are finally giving Latinos, all
62 million of us who call this country home, a seat at the table where
the most consequential decisions on monetary policy are made, and I for
one will make it my personal mission to help ensure swift confirmations
for Jefferson, Cook, and Kugler.”
\[[Statement](https://www.menendez.senate.gov/newsroom/press/menendez-statement-on-historic-first-nomination-of-latina-to-serve-on-federal-reserve-board-of-governors),
5/12/23\]  
  
**Nevada Senator Catherine Cortez Masto:** “Adriana Kugler’s nomination
to serve on the Federal Reserve Board of Governors is historic. In its
109-year history, there has never been a Latina at the leadership table.
I look forward to supporting her confirmation and hope the Senate will
do so swiftly.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenCortezMasto/status/1657071333614682137?s=20),
5/12,23\]  
  
**North Carolina Representative Patrick McHenry, Chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee:** “These nominees are seasoned economists
with the capacity to contribute meaningfully to the work of the Federal
Reserve Board,” said Chairman McHenry. “Should they be confirmed to
these roles, I urge them to maintain strict impartiality and remain
laser focused on reining in inflation. Under no circumstances should
partisan politics influence the Federal Reserve Board’s decision making.
As with all of President Biden’s appointees to the Federal Reserve,
Republicans on the House Financial Services Committee will hold Mr.
Jefferson, Ms. Cook, and Ms. Kugler to account to ensure that the Fed is
focused squarely on its statutory mandate, rather than engaging in
fiscal or social policymaking, which is the purview of Congress.”
\[[Statement](https://financialservices.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=408761),
5/12/23\]  
  
**Congressional Hispanic Caucus:** “Dr. Kugler is a highly qualified
candidate with extensive experience as the Chief Economist for the
Department of Labor under President Obama, the United States Executive
Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
and as the US representative to the World Bank. \[…\] We commend
President Biden for recognizing the importance of Latino representation
at all levels of government, and we urge the Senate to move swiftly to
confirm her. ¡Felicidades!”
\[[Statement](https://chc.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/chc-leadership-statement-on-the-nomination-of-adriana-kugler-to-the-0),
5/12/23\]  
  
**Congressional Black Caucus:** “The CBC applauds @POTUS for the
historic nominations of Dr. Philip Jefferson, Dr. Lisa Cook and Dr.
Adriana Kugler to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TheBlackCaucus/status/1657212253433737217?s=20),
5/12/23\]  
  
**Texas Representative Joaquin Castro:** “@Adriana\_Kugler is a
world-renowned economist with extensive experience in domestic &
international finance. She will be a powerful voice for inclusive growth
at the [@FederalReserve](https://twitter.com/federalreserve).
Congratulations to Dr. Kugler on her nomination to serve as the first
Latina on the Fed Board!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JoaquinCastrotx/status/1657143499010056192?s=20),
5/12,23\]  
  
**National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators:** “We look forward to
having Adriana Kugler serving as the 1st Hispanic in the Federal Reserve
Board of Governors’ 109-year history, because we hope that she can
channel the experiences and needs of our communities, making sure that
full employment is as important (or more) than inflation.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NHCSL/status/1657063417436426241?s=20),
5/12/23\]  
  
**National Association of Latino Elected Officials**: “Congratulations
to Dr. @adriana\_kugler on her nomination to serve on the
@federalreserve’s Board of Governors! Dr. Kugler is a highly qualified
leader &, if confirmed, would be the first Latina to serve in this role.
We look forward to her confirmation.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NALEO/status/1658117580572196866),
5/15/23\]  
  
**Spencer Overton, President, Joint Center for Political and Economic
Studies:** “Thanks to President Biden’s nominations today, the Fed will
be stronger and better equipped to curb inflation and maximize
employment. The expertise and experience of these exceptional economists
will be invaluable to the Fed in ensuring all Americans are considered
when determining monetary policy. Dr. Cook’s groundbreaking
macroeconomic research, Dr. Jefferson’s rigorous research on monetary
policy’s impact on the labor market and inequality, and Dr. Kugler’s
extensive work in the Obama Administration on government benefits to
serve underserved communities are all essential to our economic
recovery. These experiences deepen the Fed’s ability to consider the
impact of its decisions on communities that are more adversely affected
by inflation and often experience higher unemployment rates. While there
is more work to be done in diversifying economic appointments, President
Biden’s nominations today represent a historic step in maximizing
economic growth by building an economy that works for all Americans. We
are appreciative of President Biden, Senate Majority Leader Charles
Schumer (D-NY), and Senate Banking Committee Chair Sherrod Brown (D-OH)
for their leadership in the nominations of these outstanding candidates
to serve on the Federal Reserve Board.”
\[[Statement](https://jointcenter.org/joint-center-commends-president-biden-for-strong-diverse-federal-reserve-board-nominations/),
5/12/23\]  
  
**Jason Furman, Former Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors:**
“Great nominations to the Federal Reserve Board. Philip Jefferson has a
broad & insightful perspective on monetary issues that will make him an
excellent Vice Chair. I learned a lot about labor markets from Adriana
Kugler when we worked together in the Obama administration. And Lisa
Cook has been an terrific part of the board.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/jasonfurman/status/1657095292351844352),
5/12/2023\]  
  
**Department of Economics at the University of California, Berkeley**:
“Historic nominations announced by President Biden to the Board of
Governors: Alumna Dr. Adriana Kugler is nominated to the Board of
Governors; Governor Philip Jefferson is elevated to the No. 2 role; and
alumna Governor Lisa Cook is renominated for another full term.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/berkeleyecon/status/1657078924223082496),
5/12/23\]  
  
**Chris Marsicano, Economist, Davidson College**: “Congrats to former
[@DavidsonCollege](https://twitter.com/DavidsonCollege) VP of Academic
Affairs Philip Jefferson on his nomination by
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) for the Fed’s No. 2 job! He is an
honorable man and a steady pair of hands in an uncertain time.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ChrisMarsicano/status/1657199187035914240),
5/12/23\]  
  
**Seth Harris, Economist, Northeastern University**: “I am immensely
proud of my friend
[@Adriana\_Kugler](https://twitter.com/adriana_kugler) as she is
nominated to serve on
[@federalreserve](https://twitter.com/federalreserve) board. She has
been simply outstanding representing the US at the World Bank. She will
make history and a huge contribution at the Fed. Great choice
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS).”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MrSethHarris/status/1657214136579653632),
5/12/23\]  
  
**Janet Murguía, President & CEO, Unidos US:** “@JMurguia\_Unidos We
applaud this historic nomination by @POTUS. Dr. Kugler is a highly
respected economist & an exceptional choice who will bring extensive
experience, expertise, and a new perspective to the @federalreserve.
Thank you @SenatorMenendez for your leadership!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JMurguia_Unidos/status/1657087204492034048?s=20),
5/12/23\]  
  
**Latino Victory:** “We commend @POTUS for his historic nomination of
Adriana Kugler for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. If confirmed by
the Senate, Adriana would become the first Latina at the central bank in
its 109-year history.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/latinovictoryus/status/1657077407977725969),
5/12/23\]

\###
