---
date: '2023-05-20'
published_time: 2023-05-20 04:34:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/20/g7-clean-energy-economy-action-plan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G7 Clean Energy Economy Action\_Plan"
---
 
     We, the leaders of the G7, are acting and enhancing cooperation to
address the climate crisis and accelerate the global clean energy
transition to reach net zero emissions by 2050 at the latest. We
reaffirm our unwavering commitment to the Paris Agreement. We recognize
that public and private investment in the industries of the future both
at home and around the world will be necessary to achieve these goals
and that further cooperation is necessary in order to fill the
investment gap for the clean energy transition to lower the cost of the
energy transition worldwide. We acknowledge that our trade policies will
play a major role in achieving our common goals and that these must be
based on our commitment to strengthening the rules-based, fair,
equitable, and transparent multilateral trading system with the World
Trade Organization (WTO) at its core. We are working to comprehensively
reform and strengthen the multilateral trading system so that it can
effectively respond to the most pressing issues of our time including
sustainable development and the clean energy transition. We stress that,
in driving clean energy economy of the future, we will cooperate openly
and transparently in a coordinated manner reflecting our joint
commitment not to act at each other’s expense. We commit to upholding
the views mentioned above as the cornerstone of a just transition to a
clean energy economy that achieves sustainable growth and high-quality
jobs. In this context, we underline the significance of building secure,
resilient, affordable, and sustainable clean energy supply chains and
strong industrial bases that reduce undue strategic dependencies and
benefit local workers and communities around the world. We also
acknowledge the role clean energy technologies play in achieving these
goals and to this end commit to research and further collaboration in
this area. Our joint efforts to lead the transition to a clean energy
economy will be based on our collective commitments to engage in
policies that effectively incentivize partners to achieve an ambitious
clean transition of their economies, lift workers, support marginalized
communities, protect the environment, and uphold and strengthen the
rules-based multilateral system. Acknowledging the clean energy
aspirations of low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) and the critical
role they play in the clean energy transition, our Action Plan seeks to
deepen our cooperation with and support for partners around the world to
ensure that the transition to the clean energy economies of the future
reduces poverty and advances shared prosperity.

I. *<u>Moving Forward United</u>*

     We will move forward united in order to achieve the goals of the
Paris Agreement. While acknowledging that there are various pathways
according to each country’s energy situation, industrial and social
structures, and geographical conditions, we highlight that these should
lead to our common goal of net zero by 2050 at the latest, in order to
keep a limit of 1.5 °C temperature rise within reach. To achieve this
shared goal, we are working against zero-sum competition. As we
implement our policies, we will seek to resolve differences that may
arise through dialogue, cooperation, and coordination. We reaffirm our
commitment to continue working within the open, cooperative, and
inclusive Climate Club in collaboration with international partners to
support global efforts to decarbonize our economies. We, as founding
members of the Climate Club, look forward to making decarbonised
industrial production the default business case over time, thereby
contributing to supporting green growth, and addressing, inter alia,
carbon leakage and other possible risks to mitigation efforts, while
complying with international rules. We welcome those countries that have
already announced their participation.  

II\. *<u>Maximizing the Impact of Incentives</u>*

     We recognize that achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement
urgently requires significant new incentives, industrial policies, and
public as well as private investments. We recognize that the clean
energy transition will require filling the investment gaps to lower the
cost of energy transition globally. We will work to ensure that our
regulations and investments will make clean energy technologies more
affordable for all nations and help drive a global, just energy
transition for workers and communities that will leave no one behind. We
commit to transparency and coordination on our policies so that they
serve our common goal of maximizing deployment of clean energy
technologies and practices, promote fair and free trade and are mutually
supportive and consistent with our commitment to our multilateral
trading system as well as preserving a level playing field, and will
refrain from taking measures that undermine these efforts. Together we
are working against zero-sum competition and developing policies and
practices that promote global trade and investment so that our
incentives maximize clean energy deployment and jobs for every
partner—and allow capital to flow into LMICs.

III\. *<u>Reducing Emissions Through Trade Policy</u>*

     We recognize that trade and trade policies are important tools to
tackle climate change and can be drivers of sustainable growth. Based on
this recognition, we will pursue trade policies that drive
decarbonisation and emissions reduction, by spurring markets to account
for embedded emissions in traded goods, and affirm that environmental
standards should not be lowered to unfairly gain competitive advantage.
We welcome the work of the WTO in this area. We recognize that, while
sharing common goals, our climate policies may take different approaches
including carbon pricing mechanisms, regulations, and incentives. We
will also collaborate intensively on our efforts to develop the
necessary data and tools, such as information on embedded emissions
throughout supply chains, to implement such policies. We recognize that
the risk of carbon leakage may increase with more divergent climate
policy ambition and will continue to work collaboratively, including
with relevant international organizations, to address this risk. We
request that the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD) report to us on the progress of the Inclusive Forum on Carbon
Mitigation Approaches (IFCMA) to explore methodological approaches for
computing carbon intensity of goods or sectors.

IV\. *<u>Establishing Resilient Global Supply Chains</u>*

     The Covid-19 pandemic and the energy crisis have laid bare
vulnerabilities in our supply chains, with significant impacts within
and beyond our borders. We share a goal to increase total investment in
the clean energy manufacturing supply chain and accelerating the
development and deployment of relevant technology.  We look forward to
the International Energy Agency’s (IEA) report of its progress on clean
energy supply chain by COP 28. In addition, we recognize the importance
of analyzing vulnerabilities of our supply chains including stress
testing. We put emphasis on scaling up investments globally into the
manufacturing and installation of clean energy technologies and
diversifying clean energy supply chains in a way that ensures they are
secure, resilient, affordable, and sustainable, seeking to reduce and
avoid undue dependency arising from geographically concentrated clean
energy supply chains. In this context, we will support local value
creation in critical minerals supply chains, including processing and
refining, based on our commitment to our multilateral trading system to
make them robust, resilient, responsible, and transparent. Cooperation
is also necessary so that these supply chains are aligned with
internationally-accepted standards on responsible business conduct such
as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO
Tripartite Declaration and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises. We commit to establishing new partnerships with LMICs that
will play critical roles in building secure, resilient, affordable, and
sustainable clean energy supply chains for local and global energy
transitions. We will utilize the G7 Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment (PGII) to catalyze public and private
finance towards quality climate and energy security investments that
will support LMICs to fully benefit from the diversification of supply
chains, reduce high-risk dependencies, and to meet their own clean
energy transition goals. As part of PGII, we will seek to work with
partners to develop a pipeline of bankable projects, by identifying new
incentives and methods to unlock additional private capital towards
these priorities to support and accelerate our partners’ clean energy
transitions and contribute to long-lasting economic growth in LMICs. In
parallel, we task the Finance Ministers to turn their “High-level Policy
Guidance for Public Finance Tools to Build Resilient Supply Chains in
the Era of Decarbonization” into specific actions by developing the
“Partnership for RISE (Resilient and Inclusive Supply-chain
Enhancement)” in collaboration with interested partners and
international organizations, especially the World Bank Group, with the
aim at its launch by the end of this year at the latest*. *We will
continue our collaboration through the Minerals Security Partnership to
strengthen supply chains for critical minerals, promote responsible and
sustainable investment in extraction and processing, and recycling and
drive high Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) standards. We will
promote supply chains in line with high ESG standards that ensure
benefits to local communities and advance a just energy transition
rooted in social dialogue, social and environmental protection, rights
at work and employment. We also promote the private sector’s adoption of
due diligence requirements in line with the OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises and the OECD’s Due Diligence Guidance for
Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and
High-Risk Areas to increase responsible business conduct. To support
this effort, we welcome the new report by the IEA to the summit and will
ask the IEA to produce a clean energy manufacturing roadmap leading up
to a high-level international workshop in 2023.

V. *<u>Promoting Clean Energy Technologies</u>*

     We will continue working together to make clean technologies and
sustainable solutions, in particular renewable energy technologies and
energy efficiency measures, the most affordable, accessible and
attractive option globally through international activities, and to lead
by example through public procurement to catalyze sustainable supply
chains. We promote research, wide use, import and export of clean energy
technologies and products. We will do this in the context of promoting
open, transparent competitive energy markets and will work to develop
technical international standards for critical minerals markets through
the International Organization for Standardization. We also underline
the important role of start-ups and small and medium enterprises to
contribute to innovation and technologies for net-zero, and look forward
to the G7’s collaboration with ambitious start-ups globally.

     We will keep supporting the research, development, and deployment
of clean technologies as a critical enabler of an accelerated clean
energy transition in LMICs. As a first step, we invite the IEAto convene
an international forum with relevant parties from the public sector,
finance, corporate, research and start-ups.

VI\. *<u>Promoting Trade and Investment in Clean Energy Goods and
Services</u>*

     We are committed to facilitating trade and investment in goods and
services, including critical minerals that promote the reduction of
greenhouse gases to help meet our climate objectives and mobilize
additional capital for clean energy technologies while preventing
economic and security risks caused by vulnerable supply chains. We will
work together, in particular in international organizations such as the
WTO to further facilitate trade of such services and goods that
contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation and promote the
clean energy transition across the product’s lifecycle. Specifically, we
will work to identify environmental goods and services and technologies
that meaningfully help combat climate changes and coordinate efforts
among G7 countries to promote production and trade in those supply
chains. As part of this effort, we will advance work at the WTO to
promote a circular economy for clean energy goods and services. In
addition, we will explore ways for trade rules and trade policy to
incorporate these efforts, and further incentivize reducing embedded
emissions in clean energy goods and services, in a WTO-consistent
manner.

VII\. *<u>Support for Global Partners</u>*

     We are committed to supporting countries around the world as they
fight poverty and reorient their economies to deliver inclusive and
sustainable growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for
all. We recognize that these longstanding development priorities are
deeply intertwined with global challenges, including meeting ambitious
climate goals. To that end, we reaffirm our strong commitment to support
countries in clean just energy transitions, including ensuring
successful progress of Just Energy Transition Partnerships, using the
synergies with the PGII. We are stepping up our efforts to provide
climate finance for LMICs. We are taking steps to evolve the
multilateral development banks, starting with the World Bank, to better
respond to global challenges as an essential component of poverty
reduction and shared prosperity. While broader than clean energy, this
evolution is an essential component of our strategy to ensure that
economies beyond the G7 are well positioned to fully realize the
benefits of the transition to the clean energy economy of the future. We
welcome the organization of a summit on development financing by France
in Paris in June to enhance the resilience of vulnerable countries and
encourage the green transition of developing and emerging economies,
while generally stepping up our efforts for the realization of the 2030
Agenda overall. Through this Clean Energy Economy Action Plan, we will
work together to create trade policies that decarbonize our economies,
accelerate the development of resilient clean energy supply chains, grow
shared markets for clean energy goods and services, and mobilize
significant public and private sector climate and energy security
investments for our LMIC partners. We will engage in this work with
partner countries around the world to overcome our shared energy and
climate challenges and ensure a more stable and prosperous future.

\###
