---
date: '2023-05-12'
published_time: 2023-05-12 16:59:40-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/12/statement-from-president-joe-biden-ahead-of-the-fifth-review-conference-of-the-chemical-weapons-convention/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden Ahead of the Fifth Review Conference of\
  \ the Chemical Weapons\_Convention"
---
 
Chemical weapons have wrought unthinkable horrors upon our world, and
should never again be developed or deployed—period. That’s the
commitment the world made when the Chemical Weapons Convention created
the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in 1997—and
it’s a commitment we must renew every day until our world is free from
the threat of chemical weapons.  
  
Next week, the United States and our fellow States Parties will gather
for the Fifth Review Conference of the Chemical Weapons Convention to
review our progress and determine what more we must do to rid the world
of chemical weapons.  
  
As we work together toward our shared goal, the United States is leading
by example. We are on track to complete the destruction of our chemical
weapons stockpile by this fall—a disarmament milestone that upholds the
highest standards of transparency and public safety. We are steadfast in
our support for the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical
Weapons’ new Center for Chemistry and Technology, which will help the
Organization better carry out its verification, inspection, and
attribution responsibilities, and build the capacities of others to
counter chemical weapons. And, together with our partners, we will
continue to strengthen the Organization’s ability to address
nontraditional chemical threats that have emerged in recent decades to
ensure it can face the challenges of today.  
  
The United States will continue to stand with the Organization for the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to prevent the stockpiling, production,
and use of chemical weapons around the world. We should all work
together to encourage the remaining nations to join the Chemical Weapons
Convention. And I urge every nation to stand for the truth and join us
in promoting accountability for violations of this treaty, including
Syria’s use of sarin and chlorine and Russia’s use of Novichok nerve
agents. The use of chemical weapons is never acceptable, and the world
can be assured that the United States will not rest in this fight
against impunity.  
  
We must not stop until all children can grow up in a world without the
scourge of chemical weapons.

\###
