---
date: '2023-05-25'
published_time: 2023-05-25 16:09:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/25/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-supreme-court-decision-in-sackett-v-epa/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Supreme Court Decision in Sackett v.\_\
  EPA"
---
 
The Supreme Court’s disappointing decision in *Sackett v. EPA* will take
our country backwards. It puts our Nation’s wetlands – and the rivers,
streams, lakes, and ponds connected to them – at risk of pollution and
destruction, jeopardizing the sources of clean water that millions of
American families, farmers, and businesses rely on.  
  
Since the Clean Water Act was passed by an overwhelming bipartisan
majority in Congress in 1972, it has been used by Republican and
Democratic administrations alike to help ensure Americans in every state
have clean water. It is the reason why today America’s lakes are
swimmable, why we can fish in our streams and rivers, and why clean
water comes out of our taps.  
  
Today’s decision upends the legal framework that has protected America’s
waters for decades. It also defies the science that confirms the
critical role of wetlands in safeguarding our nation’s streams, rivers,
and lakes from chemicals and pollutants that harm the health and
wellbeing of children, families, and communities.  
  
I am committed to protecting clean air and water for our kids for
generations to come. My team will work with the Department of Justice
and relevant agencies to carefully review this decision and use every
legal authority we have to protect our Nation’s waters for the people
and communities that depend on them. We will work with states, cities,
and Tribal communities to pass and uphold critical protections for their
residents. Through my Investing in America agenda, we’re already
deploying historic resources in communities all across America to remove
lead pipes, improve water quality, and rebuild the Nation’s drinking
water infrastructure.  
  
Our fight for clean water for all must go on, and it will.

\###
