---
date: '2023-05-05'
modified_time: 2023-05-05 11:08:39-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-05 12:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-key-infrastructure-funding-to-electrify-ports/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Key Infrastructure\
  \ Funding to Electrify\_Ports"
---
 
*President Biden’s Investing in America agenda is making America’s ports
safer and more reliable, strengthening our supply chains, creating
good-paying jobs, improving air quality and public health, and building
a zero-emissions shipping future*

America’s ports play a central role in our supply chains and affordable
goods movement, are important providers of good jobs, and are key to our
global competitiveness. To strengthen our supply chains, reduce costs
for the American people, and position the U.S. for economic success, the
Biden Administration this week announced investments as part of
President Biden’s Investing in America agenda to make our ports safer,
cleaner, more efficient, and more reliable.  
  
Today, thanks to the President’s Inflation Reduction Act, [EPA is taking
the next step to invest $3
billion](https://www.epa.gov/inflation-reduction-act/clean-ports-program)
to fund zero-emission port equipment and technology and to help ports
develop climate action plans to reduce air pollutants, improve air
quality and public health in neighboring communities, and advance
environmental justice. EPA is also investing another $1 billion to
reduce emissions from heavy-duty commercial vehicles, including those
that travel in and out of ports.  
  
These investments are just the latest in a string of transformative
programs and projects made possible by the Biden-Harris Administration.
Together, these investments will create good-paying jobs, strengthen
supply chains, improve economic competitiveness, and help combat the
climate crisis.  
  
Recognizing the vital role of modern, resilient infrastructure in
reducing costs for American families and businesses, President Biden
secured an unprecedented $17 billion investments through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law to improve the country’s ports and waterways –
critical arteries in our supply chains. The Inflation Reduction Act
includes another $4 billion with a focus of electrifying port equipment
and heavy-duty vehicles.  This historic investment will also play a role
in reducing local pollution and climate emissions by limiting congestion
and idling as well as by investing in electrification and other
low-carbon technologies through programs, including supporting the
future of zero emission shipping.  
  
Today’s announcement builds on previous port electrification
announcements made by the Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway
Administration to improve port efficiency and air quality, reducing
local pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. They also complement [new
proposed vehicle pollution
standards](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/12/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-proposes-new-standards-to-protect-public-health-that-will-save-consumers-money-and-increase-energy-security/)
that would, if finalized, make trucks cleaner and more efficient and
position the United States as a leading force in the clean energy
future.  
  
**Advancing Environmental Justice**

Communities living near ports and other transportation corridors are
exposed to toxic pollution which can cause respiratory and
cardiovascular harm, especially in children. Cleaner ports and freight
vehicles will improve air quality, reducing the pollution burden faced
by fence line communities and advancing President Biden’s historic
commitment to environmental justice.

The investments announced today deliver on the President’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/),
which is working to ensure that 40 percent of the overall benefits of
federal investments in climate change, clean energy, and other areas
flow to disadvantaged communities that are marginalized, underserved,
and overburdened by pollution.   
  
**Transforming Port Infrastructure**  
  
Last month, the Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway
Administration opened applications for the first round of [the new
reduction of Truck Emissions and Port Facilities Grant
Program,](https://highways.dot.gov/newsroom/biden-harris-administration-opens-applications-first-year-400m-competitive-grant-program)
 established under President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. The
program will reduce emissions from idling trucks at our nation’s ports,
which negatively impact air quality in ports and surrounding
communities, including children, truck drivers, and port workers. Up to
$160 million is currently available for this program.    
  
The U.S. Department of Transportation’s Maritime Administration (MARAD)
also recently announced funding making [more than $662 million available
in FY2023 funding through their Port Infrastructure Development Program
(PIDP)
.](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/usdot-announces-more-660-million-available-through-port-infrastructure-development#:~:text=WASHINGTON%20%2D%20The%20U.S.%20Department%20of,Infrastructure%20Development%20Program%20(PIDP).) 
PIDP investments will modernize our nation’s ports and help strengthen
our supply chains for generations to come, helping to reduce shipping
time, costs, and ultimately, the costs of goods for the American people.
Thanks to the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, MARAD provides
$2.25 billion over five years for these upgrades impacting our ports all
across the country. Many of the funded projects use zero-emission
technology to improve port efficiency while eliminating local pollution
and cutting greenhouse gas emissions.  
  
Port electrification projects funded with the first year of Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law funding include:

-   Middle Harbor Terminal Zero Emission Conversion Project in Long
    Beach, California: The $30 million award will fund the replacement
    of diesel yard tractors with approximately 60 electric yard
    tractors, construction of electric equipment charging infrastructure
    with energy load management software to enhance energy efficiency,
    and installation of software equipment to streamline cargo-handling
    operations within the terminal.  
-   The JAXPORT EXPRESS Project in  Jacksonville, Florida:  The $23.5
    million award includes installation of electrified refrigerated
    container stacks; procurement of six hybrid-electric rubber-tired
    gantry cranes procurement of 16 battery-electric forklifts, ten
    battery-electric yard tractors, and seven Tier 4 diesel top picks;
    installation of 15 high-power direct current fast charging stations
    and make-ready stub-outs; and development of a replaceable and
    scalable plan for transitioning the port and local maritime industry
    to zero-emission technologies.  
-   Terminal 6 Infrastructure Improvements Project in Portland, Oregon:
    This $24.3 million award will fund replacing electrical components
    to reduce energy consumption, light spillage, and enable future
    zero-emission operations.  
-   Kapalama Container Terminal Project in Honolulu, Hawaii: The $47.6
    million award will fund upgrades to electrified ship-to-shore
    cranes; acquisition of new equipment and installation of solar
    panels on terminal buildings that will improve the reliability of
    port operations; an electrical micro-grid to improve resilience;
    and, development of a Facility Resiliency Plan and a Terminal
    Electrification Plan to support additional environmental and
    resilience improvements in the future.

US DOT has also awarded grants for ports electrification in other
programs.

-   PortMiami received a $16 Million Rebuilding American Infrastructure
    with Sustainability and Equity (RAISE) grant for its NetZero: Cargo
    Mobility Optimization and Resiliency Project. The NetZero Program is
    a visionary plan to convert the entire cargo movement chain to a
    carbon neutral operation, from PortMiami’s channel to its final
    distribution site.  The RAISE grant will help fund PortMiami’s
    intermodal rail expansion by adding two rail tracks and three new
    electric rubber-tired gantry cranes.

\###
