---
date: '2023-05-05'
published_time: 2023-05-05 11:06:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/05/president-biden-announces-key-white-house-personnel/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key White\_House\_Personnel"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced that Neera Tanden will serve as
Assistant to the President and Domestic Policy Advisor. The President
also announced that Stefanie Feldman will serve as Assistant to the
President and Staff Secretary. Additionally, Zayn Siddique will be
promoted to Principal Deputy of the Domestic Policy Council.  
  
*Statement from President Biden:*  
  
“For over two years, Susan Rice has helped craft and implement my
domestic policy agenda and our country owes a debt of gratitude for her
history-making public service. I am pleased to announce that Neera
Tanden will continue to drive the formulation and implementation of my
domestic policy, from economic mobility and racial equity to health
care, immigration and education.   
  
As Senior Advisor and Staff Secretary, Neera oversaw decision-making
processes across my domestic, economic and national security teams. She
has 25 years of experience in public policy, has served three
Presidents, and led one of the largest think tanks in the country for
nearly a decade. She was a key architect of the Affordable Care Act and
helped drive key domestic policies that became part of my agenda,
including clean energy subsidies and sensible gun reform. While growing
up, Neera relied on some of the critical programs that she will oversee
as Domestic Policy Advisor, and I know those insights will serve my
Administration and the American people well. I look forward to
continuing to work closely with Neera in her new role.  
  
Stef is one of my longest-serving and most trusted advisors. I asked
Stef to join me from the White House to the University of Delaware, to
my presidential campaign, and back to the White House because of her
talent and tenacious pursuit of policies that make life better for
hard-working Americans. I have now asked her to serve as Staff Secretary
because I know I can trust her to ensure that I am equipped with the
best advice and counsel.”  
  
Tanden will be the first Asian-American to lead any of the three major
White House policy councils in history.  
  
**Neera Tanden, Assistant to the President and Domestic Policy
Advisor**  
  
Neera Tanden currently serves as Senior Advisor to President Biden and
Staff Secretary. She served in both the Obama and Clinton
administrations, as well as presidential campaigns and think tanks. Most
recently, Neera was the President and CEO of the Center for American
Progress and the Center for American Progress Action Fund. Tanden
previously served as senior advisor for health reform at the Department
of Health and Human Services, working on President Obama’s health reform
team in the White House. Prior to that, she was the director of domestic
policy for the Obama-Biden presidential campaign, and served as policy
director for the Hillary Clinton presidential campaign.  
  
Neera served as senior advisor to the Chancellor of the New York City
Schools and also served as Associate Director for Domestic Policy in the
Clinton White House and Senior Policy Advisor to the First Lady. Neera
received her Bachelor of Science from UCLA and her Juris Doctor degree
from Yale Law School.  
  
**Stefanie Feldman, Assistant to the President and Staff Secretary**  
  
Stefanie Feldman has worked for President Biden for more than a decade.
She currently serves as Deputy Assistant to the President and Senior
Advisor to the White House Domestic Policy Advisor. Previously, she
served as the National Policy Director for the Biden-Harris presidential
campaign, the inaugural Policy Director for the Biden Institute at the
University of Delaware’s Joseph R. Biden School of Public Policy &
Administration, and in various policy roles in the White House Office of
the Vice President during the Obama-Biden Administration. She started
her career as an intern in then-Vice President Biden’s domestic and
economic policy office. She holds a B.A. from Duke University and a J.D.
from Yale Law School.  
  
**Zayn Siddique, Principal Deputy Director of the Domestic Policy
Council**  
  
Zayn Siddique currently serves as Deputy Assistant to the President for
Economic Mobility and Deputy Director of the Domestic Policy Council. In
this role, he leads White House policy development on issues including
housing, child care, education, workforce, and agriculture.  Previously,
Siddique served as Senior Advisor to the White House Deputy Chief of
Staff for Policy Bruce Reed. He also served as Chief of Staff for the
Domestic and Economic Team for the Biden-Harris Transition and as a
member of Vice President Harris’s prep team for the 2020
Vice-Presidential Debate. Prior to the Administration, Siddique
practiced constitutional and appellate law at a firm in New York City.
He also served as a law clerk at all three levels of the federal court
system, including to Justice Elena Kagan of the U.S. Supreme Court.
Originally from Bangladesh and raised in New York, Siddique is a
graduate of Princeton University and Yale Law School.

\###
