---
date: '2023-05-17'
modified_time: 2023-05-17 16:51:20-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-17 17:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/17/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-international-day-against-homophobia-biphobia-and-transphobia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on International Day Against Homophobia,\
  \ Biphobia, and\_Transphobia"
---
 
Everyone is entitled to be treated with dignity and equality—no matter
whom they love, or how they identify. On the International Day Against
Homophobia, Biphobia, and Transphobia, we reaffirm our commitment to
this ongoing work and stand with lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender,
queer, and intersex (LGBTQI+) people around the world.  
  
More than 30 years ago today, thanks to the tireless advocacy of LGBTQI+
activists the World Health Organization took the long overdue step of
declassifying ‘homosexuality’ as a mental health disorder. Since then,
we’ve seen real progress—including a powerful movement for LGBTQI+
liberation, more protections for LGBTQI+ people, and more spaces that
recognize and affirm that our diversity is our strength. But sadly, we
continue to see reminders of how much work remains. More than 60
countries still criminalize homosexuality and some are considering even
more draconian anti-LGBTQI+ legislation. Some governments continue to
classify LGBTQI+ individuals as having a medical disorder or permit the
use of so-called “conversion therapy”—a dangerous and discredited
practice that blatantly violates human rights and causes significant
harm, including high rates of suicide-related thoughts and behaviors
among LGBTQI+ youth. And right here at home, violent attacks on LGBTQI+
individuals and community spaces have risen dramatically, and more than
600 hateful laws have been introduced this year targeting the LGBTQI+
community, particularly youth.  
  
That is why, during my first month in office, I signed a [Presidential
Memorandum on Advancing the Human Rights of LGBTQI+ Persons Around the
World](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/04/memorandum-advancing-the-human-rights-of-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-queer-and-intersex-persons-around-the-world/)
to combat criminalization, protect vulnerable LGBTQI+ refugees, and
build international coalitions to fight against discrimination. Last
June, I signed an [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/15/executive-order-on-advancing-equality-for-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-queer-and-intersex-individuals/)
directing my Administration to work to prevent the use of so-called
“conversion therapy” in the United States and [around the
world](https://www.state.gov/summary-of-interagency-action-plan-to-combat-so-called-conversion-therapy-practices-globally-in-accordance-with-e-o-14075/). 
We have also launched a new [Strategy to Prevent and Respond to
Gender-Based Violence
Globally](https://www.state.gov/reports/united-states-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-gender-based-violence-globally-2022/)
to ensure that our efforts to confront the scourge of gender-based
violence addresses the unique risks and barriers for LGBTQI+ people.
And, my Administration continues to engage with governments, faith
leaders, families, and communities around the globe to protect and
promote respect for human rights—including LGBTQI+ rights.  
  
Here at home, we’ve also worked to advance equality and equity for
LGBTQI+ Americans. On my first day in office, I signed an Executive
Order to strengthen civil rights protections for LGBTQI+ citizens in
housing, health care, education, the criminal justice system, and more.
We have made strides in ensuring that transgender and non-binary
Americans can access accurate federal IDs and vital government
services—from emergency homeless shelters to Social Security benefits.
The Department of Justice is responding to discriminatory state laws
that violate the rights and freedoms of LGBTQI+ youth and their
families. And, I am proud to have appointed a historic number of proud
LGBTQI+ public servants, including the first openly gay person to serve
as a Cabinet Secretary, the first two openly transgender Americans to
ever be confirmed by the U.S. Senate, and the first openly lesbian
American to achieve the rank of Ambassador.  
  
All of us have a responsibility to speak out and stand up against hate
and violence in any form. When the rights of any group or individual are
under attack, it endangers our own freedom, and the freedom of people
everywhere. So today, let us join together across our country—and around
the world—to stand with the LGBTQI+ community. Let us renew our work to
combat homophobia, biphobia, and transphobia—and put an end to the
harmful violence and discrimination that stems from it.

\###
