---
date: '2023-05-04'
modified_time: 2023-05-04 12:10:57-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-04 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/04/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-celebrates-small-business-and-manufacturing-boom/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Harris Celebrates Small Business and Manufacturing\_\
  Boom"
---
 
*Vice President Visits State Small Business Credit Initiative Recipient
and Releases New Report Demonstrating Administration’s Support for Small
Manufacturers*

Today, in celebration of National Small Business Week and in recognition
of the critical role that small manufacturing businesses play in the
economy, the White House released a
[report](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/SSBCI-Manufacturing-Report-5.4.2023.pdf)
detailing how the Biden-Harris Administration’s Investing in America
agenda is providing critical support for small businesses in
manufacturing industries, including through the State Small Business
Credit Initiative (SSBCI). Vice President Harris will travel to
Richmond, Virginia to highlight the report, visit one of the nation’s
thriving small manufacturing companies, and discuss how the Biden-Harris
Administration’s Investing in America agenda is rebuilding the U.S
manufacturing base by empowering small businesses.

Since the start of this Administration, we have seen record progress
made by small businesses. They have created 3.1 million jobs, and employ
nearly half of all private sector workers. In 2021 and 2022, a record
10.5 million applications for new small businesses were filed, the
strongest two years on record. Earlier this week, the White House
released a [report
card](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Small-Business-Report.pdf)
demonstrating across-the-board progress on commitments designed to
maintain the nation’s historic momentum in fostering new business
creation and leading to the small business boom seen over the last two
years.

**White House Report Highlights How the Biden-Harris Administration’s
Investing in America Agenda Works for Small Businesses, Works for Small
Manufacturers  
**  
Today’s report illustrates how the Biden-Harris Administration’s
historic SSBCI, authorized by the American Rescue Plan and administered
by the U.S. Treasury Department, is providing small businesses with
access to capital to invest in critical manufacturing equipment and
assets. Already, **52** **states and territories have been approved for
over $8 billion in SSBCI capital for small business growth and expansion
that will create hundreds of thousands of jobs over the next decade**.
SSBCI is expected to catalyze up to $10 of private investment for every
$1 of SSBCI capital funding, meaning this historic investment will
provide tens of billions of dollars in public and private support for
small businesses across the country. In addition, Treasury [has
convened](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/28/readout-white-house-treasury-and-state-officials-discuss-american-rescue-plan-investments-in-manufacturing-through-the-state-small-business-credit-initiative/)
manufacturing-focused discussions among nearly twenty states to stand up
initiatives to address a host of common challenges faced by small
manufacturers. These SSBCI-supported efforts include programs to reduce
lender risk when investing in advanced technologies, expanding access to
working capital, expanding opportunity for small business owners from
disadvantaged backgrounds, and investing in innovative start-ups.

Today, the Vice President will visit Babylon Micro-Farms, a small
manufacturing company based in Virginia that has become a leader in
developing sustainable and affordable indoor farming equipment. In
December 2022, Babylon received a $150,000 equity investment from the
Virginia Innovation Partnership Corporation supported by the State of
Virginia’s SSBCI program. Virginia’s investment in Babylon is just one
example of how the Biden-Harris Administration’s small business strategy
is helping entrepreneurs to thrive and is strengthening the U.S.
manufacturing base.

The Biden-Harris Administration’s Investing in America agenda is
[strengthening this small business
boom](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/05/01/investing-in-small-businesses/)
and encouraging the fastest manufacturing recovery since the 1950s.
Small businesses are the backbone of the manufacturing sector. Nearly
75% of the U.S. manufacturing sector is made up of companies with fewer
than 20 employees. Small to medium-size manufacturers generate half of
all industrial output and employ close to 9% of the U.S. workforce.
Already, nearly 800,000 manufacturing jobs have been created since
President Biden took office, the most of any Administration and private
sector companies have announced more than [$400
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/) in major manufacturing
projects in industries of the future, such as clean energy,
semiconductor fabrication, and biotechnology, since President Biden took
office.

**House Republican Bill Would Harm Small Businesses, Manufacturing
Strength, and Eliminate Jobs  
**  
While the Biden-Harris Administration has made historic investments in
small business to strengthen our manufacturing power here at home,
Speaker McCarthy and House Republicans have passed a bill that would
slash billions in vital programs for small businesses, eliminate good
paying jobs, and directly target the SSBCI program that has contributed
so much to small business growth: 

-   **Slash almost $2 billion from SSBCI,** reducing needed capital for
    up to 10,000 small businesses and support for 100,000 jobs. This
    would particularly harm small business loans and equity investments
    for tribal and other underserved entrepreneurs.  
-   **Eliminate the Department of Commerce’s Capital Readiness
    Program,** a [grant
    program](https://www.mbda.gov/mbda-capital-readiness-program) funded
    as part of SSBCI and administered by the Minority Business
    Development Agency (MBDA) to support incubators and accelerators
    that will support minority and other underserved entrepreneurs. Last
    year, MBDA released a Notice of Funding Opportunity for this
    program  
-   **Rescind up to $575 million from the Emergency Capital Investment
    Program**, which supports small busines**s**es through Community
    Development Financial Institutions and Minority Depository
    Institutions. These funds were designed to help these institutions
    provide support to small businesses and other borrowers in
    underserved communities.  
-   **Exacerbate access to capital gaps** by slowing loan approvals,
    impeding new lender registration, reducing lender oversight, and
    impeding technology updates and customer service for small business
    applicants, forcing small businesses to seek more expensive
    non-Small Business Administration capital options.  
-   **Eliminate free business counseling for 295,000 small businesses
    owners.  
    **
-   **Reduce support for thousands of rural businesses.** The Republican
    proposal would cut funding for the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
    Rural Development Business Programs, resulting in more than 2,000
    rural businesses—nearly all small businesses—losing access to this
    assistance.

\###
