---
date: '2023-05-26'
modified_time: 2023-05-31 10:41:59-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-26 08:56:10-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/26/what-they-are-saying-bipartisan-state-and-local-leaders-faith-based-organizations-and-advocates-applaud-release-of-white-house-national-strategy-to-counter-antisemitism/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Bipartisan Members of Congress, State and Local Leaders,\
  \ Faith-Based Organizations, and Advocates Applaud Release of White\_House National\
  \ Strategy to Counter\_Antisemitism"
---
 
Yesterday, President Biden announced the first ever [U.S. National
Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=7ef389ed4d&e=ce8fea7c33)
– the most ambitious, comprehensive effort in U.S. history to counter
antisemitism.  
  
The National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism outlines a
whole-of-society approach, organized in four pillars of action that
address key themes and threats raised by over 1,000 diverse stakeholders
across the Jewish community and beyond. The strategy includes over 100
meaningful actions government agencies will take to increase
understanding of antisemitism and its threat to American democracy,
protect Jewish institutions and communities, reverse the normalization
of antisemitism, and build cross-community solidarity. The strategy also
includes over 100 calls-to-action for Congress, state and local
governments, tech companies, and others to counter antisemitism.  
  
In a letter accompanying the strategy, President Biden wrote that,
“Protecting the Jewish community from antisemitism is essential to our
broader fight against all forms of hate, bigotry, and bias—and to our
broader vision of a thriving, inclusive, and diverse democracy.”

*Leaders from across the country are praising the President’s U.S.
National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism. Here’s what they are
saying:*  
  
***Members of Congress and State Leaders***  
  
**Co-chair, Senate and House Bipartisan Task Forces for Combating
Antisemitism, Nevada Congresswoman, Jacky Rosen:** “Jewish communities
across our country are experiencing an alarming increase of antisemitic
attacks and incidents. We need a coordinated, whole-of-government
approach to addressing anti-Jewish bigotry, and that’s why I pushed the
Administration to put together a national strategy to counter
antisemitism in all its forms. With this unified strategy, which
includes specific actions for the federal government to undertake, we
are going to effectively utilize the full force of the United States
government to root out antisemitic hate across our nation.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=d0112fb8a4&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Co-chair, Senate and House Bipartisan Task Forces for Combating
Antisemitism, Oklahoma Congressman James Lankford:** “I’m glad the Biden
Administration responded to the urging of members of the Senate and
House Bipartisan Taskforces for Combatting Antisemitism and released an
unfortunately, necessary national strategy to counter antisemitism. Any
practical effort by any administration to curb the rising tide of
antisemitism here and abroad can be helpful to address the increase in
antisemitism and ensure we protect the right of all people to freely
live their faith without fear. I am grateful for the partnership of
Senator Rosen, Representative Manning, Representative Smith, and the
officials in the Administration who worked on this strategy. We must
stand united against anti-Jewish statements and violent acts wherever we
see them.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=8a63282cda&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Co-chair, Senate and House Bipartisan Task Forces for Combating
Antisemitism, North Carolina Congresswoman Kathy Manning:** “The
alarming rise of antisemitism poses a threat to Jewish communities and
to American values. I welcome the release of the National Strategy to
Counter Antisemitism; it is an important first step in coordinating our
government’s effort to eradicate this particularly pernicious form of
discrimination, I applaud President Biden for his leadership in
developing this whole-of-government approach and I look forward to
continuing to work with the administration and both parties in Congress
to combat antisemitism and protect the Jewish community.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=052b5fcd04&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Co-chair, Senate and House Bipartisan Task Forces for Combating
Antisemitism, New Jersey Congressman Chris Smith:** “There are many good
things about the plan—above all I welcome the attention it pays to
community/physical security, to the problems of getting better reporting
and law enforcement responses to antisemitic violence and harassment,
and to Holocaust education. Some of the most vicious and harmful
antisemitism is incitement to violence and hatred of Israel. In 2004,
Natan Sharansky testified at a hearing I chaired that while Israel
should not be above criticism, that antisemitism tries to ‘hide behind
the veneer of legitimate criticism of Israel.’ Sharansky said that
employing the 3D test—demonization, double standards and
delegitimization—is useful in exposing antisemitism. When antisemites
spew their hatred, one of the principal duties of an elected official is
to stand publicly and emphatically with the intended victim.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=896286c0fe&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Senate Majority Leader Charles E. Schumer:** “Thank you,
[@POTUS](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=03f6c2a224&e=ce8fea7c33).
Antisemitism, bigotry, and hatred have no place in this country.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=f9ceba3f67&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Ranking Member, House Judiciary Committee, New York Congressman Jerry
Nadler**: “I applaud the White House for developing the first-ever
national strategy to counter antisemitism.  The strategy’s release today
marks a historic milestone in the Biden-Harris administration’s
extraordinary emphasis on combating antisemitism amidst a harrowing
uptick in antisemitic attacks across the country. Of course, the work is
far from over. As Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee and
the most senior Jewish Member of Congress who proudly represents a
district with one of the largest Jewish populations, I look forward to
working alongside the White House to bring to life the priorities
brought forth by this strategy. Antisemitism is not a new presence in
our society, it is a scourge that has plagued Jewish communities around
the world for millennia. Today and every day, I am proud to call
President Biden a partner and friend of the Jewish people in
safeguarding America’s commitment to religious freedom.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=6ef60e9925&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**New York Congresswoman, Grace Meng**: “I am proud to have actively
contributed to the development of the White House strategy. I not only
submitted several policy recommendations directly to the Domestic Policy
Council, including fully funding my COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act and making
hate crimes reporting mandatory, but also engaged the drafting process
through several meetings with the White House in my position as Co-Chair
of the House Bipartisan Taskforce for Combatting Antisemitism.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=1f99035d6b&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Florida Congresswoman, Debbie Wasserman Schultz:** “As the first
Jewish Congresswoman from Florida, I welcome the Biden Administration’s
release of the first-ever comprehensive U.S. National Strategy to
Counter Antisemitism. To effectively counter the scourge of
antisemitism, which has increased dramatically in recent years, it will
take a whole of society effort, and this strategy lays out the roadmap
to make that a reality. As Co-Chair of the Interparliamentary Task Force
to Combat Online Antisemitism, I am deeply grateful for the
Administration’s focus on combating the spread of hateful content online
and holding social media companies accountable for algorithms that
amplify antisemitism on their platforms. It is fitting that the strategy
is announced during Jewish American Heritage Month, as one of the most
effective tools for countering antisemitism is uplifting Jewish voices
and raising awareness of the contributions of Jewish Americans
throughout our nation’s history. There is more work to do, and I look
forward to working with the Administration, my colleagues in Congress,
and community leaders of all faiths and backgrounds to implement this
strategy and leverage it to counter all forms of hate. \[[Twitter
Thread](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=5feb90e2cd&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]   
  
**Illinois Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky**: Thank you, @POTUS. I’m proud
to support this plan that is focused on unity, action, and mobilizing
our entire government to defeat and dismantle the machinery of hate and
bigotry. Let’s all get to work!
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=ba9fe63b42&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Governor of Pennsylvania, Josh Shapiro:** “I was sworn in on a Bible
from the Tree of Life Synagogue – the site of the deadliest act of
antisemitism in US history. That moment shows that progress is possible
in this country. Grateful for @POTUS’ historic plan to combat
antisemitism and @SecondGentleman’s leadership.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=4e4c9821c8&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Governor of New York, Kathy Hochul:** “Proud to have collaborated with
@POTUS in developing this national strategy to combat antisemitism. Here
in New York, we’ve made key investments to protect our Jewish
communities, and we will continue to support federal efforts to root out
hate in all its forms.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=1943e010ae&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
***Leaders, Advocates, and Faith Based Organizations***  
  
**Joint Statement by 25+ Jewish Communal Organizations in Response to
White House Strategy to Combat Antisemitism:** “In an era of rising
antisemitism in the U.S. and around the world, we appreciate the clarity
and urgency demonstrated by the White House in releasing its National
Strategy to Counter Antisemitism. We welcome the embrace of the
International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) Working Definition
of Antisemitism, which is a continuation of longstanding US policy and a
critical tool in the fight against anti-Jewish hate and bias. We look
forward to collaborating with the White House and Congress to ensure the
implementation of this National Strategy.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=fe069921ba&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Anti-Defamation League:** “As the U.S. Jewish community is
experiencing antisemitism at levels not seen in generations, we deeply
appreciate that the White House has stepped up and delivered this
significant, comprehensive strategy,” said Jonathan Greenblatt, ADL CEO.
“It’s particularly notable that this approach recognizes that
antisemitism is not about politics – it’s about principles. We are
pleased that this strategy comprehensively addresses hate and
antisemitism on campus, online, and from extremists on both the
far-right and the far-left.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=300c3afe9b&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Jonathan Greenblatt, CEO, Anti-Defamation League:** We’re proud to
work collaboratively with @AmbRice46 in crafting the historic National
Strategy to Counter \#antisemitism. We look forward to working together
with the @WhiteHouse as we put these policies into action!
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=e7435013cd&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Abraham Foxman, Director Emeritus of the Anti-Defamation League:**
“The WH initiative on antisemitism – in my 50 years of fighting
antisemitism- I never imagined I would witness such an historic event.
An American government publicly telling Jews and the world that Jews
will not stand alone in their fight against this horrific disease. Thank
you.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=2d9ea4530a&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**American Zionist Movement**: “AZM has a longstanding policy of
endorsing the IHRA definition of antisemitism and we are heartened that
the administration continues its support of the IHRA definition.  As the
convening body of Zionist organizations in the United States, we have
increasingly seen that Anti-Zionism is currently one of the most
prevalent forms of antisemitism in America and around the world.  We see
this report as a key governmental instrument to help us all fight
Anti-Zionism and all forms of antisemitism.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=567ff1b317&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**American Jewish Committee:** We are proud to stand alongside more than
25 other Jewish organizations in commending the @WhiteHouse for its
National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism.
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=5eaef11d9f&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Ted Deutch, CEO of American Jewish Committee:** “In adopting this
national strategy, the White House has sent a clear, unequivocal message
that antisemitism is a problem that affects all of society, not just
Jews. This is a historic day for America and its Jewish community. AJC
was proud to be part of the process to develop this strategy and is glad
to see a whole-of-government approach to counter this persistent and
pernicious threat.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=b07e7b76cc&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**American Jewish Committee:** We applaud today’s release of the
@WhiteHouse National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism, and strongly
commend @POTUS for positioning the fight against antisemitism front and
center in the Administration’s priorities.
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=0b78132d4f&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Rhoda Smolow, National President, and Naomi Adler, CEO, of Hadassah:**
“As the largest Jewish women’s organization in the U.S., Hadassah thanks
the Biden Administration for its leadership in gathering input from
across the Jewish Community and developing a thoughtful, government-wide
plan to address the alarming rise in antisemitism nationwide.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=03f8ee91a9&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**JIMENA: Jews Indigenous to the Middle East and North Africa:** “We are
thrilled that the @WhiteHouse antisemitism strategy centers the @TheIHRA
definition and includes teaching Sephardi and Mizrahi history. This is
an incredible step towards recognition of our communities. Dive into
JIMENA’s work on antisemitism here..
[https://jimena.org/combatting-anti-semitism/](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=46d4c8a40f&e=ce8fea7c33).”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=a26517b9c5&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**The Jewish Federations of North America:** A joint statement on the
White House National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism: In an era of
rising antisemitism in the US and around the world, we appreciate the
clarity and urgency demonstrated by the White House in releasing its
National Strategy to counter antisemitism…”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=d400e5a48f&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Jewish Federations of North America, Chair Julie Platt:** *“We are
pleased that the* White House reaffirms the International Holocaust
Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) working definition of antisemitism, and
maintain our commitment to its uncontested use. As the State
Department’s special envoy to monitor and combat antisemitism Amb.
Deborah Lipstadt has said many times, the IHRA definition is broadly
accepted and effective in combating the oldest hatred.”
\[[Article](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=83db28ea46&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25\]  
  
**Amy Spitalnick, CEO, Jewish Council for Public Affairs:** “I’m
heartened by the Biden administration’s whole-of-government strategy,
which at its core recognizes that combating antisemitism requires
protecting and advancing our democracy and the fundamental rights and
safety of all communities – just as those goals require confronting
antisemitism. As JCPA enters its next chapter, this recognition is at
the center of our work – and, in particular, our coalitions will
mobilize Jewish organizations and leaders, as well as non-Jewish
partners, in this crucial effort…”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=cdc336d1a2&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**William Daroff, CEO, of the Conference of Presidents of Major American
Jewish Organizations:** “The Conference of Presidents actively engaged
with the White House to shape the comprehensive federal plan to combat
antisemitism. The overwhelming support for the IHRA definition is
evident through the endorsement of over 175 Jewish community
organizations worldwide, more than 600 Rabbis representing the four
Jewish religious streams and dozens of our member organizations. Elected
officials, including members of Congress and mayors, also voiced their
strong support…We also salute the President’s plan for additional
homeland security funding and streamlined hate crimes reporting and
enforcement standards, as well as increasing educational resources from
the federal government, including educating about antisemitism in all
diversity trainings. This plan marks a significant milestone in the
ongoing battle against antisemitism. We express our deep gratitude for
these crucial measures aimed at fighting anti-Jewish hate and fostering
a climate of inclusivity and tolerance.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=d07bdb87d9&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**The Rabbinical Assembly:** “The Rabbinical Assembly welcomes the
groundbreaking release of the US National Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism by the Biden administration. This comprehensive strategy,
encompassing over 100 actionable measures, demonstrates a resolute
commitment to raising awareness about antisemitism and its threat to
American democracy, as well as protecting Jewish communities and
fostering cross-community solidarity. We commend the Biden
administration’s dedication to addressing the painful normalization of
antisemitism and reversing its damaging impact. The ten highlighted
actions underscore the multifaceted approach required to combat
antisemitism effectively. The emphasis on Holocaust education,
particularly in K-12 schools and college campuses, lays a vital
foundation for nurturing understanding and eradicating bigotry…As rabbis
dedicated to promoting understanding, justice, and compassion, we look
forward to collaborating with the Biden administration, Congress, and
all stakeholders involved to ensure the effective implementation of this
timely and historic initiative.” \[Statement, 5/25/23\]  
  
**Jewish Democratic Council of America:** “We welcome the release of
[@POTUS](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=ed7601098b&e=ce8fea7c33)’s
national strategy to counter antisemitism — the most ambitious and
comprehensive effort in U.S. history to fight antisemitism. We urge all
Americans to support the President’s plan to combat rising antisemitism
in America.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=14219c6260&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Sheila Katz, CEO of the National Council of Jewish Women:** “The White
House plan to combat antisemitism is unprecedented, necessary, and bold.
This ambitious plan mobilizes all departments of government to address
the alarming rate of antisemitic acts and hate speech. This approach
also calls on actors across society — from Congress to the tech sector
to college campuses — to take action. It is a scary time to be Jewish in
America and we are grateful for this incredibly comprehensive strategy
and look forward to its implementation.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=ed574e6d7d&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]   
  
**Halie Soifer, CEO of Jewish Democratic Council of America:**
“President Biden’s national strategy to counter antisemitism is the most
ambitious and comprehensive effort in U.S. history to fight this
dangerous scourge of hate. We applaud President Biden, Vice President
Harris, Second Gentleman Emhoff, Director of the Domestic Policy Council
Rice, Homeland Security Advisor Sherwood-Randall, and Ambassador
Lipstadt for their leadership on this critically important issue, and
are proud to have been a part of the coalition of organizations that
participated in listening sessions with the White House that led to the
creation of this strategy.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=96ae3730dc&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg and North Brooklyn:**
“Thanks @POTUS for first National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism that
is so urgently needed to combat the scourge of hate. We participated in
the stakeholder discussions, and we commend the listening to all
effected communities.
[https://whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-first-ever-u-s-national-strategy-to-counter-antisemitism/](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=cc3d888f38&e=ce8fea7c33).
Thanks @SecondGentleman for your leadership in this initiative. And
thanks @ShelleyGspan for the incredible work on this.” \[[Twitter
Thread](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=56e3cb898e&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**World Jewish Congress:** @POTUS and his administration have developed
the first comprehensive plan across U.S. agencies to foster Jewish life
and address rising antisemitism.
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=6c3669aa74&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**European Union of Jewish Students**: “We applaud the United States,
and @StateSEAS & @SecondGentleman, in adopting their first-ever National
Strategy to Combat \#Antisemitism. The Jewish Federations of North
America: The strategy demonstrates a strong commitment to protecting
\#Jewish communities and fostering inclusivity worldwide.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=63bb74720c&e=ce8fea7c33),
4/25/23\]  
  
**Ronald S. Lauder, President of World Jewish Congress:** “President
Biden and his administration have developed the first comprehensive plan
across U.S. agencies to foster Jewish life and address rising
antisemitism. The president’s leadership in directing the vast federal
government to coordinate and act to protect Jewish Americans is
unprecedented and essential in the fight against anti-Jewish hate. The
World Jewish Congress is appreciative that the White House has
incorporated specific points for which we advocated, and we commend the
administration for elevating the voices of Jewish students, a WJC
priority… I know that the Jewish community is personally important to
President Biden – and that it has been throughout his life of public
service. I want to thank him for bringing ‘the Delaware Way’ to
Washington and for renewing his commitment to the Jewish people at home
and abroad. Now, the real work begins.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=e61760672e&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**J Street:** “J Street welcomes the Biden Administration’s new National
Strategy for Combating Antisemitism… We commend the Biden administration
for meeting with and listening to a wide range of Jewish communal
stakeholders as they formulated this strategy, and for putting forward
recommendations and policies that meet the needs and priorities of our
community. We’re proud to stand and work alongside this administration
in the struggle to confront antisemitism, and to overcome bigotry,
discrimination and hate in all its forms.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=26183eb34c&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Zioness:** “Zioness applauds the Biden-Harris administration for this
extraordinary, whole-of-government commitment. This is the first
administration in American history to release a national plan to counter
antisemitism—a plan long overdue, but urgently needed and greatly
appreciated…From President Biden and Vice President Harris, to Second
Gentleman Emhoff,  Ambassador Lipstadt, Ambassador Rice, Homeland
Security Advisor Sherwood-Randall and White House Jewish Liaison
Greenspan; to all the members of the U.S. government who worked on this
plan, and all the diverse members of our community who helped make it
possible, we say: Thank you profoundly. Now, let’s get to work to
effectuate this remarkable strategy for the protection and advancement
of us all.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=0c0af4218e&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Interfaith Alliance:** “Interfaith Alliance today praised the
Biden-Harris Administration’s historic launch of a national strategy to
combat antisemitism and released a new toolkit that was featured in the
Administration’s strategy. The Administration’s announcement of a
whole-of-government approach to curb the rise of antisemitism marks a
turning point in the federal government’s commitment to addressing this
urgent issue. Cross-community efforts, like those critical to Interfaith
Alliance’s mission, were featured as a key pillar of the Administration
strategy.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=97f3b23290&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Jamie Beran, CEO, Bend the Arc:** “We all deserve to be safe while we
walk down the streets of our neighborhoods or through the doors of our
holy spaces. I’m heartened that the Biden administration has made
dismantling antisemitism a national priority, and we applaud the White
House for bringing in and hearing from a diverse range of voices from
the Jewish community as part of the consultative process.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=4bfe768b66&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Julia Jassey, CEO and Co-Founder of Jewish on Campus:** “Today’s
release of the National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism is historic in
more ways than one. Not only is this the first time that any
administration has created such a plan, but it is also the result of
unprecedented Jewish student engagement. Jewish on Campus’ advocacy led
directly to results that will impact the lives of Jewish students facing
antisemitism across the country. From the first days of this
administration, the door has been open to Jewish on Campus. Key leaders,
from the Second Gentleman to Amb. Deborah Lipstadt, Domestic Policy
Advisor Susan Rice and White House Jewish Liaison Shelley Greenspan,
have repeatedly heard our voices and responded with the actionable steps
that the administration laid out today, including those directly
relating to campus antisemitism. Antisemitism takes on many different
forms…Perhaps above all, today’s announcement is an important validation
of our belief that when Jewish students are heard and their stories
uplifted, positive change happens.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=8bc1f3e514&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Mitchel Aeder, President of the Orthodox Union:** “The promise of
America is for people of all faiths to live safely and securely as full
citizens of this nation.  The scourge of antisemitism is anathema to
this basic American value. We thank President Biden for undertaking this
effort and pray that the National Strategy will help curtail further
manifestations of antisemitism.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=c427102acb&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Nathan Diament, Executive Director for Public Policy of The Union of
Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America:** “We are very grateful to
President Biden for initiating this important effort and for the
dedication and seriousness that Second Gentleman Emhoff, Amb. Rice, Dr.
Sherwood-Randal, and Administration staffers across the Executive Branch
brought to bear. The resulting ‘whole of government’ approach is,
unfortunately, what we need right now, given the reality of rising
antisemitism in the United States. We look forward to reviewing the plan
even more closely in the coming days and working with the Administration
to aggressively implement its action items.”
\[[Article](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=d0868a239f&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Rabbi Jill Jacobs, CEO, T’ruah**: “We are also glad to see the
administration recognizes there are multiple definitions of antisemitism
and focuses primarily on actions to counter antisemitism, rather than
focusing on definitions. Definitions alone do not solve the problem of
antisemitism. Codifying the International Holocaust Remembrance
Alliance’s definition of antisemitism – or any group’s definition –
would have been a hindrance to protecting free speech and actual efforts
to respond to antisemitic attacks. We are glad the Biden Administration
heard this concern.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=9768f5547a&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Religious Action Center for Reform Judaism:** “We commend President
Biden and the Administration for their thorough, all-encompassing effort
to produce a strategy that is inclusive and recognizes the diversity and
plurality of our Jewish communities and the threats they face online, in
their day-to-day lives, and their communal life. The balance between
responses that recognize the distinctive history, characteristics, and
impacts of antisemitism and those that recognize the intersectional
impacts of broader issues of discrimination, hate speech and hate crimes
is particularly encouraging.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=623f504969&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum**: “Today, the White House
released the U.S. National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism. The Museum
is pleased to support this important strategy by advancing the relevance
of the Holocaust for new generations and building the field of Holocaust
education across the U.S.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=082a41c0ef&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Ann Toback, CEO of The Workers Circle**: “The Workers Circle welcomes
the White House National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism – a strong and
helpful resource in the fight against a growing threat not only to our
Jewish community but to our nation’s democracy overall. White
nationalism, fascism, and other extremist ideologies hold anti-semitic
hatred at their core and this hatred fuels anti-democratic actions and
violence. The White House strategy recognizes this reality…We are
further gratified that although the White House references the IHRA
definition of antisemitism–a definition rejected by Workers Circle – it
is viewed as only one definition among several. As an organization
focused on demanding democracy and fighting fascism, we deeply
appreciate the strong and outspoken Biden-Harris Administration
commitment to fighting antisemitism, bigotry, and other threats to
democracy and look forward to being part of this much-needed effort…”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=4e3870dd7e&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Six Local Grassroots Progressive Jewish Groups on Biden Administration
National Strategy on Antisemitism:** “…We applaud the administration for
adopting many of our recommendations, from understanding antisemitism in
the context of Islamophobia and other forms of oppression to emphasizing
the need to build coalitions across communities and protect freedom of
speech and expression. We appreciate that they are clear-eyed about the
threats to Jewish communities from white nationalists and violent
extremists — and about the urgency of bringing communities together
instead of pitting us against each other. We remain deeply concerned
about approaches to protect our communities that rely on increased
policing, surveillance, and other carceral approaches that grant false
promises of safety to some at the expense of others…”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=21fb31ac7b&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Jews for Racial & Economic Justice:** “We applaud the administration
for adopting many of our recommendations, from understanding
antisemitism in the context of Islamophobia and other forms of
oppression to emphasizing the need to build coalitions across
communities and protect freedom of speech and expression. We appreciate
that they are clear-eyed about the threats to Jewish communities from
white nationalists and violent extremists — and about the urgency of
bringing communities together instead of pitting us against each other.
We remain deeply concerned about approaches to protect our communities
that rely on increased policing, surveillance, and other carceral
approaches that grant false promises of safety to some at the expense of
others.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=6c349294c7&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Combat Antisemitism Movement:** “The @WhiteHouse has just released the
first-ever U.S. national strategy to combat antisemitism. Thank you
@POTUS, @SecondGentleman, @StateSEAS, and @AmbRice46 for putting
together this comprehensive plan and reiterating the Biden
Administration’s embrace of the IHRA Working Definition of
Antisemitism.Watch the launch 👉
[https://youtube.com/watch?v=Pm6p115m6tM](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=33171b2239&e=ce8fea7c33).”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=2a7d85e427&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Southern Poverty Law Center:** “Antisemitism is an animating feature
of white nationalism. SPLC welcomes the release of the White House
National Strategy on Antisemitism. To confront white supremacy and
domestic extremism, we must address antisemitism. Read more:
[https://bit.ly/3MxQMbv](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=265d229405&e=ce8fea7c33).”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=5377484de1&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Katharina von Schnurbein, European Commission’s coordinator on
combating antisemitism:** “Pleased by today’s release of first U.S.
National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism announced by @POTUS Delighted
to share 🇪🇺EU’s experience of 2021 \#EUAntisemitismStrategy & looking
forward to building on this fruitful cooperation with @StateSEAS &
@SecondGentleman.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=e83508c7d1&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Ambassador Michael Herzog:** “I would like to congratulate the Biden
administration for publishing the first ever national strategy to combat
antisemitism. Thank you, @POTUS, for prioritizing the need to confront
antisemitism in all its forms. We welcome the re-embracing of @TheIHRA
definition which is the gold standard definition of antisemitism. Less
than a century after the Holocaust, rising antisemitism in America and
across the globe is cause for alarm. This report is an important first
step in the long fight against this venomous hate.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=a684348a12&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Agudath Israel of America: “**Agudath Israel of America congratulates
the Biden Administration in the wake of the release of its National
Strategy to Combat Antisemitism. It is a historic, comprehensive,
“all-of-government,” initiative that seeks to fight Jew-hatred and its
various ugly manifestations. Equally important, it sends a clear message
that the United States – in its fundamental values, laws, and policies –
finds antisemitism an unmitigated evil that is repugnant and intolerable
and must be rooted out of the mindset and actions of American
society…Finally, Agudath Israel expresses its deep personal appreciation
to President Joe Biden, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff, Ambassador Susan
Rice, Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall, and Ambassador Deborah Lipstadt, among
so many, for their vision, commitment, and extraordinarily hard work in
undertaking and completing this initiative. We are proud to have been a
contributing partner in this endeavor, invited to participate in several
sessions at the White House and federal agencies with these and other
officials to offer our thoughts and perspectives, and to engage in
in-depth discussions, regarding the nature of the dangers facing the
Jewish community in general and the unique threats to our Orthodox
constituency in particular. We remain committed to this outstanding
initiative and to working with the Biden Administration in helping it
live up to its great promise.” \[Statement, 5/25/23\]  
  
**Simon Wiesenthal Center:** “The Simon Wiesenthal Center applauds
President Biden’s speech committing the United States and all the
relevant federal agencies to fight anti-Semitism and to urge internet
companies to take specific action against the continued use of their
powerful platforms in mainstreaming Jew hatred. We also applaud the call
for the involvement of faith leaders to take action against
anti-Semitism and the Simon Wiesenthal Center and its renowned Museum of
Tolerance, institutions committed over decades to this fight, to do its
share in working together with the government, faith leaders and social
media companies to defeat the scourge of anti-Semitism that threatens
not only our community but the foundations of our democracy,” stated
Rabbi Abraham Cooper, Associate Dean and Director of Global Social
Action…” \[Statement, 5/25/23\]  
  
**Margaritis Schinas, European Commissioner for Promoting our European
Way of Life:** ” I warmly welcome today’s launch of the US National
Strategy to Counter Antisemitism. Building on that and on our EU
Strategy adopted in 2021, we have a historic opportunity to step up
transatlantic cooperation and global efforts to combat \#antisemitism
and foster Jewish life.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=a6ebddf184&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Arsen Ostrovsky, CEO of The International Legal Forum:** “My full
quote to @Jerusalem\_Post on behalf of @The\_ILF regarding the White
House national strategy to counter \#antisemitism. *‘The International
Legal Forum (ILF) applauds the White House on the release of its
comprehensive national strategy on combating antisemitism and
reaffirming once and for all, that the International Holocaust
Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) Working Definition, as the sole
indispensable definition.’*”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=e24a2ec918&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**National Jewish Leadership Statement (31 signatories):** “…The White
House engaged with a wide array of stakeholders and conducted exhaustive
inter-agency policy development, culminating in today’s unveiling of the
Administration’s national strategy…The Administration’s strategy also
incorporates a commitment to respect the civil rights and liberties of
all Americans. The fight against antisemitism need not infringe on the
freedom of speech, a fundamental pillar of our democracy. On the
contrary, the Administration’s efforts to strengthen our democracy
weaken antisemitism’s growing foothold. We applaud the Administration
for its decisive, comprehensive actions to counter antisemitism. As
President Biden has said: “Evil will not win. Hate will not prevail. The
venom and violence of antisemitism will not be the story of our time.”
Through this national strategy, our nation will continue to make
essential strides in countering the scourge of antisemitism as it moves
toward justice and equality for all its citizens…”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=8538e36097&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Bruce Hoffman, Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations:**
“Landmark U.S. National Strategy To Counter Antisemitism just released
by the White House.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=ac6d27d3e6&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Mark Mellman, President and CEO of Democratic Majority for Israel:**
“DMFI applauds the Biden-Harris Administration for its comprehensive,
innovative, and whole-of-society U.S. National Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism, the first of its kind in American history. A first step in
combatting antisemitism is defining it. Early on, the Biden-Harris
Administration ‘enthusiastically embrace\[d\]’ the International
Holocaust Remembrance Alliance’s (IHRA) working definition of
antisemitism and its examples and has done so again today…We thank the
Administration for prioritizing the fight against antisemitism and all
forms of bigotry from day one. Following years of an alarming rise in
antisemitic acts, Holocaust distortion, right-wing violent extremism,
and anti-Zionist antisemitism across the country — including a
record-high number of hate acts and crimes against Jews reported to the
FBI in 2021 ­— the Biden-Harris Administration is taking concrete action
to identify and combat antisemitism with this vitally important
strategy…”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=a8288965c6&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]  
  
**Joel Rubin, President of Washington Strategy Group:** “NATSEC Thought
of the Day: @POTUS is a true leader in the fight against hate, having
created the 1st ever National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism. This
brilliant, serious work is the kind of leadership that both our Jewish
community & democracy deserve.
[https://whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/U.S.-National-Strategy-to-Counter-Antisemitism.pdf](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=5109171c7f&e=ce8fea7c33).”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=faa6b2c355&e=ce8fea7c33),
5/25/23\]

*\###*
