---
date: '2023-05-18'
modified_time: 2023-05-18 07:31:34-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-18 07:31:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/18/readout-of-president-bidens-meeting-with-prime-minister-kishida-of-japan-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with Prime Minister Kishida of\_\
  Japan"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met with Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of
Japan in Hiroshima today to advance cooperation on a range of security,
economic, and regional issues.  He underscored that the U.S.-Japan
Alliance is the cornerstone of regional peace and prosperity, and
reaffirmed the U.S. extended deterrence commitment using the full range
of U.S. capabilities.  Both leaders discussed ways to further strengthen
defense cooperation, building on Japan’s revised strategy documents and
increased defense investments. 

They also addressed efforts to bolster economic cooperation, including
through negotiations on the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF), the
promotion of clean and secure energy, and the establishment of diverse
and resilient critical minerals supply chains.  The leaders highlighted
their deepening cooperation on emerging technology, including
the finalization of a memorandum of cooperation on education and
technology and the launching of new partnerships between U.S. and
Japanese companies and universities, including the University of Chicago
and Purdue University, in areas like quantum computing and
semiconductors.  The President thanked the Prime Minister for Japan’s
commitment to increase investment in these areas.  

Both leaders affirmed their resolve to continue supporting Ukraine as it
defends itself from Russia’s brutal and unlawful invasion, and committed
to work closely together to address regional security challenges,
including the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s (DPRK) nuclear and
ballistic missile programs and coercive behavior by the People’s
Republic of China that runs counter to international law. The President
reaffirmed the U.S. commitment to the immediate resolution of the
abductions issue.  The two leaders underscored their opposition to any
attempts to change the status quo by force, and reiterated their resolve
to maintain peace and stability across the Taiwan
Strait. They also reaffirmed their support for ASEAN centrality,
and emphasized the importance of increasing multilateral cooperation in
the Indo-Pacific region, particularly with the Republic of Korea (ROK),
the Quad nations including Australia and India, Southeast Asia, and the
Pacific Islands.  The President commended Prime Minister Kishida on his
courageous efforts to improve bilateral ties with the ROK, which will
contribute to greater regional stability and prosperity.

The two leaders committed to continue deepening the bilateral
relationship to advance their shared vision for a free and open
Indo-Pacific.  The President said he looked forward to a productive G7
Summit under Japan’s leadership.

\###
