---
date: '2023-05-01'
modified_time: 2023-05-01 14:16:51-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-01 16:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/01/the-biden-administration-will-end-covid-19-vaccination-requirements-for-federal-employees-contractors-international-travelers-head-start-educators-and-cms-certified-facilities/
tags: statements-releases
title: "The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Will End COVID-\u206019 Vaccination\
  \ Requirements for Federal Employees, Contractors, International Travelers, Head\
  \ Start Educators, and CMS-Certified\_Facilities"
---
 
In 2021, the Biden-Harris Administration announced COVID-19 vaccination
requirements to promote the health and safety of individuals and the
efficiency of workplaces, protecting vital sectors of our economy and
vulnerable populations. Since January 2021, COVID-19 deaths have
declined by 95%, and hospitalizations are down nearly 91%. Globally,
COVID-19 deaths are at their lowest levels since the start of the
pandemic. Following a whole-of-government effort that led to a record
number of nearly 270 million Americans receiving at least one shot of
the COVID-19 vaccine, we are in a different phase of our response to
COVID-19 than we were when many of these requirements were put into
place.

*Today, we are announcing that the Administration will end the COVID-19
vaccine requirements for Federal employees, Federal contractors, and
international air travelers at the end of the day on May 11, the same
day that the COVID-19 public health emergency ends. Additionally, HHS
and DHS announced today that they will start the process to end their
vaccination requirements for Head Start educators, CMS-certified
healthcare facilities, and certain noncitizens at the land border. In
the coming days, further details related to ending these requirements
will be provided.*

Our Administrationâ€™s vaccination requirements helped ensure the safety
of workers in critical workforces including those in the healthcare and
education sectors, protecting themselves and the populations they serve,
and strengthening their ability to provide services without disruptions
to operations. The Federal government successfully implemented
requirements for its workforce in a way that increased vaccination to
achieve 98% compliance, reflecting employees who had received at least
one dose of a vaccine or had a pending or approved exception or
extension request filed by January 2022. We also put in place
vaccination requirements for certain international travelers to slow the
spread of new variants entering the country and to allow our healthcare
system time to effectively manage access to care if faced with an
increase in cases and hospitalizations.

Our COVID-19 vaccine requirements bolstered vaccination across the
nation, and our broader vaccination campaign has saved millions of
lives. We have successfully marshalled a response to make historic
investments in broadly accessible vaccines, tests, and treatments to
help us combat COVID-19. While vaccination remains one of the most
important tools in advancing the health and safety of employees and
promoting the efficiency of workplaces, we are now in a different phase
of our response when these measures are no longer necessary.

\###
