---
date: '2023-05-12'
modified_time: 2023-05-12 13:24:34-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-12 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/12/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-26/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Amiyah Davis, Member, Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and
    Delinquency Prevention
-   Michael Anthony Mendoza, Member, Coordinating Council on Juvenile
    Justice and Delinquency Prevention
-   Liz Simons, Member, Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and
    Delinquency Prevention
-   Liz Beretta-Perik, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
    Arts
-   Farah Fakir Cook, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts
-   Catherine Hurst Gledhill, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on
    the Arts
-   Teena Hostovich, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts
-   Shahid Ahmed Khan, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
    Arts
-   Noah Bryson Mamet, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
    Arts
-   Joan Sestak, Member, Route 66 Centennial Commission

**<u>Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency
Prevention</u>**

The Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, as amended,
established the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency
Prevention as an independent organization in the executive branch of the
federal government to coordinate federal programs related to
delinquency, unaccompanied juveniles, and missing and exploited
children. In accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the
Council holds public meetings four times each year in which members
discuss activities to facilitate and support this cross-agency
coordination. The Council’s Chair is the Attorney General and its
Vice-Chair is the Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and
Delinquency Prevention.

**Amiyah Davis, Member, Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and
Delinquency Prevention**

As an advocate and activist for youth in the juvenile justice system and
related systems of care, Amiyah Davis uses her experience, voice, and
influence to push for micro and macro policy change in communities
across the United States. As an individual with lived experience, Davis
understands that no effective change can be made without intentional
partnerships with young people who are victims of the injustices in our
nation’s juvenile justice and child welfare systems.

Currently, Davis serves as a Project Coordinator at the Center for
Juvenile Justice Reform at Georgetown University’s McCourt School of
Public Policy, where she supports leaders in the youth-serving field to
implement research-based system transformation efforts that elevate the
voices of youth and families. In her career, Davis has led community
outreach efforts, presented at national and state conferences, and
facilitated meaningful partnerships with youth on various projects. She
is blazing a path to impact policy change and the experiences of youth
for generations to come, pushing youth-serving professionals to enhance
their community-based efforts that prevent youth from system contact
altogether.

Davis works at the national, state, and local levels to advocate for
youth. In addition to her work at Georgetown, Davis was one of twelve
individuals selected nationally to serve on the prestigious Annie E.
Casey Foundation’s Juvenile Justice Youth Advisory Council and also was
appointed to serve as a member of the Michigan Committee for Juvenile
Justice. Davis is also certified to teach restorative practices.

**Michael Anthony Mendoza, Member, Coordinating Council on Juvenile
Justice and Delinquency Prevention**

Michael Anthony Mendoza is the Director of Advocacy and a Community
Organizer at the Anti-Recidivism Coalition and has successfully worked
with partner organizations to center the voices of currently and
formerly incarcerated Californians in the service of passing legislation
to help end mass incarceration and improve public safety for all. At 15,
he was transferred to adult court and sentenced to 15 years to life in
prison. While incarcerated, Mendoza turned his life around and focused
on healing and education to become the person he wanted to be. Changes
in state law gave Mendoza the opportunity to demonstrate that he matured
into a healthy and prosocial adult. Mendoza was released in 2014 after
17 years of incarceration. He immediately began advocating to reform
California’s juvenile and criminal justice systems to implement a vision
for a new justice system grounded in healing, health, and opportunity
for growth. The California state legislature has recognized Mendoza for
his advocacy and impact on the juvenile and criminal justice system and
reentry.

Mendoza earned a B.A. in political science from San Francisco State
University and serves on various boards and committees in support of
safer communities, and a more just and equitable society.

**Liz Simons, Member, Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and
Delinquency Prevention**

Liz Simons is Chair of the Board of the Heising-Simons Foundation. She
is also Chair of the Board of The Marshall Project, a nonpartisan,
nonprofit news organization that seeks to create and sustain a sense of
national urgency about the U.S. criminal justice system. She is a
founding pledger of One for Justice, a member of the advisory board of
Smart Justice California, and a board member at the Learning Policy
Institute, The Foundation for a Just Society, and Math for America.
Additionally, she volunteers at *The Beat Within*, a magazine by and for
incarcerated youth.

A former teacher, Simons worked in Spanish-bilingual and English as a
Second Language classrooms, and subsequently founded Stretch to
Kindergarten, a spring-summer early childhood education program. Simons
earned a bachelor’s degree in journalism from the University of
California, Berkeley, and a master’s in education from Stanford
University. Simons and her husband, Mark Heising, founded the
Heising-Simons Foundation in 2007 and joined the Giving Pledge in 2016,
publicly committing the majority of their wealth to philanthropic
causes.

**<u>President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts</u>**

Established in 1958 by President Eisenhower, the President’s Advisory
Committee on the Arts (PACA) has played a valuable role in sustaining
the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the National
Cultural Center. Members of the Committee are civic and cultural leaders
who are selected by the President of the United States to serve as
representatives in their own communities for the Kennedy Center. The
Center considers PACA appointees to be “Ambassadors for the Arts.”
Acting as a national network for the Center, the PACA helps to broaden
the Center’s influence and extend its vision across the country. The
Committee serves as a national forum, giving its members the opportunity
to share with the Kennedy Center their views on the Center’s artistic
programming.

**Liz Beretta-Perik, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
Arts**

Liz Beretta-Perik understands the impact of the arts on people’s lives.
She is dedicated to supporting and improving healthcare, helping at risk
children, empowering and electing women, and sustaining the arts. As a
member of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board and Madison Council,
Beretta-Perik helps protect, expand, and ensure access to the national
collections that inspire generations of Americans and online visitors
worldwide. She serves a number of community organizations in her home
state of Rhode Island, including the Martin Luther King Community
Center, Hasbro Children’s Hospital, Rhode Island Hospital, Adoption RI,
Sojourner House, Day One Sexual Assault & Trauma Resource Center, and
the Newport Boys and Girls Club. A Democrat active in state and national
campaigns, Beretta-Perik serves as the Rhode Island Democratic National
Committeewoman, Treasurer of the Rhode Island Democratic Party, and
Chair of the Rhode Island Affirmative Action Delegate Committee. She
earned a BA in Economics from the College of the Holy Cross and an MA in
Finance from Boston College while working as a commercial and private
banker. Beretta-Perik and her husband, Michael, have three adult sons
and reside in Jamestown, Rhode Island.

**Farah Fakir Cook, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**

Farah Cook is a partner in Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP’s Atlanta
office, where her practice focuses on intellectual property and
technology transactions. Representing some of the world’s most renowned
tech companies, Cook has been recognized with numerous awards and
accolades for her cutting-edge legal work, including being named Atlanta
Lawyer of the Year in 2023 for IT Outsourcing Law by *The Best Lawyers
in America* and being recommended by Legal 500 US in the area of
Technology/Outsourcing. She is a frequently invited presenter and
panelist on current legal and policy issues impacting the tech industry.

A tireless champion and prolific fundraiser for community and arts
organizations she believes in, Cook is an established trustee and board
member. She is particularly passionate about providing educational
opportunities, exposure to the arts, and mentorship for disadvantaged
children and youth. Cook has served in leadership roles at many leading
nonprofits, including as trustee for the Fernbank Museum and for the
Aloha Foundation, and as a board member of Jack and Jill of America,
Atlanta Chapter, and The Links, Inc., Dogwood City Chapter. In addition,
she has previously supported the Atlanta Jazz Festival, National Black
Arts Festival, and the Martha’s Vineyard Film Festival. Cook graduated
from Spelman College with a BA in French. She went on to earn an MA in
French Cultural Studies from Columbia University and a JD from Howard
University School of Law. Cook resides in Atlanta with her husband and
three children.

**Catherine Hurst Gledhill, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on
the Arts**

Catherine Hurst Gledhill is currently a member of the Executive
Committee of Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago’s
Foundation Board and is Chair of the Hospital’s capital campaign’s
ad-hoc committee. She is also a member of the Executive Committee of
Lincoln Park Zoo’s Board of Trustees and is Co-Chair of the Resource
Development Committee. Additionally, she is a member of the University
of Chicago’s Crime Lab Investors’ Council, which serves as an advisory
resource for the organization.

Gledhill graduated from Miami University with a BS in Business
Administration and from DePaul University with an MS in Taxation. Before
leaving the workforce to focus on her (then) young children and
charitable efforts, she worked at KPMG in corporate international tax as
a Certified Public Accountant in both Boston and Chicago. More broadly,
she and her husband have supported non-profit organizations for over 30
years, including Chicago’s Center on Halsted, Lyric Opera of Chicago,
John G. Shedd Aquarium, and Youth Guidance, as well as national
organizations such as Harvard Business School, NAACP Legal Defense Fund,
National Public Radio, and Teach For America. They founded the BCMR
Gledhill Foundation to instill in their children the responsibility,
commitment, and joy of serving and lifting others. The foundation
focuses primarily on access, education, leadership development, and
mental health. The Foundation recently underwrote the transformation of
the student LGBTQ center on the campus of Brown University, expanded
Principal leadership development in Chicago’s public schools, and
advanced the educational programs at Shedd Aquarium in Chicago.

**Teena Hostovich, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**

Teena Hostovich is the Vice Chair of the Pacific of Lockton Insurance
Brokers, based out of Los Angeles. She has combined her lifelong passion
for the arts, history, and education with her corporate governance
responsibility, political activism, and philanthropic work. In addition
to serving on the Board of the Los Angeles Philharmonic for over a
decade, she has been one of the Chairs (along with her husband and son)
of Hollywood Bowl Opening Night many times (including 2023) honoring
significant artists and showcasing the LA music community while raising
money for Music Matters benefitting music/arts programs in public
schools. In support of that goal, Hostovich was on the Steering
Committee for Vote Arts and Music in Schools (California Prop 28) which
passed overwhelmingly and will provide guaranteed funding for these
programs for students in all California public schools. Hostovich is on
the Kennedy Center International Committee for the Arts and President’s
Council, along with being a member of the National Council for American
Film Institute.

Believing in the transformative power of education, Hostovich is active
with her alma mater, University of Southern California (USC), as a
member of Marshall School Board of Leaders, a mentor/instructor in the
CAP/USC program, and adviser to the newly established Risk Management
degree program. She is also on the Board of University of Redlands, is a
past board member of Flintridge Prep in La Canada, and an advisor to
Oxford University Women’s Studies program. Hostovich and her husband,
Doug Martinet, live in La Canada Flintridge, California with their son,
Michael Martinet, who attends USC.

**Shahid Ahmed Khan, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
Arts**

Shahid Ahmed Khan is a community leader, political advisor, and
businessman residing in the Greater Boston area, Massachusetts. For more
than two decades Khan’s professional life has been tied to international
affairs, with a particular focus on the Asian and Muslim world. His
experience has centered on advancing U.S. values and principles through
constructive community engagement with the American-Muslim and South
Asian communities. Khan served as member of the Board of Trustees of the
Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and has previously served on
the Advisory Board of the Democratic National Committee. He served as
the National Finance Co-Chair for the 2004 Presidential campaign of John
Kerry, and served as an advisor on presidential, gubernatorial,
senatorial, congressional, mayoral, and judicial campaigns in the United
States for the past twenty years. Khan played an integral role in
mobilizing and involving the South Asian-American community in the Biden
for President campaign.

Khan is a recognized political and social activist on South Asian
affairs. He is the founder of Triconboston Consulting Corporation, where
he has advised companies focused on renewable energy, IT, and
healthcare. He serves as Advisor on Dunya Media Network International.

**Noah Bryson Mamet, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
Arts**

Noah B. Mamet served as U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Argentina.
Mamet was awarded the Medal of San Martin at the rank of Great Cross by
the government of Argentina, only the third American in over 200 years
to receive the country’s highest distinction. He was also awarded the
“Corporate Citizenship Award” from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce as well
as the “Bridges of the Americas” award. During Mamet’s time in
Argentina, bilateral relations between the U.S. and Argentina improved
dramatically. Besides issues related to economic development, security
cooperation, climate change, and technology, he created a new emphasis
on educational and cultural exchanges. Under his leadership, the U.S.
Embassy was the first embassy in Argentina to install renewable energy
through the use of solar panels and became the first embassy in the
world to install a wind turbine.

Mamet is the founder of NMA Consulting Partners, which has represented
numerous clients including the Wasserman Foundation, Tesla, the Clinton
Global Initiative, and the National Democratic Institute. In 2020 he
Co-Chaired Ambassadors For Biden and was a member of Biden’s LatAm
Advisory Council. He is Chairman for the Americas for Delphos
International, a global leader assisting companies in emerging markets,
and is on the Advisory Boards of Globant, DirecTV LatAm, the Wilson
Center’s LatAm Program, and the Los Angeles Cleantech Incubator. Outside
the world of business, politics, and international affairs, Mamet has
worked on numerous philanthropic causes, including educational reform in
the city of Los Angeles. A graduate of the University of California at
Los Angeles, he delivered the 2020 commencement address to his alma
mater.

**<u>Route 66 Centennial Commission</u>**

The Route 66 Centennial Commission was established by Congress to study
and recommend in a report to Congress activities that would be fitting
and proper to celebrate the centennial anniversary of the Mother Road of
the United States, Route 66, in 2026. The Commission shall study
activities that may be carried out by the federal government to honor
Route 66, including potential ceremonies and celebrations, the
production and publication of media or other materials, and the issuance
of commemorative items.

**Joan Sestak, Member, Route 66 Centennial Commission**

Joan M. Sestak is the Director of Community and Governmental Relations
for the University of Illinois Springfield. Having more than 40 years of
experience working as a community and government relations professional,
Sestak has held positions in federal and state government, as well as in
the private sector. She is an active member of the community serving on
the Philanthropic Education Organization, Friends of Sangamon
Auditorium, the University of Illinois Professional Staff Leadership
Academy Steering Committee, and Illinois Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial
Commission. Sestak is involved with the local performing arts community,
volunteering with the Springfield Muni Opera and The Legacy Theater.

A lifelong resident of Springfield, Sestak is a proud graduate of the
University of Illinois Springfield, earning a degree in communications.

\###
