---
date: '2023-05-19'
published_time: 2023-05-19 10:09:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/19/g7-leaders-hiroshima-vision-on-nuclear-disarmament/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G7 Leaders\u2019 Hiroshima Vision on Nuclear\_Disarmament"
---
 
     We, the Leaders of the G7, met at a historical juncture in
Hiroshima, which together with Nagasaki offers a reminder of the
unprecedented devastation and immense human suffering the people of
Hiroshima and Nagasaki experienced as a result of the atomic bombings of
1945. In a solemn and reflective moment, we reaffirm, in this first G7
Leaders’ document with a particular focus on nuclear disarmament, our
commitment to achieving a world without nuclear weapons with
undiminished security for all.  
  
     We underscore the importance of the 77-year record of non-use of
nuclear weapons. Russia’s irresponsible nuclear rhetoric, undermining of
arms control regimes, and stated intent to deploy nuclear weapons in
Belarus are dangerous and unacceptable. We recall the statement in Bali
of all G20 leaders, including Russia. In this context, we reiterate our
position that threats by Russia of nuclear weapon use, let alone any use
of nuclear weapons by Russia, in the context of its aggression against
Ukraine are inadmissible. We recall the Joint Statement of the Leaders
of the Five Nuclear-Weapon States issued on January 3, 2022, on
Preventing Nuclear War and Avoiding Arms Races, and affirm that a
nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought. We call on Russia to
recommit – in words and deeds – to the principles enshrined in that
Statement. Our security policies are based on the understanding that
nuclear weapons, for as long as they exist, should serve defensive
purposes, deter aggression and prevent war and coercion.  
  
     The overall decline in global nuclear arsenals achieved since the
end of the Cold War must continue and not be reversed. The Treaty on the
Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) must be upheld as the
cornerstone of the global nuclear non-proliferation regime and the
foundation for the pursuit of nuclear disarmament and peaceful uses of
nuclear energy. We reaffirm our commitment to the ultimate goal of a
world without nuclear weapons with undiminished security for all,
achieved through a realistic, pragmatic and responsible approach. In
this regard, Japan’s “Hiroshima Action Plan” is a welcome contribution.
We deeply regret Russia’s decision to undermine the New START Treaty,
and call on Russia to enable a return to full implementation of the
Treaty. At the same time, China’s accelerating build-up of its nuclear
arsenal without transparency nor meaningful dialogue poses a concern to
global and regional stability.  
  
     We emphasize the importance of transparency with regard to nuclear
weapons and welcome actions already taken by the United States, France
and the United Kingdom to promote effective and responsible transparency
measures through providing data on their nuclear forces and the
objective size of their nuclear arsenal. We call on nuclear-weapon
States that have not yet done so to follow suit. To promote
transparency, we also call on nuclear-weapon States that have yet to do
so to engage with non-nuclear-weapon States in a meaningful dialogue on
transparency regarding their nuclear arsenals and limiting nuclear
competition, including through an open explanation of national reports
coupled with an interactive discussion with non-nuclear-weapon States
and civil society participants at future NPT related meetings. In this
regard, we stress the benefit of pre-notification of relevant strategic
activities, as a substantial contribution to risk reduction. The G7
recognizes the need for concrete steps by nuclear-weapon States to
reduce strategic risks. We call on China and Russia to engage
substantively in relevant multilateral and bilateral forums, in line
with their obligations under the NPT, including Article VI.  
  
     We call for the immediate commencement of long overdue negotiations
of a treaty banning the production of fissile material for use in
nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. 2023 will mark the
30<sup>th</sup> year since the consensual adoption of a United Nations
(UN) General Assembly resolution calling for a Fissile Material Cutoff
Treaty (FMCT), and we urge all countries to refocus political attention
towards the FMCT as a priority action to forestall a recurrence of the
nuclear arms race, including any and all independent or complementary
efforts. In this regard, we call on all states that have not yet done so
to declare and maintain voluntary moratoria on the production of fissile
material for use in nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive
devices.  
  
     We are resolute in our view that no nation should carry out any
nuclear weapon test explosion or other nuclear explosion, condemn any
threats to do so, and emphasize that bringing the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) into force is another urgent matter. We
remain committed to upholding the global norm against nuclear explosive
testing until it is legally binding and call on all states to declare
new or maintain existing moratoriums on nuclear weapon test explosions
or any other nuclear explosions. We express our concern over Russia’s
announcement of its readiness to conduct a nuclear test, and we call for
Russia’s adherence to its moratorium on nuclear tests. We further
underscore the essential role of the CTBTO Preparatory Commission in
detecting and reporting suspected nuclear explosions worldwide. The G7,
collectively, has supported the CTBTO’s activities in the amount of more
than 100 million US dollars in 2023. We reaffirm the G7’s commitment to
providing sufficient resources to ensure the continued operation and the
long-term sustainability of all elements of the CTBT verification system
and call on others to do the same.  
  
     A world without nuclear weapons cannot be achieved without nuclear
non-proliferation. We reiterate our unwavering commitment to the goal of
North Korea’s complete, verifiable, and irreversible abandonment of its
nuclear weapons and existing nuclear programs, and any other weapons of
mass destruction (WMD) and ballistic missile programs in accordance with
relevant UN Security Council Resolutions (UNSCRs). We demand North Korea
refrain from any other destabilizing or provocative actions, including
any further nuclear tests or launches that use ballistic missile
technology. North Korea cannot and will never have the status of a
nuclear-weapon State under the NPT. It is critical that sanctions be
fully and scrupulously implemented by all states and remain in place for
as long as North Korea’s WMD and ballistic missile programs exist. We
remain deeply concerned about Iran’s unabated escalation of its nuclear
program, which has no credible civilian justification and brings it
dangerously close to actual weapon-related activities. We reiterate our
clear determination that Iran must never develop a nuclear weapon and we
call on all countries to support the implementation of UNSCR 2231. We
urge Iran to cease nuclear escalations. We call on Iran to fulfill its
legal obligations and political commitments regarding nuclear
non-proliferation without further delay. A diplomatic solution remains
the best way to resolve international concerns regarding Iran’s nuclear
program. In that context, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action
continues to provide a useful reference. We call on Iran to uphold its
safeguards obligations and stated commitments with prompt and concrete
action. We commend and continue to fully support the International
Atomic Energy Agency’s (IAEA) crucial mandates and efforts in Iran.  
  
     In these times of uncertainty and tension, it is of paramount
importance to preserve, resource and strengthen existing regimes and
other global efforts. We urge all states to take their responsibilities
seriously to meet the highest standards of safeguards, safety, and
security in promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, science, and
technology, including those related to the deployment of next-generation
nuclear technologies. We further express our profound concern over
Russia’s attempt to control Ukraine’s nuclear facilities, which poses
serious nuclear safety and security risks and is in total disregard of
Ukraine’s right under the NPT to pursue peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
We reaffirm the importance of the implementation of the highest
standards of safeguards of the IAEA and the universal adoption of the
Additional Protocol (AP) as fundamental components of the nuclear
non-proliferation regime. We will promote a reliable and responsible
nuclear supply chain, in accordance with the highest standards of
nuclear non-proliferation, including the application of the AP. We
support further discussions within the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG)
towards the establishment of the AP as a condition of supply in the
Group’s guidelines. Those G7 countries which opt for nuclear power, or
related peaceful nuclear applications, recognize that the use of nuclear
energy, science, and technology contributes to providing affordable
low-carbon energy. The G7 notes the contribution of nuclear technology
applications, in such fields as medicine or isotope hydrology, to
promoting prosperity and addressing the UN Sustainable Development
Goals. We reiterate our utmost commitment to the G7-led Global
Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass
Destruction, which for more than 20 years has delivered concrete
impactful programming to advance nuclear non-proliferation in every part
of the world.  
  
     We emphasize that the transparency of the management of civil
plutonium must be maintained. We oppose any attempt to produce or
support the production of plutonium for military programs under the
guise of civilian programs, which undermines the objectives of the NPT
including the promotion of peaceful uses of nuclear energy. In this
regard, we underscore the importance of the implementation of the
Guidelines for the Management of Plutonium (INFCIRC 549). We call on all
states that committed to reporting annually their holdings of all
plutonium in peaceful nuclear activities to the IAEA to fulfill those
commitments. We recognize the need to manage civil stocks of highly
enriched uranium with the same sense of responsibility as the plutonium
covered by these guidelines. We also commit to prioritizing efforts to
reduce the production and accumulation of weapons-usable nuclear
material for civil purposes around the world.  
  
     Achieving the world we hope to see requires a global effort to take
us from the harsh reality to the ideal, no matter how narrow the path
may be. In this regard, we underscore the importance of disarmament and
non-proliferation education and outreach. We encourage other leaders,
youth and people from around the world to visit Hiroshima and Nagasaki
to raise and sustain awareness of the realities of nuclear weapons use
one can witness in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. To this end, we welcome
initiatives such as the “Youth Leader Fund for a World without Nuclear
Weapons” by Japan, the “Young Professionals Network” of P5, the “Youth
Champions for Disarmament” financed by Germany, and the “Young Women
Next Generation Initiative” established by the EU Non-Proliferation and
Disarmament Consortium, as well as other initiatives that support the
full, equal, and meaningful participation of women in addition to the
engagement of civil society in disarmament and non-proliferation
processes.

\###
