---
date: '2023-05-19'
modified_time: 2023-05-19 09:52:48-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-19 04:59:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/19/g7-leaders-statement-on-ukraine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G7 Leaders\u2019 Statement on\_Ukraine"
---
 
**1. Preamble**

     At our meeting today in Hiroshima, we, the Leaders of the G7,
reaffirmed our commitment to stand together against Russia’s illegal,
unjustifiable, and unprovoked war of aggression against Ukraine. We
condemn, in the strongest terms, Russia’s manifest violation of the
Charter of the United Nations (UN) and the impact of Russia’s war on the
rest of the world. 15 months of Russia’s aggression has cost thousands
of lives, inflicted immense suffering on the people of Ukraine, and
imperiled access to food and energy for many of the world’s most
vulnerable people. We express our full sympathy and condolences to the
Ukrainian people for their loss and suffering. We salute the Ukrainian
people for their brave resistance. Our support for Ukraine will not
waver. We will not tire in our commitment to mitigate the impact of
Russia’s illegal actions on the rest of the world.

     Today we are taking new steps to ensure that Russia’s illegal
aggression against the sovereign state of Ukraine fails and to support
the Ukrainian people in their quest for a just peace rooted in respect
for international law. We are renewing our commitment to provide the
financial, humanitarian, military and diplomatic support Ukraine
requires for as long as it takes. We are imposing further sanctions and
measures to increase the costs to Russia and those who are supporting
its war effort. And we are taking steps to support partners worldwide as
they navigate the suffering caused by the Russia’s war, including
through humanitarian assistance. We are also building on the success of
our efforts to ensure that Russia is no longer able to weaponize the
availability of energy against us and against the world. Since February
2022, we have adopted sanctions, import bans, and other measures to
reduce our dependence on Russia’s source of energy. In addition, in
Elmau, we agreed to launch a price cap on Russian oil and petroleum
products. This is working. Russia’s revenues are down. Global oil and
gas prices have fallen significantly, benefiting countries around the
world.

**2. Towards a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in Ukraine**

     We urge Russia to stop its ongoing aggression and immediately,
completely and unconditionally withdraw its troops and military
equipment from the entire internationally recognized territory of
Ukraine. Russia started this war and can end this war. Russia’s
aggression against Ukraine constitutes a violation of international law,
in particular the UN Charter. We reiterate our firm rejection of
Russia’s illegal attempts to acquire Ukrainian territory by force. We
underline that a just peace cannot be realized without the complete and
unconditional withdrawal of Russian troops and military equipment, and
this must be included in any call for peace.

     Russia’s irresponsible nuclear rhetoric, undermining of arms
control regimes, and stated intent to deploy nuclear weapons in Belarus
are dangerous and unacceptable. We recall the statement in Bali of all
G20 leaders, including Russia. In this context, we reiterate our
position that threats by Russia of nuclear weapon use, let alone any use
of nuclear weapons by Russia, in the context of its aggression against
Ukraine are inadmissible.

     We once again recall the UN General Assembly resolution
A/RES/ES-11/6 titled “Principles of the Charter of the United Nations
underlying a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in Ukraine” adopted
in February this year with the broad support of the international
community, and will continue to pursue concrete efforts to achieve a
comprehensive, just and lasting peace in Ukraine. We remain committed to
diplomacy and welcome and support the earnest efforts by Ukraine’s
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in setting out basic principles in his
Peace Formula in line with the UN Charter. With a view to a viable
post-war peace settlement, we remain ready to reach arrangements
together with Ukraine as well as interested countries and institutions
on sustained security and other commitments to help Ukraine defend
itself, secure its free and democratic future, and deter future Russian
aggression. We are determined to help Ukraine build a positive future
for its people. We welcome the key role that Ukraine plays in the
European Political Community.

**3. Nuclear safety and security**

     We express our gravest concern over Russia’s grossly irresponsible
seizure and militarization of the Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant
(ZNPP). We support the International Atomic Energy Agency’s (IAEA)
efforts to strengthen nuclear safety and security of, and the
application of safeguards to, nuclear material and facilities in
Ukraine, including through the continuous presence of IAEA experts and
its focus on ensuring nuclear safety and security at the site. We
reaffirm support for the IAEA Director General’s “Seven Indispensable
Pillars of Nuclear Safety and Nuclear Security” and highlight the
importance of ensuring and promoting the safety and security of nuclear
facilities under any circumstances. In this context, we highlight the
G7’s contribution to the IAEA’s efforts in Ukraine for this purpose and
call on others to provide support.

**4. Support to stop Russia’s war of aggression**

     We commit to continuing our security assistance to Ukraine as it
defends itself against Russia’s aggression, tailoring our support to
Ukraine’s needs.  
We stress the importance of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group in
coordinating military and defense assistance by each country provided in
line with its national circumstances.

**5. Support for recovery and reconstruction of Ukraine**

     We reaffirm our strong commitment to ensuring that Ukraine has the
economic support it needs. Under the leadership of Japan’s G7
Presidency, together with the international community, we have ensured
Ukraine has the budget support it needs for 2023 and early 2024. We
welcome the approval of the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) Extended
Fund Facility (EFF) and look forward to the swift implementation of
Ukraine’s reforms supported by the program. The program will help to
stabilize Ukraine’s macroeconomic and financial situation, contribute to
longer-term economic sustainability, and help to catalyze further
financial support from other countries and institutions as well as the
private sector.

     We welcome the progress made in discussions in the Multi-agency
Donor Coordination Platform for Ukraine and reaffirm our intention to
further coordinate with Ukraine, partner countries and relevant
international organizations. We are committed to addressing Ukraine’s
recovery needs. We will continue our joint effort to support Ukraine’s
repair of its critical infrastructure, recovery and reconstruction. We
are determined to use the Platform as our primary mechanism to ensure
that our assistance and support for reforms are well coordinated,
properly sequenced, and mutually reinforcing. It will play a central
role in coordinating donor support to match Ukrainian needs, advancing
Ukraine’s reform agenda in line with its European path and helping to
promote sustainable private sector-led growth. We also welcome the
efforts of the G7+ Foreign Ministers’ Meeting on Ukraine Energy Sector
Support and reiterate our continued support for restoring and upgrading
Ukraine’s energy infrastructure. We stand ready to support the
sustainable and resilient recovery and green reconstruction of Ukraine,
including by sharing our experience, knowledge and expertise regarding
humanitarian de-mining and war-related debris and pollution management.

     We recognize the importance of the role of the private sector for
Ukraine’s recovery and reconstruction, including through trade and
investment, which may be facilitated through insurance and other tools
to manage risk. In this regard, we welcome efforts by the World Bank
Group, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the
European Investment Bank (EIB), and our Development Finance Institutions
(DFIs) in accordance with their mandates. These efforts include the
establishment of the Support for Ukraine’s Reconstruction and Economy
(SURE) Trust Fund at the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)
as well as the launch of the Ukraine Investment Platform in Tokyo on May
12 to support Ukraine and affected countries more broadly, through
further efficient co-financing and greater collaboration among the DFIs,
together with the EBRD. We expect the Ukraine Recovery Conference, which
will be held in London in June this year, to reinforce momentum behind
Ukraine’s recovery and reconstruction.

**6. Anti-corruption and justice system reform**

     We welcome the continued determination and efforts of the Ukrainian
government and people to combat corruption, and encourage continued
implementation of an effective reform agenda that will support good
governance and improve investor confidence.  
We support Ukraine’s efforts to advance necessary institution-building
as well as substantive legal reform in line with Ukraine’s European
path, especially in the judicial sector and promotion of the rule of
law.

**7. Sanctions and other measures**

     We remain united in imposing coordinated sanctions and other
economic actions to further undermine Russia’s capacity to wage its
illegal aggression. Specifically, we are taking the following measures,
consistent with our respective legal authorities and processes and
international law:

     We will further restrict Russia’s access to our economies. Building
on previous measures taken to prevent Russia from accessing inputs in
support of sectors key to its military industrial base, we will broaden
our actions to ensure that exports of all items critical to Russia’s
aggression including those used by Russia on the battlefield are
restricted across all our jurisdictions, including exports of industrial
machinery, tools, and other technology that Russia uses to rebuild its
war machine. We will further target those operating in these key
sectors, such as manufacturing, construction, and transportation as well
as business services. We will starve Russia of G7 technology, industrial
equipment and services that support its war machine. We will continue to
shield agricultural, medical, and humanitarian products from our
restrictive measures and make every effort to avoid potential spillover
impacts on third countries.

     We will further prevent the evasion and circumvention of our
measures against Russia, including targeting entities transporting
material to the front. We will continue to work through the Russian
Elites, Proxies, and Oligarchs (REPO) Task Force and the Enforcement
Coordination Mechanism to enhance the effectiveness of our restrictive
measures. We are engaging with third-countries through which restricted
G7 goods, services, or technology may be provided to Russia to
strengthen third-countries’ understandings of G7 measures. We note and
encourage commitments made by these countries to ensure our measures are
not circumvented and have the intended effect.

     We reiterate our call on third parties to immediately cease
providing material support to Russia’s aggression, or face severe costs.
We will reinforce our coordination to prevent and respond to third
parties supplying weapons to Russia and continue to take actions against
third-country actors who materially support Russia’s war.

     We will also work to further curtail Russia’s use of the
international financial system to further its war in Ukraine. We are
prepared to take further measures against those willfully supporting the
financing of Russia’s war. We are taking steps to further reduce avenues
for Russia to circumvent our financial measures including by preventing
third-country branches of Russian banks from being used to avoid
sanctions. We will continue to take necessary actions against Russia’s
financial sector while coordinating to preserve financial channels for
essential transactions.

     We will continue to reduce Russia’s revenue to finance its illegal
aggression by taking appropriate steps to limit Russia’s energy revenue
and future extractive capabilities, building on the measures we have
taken so far, including export bans and the price cap for seaborne
Russian-origin crude oil and refined oil products. We have dramatically
reduced our reliance on Russian energy and commodities. We are
determined to continue on this path so that Russia is no longer able to
weaponize energy against us. We will further reduce reliance on civil
nuclear and related goods from Russia, including working to assist
countries seeking to diversify their supplies. We will also continue
efforts to reduce Russia’s revenue from metals. Further, we remain
committed to upholding the price caps on Russian oil and petroleum
products and we will enhance our efforts to counter evasion of these
caps while avoiding spillover effects and maintaining global energy
supply.

     In order to reduce the revenues that Russia extracts from the
export of diamonds, we will continue to work closely together to
restrict trade in and use of diamonds mined, processed or produced in
Russia and engage with key partners with the aim of ensuring effective
implementation of future coordinated restrictive measures, including
through tracing technologies.

**8. Responsibility for Damage**

     We will continue our efforts to ensure that Russia pays for the
long-term reconstruction of Ukraine. In this context, we welcome the
establishment, in the framework of the Council of Europe and to meet the
request from the UN General Assembly, of a Registry of Damages Caused by
the Aggression of the Russian Federation Against Ukraine. In line with
the commitment made through the REPO Task Force, we will continue to
take measures available within our domestic frameworks to find,
restrain, freeze, seize, and, where appropriate, confiscate or forfeit
the assets of those individuals and entities that have been sanctioned
in connection with Russia’s aggression. We are taking steps to fully map
holdings of Russia’s sovereign assets immobilized in our jurisdictions.
We reaffirm that, consistent with our respective legal systems, Russia’s
sovereign assets in our jurisdictions will remain immobilized until
Russia pays for the damage it has caused to Ukraine.

**9. Accountability**

     There must be no impunity for war crimes and other atrocities, such
as Russia’s attacks against civilians and critical civil infrastructure.
We acknowledge the efforts made at the United for Justice international
conference organized by the Government of Ukraine, and recall the Bucha
Declaration that calls for accountability for the most serious crimes
under international law committed on the territory of Ukraine.

     In this context, we reiterate our commitment to holding those
responsible to account consistent with international law, including by
supporting the efforts of international mechanisms, such as the
International Criminal Court (ICC). We strongly condemn the unlawful
deportation and transfer of Ukrainians, including children, from the
occupied areas of Ukraine to Russia, and will continue to follow the
progress of the ICC investigation in this regard, with the utmost
attention and call for the return of these children. We also deplore
instances of conflict-related sexual and gender-based violence against
Ukrainians. We welcome the establishment of the International Centre for
the Prosecution of the Crime of Aggression against Ukraine.

     In addition, welcoming the efforts by the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in this
context, we underscore the importance of the protection of education of
all children, in particular those impacted as well as the preservation
of Ukrainian cultural properties and heritage damaged and threatened by
the war of aggression. We are also paying attention to the impact of
Russia’s aggression on international sport. While fully respecting the
autonomy of sporting organizations, we are focused on fair sporting
competition as well as on ensuring that Russian and Belarusian athletes
are in no way appearing as representatives of their states.

**10. Support to vulnerable countries**

     Parallel to our support to Ukraine, we reaffirm our commitment to
address the growing needs of vulnerable countries which have been
aggravated by Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine. In particular,
we stress that Russia’s weaponization of food has compounded economic
vulnerabilities, exacerbated already dire humanitarian crises, and
escalated global food insecurity and malnutrition to unprecedented
levels. We welcome the significant emergency financing delivered by the
IMF through the Food Shock Window approved in October 2022 and support
additional efforts towards vulnerable countries. We will continue to
provide rapid assistance to help affected countries and populations,
including through the Global Alliance for Food Security (GAFS). We will
continue to support the export of Ukrainian agri-products including
through the EU-Ukraine Solidarity Lanes. In this regard, we support the
expansion and extension of the Black Sea Grain Initiative (BSGI) and we
call upon Russia to stop threatening global food supplies and allow the
BSGI to operate at its maximum potential. We remain committed to the
Grain from Ukraine initiative. Our contributions support the delivery of
humanitarian food assistance to the most vulnerable countries in
partnership with the UN World Food Programme (WFP). We remain dedicated
to concrete collaborative actions in order to enhance energy security
and achieve climate commitments. We will continue to work together in
solidarity to limit the impacts from the global energy crisis triggered
by Russia’s aggression against Ukraine to support vulnerable and
affected countries, such as through the International Energy Agency Task
Force on Natural Gas and Clean Fuels Market Monitoring and Supply
Security. 

**11. Conclusion**

     We hereby pledge, from Hiroshima, the “symbol of peace”, that G7
members will mobilize all our policy instruments and, together with
Ukraine, make every effort to bring a comprehensive, just and lasting
peace in Ukraine as soon as possible.

\###
