---
date: '2023-05-16'
modified_time: 2023-05-16 08:04:41-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-16 08:04:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/what-they-are-saying-leading-doctors-researchers-advocates-and-more-applaud-president-bidens-nomination-of-dr-monica-bertagnolli-as-nih-director/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Leading Doctors, Researchers, Advocates, and More Applaud\
  \ President\_Biden\u2019s Nomination of Dr. Monica Bertagnolli as NIH\_Director"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced his intention to nominate Dr. Monica
Bertagnolli as Director of the National Institutes of Health.
Bertagnolli – who currently serves as Director of the National Cancer
Institute – is a world-renowned surgical oncologist, cancer researcher,
educator, and physician-leader.

In a statement, President Biden said, “Dr. Bertagnolli has spent her
career pioneering scientific discovery and pushing the boundaries of
what is possible to improve cancer prevention and treatment for
patients, and ensuring that patients in every community have access to
quality care… Dr. Bertagnolli is a world-class physician-scientist whose
vision and leadership will ensure NIH continues to be an engine of
innovation to improve the health of the American people.”

Throughout her career, Dr. Bertagnolli has been at the forefront of
clinical and research oncology and championed collaborative initiatives
to transform the data infrastructure for cancer research. She is a
member of the National Academy of Medicine and a past president and
chair of the board of directors of the American Society of Clinical
Oncology.

*A wide range of physician and research leaders, patient groups, and
health advocates from around the nation celebrated the President’s
nomination. Here’s what they are saying:*

**Dr. Clifford A. Hudis, Chief Executive Officer, American Society of
Clinical Oncology:** “We are delighted that Dr. Bertagnolli will be
nominated to lead the National Institutes of Health. Her experience in
all aspects of medical research, clinical care, and commitment to
advancing science, as well as her own experience as a patient, make her
an ideal leader for the nation’s top federal medical research agency at
this exciting time in science. Her role shepherding the ambitious Cancer
Moonshot initiative, including the recent launch of the National Cancer
Plan, clearly demonstrates her ability to take an inspiring vision and
create real and meaningful action. Dr. Bertagnolli has the ideal
combination of scientific background, medical experience, and dynamic
leadership skills required to lead NIH. She is an authentic, bold force
for patients and for science. We enthusiastically endorse her selection
and look forward to working with her to further our shared goals to
advance U.S. medical research.”
\[[Statement](https://old-prod.asco.org/news-initiatives/policy-news-analysis/asco-applauds-intent-nominate-dr-monica-bertagnolli-lead),
5/15/23\]

**American Society of Clinical Oncology:** “We proudly endorse @POTUS’s
intent to nominate @NCIDirector @bertagnollimm as next Director of @NIH.
She’s an accomplished cancer surgeon & researcher w deep expertise in
community-based cancer research. She’s also a featured speaker at
\#ASCO23 next month.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ASCO/status/1658136439912112139),
5/15/23\]

**Dr. Phillip D. Greenberg, President, American Association for Cancer
Research:** ““Dr. Bertagnolli will bring to the NIH a strong
appreciation for the value and importance of basic science to advancing
translational research and clinical discoveries. Her impeccable
credentials as a researcher and clinician, along with her staunch
commitment to patients, will help ensure that the NIH continues to lead
the way in supporting biomedical research that is so vital for
preventing disease, improving health, and reducing suffering from
illness.”
\[[Statement](https://www.aacr.org/about-the-aacr/newsroom/news-releases/aacr-congratulates-monica-m-bertagnolli-md-on-her-nomination-as-director-of-the-national-institutes-of-health/),
5/15/23\]

**Dr. Margaret Foti, CEO, American Association for Cancer Research:** “I
offer my heartfelt congratulations to Dr. Bertagnolli on her nomination.
The @AACR is confident that her leadership in the cancer research
community will translate well to such a key position and that the NIH
will remain a vital force advancing lifesaving medical breakthroughs.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AACR_CEO/status/1658125836225064961),
5/15/23\]

**American Association for Cancer Research:** “The American Association
for Cancer Research (AACR) congratulates @NCIDirector Monica M.
Bertagnolli, MD, on her nomination by @POTUS Biden to serve as director
of the National Institutes of Health – @NIH.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AACR/status/1658124611588960259),
5/15/23\]

**Dr. Karen E. Knudsen, CEO, American Cancer Society and the American
Cancer Society Action Network:** “ACS and ACS CAN strongly support this
choice as the next NIH director. Dr. Bertagnolli is not only an
exceptional surgical oncologist, innovative scientist, and leader with a
strong track record of transforming organizations, she also has
firsthand knowledge of the patient perspective as well. Dr. Bertagnolli
understands not only the importance of advancing discovery but the
criticality of ensuring that innovation is accessible to all. A fierce
advocate for addressing healthcare disparities, particularly in
underserved and rural communities, she played a key role in helping to
advance the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network (ACS CAN)’s
work on Medicaid expansion. We wholeheartedly applaud the announcement
from President Biden for this outstanding choice and ACS CAN calls on
the U.S. Senate to swiftly confirm Dr. Bertagnolli’s nomination.”
\[[Statement](http://pressroom.cancer.org/releases?item=1208), 5/15/23\]

**American Cancer Society:** “ACS applauds the formal nomination of
@NCIDirector

 Dr. Monica Bertagnolli as the new Director of @NIH. This role is
critical to ensuring ongoing innovation in medical research, and she
could not be a better choice to lead the NIH into a bold future.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AmericanCancer/status/1658129049305186304),
5/15/23\]

**American Cancer Society Action Network:** “Together with
@AmericanCancer, we applaud @POTUS’ announcement of @NCIDirector Dr.
Bertagnolli to @NIH

 Director! We look forward to working with @bertagnollimm —a fierce
advocate for addressing health disparities—to end cancer as we know it,
for everyone.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ACSCAN/status/1658144570696167426),
5/15/23\]

**Dr. Sudip S. Parikh, CEO and Dr. Keith Yamamoto, President, American
Association for the Advancement of Science**: “We strongly support the
nomination of Dr. Monica Bertagnolli as the next director of the
National Institutes of Health. As an accomplished physician-scientist,
Dr. Bertagnolli has the credentials and personal experience to bring new
vision at a critical juncture for NIH to define its role in the evolving
and expanding biomedical innovation ecosystem. Her rare combination of
clinical and data science research expertise together with the lived
experience of her journey as a patient will bring a vital perspective to
NIH. That experience will be invaluable as NIH enhances its fundamental
science and technology discovery mission while pursuing integrated
health- and disease-focused translational investigations. Simply put,
Dr. Bertagnolli is the director NIH needs now.”
\[[Statement](https://www.aaas.org/news/aaas-applauds-nomination-dr-monica-bertagnolli-nih-director?adobe_mc=MCMID%3D24872039148173793671794532184363860564%7CMCORGID%3D242B6472541199F70A4C98A6%2540AdobeOrg%7CTS%3D1684164840),
5/15/23\]

**American Association for the Advancement of Science:** “AAAS applauds
the nomination of @bertagnollimm as the next NIH director. Her unique
combination of credentials and personal experience make her “simply
put…the director NIH need now.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/aaas/status/1658126145567465473),
5/15/23\]

**Association of American Cancer Institutes:** “AACI commends the Biden
administration on its nomination of @theNCI Director and surgical
oncologist Monica Bertagnolli, MD, as the next director of the @NIH. We
congratulate Dr. Bertagnolli on this well-deserved appointment.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AACI_Cancer/status/1658200954812989441),
5/15/23\]

**Dr. Geraldine M. Jacobson, Chair of the Board of Directors, American
Society for Radiation Oncology:** “ASTRO applauds the nomination of
cancer expert Dr. Monica Bertagnolli to lead the National Institutes of
Health. Dr. Bertagnolli is a strong advocate for research, innovation
and equity, as her work at the helm of the National Cancer Institute
demonstrates. The radiation oncology community looks forward to working
with Dr. Bertagnolli in her new role at the NIH on efforts to improve
American health care, such as initiatives to increase clinical trial
diversity and accelerate research toward cancer cures. Given that more
than half of people diagnosed with cancer will receive radiation
therapy, we are particularly eager to work with her to ensure that
radiation oncologists contribute meaningfully to achieving President
Biden’s goal of reducing cancer mortality by 50% over the next 25 years.
We believe that Dr. Bertagnolli is the ideal person to lead the NIH at
this critical time, and we urge the Senate to confirm her nomination as
soon as possible.”
\[[Statement](https://www.astro.org/News-and-Publications/News-and-Media-Center/News-Releases/2023/ASTRO-supports-nomination-of-Dr-Monica-Bertagnolli),
5/15/23\]

**American Society for Radiation Oncology:** “ASTRO congratulates
@NCIDirector Monica M. Bertagnolli, MD, on her nomination by @POTUS
Biden to serve as director of the National Institutes of Health”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ASTRO_org/status/1658130748736434176),
5/15/23\]

**Barbara R. Snyder, President, Association of American Universities:**
“We welcome President Biden’s nomination of Monica Bertagnolli to serve
as the director of the National Institutes of Health. Bertagnolli is an
innovative leader in oncology clinical research who has, for decades,
championed collaborative initiatives to expand access to care and
promoted strategies to improve clinical research data infrastructure.
She is extremely well-suited to lead the NIH and is held in high regard
by her fellow physician-scientists, as evidenced by her election to the
National Academy of Medicine.”
\[[Statement](https://www.aau.edu/newsroom/press-releases/aau-president-welcomes-nomination-monica-bertagnolli-lead-national),
5/15/23\]

**Association of American Universities:** “We welcome @POTUS’ nomination
of @bertagnollimm to serve as the director of @NIH. With degrees from
@Princeton and @UUtah, Dr. Bertagnolli is a leader in oncology research
who has championed initiatives expanding access to care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AAUniversities/status/1658128884880101379?s=20),
5/15/23\]

**Dr. David J. Skorton, President and CEO and Dr. Ross McKinney Jr.,
Chief Scientific Officer,**  **Association of American Medical
Colleges:** “The AAMC commends President Biden on his intent to nominate
Monica Bertagnolli, MD, as director of the National Institutes of
Health. In her current role as director of the National Cancer Institute
at the NIH, and as a surgeon previously at the Dana-Farber Brigham
Cancer Center and professor of surgery at Harvard Medical School, Dr.
Bertagnolli has demonstrated an exceptional commitment to improving
people’s health by advancing medical science.”
\[[Statement](https://www.aamc.org/news/press-releases/aamc-statement-president-biden-s-intent-nominate-monica-bertagnolli-md-director-national-institutes),
5/15/23\]

**Association of American Medical Colleges:** “We commend @POTUS for his
intent to nominate as the @NIH director, Dr. Monica Bertagnolli, who has
demonstrated exceptional commitment to improving people’s health by
advancing medical science. We urge the Senate to confirm @NCIDirector
@bertagnollimm”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AAMCtoday/status/1658176433796046861?s=20),
5/15/23\]

**Dr. Atul Grover, Executive Director, Association of American Medical
Colleges Research and Action Institute:** “The @NIH plays a critical
role in improving the health and well-being of families and communities
through… medical research conducted by 300,000 researchers at
universities, medical schools, and research institutions in every state
in the nation”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AtulGroverMD/status/1658150231375069186),
5/15/23\]

**Mark Becker, President, Association of Public and Land-Grant
Universities:** “We are very pleased that President Biden has nominated
Monica Bertagnolli to serve as Director of the National Institutes of
Health. Dr. Bertagnolli is a gifted surgeon and trailblazing research
leader whose personal and professional experience positions her to lead
NIH at a critical time. Collaborating with public research universities
and others, NIH plays an instrumental role in driving discoveries that
prevent disease, improve quality of life, and save lives. We call on the
Senate to quickly confirm Dr. Bertagnolli and look forward to working
with her as she works to enhance the world’s leading biomedical research
agency.”
\[[Statement](https://www.aplu.org/news-and-media/news/aplu-statement-on-president-biden-nominating-monica-bertagnolli-for-nih-director/),
5/15/23\]

**Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities:** “@POTUS has
nominated Dr. Monica Bertagnolli to serve as Director of @NIH. We call
on the Senate to quickly confirm Dr. Bertagnolli and look forward to
working with her as she works to enhance the world’s leading biomedical
research agency.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/APLU_News/status/1658134601536094213?s=20),
5/15/23\]

**The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology:**
“FASEB applauds President Biden on his nomination of Monica Bertagnolli
as the next Director @NIH. Her leadership @theNCI and her distinguished
career as a physician scientist will be invaluable assets to NIH and the
biomedical research community.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/FASEBorg/status/1658140186243473408?s=20),
5/15/23\]

**Mary Wooley, President and CEO, and Dr. Sudip Parikh, Board Chair,
Research!America:** We applaud President Biden for announcing his intent
to nominate Monica Bertagnolli, MD, as Director of the National
Institutes of Health. Dr. Bertagnolli is a leader who brings vision,
hands-on-experience, and heart to a role that demands all three
attributes. Strong, visionary leadership is a hallmark of NIH, and we
are confident Dr. Bertagnolli will continue that storied legacy. The
potential created by past research investment opens the door to
unprecedented medical and public health progress. We believe Dr.
Bertagnolli is the right leader at the right time to ensure NIH fulfills
its crucial role in the public-private sector R&D ecosystem, paving the
way for desperately needed solutions for deadly and debilitating health
threats. Our nation will be well served by her leadership, and we urge
Congress to act quickly to confirm her nomination as soon as possible.”
\[[Statement](https://www.researchamerica.org/press-releases-statements/statement-on-dr-bertagnollis-nomination-as-nih-director/),
5/15/23\]

**Ellen Sigal, Chair and Founder, Friends of Cancer Research:** “At this
critical time for innovation at the NIH, Dr. Bertagnolli will be the
visionary leader we need. Dr. Bertagnolli is a physician scientist and a
patient herself, and deeply understands the intricacies and personal
impact of biomedical research. In a short period of time, she has proven
her leadership at the NCI, and I have no doubt she will do the same at
the helm of NIH.”
\[[Statement](https://friendsofcancerresearch.org/news/friends-statement-on-monica-bertagnollis-nomination-as-director-of-the-national-institute-of-health/),
5/15/23\]

**Friends of Cancer Research:** “Congratulations @NCIDirector on your
nomination as the next @NIH Director! Great choice @POTUS!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CancerResrch/status/1658139985050992640),
5/15/23\]

**Michael Sapienza, CEO, Colorectal Cancer Alliance:** “The Colorectal
Cancer Alliance supports President Biden’s nomination of Dr. Monica
Bertagnolli for Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Dr.
Bertagnolli’s transformative work as the Director of the National Cancer
Institute (NCI) and her unwavering commitment to advancing cancer
research align with the Colorectal Cancer Alliance’s mission to end
colorectal cancer in our lifetime.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ccalliance.org/news/press-releases/colorectal-cancer-alliance-applauds-president-biden-choice-nih-director),
5/15/23\]

**Donna Cryer, Founder and CEO, Global Liver Institute:** “All of us
here at the Global Liver Institute are grateful for President Biden
nominating Dr. Monica Bertagnolli to be the next NIH director. We
appreciate that Dr. Bertagnolli is a cancer survivor and will continue
to drive forward the Cancer Moonshot goals to end cancer as we know it.
With her background coming from rural America, she brings to the job a
fundamental recognition of the challenges facing people who struggle to
access health care. We share her concern that clinical trials need to be
more diverse, a significant challenge for liver disease and cancers that
disproportionately affect people of color. We are excited to work with
Dr. Bertagnolli as she leads NIH with a focus on collaboration, as she
has demonstrated in her leadership of the National Cancer Institute. “
\[[Statement](https://globalliver.org/global-liver-institute-applauds-dr-monica-bertagnollis-nomination-as-director-of-the-national-institutes-of-health/),
5/15/23\]

**Colorectal Cancer Alliance:** “Patients and caregivers served by the
Colorectal Cancer Alliance would benefit from Dr. Bertagnolli’s
\[@NCIDirector\] service in this role, and we stand behind this
nomination.” -@coloncancermike, CEO of the Colorectal Cancer Alliance”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CCAlliance/status/1658179043324223504),
5/15/23\]

**National Organization for Rare Disorders:** “On behalf of the
\#RareDisease community, congratulations Dr. Bertagnolli on being
nominated as Director of the @NIH.  As an oncologist & current Director
of @theNCI, Dr. Bertagnolli is familiar with challenges facing our
community.  We look forward to continuing to work closely.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RareDiseases/status/1658190658463490054),
5/15/23\]

**Jason Resendez, President and CEO, National Alliance for Caregiving:**
“We applaud the nomination of Dr. Monica Bertagnolli as Director of the
National Institutes of Health (NIH). Her experience as a
physician-scientists, cancer survivor, and family caregiver put her in a
unique position to advance the NIH’s mission and to improve the health
of the American people, including the 53 million unpaid family
caregivers who too often get overlooked in research and care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NA4Caregiving/status/1658136144045826048),
5/15/23\]

**National Alliance for Caregiving:** “We are thrilled to see a family
caregiver nominated to this essential role and urge her swift
confirmation.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NA4Caregiving/status/1658136144045826048?s=20),
5/15/23\]

**Sally Greenberg, CEO, National Consumers League**: “Dr. Bertagnolli
brings so much experience to this post. She is a physician, scientist,
and a patient herself, so she has seen all sides of the issues facing
patients and the NIH. We would be fortunate indeed to have someone of
Dr. Bertagnolli stature and accomplishments leading the NIH. NCL
believes that Dr. Bertagnolli is the right leader for this critical
agency that advances public health. NCL supports her nomination and we
urge the Senate to confirm her promptly.”
\[[Statement](https://nclnet.org/dr-monica-bertagnolli-nih-nomination/),
5/15/23\]

**The National Consumers League:** “The National Consumers League
welcomes

@POTUS’s nomination of Dr. Monica Bertagnolli as the Director of the
@NIH.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ncl_tweets/status/1658138696644796417),
5/15/23\]

**Renee D. Wegrzyn, Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency
for Health:** Congratulations to my colleague @NCIDirector Dr. Monica M.
Bertagnolli, nominated to become the new @NIH Director! I am excited to
work with amazing \#WomeninSTEM \#WomeninScience to accelerate health
outcomes for all.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ARPA_HDirector/status/1658168194031570945),
5/15/23\]

**Atul Gawande, Assistant Administrator for Global Health, United States
Agency for International Development:** “A fantastic nomination. Monica
is an exceptional leader, renowned clinical scientist, and a great
friend. @NIH will be in good hands with her at the helm.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GawandeUSAID/status/1658149864612540427?s=20),
5/15/23\]

**Hon. Anthony Lee Coelho, Former House Majority Whip, Lifelong
Disability Rights Advocate**: “The @WhiteHouse ensuring seat at the
table in decisions affecting ppl w/ \#disabilities by nominating Dr.
Monica Bertagnolli to be the

@NIH Director!  She has a son w/ autism, is a cancer survivor, & skilled
surgeon and researcher. Her rural background & focus on clinical trial
diversity will help NIH advance research going beyond
“one-size-fits-all.” She understands the factors increasing risk of
disease for people w/ \#disabilities & ensuring the agency’s research
agenda is responsive.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/HonTonyCoelho/status/1658132446838157326),
5/15/23\]

**Elad Sharon, MD, Co-Chair, Cancer Moonshot Adult Immunotherapy
Implementation Team, National Cancer Institute:** “@NCIDirector was just
nominated by @POTUS to be the @NIHDirector … Congrats to
\#MonicaBertagnolli! She is the visionary leader that @NIH and all of
medicine needs!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/EladSharonMD/status/1658132658990219265),
5/15/23\]

**Princeton University:** “Congrats to @bertagnollimm ’81 on being
nominated by

@POTUS to serve as Director of @NIH. Dr. Bertagnolli is currently
Director of

@theNCI, the first woman to serve in the position. At Princeton, she
graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Engineering.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Princeton/status/1658177972942036998),
5/15/23\]

**University of Utah:** “Congratulations to @UofUMedicine alumna Monica
Bertagnolli on her nomination to be Director of the National Institutes
of Health! She was the first female director of the National Cancer
Institute and, if confirmed, would be the 2nd woman to lead @NIH”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/UUtah/status/1658188147707232256?s=20),
5/15/23\]

\###
