---
date: '2023-05-31'
published_time: 2023-05-31 20:26:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/31/readout-of-president-bidens-summer-hazards-briefing/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Summer Hazards\_Briefing"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met today with Cabinet members and agency
heads to receive a briefing on the 2023 Atlantic Hurricane Outlook and
to discuss the Federal preparedness, response, and recovery posture – a
meeting he has convened each year since taking office. The President
also received a briefing on the ongoing wildfire season and Federal
efforts to reduce wildfire risk in the United States. He was briefed by
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas; Secretary of the
Interior Deb Haaland; Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack; FEMA 
Administrator Deanne Criswell; Administrator of the National
Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Richard Spinrad;
Director of the National Hurricane Center Dr. Mike Brennan; Chief of
Engineers and Commanding General of the United States Army Corps of
Engineers (USACE) Lieutenant General Scott Spellmon; Chief of the United
States Forest Service Randy Moore; and Assistant Director for Fire and
Aviation from the National Interagency Fire Center Grant Beebe.

The President and his team discussed ongoing efforts to prepare for
these extreme weather events and what is being done to improve response
and resilience. They spoke about the new tools climate experts are
harnessing, such as advanced satellite technology, that are improving
how we forecast wildfires and storms to ensure that we act quickly to
preposition response and recovery assets. The National Hurricane
Center’s new director, Dr. Mike Brennan, previewed NOAA’s new Hurricane
Analysis and Forecast System, a hurricane modeling system that provides
accurate information about hurricanes – their track, intensity, and
associated storm surge – and ultimately saves more lives. 

They also spoke about the President’s historic investments through his
Investing in America agenda, including record funding to increase
community resilience to drought, flooding, and wildfires – and how
communities will be stronger from investments in hardening our grid and
using stronger materials like concrete poles and burying utility lines.
They also discussed coastal resilience, and the work the USACE is doing
to control beach erosion, including the Lee County, Florida Beach
Erosion Control Project, which will restore approximately 1.8 miles of
eroded beach with 320,000 cubic yards of sand. During his concluding
remarks, the President highlighted the 32,000 projects around the
country that his Investing in America agenda has funded and encouraged
Americans to visit build.gov and use the map to find out about resilient
infrastructure investments in their communities. He also used the
opportunity to thank the brave first responders who work around the
clock and put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe.

\###
