---
date: '2023-05-17'
modified_time: 2023-05-17 12:39:50-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-17 11:54:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/17/what-they-are-saying-biden-harris-administration-announces-largest-investment-in-rural-electrification-since-the-new-deal/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Largest\
  \ Investment in Rural Electrification Since the New\_Deal"
---
 
Yesterday, the Biden-Harris Administration
[announced](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/05/16/biden-harris-administration-makes-historic-11-billion-investment)
the availability of nearly $11 billion in grants and loan opportunities
as part of President Biden’s Investing in America agenda that will help
rural energy and utility providers bring affordable, reliable clean
energy to their communities across the country. This USDA program
represents the single largest investment in rural electrification since
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Rural Electrification Act
into law in 1936.

Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack announced this new funding at a [White
House event](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BvNIqWkNCqA) that featured
Senior Advisor to the President John Podesta, National Climate Advisor
Ali Zaidi, Senator Debbie Stabenow, Senator Michael Bennet, Senator Tina
Smith, and Representative Abigail Spanberger. The event also included
remarks from the Honorable Jim Matheson, CEO of the National Rural
Electric Cooperative Association (NRECA) and a panel of diverse voices
representing cooperatives and communities who can benefit from these
programs.

Americans read about the announcement in national stories from the
[Associated
Press](https://apnews.com/article/climate-environment-biden-solar-wind-renewable-energy-abf79c38d380172023c8e9978746b54c),
[Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/biden-administration-announces-11-billion-rural-clean-energy-projects-2023-05-16/),
[CNBC](https://www.cnbc.com/2023/05/16/biden-to-invest-nearly-11-billion-for-renewable-energy-in-rural-areas.html),
[The
Hill](https://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/4006240-rural-clean-energy-to-get-11b-inflation-reduction-act-boost/),
and others; in local papers and on local stations in
[Michigan](https://michiganadvance.com/2023/05/16/rural-electric-co-ops-to-get-10-7b-in-usda-funds-for-clean-energy-grants-loans/),
[Montana](https://ksenam.com/usda-announces-11-billion-investment-to-advance-clean-energy-across-rural-america/),
[New
Mexico](https://www.kunm.org/kunm-news-update/2023-05-17/wed-rural-electric-co-ops-to-get-10-7b-in-usda-funds-for-clean-energy-investments-more),
[Texas](https://www.nbcdfw.com/news/national-international/biden-administration-announces-nearly-11-billion-for-renewable-energy-in-rural-communities/3259009/),
[Vermont](https://vermontbiz.com/news/2023/may/16/usda-makes-11-billion-investment-clean-energy-across-rural-america),
[Tennessee](https://tennesseelookout.com/2023/05/16/rural-electric-co-ops-to-get-10-7b-in-usda-funds-for-clean-energy-grants-loans/),
and
[Colorado](https://www.realvail.com/nearly-11-billion-in-usda-funds-headed-to-rural-electric-co-ops-for-clean-energy-loans-grants/a16118/);
and in trade outlets like [Brownfield Ag
News](https://brownfieldagnews.com/news/white-house-invests-11-billion-in-clean-rural-energy/),
 [Progressive
Farmer](https://www.dtnpf.com/agriculture/web/AG/news/business-inputs/article/2023/05/16/touting-biggest-rural-power-since),
and [Utility
Dive](https://www.utilitydive.com/news/usda-billions-funding-rural-electrification-renewables-energy/650389/).

*Leaders and organizations from across the country praised the
announcement. Here’s what they’re saying:*

***Members of Congress***

**Michigan Senator and Agriculture Committee Chair Debbie Stabenow:**
“It was great to join @SecVilsack, @SenTinaSmith, and @SenatorBennet to
announce the biggest investment in rural electricity since the New
Deal!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenStabenow/status/1658592382944681985)\]

**Representative of Georgia’s 13<sup>th</sup> District and House
Agriculture Committee Ranking Member David Scott:** “When House
Democrats passed the Inflation Reduction Act last year, I was adamant
that it include ample funding to help rural America embrace a clean
energy future. By making $11 billion in Federal funding available to
rural electric cooperatives and other power providers that have invested
in clean energy production and storage, the Biden-Harris Administration
is keeping its word to help lower energy costs in rural communities and
transition to renewable energy sources. I thank Secretary Vilsack for
ensuring this critical funding gets to the people and businesses that
need it, and President Biden for his continued commitment to rural
communities across the country.”
\[[Statement](https://democrats-agriculture.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=2785)\]

**Representative Abigail Spanberger of Virginia’s 7<sup>th</sup>
District:** “Today, I joined House and Senate colleagues, USDA
@SecVilsack, and White House officials to celebrate smart
investments—thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act—that will bring
sustainable energy to our rural communities, lower electric bills, and
create high-paying jobs.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSpanberger/status/1658587744216444932)\]

***Rural Electric Cooperatives***

**Jim Matheson, CEO of National Rural Electric Cooperative Association
(NRECA):** “This is an exciting and transformative opportunity for
co-ops and their local communities, particularly as we look toward a
future that depends on electricity to power more of the economy,”
Matheson said. “USDA has smartly structured this program in a way that
will help electric co-ops leverage new tools to reduce costs and keep
energy affordable while meeting the future energy needs of their rural
communities. I’m grateful to USDA for listening to us throughout this
process and for settling on rules that ensure the program is flexible
and accessible to all electric cooperatives.”
\[[Statement](https://www.electric.coop/nreca-applauds-usda-rules-for-new-co-op-energy-innovation-program)\]

**Deenise Becenti, Public Affairs at Navajo Tribal Utility Authority:**
“…With this act, it comes as a life-saving measure—literally. Because
now, families can bring home their loved ones who are dependent on an
oxygen machine. Single mothers don’t have to worry about having to keep
the food fresh…this act today helps us bring that opportunity to
families—to bring positive changes to lifestyle in our rural area, our
beloved homeland called the Navajo Nation.”

**Lisa Johnson, CEO of Seminole Electric Cooperative:** “This
opportunity would allow us to pursue new technology on our system today
in a way that makes the most sense for us and the communities we serve.”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/NRECANews/status/1658611678248828928)\]

**Curtis Wynn, CEO of Sumter Electric Cooperative:** “It really gives us
an opportunity to provide the kind of service that everybody deserves.”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/NRECANews/status/1658564711175147534)\]

**Mike Partin, CEO of **Sequachee** Valley Electric Cooperative**: “We
mark when rural electrification started, we mark that on our calendar.
That’s a big day for us. We celebrate that. And I think that’s where
we’re seeing today, a point where we’re going to celebrate. It’s going
to be marked on the calendar.”
\[[Statement](https://appvoices.org/2023/05/16/rural-electrification/)\]

***Climate and Environmental Groups***

**Michelle Moore, CEO of Groundswell and Author of *Rural
Renaissance*:** “Our energy systems are undergoing a massive, global
transformation. Decarbonization, the electrification of the
transportation sector, and bringing energy sector manufacturing and good
paying jobs back home to the USA are creating extraordinary
opportunities for clean economic growth. At the same time, *rural
Americans bear the highest energy burdens in the country, despite low
energy rates*, because underinvestment and disinvestment in rural
infrastructure has created rural/urban housing disparities that drive
big energy bills. And the big rural renewable energy projects serving
urban and industrial energy customers often don’t share the savings with
local small towns. We can do better! *That’s why the USDA’s investment
in rural power couldn’t come at a better time because it gives us 11
billion opportunities to make sure that building our clean energy
futures also revitalizes our hometowns.”*

**Brianna Knisley, Tennessee Campaign Manager for Appalachian Voices and
a member of the Rural Power Coalition**: “These new opportunities can
have a tremendous impact in rural America by reducing energy bills and
creating jobs while improving air quality. Rural electric cooperatives
should submit their letter of inquiry in August to make sure their
member-owners can access these benefits!”
\[[Statement](https://appvoices.org/2023/05/16/rural-electrification/)\]

**Amanda Pankau, Senior Energy Campaign Coordinator at Prairie Rivers
Network:** “Today’s historic investment has the opportunity to transform
energy generation in Illinois rural communities, reduce air and water
pollution, and help meet our state and national climate goals.”
\[[Instagram post](https://www.instagram.com/prairie_rivers/?hl=es)\]

**Ben Jealous, Executive Director of Sierra Club:** “Rural cooperatives
deliver energy to 92% of counties experiencing persistent poverty across
the country. Yet, for decades, they have been shut out of the
opportunities critical federal programs provide, driving up energy costs
for those who can least afford it. We’re pleased the Biden
Administration is continuing to advance this critical program, which has
the potential to finally drive down energy costs for working families
while positioning rural cooperatives as clean energy leaders.”
\[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/press-releases/2023/05/biden-administration-opens-applications-new-era-boost-clean-energy-rural)\]

**Sandra Purohit, Federal Policy Director for E2:** “These pivotal
investments help ensure the economic revolution that’s underway right
now reaches all corners of America — including rural America. It’s
another sign of how transformative IRA investments can be for creating
new economic opportunities while helping our environment. With proper
siting and environmental safeguards, these investments can help rural
areas thrive in the clean energy transition. They will also help rural
families and business save money by improving access to the cheapest
energy available – clean energy.”
\[[Statement](https://e2.org/releases/new-ira-investments-will-help-rural-america-thrive-in-clean-energy-economic-boom/)\]

**Matthew Davis, Vice President of Policy at League of Conservation
Voters:** “We applaud President Biden and Secretary Vilsack for
following through on the commitments made in the president’s affordable
clean energy plan to make clean electricity more accessible to rural
communities. At a time when House Republicans are threatening to cut
funding for clean energy projects that create family-supporting jobs and
healthier communities, the Biden-Harris administration is making sure
that no one is left behind and everyone can thrive in a new clean energy
economy. Providing these funds to rural cooperatives could be
particularly helpful to meeting the administration’s Justice40
initiatives.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/media-center/lcv-statement-on-biden-harris-historic-investment-in-rural-clean-energy/)\]

**Mattea Mrkusic, Policy Lead at Evergreen Action:** “Rural electric
providers are often still heavily reliant on expensive, polluting coal
plants. But the $10.7 billion in funding announced today is a game
changing opportunity for these providers to lead the clean energy
transition without ever compromising on reliability or affordability for
the customers they serve. The New ERA program will provide rural
electric cooperatives with $9.7 billion in grants and loans to
decarbonize their fleet, whether they’re refinancing existing loans to
accelerate the retirement of stranded assets or investing in renewable
energy sources and systems. The PACE program will provide $1 billion in
partially forgivable loans to eligible recipients, like renewable energy
developers, rural electric cooperatives and municipalities, to finance
large-scale solar, wind, geothermal, and more. These two programs will
reduce costs and climate pollution, all while improving air quality in
rural communities—particularly for the fenceline communities surrounding
polluting facilities. It’s a slam-dunk win for coops, their ratepayers,
and anyone who likes to breathe. But time is ticking. With deadlines for
initial letters of interest fast approaching, rural electric providers
must act now to seize this tremendous opportunity.”
\[[Statement](https://evergreenaction.com/press/usda-drops-10-7-billion-to-accelerate-rural-americas-clean-energy-transition)\]

*\###*
