---
date: '2023-05-12'
published_time: 2023-05-12 11:00:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/12/president-biden-announces-nominees-to-the-federal-reserve-board-of-governors/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Nominees to the Federal Reserve Board of\_Governors"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced his nomination of Dr. Philip Jefferson
for Vice Chair and Dr. Adriana Kugler to serve as a Member on the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. President Biden also
announced that he will renominate Dr. Lisa Cook for an additional full
term as a Member.  
  
*Statement from President Biden:*  
  
Since I took office, the economy has created nearly 13 million jobs,
giving millions more families the dignity that a paycheck provides.
Annual inflation has come down 45 percent since last summer, and is down
10 months in a row while our job market remains strong. The unemployment
rate is 3.4%, the lowest in 50 years. Jobs are up, wages are up, and
inflation is coming down.  
  
Today, I am proud to nominate Dr. Jefferson to serve as Vice Chair of
the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. Last year, the Senate confirmed
Dr. Jefferson as a Member of the Board of Governors in a strong,
bipartisan vote of 91-7 and I look forward to his swift confirmation as
Vice Chair of the Board. In addition, I am nominating Dr. Lisa Cook, who
the Senate just confirmed last year, to an additional, full term as
Member of the Board of Governors.  
  
Dr. Jefferson and Dr. Cook will continue to bring valuable insight,
expertise, and continuity to the Fed at a critical time for our economy
and families across the country.   
  
I am also proud to nominate Dr. Adriana Kugler to serve as a member of
the Board of Governors. Dr. Kugler is a highly qualified and respected
economist with deep expertise in labor markets, worker mobility, and
youth employment. She started her career at the Federal Reserve Bank of
San Francisco, served as Chief Economist of the Labor Department, and
was confirmed last year with bipartisan support to serve as U.S.
Executive Director to the World Bank.  
  
These nominees understand that this job is not a partisan one, but one
that plays a critical role in pursuing maximum employment, maintaining
price stability, and supervising many of our nation’s financial
institutions. I am confident these nominees will help build upon the
historically strong economic recovery we have had under my
Administration.  
  
I am grateful to Senate Banking Committee Chair Sherrod Brown for his
leadership and support in moving these nominations forward quickly.  
  
Philip Jefferson for Vice Chair  
Philip N. Jefferson took office as a member of the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System on May 23, 2022, to fill an unexpired term
ending January 31, 2036. Most recently, Dr. Jefferson was vice president
for academic affairs and dean of faculty and the Paul B. Freeland
Professor of Economics at Davidson College. Before then, Dr. Jefferson
served as chair of the Department of Economics at Swarthmore College,
where he was the Centennial Professor of Economics. Prior to this
position, Dr. Jefferson was an economist at the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System.  
  
Dr. Jefferson’s other past roles include being president of the National
Economic Association. He also served on the Vassar College Board of
Trustees and the Board of Advisors of the Opportunity and Inclusive
Growth Institute at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. Dr.
Jefferson received a BA in economics from Vassar College and an MA and a
PhD in economics from the University of Virginia.

Lisa Cook for Governor  
Lisa D. Cook took office as a member of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System on May 23, 2022, to fill an unexpired term ending
January 31, 2024. Prior to her appointment to the Board, Dr. Cook was a
professor of economics and international relations at Michigan State
University. She was also a research associate at the National Bureau of
Economic Research. Previously, Dr. Cook was on the faculty of Harvard
University’s Kennedy School of Government. During her time at Harvard,
Dr. Cook also served as deputy director for Africa Research at the
Center for International Development. Before then, she was a National
Fellow at Stanford University.  
  
From 2011 to 2012, Dr. Cook served as a senior economist on the Council
of Economic Advisers under President Barack Obama. From 2000 to 2001,
she served as a senior adviser on finance and development in the U.S.
Department of Treasury’s Office of International Affairs. Dr. Cook
received a BA in philosophy from Spelman College. As a Marshall Scholar,
she received a second BA in philosophy, politics, and economics from
Oxford University. She earned a PhD in economics from the University of
California, Berkeley.

Adriana Kugler for Governor  
Dr. Adriana Kugler serves as the U.S. Executive Director at the World
Bank Group. She is on leave from Georgetown University, where she is
Full Professor of Public Policy and Economics and also served as Vice
Provost for Faculty. Dr. Kugler is an expert on labor markets,
international economics and applied econometrics and is widely published
in leading journals. Dr. Kugler was appointed Chief Economist at the
U.S. Department of Labor under the Obama-Biden Administration. Among Dr.
Kugler’s professional appointments, she was a member of the Board on
Science, Technology and Economic Policy of the National Academies of
Sciences and served on the Technical Advisory Committee of the Bureau of
Labor Statistics, as well as elected chair of the Business and Economics
Statistics Section of the American Statistical Association.  
  
Previously, Dr. Kugler was a Research Associate of the National Bureau
of Economic Research and of the Center for the Study of Poverty and
Inequality at Stanford University.  During her academic career, Dr.
Kugler has been recognized with national and international awards for
her scholarly research. Dr. Kugler completed her Ph.D. from the
University of California at Berkeley and obtained a B.A. in Economics
and Political Science from McGill University with first class honors.

\###
