---
date: '2022-09-14'
modified_time: 2022-09-14 09:45:41-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-14 08:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/14/fact-sheet-the-united-states-announces-new-investments-and-resources-to-advance-president-bidens-national-biotechnology-and-biomanufacturing-initiative/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The United\_States Announces New Investments and Resources to\
  \ Advance President\_Biden\u2019s National Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing Initiative"
---
 
Today, the White House will host a Summit on Biotechnology and
Biomanufacturing. The Summit is led by National Security Advisor Jake
Sullivan, Director of the National Economic Council Brian Deese, and
Director of the Office of Science and Technology Dr. Alondra Nelson who
will be joined by Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra,
Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm, Deputy Secretary of Defense
Kathleen Hicks, Deputy Secretary of Agriculture Jewel Bronaugh, Under
Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology and Director of the
National Institute for Standards and Technology Laurie Locascio, and
Director of the National Science Foundation Sethuraman Panchanathan, as
well as Senator Mark Warner and Representative Deborah Ross. Together,
they will lift up the following key steps—with funding of more than $2
billion—to advance President Biden’s Executive Order to launch a
National Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing Initiative to lower prices,
create good jobs, strengthen supply chains, improve health outcomes, and
reduce carbon emissions. U.S. departments and agencies will:  
**  
Leverage biotechnology for strengthened supply chains.**  [The
Department of Health and Human
Services](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/09/14/fact-sheet-hhs-takes-action-executive-order-launching-national-biotechnology-biomanufacturing-initiative.html)
will invest $40 million to expand the role of biomanufacturing for
active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), antibiotics, and the key
starting materials needed to produce essential medications and respond
to pandemics. DoD is launching the Tri-Service Biotechnology for a
Resilient Supply Chain program with more than $270 million investment
over five years to turn research into products more quickly and to
support the advanced development of bio-based materials for defense
supply chains, such as fuels, fire-resistant composites, polymers and
resins, and protective materials. Through the Sustainable Aviation Fuel
Grand Challenge, [the Department of
Energy](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-announces-178-million-advance-bioenergy-technology)
(DOE) will work with the Department of Transportation and USDA to
leverage the estimated 1 billion tons of sustainable biomass and waste
resources in the United States to provide domestic supply chains for
fuels, chemicals, and materials. These efforts will collectively lower
prices for American families, especially in times of global supply chain
turbulence.  
**  
Expand domestic biomanufacturing.** [The Department of
Defense](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3157504/new-biotechnology-executive-order-will-advance-dod-biotechnology-initiatives-fo/)
(DoD) will invest $1 billion in bioindustrial domestic manufacturing
infrastructure over 5 years to catalyze the establishment of the
domestic bioindustrial manufacturing base that is accessible to U.S.
innovators. This support will provide incentives for private- and
public-sector partners to expand manufacturing capacity for products
important to both commercial and defense supply chains, such as critical
chemicals. DoD will invest an additional $200 million to support
enhancements to biosecurity and cybersecurity posture for these
facilities. [The U.S. Department of
Agriculture](https://www.usda.gov/sites/default/files/documents/bioeconomy-fact-sheet.pdf)
(USDA) will make $500 million available through a new grant program in
the summer of 2022 to support independent, innovative, and sustainable
American fertilizer production to supply American farmers, which can
make use of advances in biotechnology and biomanufacturing.  
**  
Foster innovation across the United States.** The National Science
Foundation (NSF) recently announced a competition to fund Regional
Innovation Engines throughout the United States. These Engines will
support key areas of national interest and economic promise, including
biotechnology and biomanufacturing topics such as manufacturing
life-saving medicines, reducing waste, and mitigating climate change. In
May 2022, USDA announced $32 million for wood innovation and community
wood grants, leveraging an additional $93 million in partner funds to
develop new wood products and enable effective use of U.S. forest
resources. DOE also plans to announce new awards of approximately $178
million to advance innovative research efforts in biotechnology,
bioproducts, and biomaterials.  In addition, the U.S. Economic
Development Administration’s $1 billion Build Back Better Regional
Challenge will invest more than $200 million to strengthen America’s
bioeconomy. Investments in New Hampshire, Virginia, North Carolina,
Oregon, and Alaska will help expand the bioeconomy by advancing regional
biotechnology and biomanufacturing programs.  These regional investments
will rebuild pharmaceutical supply chains to lower drug costs, catalyze
a sustainable mariculture industry, better utilize mass timber to
accelerate affordable housing production and restore forest health,
enhance the production and distribution of regenerative tissues and
organs, and develop a robust pipeline of biotech talent, expanding
opportunities to underserved and historically excluded communities.  
  
**Bring bio-products to market**. DOE will provide up to $100 million
for research and development (R&D) for conversion of biomass to fuels
and chemicals, including R&D for improved production and recycling of
biobased plastics. DOE will also double efforts, adding an additional
$60 million, to de-risk the scale up of biotechnology and
biomanufacturing that will lead to commercialization of biorefineries
that produce renewable chemicals and fuels that significantly reduce
greenhouse gas emissions from transportation, industry, and agriculture.
USDA’s BioPreferred Program advances the development and expansion of
markets for biobased products with a catalog of over 16,000 registered
products. The new $10 million Bioproduct Pilot Program will support
scale-up activities and studies on the benefits of biobased products.
Manufacturing USA institutes BioFabUSA and BioMADE (launched by the DoD)
and NIIMBL (launched by the Department of Commerce (DOC)) will expand
their industry partnerships to enable commercialization across
regenerative medicine, industrial biomanufacturing, and
biopharmaceuticals. For example, NIIMBL will launch a biomanufacturing
initiative that will engage the institute’s 200 partners across
industry, academic, non-profit, and Federal agencies to mature
biomanufacturing technology needed to improve patient access to gene
therapies. BioMADE will launch hubs supporting equitable regional
development, create jobs nationwide, and enhance American economic
competitiveness. BioFabUSA is standing up the BioFab Foundries, a
first-of-its-kind U.S. facility that integrates engineering, automation,
and computation with biology. BioFab Foundries will be accessible to
U.S. innovators to enable manufacturing of preclinical and early-stage
clinical products.  
**  
Train the next-generation of biotechnologists**. The National Institutes
of Health (NIH) is expanding the I-Corps program, a biotech
entrepreneurship bootcamp. NIIMBL will continue to offer a summer
immersion program, the NIIMBL eXperience, in partnership with the
National Society for Black Engineers, that connects underrepresented
students with biopharmaceutical companies, and support pathways to
careers in biotechnology. In March 2022, USDA announced $68 million
through the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative to train the next
generation of research and education, professionals.  
**  
Drive regulatory innovation to increase access to products of
biotechnology.** The Food and Drug Administration is spearheading
efforts to support advanced manufacturing through regulatory science,
technical guidance and increased engagement with industry seeking to
leverage these emerging technologies These efforts will increase medical
supply chain resilience and improve patient access to new medical
products. NIH’s Accelerating Medicines Partnership<sup>®</sup> Bespoke
Gene Therapy Consortium will support up to six new clinical trials, each
focused on a different rare disease, to streamline manufacturing and
regulatory frameworks. For agricultural biotechnologies, USDA is
building new regulatory processes to promote safe innovation in
agriculture and alternative foods, allowing USDA to review more diverse
products.  
**  
Advance measurements and standards for the bioeconomy**. DOC plans to
invest an additional $14 million next year at the National Institute of
Standards and Technology for biotechnology research programs to develop
measurement technologies, standards, and data for the U.S. bioeconomy.
This support will catalyze development of capabilities for engineering
biology, advance biomanufacturing processes and technologies, and help
utilize artificial intelligence to analyze biological data.  
**  
Reduce risk through investing in biosecurity innovations.** DOE’s
National Nuclear Security Administration plans to initiate a new $20
million bioassurance program that will advance U.S. capabilities to
anticipate, assess, detect, and mitigate biotechnology and
biomanufacturing risks, and will integrate biosecurity into
biotechnology development.  
**  
Facilitate data sharing to advance the bioeconomy.** Through the Cancer
Moonshot, NIH is expanding the Cancer Research Data Ecosystem, a
national data infrastructure that encourages data sharing to support
cancer care for individual patients and enables discovery of new
treatments.  USDA is working with NIH to ensure that data on persistent
poverty can be integrated with cancer surveillance. NSF recently
announced a competition for a new $20 million biosciences data center to
increase our understanding of living systems at small scales, which will
produce new biotechnology designs to make products in agriculture,
medicine and health, and materials. 

\###
