---
date: '2022-09-24'
modified_time: 2022-09-24 15:05:19-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-24 15:05:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/24/what-they-are-reading-in-the-states-biden-harris-administration-awards-1-5-billion-to-states-and-tribes-to-combat-overdose-epidemic/
tags: statements-releases
title: "What They Are Reading in the States: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Awards\
  \ $1.5 Billion to States and Tribes to Combat Overdose\_Epidemic"
---
 
Today, as part of National Recovery Month, the Biden-Harris
Administration announced a series of actions, including the distribution
of $1.5 billion in funds to all states and territories, to address the
overdose epidemic and support the tens of millions of Americans in
recovery.  
  
Local news outlets across the country – from Utah to Missouri to West
Virginia – are reporting on state and tribal funding that will support
life-saving programs and policies, such as increasing access to
treatment for substance use disorder, removing barriers to medications
like naloxone, and expanding access to recovery support services.  
  
*Read below for a sample of what Americans are reading in the states:*

**Milwaukee Journal Sentinel:** [**Wisconsin, tribal governments will
receive nearly $19 million in federal funding to combat the opioid
crisis**](https://www.jsonline.com/story/news/politics/2022/09/23/wisconsin-tribes-receive-nearly-19-million-combat-opioids-naloxone-oneida-nation-chippewa-potawatomi/8089993001/)  
The Wisconsin Department of Health Services is expected to receive $16.9
million as part of the $1.5 billion package of grants to states and
tribal communities. Six of the state’s tribal nations will receive about
$1.8 million of their own to combat the crisis…The funding is part of a
federal program that aims to increase access to treatment for substance
abuse, make medications like naloxone more readily available and expand
access to recovery support services.  
  
**Herald-Dispatch:** [**White House announces support for recovery;
$44.3 million designated for West
Virginia**](https://www.herald-dispatch.com/news/white-house-announces-support-for-recovery-44-3-million-designated-for-west-virginia/article_9c6c01d1-8a2e-51ec-94b4-b93d95f6481e.html?utm_campaign=blox&utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social)  
West Virginia is set to receive $44.3 million in grants and an increase
in other resources from the White House to help its effort in combatting
– and eventually ending – the opioid crisis. Announced Friday, the
opioid response grant of $44,337,509 was awarded to the state Department
of Health and Human Resources.  
  
**Arizona Republic:** [**5 Arizona tribes receive grants through the
White House to battle opioid
addiction**](https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/local/arizona/2022/09/23/arizona-tribes-receive-drug-treatment-grants-white-house/8091418001/)  
First lady Jill Biden and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Secretary Xavier Becerra visit the home of Tucson Mayor Regina Romero
(left) following a tour of the San Xavier Health Center on the Tohono
O’odham Nation on March 8, 2022. Five Arizona tribes will receive $3.63
million in grants to address opioid and other drug addiction and
recovery, the Biden administration announced Friday.  
  
**Sun Sentinel:** [**$100 million in grants coming to Florida and
Seminole Tribe to combat opioid
crisis**](https://www.sun-sentinel.com/news/florida/fl-ne-opioid-grants-florida-seminole-tribe-20220923-mujbok6befdsrcoto2vnug4bji-story.html)  
The Biden administration said Friday that Florida is getting funding to
combat the opioid epidemic, part of a series of policy and funding
initiatives. The state Department of Children and Families is getting a
grant of $101.3 million. A separate grant, for $500,000, is going to the
Seminole Tribe of Florida, based in Hollywood.  
  
**Las Vegas Review-Journal:** [**Nevada to receive $16M in federal funds
to fight opioid
crisis**](https://www.reviewjournal.com/news/politics-and-government/nevada-to-receive-16m-in-federal-funds-to-fight-opioid-crisis-2644956/)  
With the funding, Nevada hopes to decrease youth substance use by
implementing prevention programs in school districts. It also wants to
expand overdose prevention activities, increase fentanyl test strip
distribution and increase the number of so-called harm reduction vending
machines… The state also wants to increase access to treatment for
opioid use disorder by increasing education opportunities for primary
care, behavioral health and peer support providers and increasing the
use of telehealth services. The grants will also go toward expanding
capacity for recovery housing and deploying media campaigns that provide
education to patients on alternatives for pain management and supportive
services.  
  
**Kansas City Star:** [**Here’s where Biden-Harris opioid crisis,
recovery funding will go in Kansas,
Missouri**](https://www.kansascity.com/news/politics-government/article266216426.html)  
The grants are to be used to increase access to treatment for substance
use disorder, remove barriers to public health interventions like
naloxone and expand access to recover support services such as 24/7
opioid treatment programs, according to a White House fact sheet.  
  
**Colorado Politics:** [**Colorado gets $21 million from the feds to
combat fentanyl, opioid
abuse**](https://www.coloradopolitics.com/colorado-in-dc/colorado-gets-21-million-from-the-feds-to-combat-fentanyl-opioid-abuse/article_f3122530-3b48-11ed-a20a-f349294c6ef7.html)  
Colorado is getting $21 million from the Biden administration to combat
opioid abuse, notably by expanding prevention campaigns targeting the
youth, the White House announced on Friday morning….The funding will
also help the states increase investments in overdose education, peer
support specialists in emergency departments, and other strategies.  
  
**Cedar Rapids Gazette:** [**Iowa to get $9 million to fight opioid
crisis**](https://www.thegazette.com/news/iowa-to-get-9-million-to-fight-opioid-crisis/)  
Rod Courtney of CRUSH of Iowa, a Cedar Rapids based not-for-profit that
provides support, resources, education and referrals for individuals
with substance use disorders, called Friday’s White House announcement
“encouraging” — in particular, a planned $104 million investment to
expand prevention services for substance use disorder in rural
communities.  
  
**Rapid City Journal:** [**South Dakota tribes, organizations to receive
$5.4 million in federal funds for opioid
crisis**](https://rapidcityjournal.com/news/local/south-dakota-tribes-organizations-to-receive-5-4-million-in-federal-funds-for-opioid-crisis/article_cf0a31d8-5e0f-51e7-b1fc-4e9ad1ebad88.html)  
President Joe Biden announced Friday morning that the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration (SAMHSA), awarded about $1.5 billion to support
states, tribal lands and territories’ efforts to address the opioid
crisis and support individuals in recovery. The action is part of
National Recovery Month and SAMHSA’s Stat Opioid and Tribal Opioid
Response grant programs.  
  
**KTTC (NBC Rochester, MN):** [**Minnesota receives funding to fight
Opioid
addiction**](https://www.kttc.com/2022/09/23/minnesota-receives-funding-fight-opioid-addiction/)  
The Biden Administration announced new funding to help fight Opioid
addiction and millions of dollars is earmarked for efforts in Minnesota.
According to the announcement, the money will be used on several fronts
including prevention and treatment.  
  
**KSL (NBC Salt Lake City, UT):** [**Utah receives $10.8 million for
Opioid
crisis**](https://ksltv.com/506704/utah-receives-10-8-million-for-opioid-crisis/)  
The grant is intended to help states increase access to recovery support
services such as 24-7 Opioid Treatment Programs as well as access to
treatment for substance use disorder. The administration says it’s also
there to help take down barriers to public health interventions like
naloxone.  The money will also allow the state to take proactive steps
including in overdose education, peer support specialists in emergency
departments as well as investment in other strategies that may help save
lives in hard-hit communities.  
  
**KCTV (CBS Kansas City, MO):** [**Kansas & Missouri getting more than
$30 million to fight opioid
crisis**](https://www.kctv5.com/2022/09/23/kansas-missouri-getting-more-than-30-million-fight-opioid-crisis/)  
The Biden administration early Friday morning announced $1.5 billion in
nationwide funding to help states fight the opioid crisis. Of that
total, Kansas is slated to receive $8.3 million, while Missouri will net
$25.3 million. On the Kansas side, that grant money will go to the
state’s Department For Aging and Disability Services, and will provide
access to medication-assisted opioid treatment. On the Missouri side,
the money will go toward the state’s Department of Health, which will
use the funds to build upon prevention, treatment, recovery and
harm-reduction strategies implemented by Missouri’s targeted response
and state opioid response grants.  
  
**WCIA (CBS Champaign, IL):** [**Illinois to receive $37 million to
combat opioid
crisis**](https://www.wcia.com/news/illinois-to-receive-37-million-to-combat-opioid-crisis/)  
The Illinois State Department of Human Services will receive over
$37,000,000 in federal funding to combat the opioid epidemic across the
state, U.S. Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin and Senator Tammy Duckworth
announced today…“This federal funding will give our state the proper
resources to provide support to individuals and families who need it the
most, and I hope this investment will put our communities on the road to
recovery,” Durbin said.  
  
**WTEN (ABC Albany, NY):** [**Biden-Harris take steps to combat overdose
epidemic**](https://www.rochesterfirst.com/news/national-news/biden-harris-take-steps-to-combat-overdose-epidemic/)  
On September 23, the White House released information regarding the
overdose epidemic in the United States. In efforts to combat the
epidemic, The U.S Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), through
the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA),
awarded $1.5 Billion to all states and territories to address addiction
and the opioid crisis. Due to these grants, New York State is awarded
more than $56 million to address the current crisis.  
  
**WTMJ (NBC Milwaukee, WI):** [**Biden announces funding to address
overdose epidemic, local mom shares her own
heartbreak**](https://www.tmj4.com/news/local-news/biden-announces-funding-to-address-overdose-epidemic-local-mom-shares-her-own-heartbreak?_amp=true)  
Wisconsin DHS is set to receive nearly $17 million with another nearly
$2 million going to tribes across the state. The money from the federal
government is allocated to address addiction and the opioid crisis,
expand substance use treatment and prevention in rural communities,
provide greater access to naloxone products like Narcan, and increase
access to recovery supports. There is also funding for law enforcement
officials on the front lines and to disrupt global drug trafficking
operations.

**KGW (NBC Portland, OR):** [**Biden-Harris Administration shelling out
$1.5 billion to all states to tackle opioid
crisis**](https://www.kgw.com/article/money/oregon-20-million-tackle-opioid-crisis/283-3cc89ae3-ef36-498c-ab30-40bde1ed6482)  
The Biden-Harris Administration has seen enough. They are sending more
than $1.5 billion to states, tribal lands and territories to help fight
the drug problem. Among other things the dollars will go towards
expanding access to drug treatment and recovery support and making the
life-saving drug Narcan more accessible. OHA is getting more than $15
million. The Northwest Portland Area Indian Health Board is getting $6.7
million. The Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde and Siletz Indians are
getting a combined $700,000.

\###
