---
date: '2022-09-20'
published_time: 2022-09-20 08:37:36-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/20/biden-harris-administration-announces-chips-for-america-leadership/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces CHIPS for America\_Leadership"
---
 
*Leadership team will guide implementation of historic semiconductor
funding from* *CHIPS and Science Act of 2022*

WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced
leadership for the newly-established CHIPS for America offices. These
roles will be housed at the White House and the U.S. Department of
Commerce. The announcements include executives experienced in
large-scale program management, finance and the government’s needs for
accountability.  These leaders, along with the staff they are hiring,
will be responsible for the implementation of the CHIPS and Science
Act’s historic $50 billion investment in the semiconductor industry.  
  
Ronnie Chatterji will serve as the White House Coordinator for CHIPS
Implementation at the National Economic Council (NEC). In this role he
will manage the work of the CHIPS Implementation Steering Council, as
laid out in President Biden’s [Executive Order on CHIPS
Implementation](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-implement-the-chips-and-science-act-of-2022/)
and will work closely with  the National Security Council, the Office of
Science and Technology Policy, the Department of Commerce and the
Steering Council to ensure effective interagency coordination.  
  
At Commerce, Michael Schmidt will serve as Director of the CHIPS Program
Office, Eric Lin will serve as Interim Director of the CHIPS Research
and Development Office, and Todd Fisher will serve as Interim Senior
Advisor in the CHIPS Program Office, housed within NIST. Donna Dubinsky
will serve as Senior Counselor to the Secretary for CHIPS Implementation
and J.D. Grom will serve as Senior Advisor to the Secretary on CHIPS
Implementation. Dubinsky and Grom will work in the Office of the
Secretary.  
  
“After outlining a thoughtful and comprehensive strategy for CHIPS for
America, we are wasting no time building an office with experts and
leaders who will efficiently execute this work,” said Commerce Secretary
Gina Raimondo. “These leaders bring decades of experience in government,
industry and the R&D space, with a special emphasis on standing up and
implementing large-scale programs. Their work will be essential to
bolstering our supply chains, spurring historic investments in research,
strengthening our national security, and creating good-paying jobs for
the American people.”  
  
“This leadership team brings enormous experience and skill to the
cross-agency implementation effort already underway. In his role at the
White House, Ronnie will help coordinate a unified approach to our key
implementation priorities while ensuring that we have guardrails and
oversight in place to responsibly spend taxpayer dollars,” said Brian
Deese, Director of the National Economic Council.  
  
**Aaron “Ronnie” Chatterji, White House Coordinator for CHIPS
Implementation**  
  
Aaron “Ronnie” Chatterji has served as the Chief Economist of the
Department of Commerce since April 2021. In this role, Chatterji has
been the principal economic adviser to the Secretary of Commerce Gina
Raimondo and responsible for developing policy related to U.S.
competitiveness, labor markets, supply chains, innovation,
entrepreneurship, and economic growth.  
  
Chatterji previously worked in the Obama Administration, serving as a
senior economist at the White House’s Council of Economic Advisers and
as a visiting Associate Professor at Harvard Business School.  
  
Chatterji is currently on leave from his position as the Mark Burgess &
Lisa Benson-Burgess Distinguished Professor of Business and Public
Policy at Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business. Chatterji also has
served as a term member of the Council on Foreign Relations and worked
as a financial analyst at Goldman Sachs.  
  
He received his Ph.D. from the Haas School of Business at the University
of California at Berkeley and his B.A. in Economics from Cornell
University.  
  
**Michael Schmidt, Director of the CHIPS Program Office**  
  
Michael Schmidt most recently served as a Senior Advisor at the Treasury
Department. At Treasury, he managed implementation of the Child Tax
Credit program in the American Rescue Plan, which provided monthly
payments to more than 37 million families and lifted more than 3 million
children out of poverty. Prior to joining Treasury, Schmidt served as
the Commissioner of the New York State Department of Taxation and
Finance, which oversees the state’s tax system and collects more than
$100 billion in revenue annually. Before then, Schmidt served as Deputy
Secretary for economic development in New York, where he oversaw policy
and operations for 12 state agencies and authorities covering economic
development, housing, and tax. Schmidt previously served in the Office
of Domestic Finance at the U.S. Treasury Department and as a financial
analyst at the Yale Investments Office.

He holds a J.D. and a B.A. from Yale.  
  
**Eric Lin, Interim Director, CHIPS Research and Development Office**  
  
Eric Lin’s primary position is the Director of the Material Measurement
Laboratory (MML) at the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST). MML serves as the nation’s reference laboratory for measurements
in the chemical, biological and materials sciences serving a broad range
of industry sectors including advanced materials development,
biotechnology, and environmental monitoring. He has conducted and led
research programs in semiconductor electronics processing, nanoscale
materials, advanced manufacturing, and the Materials Genome
Initiative.  
  
Dr. Lin received a B.S.E. from Princeton University, and Masters and
Ph.D. degrees from Stanford, in chemical engineering. He is a Fellow of
the American Physical Society and the American Chemical Society.  
  
**Todd Fisher, Interim Senior Advisor, CHIPS Program Office**

Todd Fisher currently serves as Program Director for the American Rescue
Plan Funds at the Economic Development Administration (EDA) in the U.S.
Department of Commerce where he is responsible for all aspects of the
implementation of EDA’s $3 billion American Rescue Plan programs,
including the Build Back Better Regional Challenge and the Good Jobs
Challenge. Fisher had a 30-year career in the finance and investment
industry as an investor and C-level business leader. At the end of 2017,
Fisher decided to retire from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co to pursue a
second career focused on social impact. He spent a year as a Fellow in
Harvard’s Advanced Leadership Initiative (ALI) and then joined Year Up,
a workforce oriented not-for-profit, where he was Managing Director of
Scalable Solutions from 2019 to 2021.  
  
Fisher holds a BA in Biology from Brown University, an MA in
International Affairs from Johns Hopkins School of Advanced
International Studies, and an MBA in Finance from the Wharton School.  
  
**Donna Dubinsky, Senior Counselor to the Secretary for CHIPS
Implementation**  
  
Donna Dubinsky is a serial entrepreneur best known for her work as CEO
of Palm Computing and then Handspring, pioneers of the first successful
handheld computers and smartphones. Previously, Dubinsky spent 10 years
in a multitude of sales, sales support, and logistics functions—both at
Apple and at Claris, an Apple software subsidiary. She founded Numenta
in 2005.  
  
Dubinsky earned a B.A. from Yale University, and an M.B.A. from Harvard
Business School.  
  
**J.D. Grom, Senior Advisor to the Secretary on CHIPS Implementation**  
  
J.D. Grom joined the Commerce Department in October 2021, where until
recently, he performed the duties of the Assistant Secretary for
Legislative & Intergovernmental Affairs. In this role, Grom helped lead
the Administration’s legislative strategy to pass the CHIPS and Science
Act among other Department priorities. Prior to Commerce, Grom had two
stints working in the House of Representatives. First for his hometown
representative, Congresswoman Melissa Bean (IL-08) and later as
Executive Director of the House New Democrat Coalition. In between those
roles, he served at the U.S. Department of the Treasury where he advised
on the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) primarily as a Senior
Advisor to Assistant Secretary Timothy Massad.

Grom holds a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign where he double majored in Political Science and
Economics.

\###
