---
date: '2022-09-20'
modified_time: 2022-09-20 11:55:06-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-20 11:55:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/20/joint-statement-on-atlantic-cooperation/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement on Atlantic\_Cooperation"
---
 
We, Angola, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire,
Equatorial Guinea, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Ireland, Mauritania, the
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Senegal, Spain, the United Kingdom, and
the United States, as coastal countries bordering the Atlantic Ocean and
members of the community of Atlantic countries, share a commitment to a
peaceful, prosperous, open, and cooperative Atlantic region, while
preserving the ocean as a healthy, sustainable, and resilient resource
for generations to come.  
  
We all depend on the Atlantic for our livelihoods. The Atlantic Ocean is
home to important trade routes, significant natural resources, and
essential biodiversity. Challenges such as piracy; transnational
organized crime; illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing;
climate change; pollution; and environmental degradation pose a threat
to our livelihoods. The Atlantic Ocean also offers untapped economic
potential, from natural resources to new technologies. No country alone
can solve the cross-boundary challenges in the Atlantic region or fully
address the opportunities before us.  
  
In order to bring together Atlantic countries to accomplish our shared
goals, we will explore opportunities, as appropriate, to partner on a
set of common challenges in the Atlantic Ocean region and to explore the
development of a wider dialogue on strengthening cooperation in the
region.  
  
We will explore opportunities to advance shared sustainable development,
economic, environmental, scientific, and maritime governance goals
across the Atlantic, in accordance with international law, in particular
as set forth in the provisions of the 1982 United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), and we reaffirm UNCLOS’s important role in
setting out the legal framework that governs all activities in the ocean
and the seas. We aim to enhance regional cooperation, to develop a
shared approach to Atlantic Ocean issues, and to build shared capacity
to solve the challenges we face in the Atlantic.  
  
We will explore opportunities to work together to advance our shared
goals in the region across multiple topics. We will work to develop the
**sustainable ocean economy** and an inclusive economic model to ensure
the ocean continues to sustainably support our livelihoods, from food
for growing populations to the conduct of global commerce, both now and
for future generations. We recognize that there is no sustainable
development without a serious commitment to promote development and
alleviate poverty in developing countries. We acknowledge the importance
of the transfer of technology on voluntary and mutually agreed terms as
a means to bolster development, create jobs and income, support
livelihoods, and bridge the technological gap among nations.  
  
We will pursue opportunities to address the challenges of **climate
change and environmental degradation**, collaborating on science-based,
innovative solutions to advance our shared goals, including averting,
minimizing, and addressing loss and damage; building climate resilience;
conserving marine and coastal ecosystems; and mitigating marine
pollution.  
  
We will explore pathways to improve **maritime governance**, from
enabling cooperation for humanitarian response and search and rescue
operations to deterring piracy, addressing IUU fishing, and combatting
narcotics trafficking.  We are also committed to seeing the South
Atlantic as a zone of peace and cooperation that contributes
significantly to the strengthening of international peace.  
  
Several organizations in the Atlantic have already made important
progress on our shared goals. We will build on the spirit of mutually
reinforcing Atlantic cooperation fostered by these organizations and
support their work to the fullest extent possible. We seek to partner
with organizations such as, among others, the Atlantic Center in the
Azores as a central hub for innovative, pan-Atlantic policy analysis,
political dialogue, and capacity building; the Zone of Peace and
Cooperation in the South Atlantic as a key coordinating body for South
Atlantic countries; the Yaoundé Architecture and the G7++ Friends of the
Gulf of Guinea as a central body on African regional maritime law
enforcement; and the All-Atlantic Ocean Research and Innovation Alliance
as a venue to advance scientific cooperation. We also seek to partner
with other appropriate organizations, including regional fisheries
bodies and organizations working on sustainable ocean economy and
climate and environment issues related to the Atlantic.  
  
We will continue to identify additional areas for cooperation based on
dialogue with coastal Atlantic countries and existing Atlantic-focused
organizations. We will explore opportunities to bring together Atlantic
countries, while sharing principles of peaceful existence and ensuring
our actions on the Atlantic Ocean, especially the high seas, abide by
international law and the international law of the sea, in particular as
set forth in the provisions of the 1982 UNCLOS. We seek to strengthen
our mutual dialogue and cooperation on this host of shared challenges in
the region. We invite other coastal Atlantic countries to join us.

\###
