---
date: '2022-09-12'
published_time: 2022-09-12 21:52:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/12/joint-statement-following-the-2022-u-s-mexico-high-level-economic-dialogue/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement Following the 2022 U.S.-Mexico High-Level Economic\_Dialogue"
---
 
Today, senior government officials from the United States and Mexico met
in Mexico City to convene the U.S.-Mexico High-Level Economic Dialogue
(HLED). Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken, Secretary of Commerce Gina
Raimondo, Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Jayme White, and Ambassador
Ken Salazar chaired the meeting for the United States. Secretary of
Economy Tatiana Clouthier, Secretary of Foreign Relations Marcelo
Ebrard, Secretary of Finance and Public Credit Rogelio Ramírez, and
Ambassador Esteban Moctezuma chaired the meeting for Mexico.

Since relaunching the HLED a year ago, the United States and Mexico have
furthered cooperation and commitment to our regional economic growth,
integration, and longstanding strategic partnership. The United States
and Mexico recognize that we are stronger when we address challenges and
seize opportunities together to make North America more resilient,
competitive, diverse, and secure. The HLED provides a flexible,
goal-oriented platform to foster regional prosperity, expand job
creation, invest in our people, and reduce inequality and poverty.

As our presidents stated at their meeting in July, North America is an
economic powerhouse. Regional economic strength has enabled total trade
between the United States and Mexico to surpass pre-pandemic levels. The
HLED builds on this dynamic and flourishing economic relationship with
specific projects to strengthen North American supply chains and
regional competitiveness. Our shared vision and planned scope of work
set a collaborative path to address the climate crisis, the global
pandemic, and enduring inequality.

Building on the work of the last year, the HLED continues to focus on
four central pillars:

1.  Building Back Together;
2.  Promoting Sustainable Economic and Social Development in Southern
    Mexico and Central America;
3.  Securing the Tools for Future Prosperity; and
4.  Investing in Our People.

Today we reviewed [accomplishments under the
HLED](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/12/fact-sheet-2022-u-s-mexico-high-level-economic-dialogue/)
and discussed new areas for collaboration, such as partnering to address
climate change challenges to meet our commitments under the UN’s 2030
agenda and greening transportation at the border to improve air quality
and public health. We also discussed collaboration on electromobility,
digital economy, workforce development, and supply chain resilience in
sectors such as pharmaceuticals, where Mexico’s Federal Commission for
Protection Against Sanitary Risks is working to optimize the regulatory
environment.

The passage of the CHIPS and Science Act in the United States provides
unprecedented opportunities to enhance our already dynamic supply
chains. Likewise, the Inflation Reduction Act – the most significant
climate legislation in U.S. history – includes $369 billion to curb
emissions and spur demand for electric vehicles and clean energy
technologies. These laws will increase investment into the North
American manufacturing sector, lower energy costs for families and
businesses, bolster our supply chains, and shore up our collective
energy security. It will also create jobs in both countries and position
North America as a leader in clean energy.

To Build Back Together, the United States and Mexico will work to
improve the regional business climate and strengthen the resilience of
U.S.-Mexico supply chains. Last year’s HLED launched the U.S.-Mexico
Supply Chains Working Group to assess supply chain needs to attract
investment and reduce vulnerabilities to disruptions in critical
sectors, such as semiconductors and information and communication
technologies (ICT).

Both countries committed to work with our private sectors to identify
locations with the right skillsets, infrastructure, and industrial
capabilities for greater investment in the semiconductor and ICT
ecosystem. We will work together to pursue a pilot project to determine
the feasibility of near-shoring semiconductor manufacturing inputs to
reduce the risk of future supply chain disruptions and also support the
further integration of small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) into
these supply chains.

We will address climate change by accelerating the transition to clean
energy, especially through the adoption of zero-emission vehicles.
Federal agencies in the United States and Mexico are working with state
and municipal governments, the private sector, and civil society
organizations to develop green spaces and sustainable economic
development zones to benefit sister communities across our shared
border. Doing so not only helps us keep within reach our goal of
limiting warming to 1.5°C, but also improves public health and
agricultural productivity.

Later this year, the United States and Mexico will celebrate 200 years
of bilateral relations. Our long-standing familial, cultural, and
business ties propel us to explore new ways to facilitate legitimate
trade and travel along our shared border through infrastructure
modernization, partnerships with private sector stakeholders, and trade
facilitation programs. Our countries remain committed to completing a
multi-year joint U.S.-Mexico border infrastructure modernization effort
for projects along the nearly 2,000-mile border, leveraging the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the $1.5 billion commitment from the
Government of Mexico to strengthen infrastructure, unite border
communities, and make the two-way flow of commerce and people more
secure and efficient.

To Promote Sustainable Economic Development in southern Mexico and
Central America, the United States and Mexico cooperate to improve the
regional business environment and livelihoods through the creation of
jobs and opportunities in El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, and southern
Mexico. Our federal governments, in partnership with regional leaders
from the private sector, have organized five joint meetings with Mexican
southern state governors to promote public-private cooperation to
advance investment opportunities, economic development, and
environmental and climate goals.

In December 2021, our two development agencies launched a new
collaborative framework called “Sowing Opportunities” (Sembrando
Oportunidades) to increase technical cooperation and address the root
causes of irregular migration in northern Central America. The U.S.
Agency for International Development has launched a new economic
development project called Southern Mexico Generating Employment and
Sustainability (SURGES) to mobilize private sector investments and
strengthen the capacity of rural communities and small farmers to take
advantage of market opportunities and integrate them into existing
regional supply chains.

To Secure the Tools for Future Economic Prosperity, the United States
and Mexico are working towards supporting regulatory compatibility and
risk mitigation on information and communications technology (ICT),
cybersecurity, telecommunications, and infrastructure issues. Through
mechanisms including the U.S.-Mexico Working Group on Cyber Issues, both
governments coordinate to strengthen our cybersecurity protections in
global supply chains and tackle cybersecurity challenges through
international industry best practices and standards, and continue
cooperating on ICT infrastructure deployment, including 5G networks.

To Invest in Our People, both governments promote initiatives that
expand collaboration on technical education and training, invest in
entrepreneurs, support small and medium-sized enterprises, and enhance
access to economic opportunities for women, youth, indigenous persons,
and members of the LGBTQI+ community. High-tech manufacturing in North
America relies on a highly skilled workforce and a robust ecosystem to
promote high-tech entrepreneurship. Labor and education authorities from
both countries will share best practices on apprenticeship programs and
vocational and technical education in October.

Our collaboration to enhance technical education and create
English-language certifications will prepare students to work in
high-tech manufacturing, a key factor in attracting greater investment
as we seek to near-shore manufacturing inputs. This work includes
implementing programs for women entrepreneurs and coordinating with
Small Business Development Centers to expand their professional networks
in southern Mexico. We are investing in our entrepreneurs and SMEs by
launching a public awareness campaign to support innovation and
creativity and reduce counterfeit goods and pirated content from supply
chains.

The United States and Mexico remain committed to building a more
inclusive workforce that recognizes that all our citizens should benefit
from our economic growth. To that end, we are working together to
promote responsible business practices, implement obligations under
international labor conventions, cooperate to eradicate the use of
forced labor in our supply chains, and expand temporary worker programs
with strong labor protections. Doing so will help us make progress on
the commitments we made with partners to promote transparency,
diversification, security, and sustainability in global supply chains in
the July 2022 Joint Statement on Cooperation on Global Supply Chains.

We welcome and rely on stakeholder input to define and implement HLED
initiatives. We affirm our commitment to continued stakeholder
engagement with the private sector, academia, and civil society and look
forward to expanding our engagement with state-level representatives.

Our work under the HLED will create inclusive opportunities for the
benefit of our workers and communities. The United States and Mexico
reaffirm our commitment to meet annually at the cabinet level and
semiannually at the sub-cabinet level to build on the progress made thus
far towards our shared goal of a secure and prosperous North America
capable of overcoming today’s challenges and achieving tomorrow’s
potential.

\###
