---
date: '2022-09-06'
modified_time: 2022-09-06 09:27:52-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-06 10:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/06/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-31/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his
administration:   

-   Senator Patrick Leahy, Nominee for Congressional Representative of
    the United States to the 77<sup>th</sup> Session of the General
    Assembly of the United Nations
-   Senator Jim Risch, Nominee for Congressional Representative of the
    United States to the 77<sup>th</sup> Session of the General Assembly
    of the United Nations
-   S. Douglas Bunch, Nominee for Public Delegate of the United States
    to the 77<sup>th</sup> Session of the General Assembly of the United
    Nations
-   Carol Leslie Hamilton, Nominee for Public Delegate of the United
    States to the 77<sup>th</sup> Session of the General Assembly of the
    United Nations
-   Andrew Weinstein, Nominee for Public Delegate of the United States
    to the 77<sup>th</sup> Session of the General Assembly of the United
    Nations

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Senator Patrick Leahy,
Nominee for Congressional Representative of the United States to the
77<sup>th</sup> Session of the General Assembly of the United
Nations**  
</span>  
Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) is the President Pro Tempore of the United
States Senate and Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. He
served for more than 30 years as Chair or Ranking Member of the Senate
Appropriations Foreign Operations and State Department Subcommittee
where he worked with Democratic and Republican administrations on
funding, oversight and management of U.S. foreign policy, including U.S.
contributions to the UN, its peacekeeping operations, food security,
global health, and environmental programs. He is also the senior-most
member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, and the Senate Judiciary
Committee, where he chairs the Intellectual Property Subcommittee. On
the Agriculture Committee he has led on hunger and nutrition issues and
helped create the Dole-McGovern international nutrition program. He is
the author of the Leahy Laws, which bar training, equipment, and other
assistance to units of foreign security forces that have committed human
rights abuses. These laws have become the most effective tools in the
U.S. human rights toolkit. He also authored the War Victims Fund – which
his colleagues have renamed the Leahy War Victims Fund – that provides
prosthetics and other support to civilian victims of war around the
world. The landmines export ban that Leahy introduced and steered to
enactment was an impetus for what became the international mine ban
treaty. He has long been one of Congress’s leading champions for global
health initiatives. Leahy’s initiatives for the remediation of toxic
Agent Orange sites and assistance for persons with disabilities in
Vietnam have become a keystone in the dramatic improvement of
U.S.-Vietnam relations. He played a central role in the restoration of
diplomatic relations with Cuba during the Obama administration. He has
introduced the Patents for Humanity Act, to provide rewards for U.S.
patents that meet humanitarian needs in developing nations. He also has
introduced the PEACE Through Music Diplomacy Act, to provide support
through the State Department to recognize musicians whose works or
performances have advanced peace abroad.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Senator Jim Risch, Nominee
for Congressional Representative of the United States to the
77<sup>th</sup> Session of the General Assembly of the United
Nations**  
</span>  
U.S. Senator Jim Risch (R-ID) is the ranking member of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee. As the lead Republican on the committee,
Risch is focused on protecting the security and interests of the
American people, in addition to continuing to advance U.S. prosperity
and leadership in the world. Risch’s top priority is China, and as such,
he has introduced and advanced several legislative packages, including
the first comprehensive legislative strategy to compete with China
across a number of areas. He also delivered several speeches at
prominent conferences and think tank events, and published an
influential report on how the United States and its transatlantic allies
should tackle shared challenges posed by the Chinese government in the
coming years and decades. Other priorities of Risch include confronting
Russian malign influence, strengthening NATO, and improving global
health security, to name a few. Risch earned a Bachelor of Science
degree in Forestry from the University of Idaho, and a Juris Doctor
degree from the University of Idaho, College of Law. He served on Law
Review and the College of Law Advisory Committee at the University of
Idaho and has taught criminal law at Boise State University. He is a
small business owner, a rancher, and a farmer, and was a senior partner
in the Risch Goss Insinger Gustavel law firm at the time of his election
to the U.S. Senate.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**S. Douglas Bunch, Nominee for
Public Delegate of the United States to the 77<sup>th</sup> Session of
the General Assembly of the United Nations**  
</span>  
S. Douglas Bunch is a Partner at Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC, a
member of the Securities Litigation & Investor Protection practice
group, and Co-Chair of the firm’s Pro Bono Committee. Bunch represents
public and private pension fund investors in securities and shareholder
class actions. Bunch has been recognized by the industry and named to
Lawdragon’s “500 Leading Plaintiff Financial Lawyers,” Benchmark
Litigation’s “40 & Under Hot List,” and Law360’s “Rising Stars –
Securities,” honoring lawyers under the age of 40 whose professional
accomplishments transcend their age. Bunch also plays a prolific role in
empowering students and cultivating educational opportunity – nationally
and globally. He is the co-founder and chairman of Global Playground,
Inc., a nonprofit that builds schools and other educational
infrastructure in the developing world, and he serves or has served on
the boards of multiple other education nonprofits. Bunch was appointed
in 2016 and again in 2020 to the Board of Visitors of the College of
William & Mary, by the Governor of Virginia. He currently serves on the
Executive Committee and as Chair of the Committee on Institutional
Advancement. Bunch is also a leader in the Washington, D.C. LGBTQ+
community. He has acted as amicus curie counsel to Equality Virginia,
the Commonwealth’s leading advocacy organization for LGBTQ+ equality, in
filing amicus briefs in support of transgender students in Virginia
public schools. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, Bunch graduated with a B.A.,
summa cum laude*,* from the College of William & Mary, earned an Ed.M.
from Harvard University’s Graduate School of Education, and received his
J.D. from William & Mary Law School, where he was a recipient of the
Benjamin Rush Medal in 2006. In 2011, he was awarded William & Mary Law
School’s inaugural W. Taylor Reveley III award, recognizing alumni who
have demonstrated a sustained commitment to public service. Bunch is a
native of Augusta County, in Virginia’s Shenandoah Valley.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Carol Leslie Hamilton,
Nominee for Public Delegate of the United States to the 77<sup>th</sup>
Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations</span>**

Carol Leslie Hamilton is an attorney in Beverly Hills, California, with
experience in private practice and public service. She serves on the UC
Hastings College of Law Board of Governors and the boards of the
Alliance for Justice and the Renewables 100 Policy Institute. Nominated
by President Obama as the U.S. Alternate Representative to the 69th
Session of the UN General Assembly, she served as Senior Advisor to the
U.S. Mission focusing on the issues of international security, nuclear
nonproliferation, disarmament, and human rights. Nominated twice by
Secretaries of State John Kerry and Hillary Clinton as Commissioner of
the U.S. National Commission for UNESCO, she launched U.S. participation
in the UN Literacy Decade. Her efforts included presentation of the U.S.
Right to Literacy Scroll at UNESCO in Paris.  Hamilton was a Legal
Observer on the Guantánamo Task Force for the Pacific Council on
International Policy. She monitored legal proceedings at the U.S.
Military Commission for 9/11 defendants and contributed to a published
report on the proceedings. Hamilton served on the legal team litigating
the 2000 presidential election on behalf of former Vice President Albert
Gore. She participated in drafting the Motion for Recount in Broward
County, the sole Florida county where all ballots were manually
recounted and included in certified election results. She has also
served as Vice President and Director of Legal and Business Affairs at
RKO Pictures. She is a former partner at Bourhis & Hamilton, a firm
specializing in bad faith litigation against multinational insurance
companies. Her work benefitted policy holders and improved consumer
insurance laws. She is co-author of a book and articles on insurance
law. Hamilton co-founded the International Committee of Lawyers for
Tibet, which established a permanent Tibet Bureau at the United Nations
in Geneva. She worked to implement the Tibetan US Resettlement Project
that resettled 1,000 Tibetan immigrants in U.S. communities. She
co-founded the Legal Clinic for Battered Women, one of the first for
victims of domestic abuse in the U.S. She lives in Beverly Hills with
her husband, David Khon.  
**  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Andrew Weinstein, Nominee
for Public Delegate of the United States to the 77<sup>th</sup> Session
of the General Assembly of the United Nations**  
</span>  
Andrew J. Weinstein is the Managing Attorney at the Weinstein Law Firm,
a position he has held since 1996. Focusing his practice on civil
litigation, Weinstein has handled thousands of cases, receiving
recognition for professional performance and ethical integrity along the
way. He is AV rated by Martindale-Hubbell and was named one of the
state’s Legal Elite by Florida Trend magazine. Weinstein has been active
in state, local, and national government. In 2013, he was appointed to
the President’s Committee on the Arts and Humanities by President Obama,
where he led the effort to expand the administration’s Turnaround Arts
program to Broward County public schools, and in 2016 he helped organize
and participated in a delegation to Cuba as part of the administration’s
efforts to improve U.S.-Cuba relations. Weinstein also served as a key
liaison to the Jewish community during the rollout of the Iran Nuclear
Deal. He joined White House meetings with President Obama and his
foreign policy team and helped coordinate events with then-Vice
President Biden, engaging stakeholders to win over a crucial
constituency. In 2017, President Obama appointed Weinstein to the board
of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. Weinstein served on the
Finance Committee for President Obama, was the Finance Chair of the
Florida Democratic Party, and is the Chair of the Lawyers Council for
the Democratic National Committee. During President Biden’s campaign,
Weinstein was a member of the National Finance Committee, the Arts
Policy Committee, the Gun Safety Policy Committee, the Florida
Leadership Council, and was a Co-Chair of Lawyers for Biden. Weinstein
also served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Florida Justice
Association and the Board of Governors for the American Association for
Justice. Weinstein is particularly proud of his work advocating for gun
safety reforms with victims and activists in his hometown of Parkland
and across the country. Weinstein holds a B.A. from the University of
Central Florida and a Juris Doctorate from the NSU Shepard Broad College
of Law. He resides in Florida with his wife Anne and has two children.

\###
