---
date: '2022-09-30'
modified_time: 2022-09-30 12:04:27-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-30 14:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/30/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-8/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve as members on the President’s Advisory
Commission on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic
Opportunity for Hispanics:  

-   Jules Buenabenta, Chair
-   Ana Marie Argilagos
-   Noel Candelaria
-   Anna María Chávez
-   Evelyn DeJesus
-   Ana María García Blanco
-   Olivia C. Irlando
-   Leah Beth Katz-Hernandez
-   Regina Montoya
-   Enrique G. Murillo, Jr.
-   Pedro Antonio Noguera
-   Amanda Renteria
-   Maria Angela Reyes
-   Cristóbal Rodríguez 
-   Havidán Rodríguez
-   Teresa Leyba Ruiz
-   Renata Soto
-   Juliana Urtubey
-   Cid D. Wilson
-   Magda N. Yrizarry
-   Andrea Zayas

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**President’s Advisory
Commission on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic
Opportunity for Hispanics**  
</span>  
The President’s Advisory Commission on Advancing Educational Equity,
Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for Hispanics shall provide advice
to the President through the Secretary on matters pertaining to
educational equity and economic opportunity for the Hispanic and Latino
community, including: (i) what is needed for the development,
implementation, and coordination of educational programs and initiatives
at the Department and other agencies to improve educational
opportunities and outcomes for Hispanics and Latinos; (ii) how to
promote career pathways for in-demand jobs for Hispanic and Latino
students, including registered apprenticeships, internships,
fellowships, mentorships, and work-based learning initiatives; (iii)
ways to strengthen the capacity of institutions, such as HSIs, to
equitably serve Hispanic and Latino students and increase the
participation of Hispanic and Latino students, Hispanic-serving school
districts, and the Hispanic community in the programs of the Department
and other agencies; (iv) how to increase public awareness of and
generate solutions for the educational and training challenges and
equity disparities that Hispanic and Latino students face and the causes
of these challenges; and (v) approaches to establish local and national
partnerships with public, private, philanthropic, and nonprofit
stakeholders to advance the mission and objectives of this order,
consistent with applicable law.  
  
**Jules Buenabenta, Chair, President’s Advisory Commission on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Jules Buenabenta is the CEO of Jules and Associates Inc., one of the
largest privately owned equipment leasing companies in the country. He
is also the manager and majority shareholder of Vendor Direct Solutions
LLC, a records, facilities, and IT management company. Knowing the role
that higher education has played in his career, Buenabenta devotes his
time and resources to his alma mater, the University of Southern
California (USC). Most recently, Buenabenta was appointed to serve on
the USC Marshall School of Business’ Board of Councilors, which provides
strategic advice and counsel to the school’s dean. Passionate about
opening doors for Hispanic students, he is the former co-chair of the
USC Associates’ Diversity and Inclusion Committee, currently supports
the USC Latino Alumni Association, and participates in growth
initiatives aimed to expand the bonds between USC and the Hispanic
community. USC has honored him for his outreach and engagement with its
prestigious Alumni Service Award.  
  
Buenabenta is a trustee for the Catholic Education Foundation, which has
provided more than $170 million in scholarships to Hispanic students in
Los Angeles’ underserved communities, and serves as a member of the
finance committee responsible for administering the Foundation’s $400+
million endowment. He also serves on the Providence Saint John’s Health
Center Local Board of Directors and the Board of Trustees of the Saint
John’s Health Center Foundation. Born into a family rooted in New Mexico
for over 10 generations, Buenabenta was raised on the Santo Domingo
Pueblo Reservation. He resides in Southern California with his wife and
their three children.  
  
**Ana Marie Argilagos, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Ana Marie Argilagos is President and CEO of Hispanics in Philanthropy
(HIP), a vast network of donors building, funding, and fueling Latino
power across the Americas. Argilagos guides HIP with a bold vision: to
usher in a new generation of democratized philanthropy that is for, by,
and about the Latinx community. Before joining HIP, Argilagos was a
Senior Advisor at the Ford Foundation and a Senior Program Officer at
the Annie E. Casey Foundation. In addition to her career spanning
philanthropy, academia, and the nonprofit sectors, Argilagos was
appointed to serve in the federal government during two administrations.
She has been recognized for her creativity and bold vision with numerous
awards. She currently serves on the boards of Rockefeller Philanthropy
Advisors, CANDID, the Chronicle of Philanthropy, Poder Latinx, and the
Santa Fe Community Foundation. She received her Master’s in Public
Administration from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government and her
Bachelor’s in International Relations from American University.  
  
She divides her time between Santa Fe, New Mexico, and Washington, D.C.
Argilagos enjoys spending her free time hiking with her husband Rodger
Boyd, hanging out with her daughter Alexia, or at the beach with her
family in Puerto Rico.  
  
**Noel Candelaria, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Noel Candelaria is the Secretary-Treasurer of the National Education
Association (NEA), the nation’s largest professional organization. In
this role, Candelaria’s primary responsibility is managing and
maintaining the Association’s multimillion-dollar strategic plan and
budget centered in the organizations vision to fulfill the promise of
great public schools for every student. Candelaria is the immediate
past-President of the Texas State Teachers Association (TSTA), the state
affiliate of the NEA. Prior to his election as TSTA president,
Candelaria served three years as TSTA Vice President after a
distinguished tenure as President of the Ysleta Teachers Association in
El Paso, Texas, where he worked as a teacher’s aide and special
education teacher in the Ysleta Independent School District, teaching
subjects ranging from Algebra to World History.  
  
A son of Mexican immigrants and tireless advocate for educators and
students, he is often joined in his advocacy work by his wife Patty, a
National Board-Certified Teacher. Candelaria believes in the value and
power of relationships that are based on trust, whether they are formed
in the classroom, the community, or the halls of political power.
Candelaria relies on those relationships – at the local, state, and
national levels – to keep the doors of success open and accessible to
all students. Candelaria holds a Bachelor’s degree in Interdisciplinary
Studies and Education from the University of Texas at El Paso.  
  
**Anna María Chávez, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Anna María Chávez brings over twenty-five years of experience in
education, government, technology, and non-profit organizational
leadership and management to her role as Co-Founder and President of
Fearless Global Initiative. The Fearless Global Initiative is an
international organization that unifies & amplifies advocacy for girls.
Born and raised in the small town of Eloy, Arizona to Mexican-American
parents, Chávez learned at an early age the importance of being a leader
in her local community.  
  
Chávez’s desire to transform the world through servant leadership led
her to Yale University, before pursuing a juris doctorate at the
University of Arizona. She held numerous posts in President Bill
Clinton’s administration, and later returned to Arizona to serve
Governors Jane Hull and Janet Napolitano. She then served as CEO of Girl
Scouts of the USA and CEO of the National School Boards Association. In
2016, she was recognized as one of the “World’s 50 Greatest Leaders” by
*Fortune* and in 2021 was named one of the “Top 50 Over 50 Women
Leaders” by *Forbes*.  
  
**Evelyn DeJesus, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Evelyn DeJesus has been the Executive Vice President of the 1.7
million-member American Federation of Teachers (AFT), AFL-CIO, since
2019 – she is the first Latino/a officer in the union’s 105-year
history. First elected as an AFT Vice President in 2014, she currently
chairs the AFT’s Latino Issues Task Force and serves as the presiding
officer of the AFT Asian American and Pacific Islander and AFT LGBTQIA+
task forces. In 2021, she joined the Executive Boards of the AFL-CIO and
the Solidarity Center and became Secretary-Treasurer of the Labor
Council for Latin American Advancement. At the AFL-CIO, she serves on
the Racial Justice Task Force and the Immigration Committee. She also
serves on the Board of Directors of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus
Institute and was recently elected to serve as President of the National
Association for Bilingual Education.  
  
A native Puertorriqueña who grew up in New York City’s Lower East Side,
DeJesus traveled an unexpected road from engaged parent to educator and
trade unionist. When one of her daughters became ill during a school
construction project, DeJesus exposed the toxic environment caused by
asbestos. Her whistleblowing actions led to the Great Asbestos Scandal
of 1993 and a citywide shutdown of the schools until asbestos could be
safely removed from school buildings. As an early childhood teacher and
reading specialist, she taught for two decades in New York’s Chinatown
and has made literacy and support for multilingual learners her
signature curricular issues. DeJesus is also a chaplain under the New
York State Chaplain Task Force. Her spirituality extends into every
aspect of her life, and she credits her faith for her achievements. She
is the proud wife of Louie and the mother of two beautiful daughters,
Tiffany and Kristina. She has been blessed with five grandchildren.  
  
**Ana María García Blanco, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Ana María García Blanco is a Puerto Rican educator with decades of
experience working to improve student achievement and foster community
engagement in public schools. Since 2009, she has served as the
Executive Director of the Instituto Nuevo Escuela (INE), a nonprofit
organization devoted to transforming public schools through the
Montessori method. INE, which García Blanco co-founded, has enabled 45
public schools to implement Montessori. Prior to that, García Blanco
served as a Principal in a public school for 23 years. In 1990, she
reopened the Juan Ponce de León School alongside community leaders,
where she introduced Montessori pedagogy and the participative
governance model, which increased student achievement and parents’
participation, eliminated dropouts, and decreased violence. García
Blanco holds a Bachelor’s from Harvard University, where she
simultaneously worked in Cambridge and Boston public schools. After
obtaining her Master in Education from the Harvard Graduate School of
Education (HGSE) in 1981, she worked as an elementary school teacher in
Puerto Rico until returning to HGSE in 1990 and completing a doctoral
degree in Education.  
  
García Blanco has taught at the University of Puerto Rico, the
University of the Sacred Heart, and Interamerican University. In 2014,
she served on the Board of Overseers of the University of Puerto Rico,
and currently serves as a member of the Puerto Rico Governor’s
Commission to Eradicate Poverty. She has authored several publications,
including ‘‘A Community-Based Approach to Education Reform in Puerto
Rico,’’ which appeared in Melendez’s *Colonial Dilemma, Critical
Perspectives on Contemporary Puerto Rico*, and “Montessori Crossed the
Street: A Story of Access and Social Justice,” published in *Montessori
Collaborative World Review* in 2019.  
  
**Olivia C. Irlando, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Olivia C. Irlando is currently a teacher at The Paideia School in
Atlanta, Georgia. Irlando grew up in the Farmworker’s Movement fighting
for the rights of others alongside her grandfather, Cesar E. Chavez. She
spent her afternoons, weekends, and summers as an adolescent in front of
supermarkets and on picket lines in an effort to educate the public of
the plight of farm workers. Irlando took those skills with her as she
transitioned into the classroom as an elementary educator.  
  
Irlando has spent 16 years teaching in public and independent schools in
San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York, and Atlanta. She received her
undergraduate degree from Brown University and her Master’s in Education
from Bank Street College of Education. She lives in Atlanta with her
husband, Andres, and her daughters, Isabella and Sofia.  
  
**Leah Beth Katz-Hernandez, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanic**  
  
Currently driving impact in the tech industry, Leah Katz-Hernandez
previously held the position of Senior Operations Coordinator, or West
Wing Receptionist, for President Barack Obama. The first ever deaf
person to hold the position, she was appointed to the West Wing after
serving in First Lady Michelle Obama’s communications office. Throughout
her career in the tech industry and in the public sector, Katz-Hernandez
has consistently used her specialty knowledge to urge equal access for
the deaf, disability, and Latinx-Hispanic communities.  
  
Since departing the White House, Katz-Hernandez advised in various
capacities for multiple organizations and institutions, including the
American Association of People with Disabilities, the Ford Foundation,
DDW-Discovering Deaf Worlds, Mitsubishi Electric America Foundation, and
The Harkin Institute. She also served as a Special Advisor to the
President at Gallaudet University, her alma-mater. Katz-Hernandez earned
her Professional M.A. in Strategic Communication from American
University and a B.A. in Government from Gallaudet University. In 2018,
Katz-Hernandez contributed a chapter to the book *WEST WINGERS: Stories
from The Dream Chasers, Change Makers, and Hope Creators Inside the
Obama White House*, edited by Gautam Raghavan and published by Penguin
Random House.  
  
**Regina Montoya, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Regina Montoya is the CEO and Chairperson of Regina T. Montoya, PLLC,
located in Dallas, Texas. She is a Harvard-trained attorney who has been
recognized as one of the top lawyers in the country and is a former
award-winning television commentator. One of the first Latinas to earn
partnership in a major corporate law firm in the United States, Montoya
received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Texas Minority Counsel
Program of the State Bar of Texas, the Latina Lawyer of the Year from
the Hispanic National Bar Association, and the Margaret Brent Women
Lawyers of Achievement Award from the Commission on Women in the
Profession of the American Bar Association. Montoya served in the White
House as an Assistant to President Bill Clinton and Director of the
Office of Intergovernmental Affairs, and she was nominated by President
Clinton to serve as a U.S. Representative to the 53rd Session of the
General Assembly of the United Nations. Montoya also served as the
General Counsel at Children’s Medical Center of Dallas.  
  
Montoya is the President and board member of the Texas Hispanic Policy
Foundation. Additionally, she is a member of the Boards of Directors of
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF),
Foreign Policy for America, Every Texan, National Development Council,
Dallas Arboretum and Botanical Society, Inc., Dallas Education
Foundation, and Executive Women of Dallas. Montoya is a National
Co-Chair of the Women’s Leadership Forum of the Democratic National
Committee, the Secretary of the Board of Emerge, and a Board member of
the Latino Victory Fund. Montoya earned her B.A. from Wellesley College,
where she is a Trustee Emerita, and her J.D. from Harvard Law School.   
  
**Enrique G. Murillo, Jr., Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Enrique G. Murillo, Jr. is a tenured professor at California State
University, San Bernardino (CSUSB). He is a first-generation Chicano,
born and raised in the greater east side of Los Angeles. He completed
his Ph.D. in the Social Foundations of Education program at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Murillo is the Founding
Editor of the Journal of Latinos and Education and the Handbook of
Latinos and Education and Founder of the National Latino Education
Network. He currently serves as Executive Director and Founder of LEAD
(Latino Education & Advocacy Days), an organization aiming to promote a
broad-based awareness of the crisis in Latino education and to enhance
the intellectual, cultural, and personal development of the community’s
educators, administrators, leaders, and students.  
  
Additionally, Murillo serves as the Faculty Director for CSUSB’s Doctor
of Education in Educational Leadership Program, which focuses on the
knowledge and skills needed by administrative leaders in California
public elementary and secondary schools (preschool through
12<sup>th</sup> grade) and community colleges. Murillo also serves as
the President of the Southern California Consortium of Hispanic-Serving
Institutions, has authored and/or edited more than 180 publications and
scholarly multi-media works, and has presented at more than 180
professional conferences. He has been recognized with more than 50
local, regional, state, national, international, and congressional
commendations.  
  
**Pedro Antonio Noguera, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Pedro Noguera is one of the nation’s leading scholars on issues related
to race, inequality, and education. Noguera is currently serving as the
Emery Stoops and Joyce King Stoops Dean of the Rossier School of
Education at the University of Southern California. Prior to this role,
he was a Distinguished Professor of Education and holder of endowed
chairs at UCLA, New York University, Harvard University, and the
University of California, Berkeley.  
  
Noguera is the author of 15 books. His most recent book, *A Search for
Common Ground: Conversations About the Tough Questions and Complex
Issues Confronting K-12 Education in the United States Today* with Rick
Hess, was the winner of the American Association of Publishers Prose
Award in 2021. Noguera is the son of Caribbean immigrants and is proud
of his roots in Brooklyn, New York. He is the father of five,
grandfather of five, and a lover of books, sports, gardening, travel,
and cooking.   
  
**Amanda Renteria, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Amanda Renteria is the CEO of Code for America, an organization that
helped launch the civic tech ecosystem in the United States. Code for
America partners with governments and community-based organizations
leveraging technology to create equitable government systems focused on
programs that strengthen the social safety net, increase access to tax
benefits, automate record clearance, and foster an active civic tech
volunteer network across the country. In September 2021, the
organization launched a mobile-first tax credit portal in English and
Spanish in partnership with the White House and Department of Treasury.
In addition to leading Code for America, Renteria is a paid contributor
to the BBC and ABC News on policy and political matters in the United
States.  
  
Before joining Code for America, Renteria served as the Chief of
Operations for the California Department of Justice, overseeing 1,000
public servants and an $850 million budget. Additionally, she served as
Secretary Clinton’s National Political Director during the 2016
presidential campaign and as a Chief of Staff in the United States
Senate where she worked for nearly a decade, becoming the first Latina
Chief of Staff in the history of the U.S. Senate. Renteria grew up in a
small, agricultural town in the Central Valley of California and is the
proud daughter of former farmworkers and an immigrant father. She serves
on several non-profit boards and holds degrees from Stanford University
and Harvard Business School.  
  
**Maria Angela Reyes, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Maria Reyes is an engineer, educator, CEO, and published author. Over
her 25-year tenure in higher education, Reyes developed a diverse
portfolio of public-private partnerships. These innovative
collaborations resulted in her securing upwards of $25M in grants from
the National Science Foundation (NSF), National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, the Department of Education, and the Department of
Labor, all which centrally focused on promoting STEM education among
K-12 and undergraduate students. Reyes earned a Master in Public
Administration from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, as well as
a Bachelor and Master of Science degree in Civil Engineering from
Arizona State University.  
  
Reyes has authored and served as a contributing writer for more than 20
academic publications with an emphasis on the social and cultural
pedagogies of minoritized students in STEM, and previously served as a
Co-Principal and Principal Investigator for grants within the NSF
Directorate for Education and Human Resources. Specifically, two grants
she focused on were the NSF INCLUDES Alliance: *Accelerate Latinx
Representation in STEM Education (ALRISE)* and the *Work-focused
Experiential Learning to Increase STEM Student Retention and Graduation
at Two-year Hispanic-Serving Institutions*, which seek to serve students
at 26 colleges across six states. Recently, Reyes returned to technical
work serving as Program Manager for New Product Introduction, Google
Cloud with a focus on fostering innovation and workforce development
into Google’s vast hardware fleet. Reyes grew up in Arizona and
currently resides in California. Her three children, Diego, Mateo, and
Solana, have graduated from or are attending Arizona State University in
engineering, business, and education, respectively.  
  
**Cristóbal Rodríguez, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Cristóbal Rodríguez is the Associate Dean of Equity, Inclusion and
Community Engagement at the Mary Lou Fulton Teachers College of Arizona
State University. His world view and research have been shaped by being
born and raised in the Texas Borderlands of El Paso by hard-working
immigrant parents from Mexico, studying in Germany as a U.S.
Congress-German Bundestag scholar, and his Ph.D. studies in Education
Policy and Planning with a portfolio in Mexican American Studies at The
University of Texas at Austin. Rodríguez’ research highlights the need
for systemic equity and culturally responsive leadership across the
education system. Rodríguez was recognized with the White House
Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Faculty Honors in 2016
and was honored as the 2019 José A. Cárdenas School Finance Fellow with
the Intercultural Development Research Association to collaborate on
school finance, equity, and college readiness for Black and Latina/o/x
students.  
  
Prior to his current role since 2021, Rodríguez spent five years as an
Assistant Professor at New Mexico State University, a Hispanic Serving
Institution in Las Cruces, New Mexico, and seven years at Howard
University, a Historically Black College/University in Washington, D.C.,
as an Associate Professor and as the Director of Graduate Studies of the
School of Education.  
Rodríguez was elected to a three-year term to the Executive Committee of
University Council for Educational Administration in 2019 and was
appointed in 2021 to the Board of Directors for the American Association
for Hispanics in Higher Education.  
  
**Havidán Rodríguez, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Havidán Rodríguez was appointed by the State University of New York
Board of Trustees as the 20th president of the University at Albany in
2017. He previously served as Founding Provost and Executive Vice
President for Academic Affairs at the University of Texas Rio Grande
Valley after serving as President, Ad Interim, and Provost and Vice
President for Academic Affairs at the University of Texas – Pan
American. Rodríguez held various leadership roles at the University of
Delaware, including as Director of the Disaster Research Center (DRC),
one of the leading social science disaster research centers in the
world. He also held several administrative positions at the University
of Puerto Rico-Mayagüez. Rodríguez has earned numerous recognitions and
awards throughout his career and has received funding for his research
focusing on the social science aspects of disasters and projects
providing hands-on research, training, and mentoring to undergraduate
and graduate students. In addition to numerous publications in the areas
of disasters and Latinos/as in the United States, he co-authored *Severe
Weather Warnings: An Interdisciplinary Approach* (with Donner, Brotzge &
Diaz, 2022); *Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico: Disaster, Vulnerability &
Resiliency* (co-edited with Mora & Dávila, 2021); *Handbook of Disaster
Research* (co-edited with Donner & Trainor, 2018); and *Population,
Migration, and Socioeconomic Outcomes among Island and Mainland Puerto
Ricans: La Crisis Boricua* (with Mora & Dávila, 2017).  
  
**Teresa Leyba Ruiz, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Teresa Leyba Ruiz is a proud first-generation college student raised in
South Phoenix and has a strong understanding of the needs of a diverse
student population. She has served students, faculty, staff, and her
community as an educator for over 30 years with an eye on providing
opportunities for students and reducing equity gaps in college
attainment. Ruiz is the retired President of Glendale Community College
in the Maricopa County Community College District in Arizona. Ruiz was a
member of the mathematics faculty at South Mountain Community College
(SMCC), serving as the Division Chair for Mathematics, Science &
Engineering, and holding various leadership positions at SMCC.  
  
She has ten years of progressively responsible administrative roles as a
Dean of Academic Affairs, Associate Vice President of Academic & Student
Affairs, Vice President of Student Affairs, and President. Ruiz serves
on several community organizations including the Glendale Chamber of
Commerce and the Western Maricopa Coalition, often called WESTMARC.  
  
**Renata Soto, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Renata Soto is the founder of Mosaic Changemakers, a social impact
organization whose mission is to weave a better South by uplifting,
growing, and connecting leaders of color who are on the front lines of
the fight for social, economic, and racial justice. Originally from
Costa Rica, Soto adopted the South as her home almost three decades ago.
She began her social impact career in Atlanta, Georgia, and honed her
social entrepreneurial spirit in Nashville, Tennessee, for the last 25
years. Before founding Mosaic Changemakers in 2020, Soto led Conexión
Américas, the nonprofit organization she co-founded in 2002 to serve
Middle Tennessee’s Latine communities. There, she spearheaded the
creation of Casa Azafrán and Azafrán Park, two community development
projects that are recognized as models for nonprofit innovation,
collaboration, and placemaking. In 2014, President Barack Obama visited
Casa Azafrán to host a nationally televised town hall on immigration
policy.  
  
After 17 years at the helm of Conexión Américas, Soto spent two years as
a Senior Fellow at Harvard University’s Advanced Leadership Initiative.
Nationally, she served for 10 years on the Board of Directors, and as
Chair from 2015-2018, of UnidosUS, the largest Latino civil rights
organization in the United States. Soto currently serves as Board Chair
of its sister organization, UnidosUS Action Fund, which works to expand
the influence and political power of the Latino community.  
  
**Juliana Urtubey, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Juliana Urtubey has used her platform as 2021 National Teacher of the
Year to advocate for a “joyous and just” education for all students –
one that is inclusive and celebratory of all students’ identities,
families, and communities. A bilingual, first-generation immigrant,
Urtubey has worked throughout her teaching career to serve as a mirror
for her school community, helping students to be proud of their
identities and families, and to acknowledge their strengths and
contributions to the community. A longtime elementary school special
education teacher in Arizona and Nevada, Urtubey enjoys learning from
teachers and students alike. Her work centers Linguistically Gifted
communities within a framework of possibility.  
  
While teaching in Las Vegas, students gave her the nickname “Ms. Earth”
for her efforts to beautify schools and unify the community through
murals and gardens. Urtubey is a National Board Certified Teacher and
holds a Bachelor’s in Bilingual Elementary Education and a Master’s in
Special Bilingual Education from the University of Arizona. She is a
National Board for Professional Teaching Standards Board of Directors
member and Teacher Fellow. She is also a winner of the 2018 Rogers
Foundation Heart of Education award. Urtubey lives in Phoenix, Arizona.
She enjoys reading in Spanish and traveling, and has had the opportunity
to teach in Ecuador, Mexico, Spain, and Puerto Rico. She also enjoys
tending to her collection of house plants and spending time outdoors,
and she aims to visit all the national parks.  
  
**Cid D. Wilson, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Cid D. Wilson is the President & CEO of the Hispanic Association on
Corporate Responsibility (HACR), where he has led the nation’s largest
nonprofit organization focused on advancing Hispanic inclusion in
corporate America since 2014. He has over 30 years of corporate
experience, starting in the mail room of a Wall Street investment firm
and eventually rising to executive and corporate board rooms. In 2006,
*Forbes* ranked him the \#1 Equity Financial Analyst in his field. In
2009, President Barack Obama named him to the National Museum of the
American Latino Study Commission.  
  
A proud Dominican-American, Afro-Latino, and native of Bergen County,
New Jersey, Wilson serves on the national boards of Junior Achievement
USA and LatinoJustice PRLDEF. He is a graduate of The Ohio State
University. In 2021, Ohio State inducted Wilson to the Office of
Diversity & Inclusion (ODI) Hall of Fame, making him the first Latino
ODI Hall of Famer in the University’s history. In the same year, New
Jersey Governor Phil Murphy appointed Wilson to the New Jersey Wealth
Disparity Task Force.  
  
**Magda N. Yrizarry, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Magda Yrizarry has been a force for change for over three decades. As
the Senior Vice President – Strategic DEI Initiatives and Supplier
Diversity, Yrizarry ensures Verizon’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
strategies care for all four stakeholders — customers, shareholders,
society, and employees. Yrizarry partners internally and externally to
ensure equal access and opportunity for all. Previously, Yrizarry served
as Verizon’s Chief Talent and Diversity Officer where responsibilities
included the hiring, development, advancement, and retention of talent,
from campus to executive, and supplier diversity. Yrizarry began her
Verizon career in external affairs holding numerous local and national
roles, including Executive Director for Public Policy and Strategic
Alliances, managing national outreach efforts across diverse
constituencies.  
  
Yrizarry serves as Vice-chairperson of ASPIRA of New York, is on the
board of Big Brothers Big Sisters NYC, and is an alumna Hall of Famer
for the Hispanic Scholarship Fund. She has been recognized as one of the
50 Most Powerful Latinas in America by ALPFA, named to *People en
Español’s* 25 Most Powerful Women, a Top Executive in Corporate
Diversity by *Black Enterprise*, and a President’s Award recipient from
the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Foundation. Yrizarry
earned a Bachelor of Science and Master’s Degree from Cornell University
and remains active in driving campus diversity and inclusion. She serves
on the Governing Board of Stonecrest Community Church and Chair of its
Racial Justice Task Force. Yrizarry shares three adult children with her
husband, Ray. She is a native New Yorker and lives in New Jersey.  
  
**Andrea Zayas, Member, President’s Advisory Commission on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Hispanics**  
  
Andrea Zayas has dedicated her 25 years in education to making progress
on the challenges faced by school systems, working at every level — from
the classroom to district administration — to improve outcomes and
experiences for young people of color. She currently works in
philanthropy, serving as Director of K-12 for a national family
foundation, leading the education strategy for impact, as well as
developing and executing its education grantmaking, policy, and systems
change work. Previously, Zayas served in cabinet positions at Boston
Public Schools, most recently as its Chief Academic Officer, where she
initiated the shift to a Science of Reading approach; wrote and ensured
passage of district-wide, college and career ready graduation standards;
and oversaw the creation of culturally and linguistically relevant
remote learning materials during COVID school closures.  
  
Before her work in Boston, Zayas founded and led three education
ventures: New Orleans Youth Alliance, Upstream Education Consulting, and
La Cima Elementary Charter School in Brooklyn, New York. She also served
in various leadership roles focused on student success, including
National Director of Regional Leadership Development for Knowledge is
Power Program (KIPP), Regional State Turnaround Superintendent in
Camden, New Jersey, and Director for Charter School Accountability for
the New York City Department of Education.  
  
Zayas is pursuing a doctorate in urban education leadership at Xavier
University of Louisiana. She earned her Master’s in Education from
Harvard Graduate School of Education and her Bachelor’s degree at
Rutgers University.

\###
