---
date: '2022-09-19'
published_time: 2022-09-19 09:29:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/19/statement-by-president-biden-on-the-release-of-mark-frerichs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President\_Biden on the Release of Mark\_Frerichs"
---
 
Today, we have secured the release of Mark Frerichs, and he will soon be
home.  Mark was taken in Afghanistan in January, 2020 and held for 31
months.  His release is the culmination of years of tireless work by
dedicated public servants across our government and other partner
governments, and I want to thank them for all that effort.  I spoke with
Mark’s sister today to share the good news and express how happy I am
for Mark’s family.  Bringing the negotiations that led to Mark’s freedom
to a successful resolution required difficult decisions, which I did not
take lightly.  Our priority now is to make sure Mark receives a healthy
and safe return and is given the space and time he needs to transition
back into society.  My Administration continues to prioritize the safe
return of all Americans who are held hostage or wrongfully detained
abroad, and we will not stop until they are reunited with their
families. We have much more work to do in many other cases, but Mark’s
release demonstrates our enduring commitment.  Like our work to free
Americans held in Burma, Haiti, Russia, Venezuela, and elsewhere, it is
our duty to do all we can to bring our people home.

\###
