---
date: '2022-09-08'
published_time: 2022-09-08 14:32:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/08/statement-of-president-joe-biden-and-first-lady-jill-biden-on-the-death-of-queen-elizabeth-ii/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement of President Joe\_Biden and First Lady Jill\_Biden on the Death\
  \ of Queen Elizabeth\_II"
---
 
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II was more than a monarch. She defined an
era.

In a world of constant change, she was a steadying presence and a source
of comfort and pride for generations of Britons, including many who have
never known their country without her. An enduring admiration for Queen
Elizabeth II united people across the Commonwealth. The seven decades of
her history-making reign bore witness to an age of unprecedented human
advancement and the forward march of human dignity.

She was the first British monarch to whom people all around the world
could feel a personal and immediate connection—whether they heard her on
the radio as a young princess speaking to the children of the United
Kingdom, or gathered around their televisions for her coronation, or
watched her final Christmas speech or her Platinum Jubilee on their
phones. And she, in turn, dedicated her whole life to their service.

Supported by her beloved Prince Philip for 73 years, Queen Elizabeth II
led always with grace, an unwavering commitment to duty, and the
incomparable power of her example. She endured the dangers and
deprivations of a world war alongside the British people and rallied
them during the devastation of a global pandemic to look to better days
ahead. Through her dedication to her patronages and charities, she
supported causes that uplifted people and expanded opportunity. By
showing friendship and respect to newly independent nations around the
world, she elevated the cause of liberty and fostered enduring bonds
that helped strengthen the Commonwealth, which she loved so deeply, into
a community to promote peace and shared values.

Queen Elizabeth II was a stateswoman of unmatched dignity and constancy
who deepened the bedrock Alliance between the United Kingdom and the
United States. She helped make our relationship special.

We first met the Queen in 1982, traveling to the UK as part of a Senate
delegation. And we were honored that she extended her hospitality to us
in June 2021 during our first overseas trip as President and First Lady,
where she charmed us with her wit, moved us with her kindness, and
generously shared with us her wisdom. All told, she met 14 American
presidents. She helped Americans commemorate both the anniversary of the
founding of Jamestown and the bicentennial of our independence. And she
stood in solidarity with the United States during our darkest days after
9/11, when she poignantly reminded us that “Grief is the price we pay
for love.”

In the years ahead, we look forward to continuing a close friendship
with The King and The Queen Consort. Today, the thoughts and prayers of
people all across the United States are with the people of the United
Kingdom and the Commonwealth in their grief. We send our deepest
condolences to the Royal Family, who are not only mourning their Queen,
but their dear mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother. Her legacy
will loom large in the pages of British history, and in the story of our
world.

\###
