---
date: '2022-09-09'
published_time: 2022-09-09 17:49:27-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/09/icymi-communities-welcome-new-climate-resilience-portal-to-help-navigate-extreme-weather/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI: Communities Welcome New Climate Resilience Portal to Help Navigate\
  \ Extreme\_Weather"
---
 
Across America, local news outlets are reporting on the Biden-Harris
Administration’s launch of a website that, for the first time, provides
a live dashboard to help communities see extreme weather and other
hazards from climate change they are facing, while also providing maps
projecting how each community could be impacted in the future. The new
[Climate Mapping for Resilience and Adaptation
portal](https://resilience.climate.gov/) will help state, local, Tribal,
and territorial governments and leaders better track real-time impacts
and access federal resources for long-term planning.  

Yesterday, Administration officials joined Phoenix Mayor Kate Gallego
and Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava to announce this new
website, which provides accessible and interactive tools on extreme
heat, drought, wildfires, flooding, and other climate impacts. 

*Read below for a sample of coverage:*

*  
***Northwest News Network:** [Biden administration launches website to
provide real-time climate data, predict future
scenarios](https://www.nwnewsnetwork.org/2022-09-08/biden-administration-launches-website-to-provide-real-time-climate-data-predict-future-scenarios)  
The website, known as Climate Mapping for Resilience and Adaptation, or
CMRA, will help community leaders better plan for climate-related
hazards, officials said. The website and corresponding maps streamline
the federal government’s data at the national-level down to the census
tract-level. Maps and charts show various climate hazards and potential
future conditions under low- and high-emission scenarios for
heat-trapping greenhouse gasses.

**The Sacramento Bee:** [As climate change throttles California, new
U.S. tool lets people see the long-term
impact](https://www.sacbee.com/news/politics-government/capitol-alert/article265504651.html)

The Biden Administration on Thursday unveiled a new website intended to
provide localities, agencies and individuals with a clear look at the
current and future impacts of climate change. The announcement comes on
the heels of a historic heat wave in California, amid a drought that is
devastating the western states, and after a summer that saw extreme
flooding in many parts of the country.

**Arizona PBS:** [Climate tool brings the bad news; advocates hope that
brings good
outcomes](https://cronkitenews.azpbs.org/2022/09/08/climate-tool-brings-the-bad-news-advocates-hope-that-brings-good-outcomes/)  
“We are spending tens of millions of dollars on climate resilience … and
this tool will help me understand where are the most effective places to
put these dollars,” \[Phoenix Mayor Kate\] Gallego said Thursday.

**Idaho Capital Sun:** [New government tool shows Idaho and other
states’ climate-related risks,
projections](https://idahocapitalsun.com/2022/09/08/new-government-tool-shows-idaho-and-other-states-climate-related-risks-projections/)

The web-based tool, called Climate Mapping for Resilience and
Adaptation, contains information about current climate trends and
projections through 2099, including risks such as expected revenue
losses, annual number of dry days and consecutive wet days, and average
daily minimum and maximum temperatures.

**KATU ABC Oregon:** [New national climate resilience tool predicts
natural disaster
likelihood](https://katu.com/news/local/new-national-climate-resilience-tool-predicts-natural-disaster-likelihood)  
Benton County Emergency Manager Bryan Lee said the tool can be useful
locally to help inform emergency managers on what risk models to take
into consideration. “We can use this tool to help us develop our hazard
risk assessments and then again just use that data out there, use the
science out there from a reputable source to then use in our emergency
plans,” he said. The tool also points out whether municipalities have
building code restrictions in place based on their area’s risk.

**KRCR ABC California:** [Extreme heat, drought and wildfires; White
House introduces new climate mapping
tool](https://krcrtv.com/news/nation-world/white-house-debuts-new-climate-mapping-tool-wildfire-extreme-heat-drought-flooding-weather)

The Assessment Tool serves to provide a glimpse at what is possible in
the future under two different emissions scenarios. You can enter an
address, and a large dashboard pops up, allowing you to explore the
change of various important measures of climate impacts. You can explore
this data for any individual census tract, county or tribal land.
Benjamin Preston of the White House Office of Science and Technology
Policy noted that this is one of the first times that we are able to
summarize climate information for these tribal lands.

**New Mexico Political Report:** [New online portal shows climate change
impacts](https://nmpoliticalreport.com/2022/09/09/new-online-portal-shows-climate-change-impacts/)

A new website launched this week is intended to help people visualize
how climate change is impacting their communities and to help
communities plan for and respond to climate change. President Joe Biden
and Vice President Kamala Harris’ administration announced the new
Climate Mapping for Resilience and Adaptation portal on Thursday.

**Route Fifty:** [A New Tech Tool to Help Communities Confront Climate
Risks](https://www.route-fifty.com/management/2022/09/white-house-launches-tech-tool-help-communities-confront-climate-risks/376915/)  
Besides climate data, the portal identifies disadvantaged communities
that could be eligible for programs like Biden’s Justice40 Initiative,
which aims to direct federal resources to areas disproportionately
harmed by climate change and other environmental problems. 

“We wanted to build a portal that is science-based, pulling together the
best data on impacts that communities have historically faced, what is
happening right now, and perhaps most importantly, what the future may
hold,” said David Hayes, special assistant to the president for climate
policy, during a press conference on Thursday.  

**Fast Company:** [These maps show how climate change affects your city
in real time—and what will happen in the
future](https://www.fastcompany.com/90787566/these-maps-show-how-climate-change-affects-your-city-in-real-time-and-what-will-happen-in-the-future)

One map shows current extreme heat, wildfires, droughts, plus inland and
coastal flooding. If you type a city or address into a separate
assessment tool on the site, it shows current risks by census tract, and
then spells out future hazards under two scenarios: What happens if
greenhouse gas emissions quickly drop, and what will happen if they
remain high. In Miami, for example, a map shows how much more of the
coastline will go underwater in a high-emissions scenario. The dashboard
also shows how much extreme heat and other hazards are likely to
increase in each scenario. The site also includes links to help cities
find federal grants to build more resilient infrastructure.
