---
date: '2022-09-02'
modified_time: 2022-09-02 17:49:18-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-02 17:49:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/02/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-meeting-with-vice-president-osinbajo-of-nigeria/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Meeting with Vice President Osinbajo\
  \ of\_Nigeria"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris met today with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo
of Nigeria in Washington.  Vice President Harris affirmed the enduring
strategic partnership between the United States and Nigeria.  The two
leaders recognized the strong cultural ties between the American and
Nigerian people, noting the remarkable vibrancy of the Nigerian
diaspora.

Vice President Harris underscored the importance of Nigerian leadership
to tackle shared global challenges.  Vice President Harris reiterated
the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to address the global food
crisis, noting that the United States has committed more than $7 billion
in food security and humanitarian assistance to African countries since
last October. 

Vice President Harris welcomed Vice President Osinbajo’s commitment to
free and fair elections in 2023 and emphasized that next year’s vote
would be an important milestone for Nigeria’s democracy, the largest in
Africa.  She noted strong U.S. support for a credible, transparent,
secure, and safe electoral process, including by advancing our
longstanding partnership with the Independent National Electoral
Commission and Nigerian civil society with $25 million in elections
support. Vice President Harris informed Vice President Osinbajo that the
Biden-Harris Administration will provide an additional $2 million to
help support a safer and more secure elections environment. She also
thanked Vice President Osinbajo for Nigeria’s leadership in working to
reverse recent democratic backsliding in West Africa. 

Vice President Harris welcomed the Government of Nigeria’s recent launch
of its Energy Transition Plan and applauded Vice President Osinbajo’s
leadership for just energy transitions in Africa.  In line with the
Biden-Harris Administration’s U.S. Strategy Toward Sub-Saharan Africa,
the two leaders committed to working closely to support Nigeria’s energy
access and energy security goals, as well as our shared global climate
goals. 

The Vice Presidents also discussed Nigeria’s complex security challenges
and affirmed our cooperation to counter terrorism.  Vice President
Harris noted the importance of strengthening public trust in law
enforcement institutions and highlighted the Biden-Harris
Administration’s commitment to support police reform. To that end, she
informed Vice President Osinbajo that the Biden-Harris Administration
will commit an additional $5 million to support police and criminal
justice reform in Nigeria. The two leaders also discussed the
deteriorating security environment in the Sahel and agreed to continue
to work together to address terrorism in the region. 

In support of the United States’ strong bilateral relationship with
Nigeria, Vice President Harris shared that the Administration intends to
commit up to $627 million in bilateral assistance over the coming year,
subject to congressional approval. 

Vice President Harris noted that she and President Biden look forward to
welcoming Nigeria’s delegation to the December U.S.-Africa Leaders
Summit in Washington, DC.
