---
date: '2022-09-02'
modified_time: 2022-09-02 07:27:48-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-02 07:27:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/02/president-biden-to-announce-21-winners-of-1-billion-american-rescue-plan-regional-challenge/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden to Announce 21 Winners of $1 Billion American Rescue Plan\
  \ Regional\_Challenge"
---
 
*Funding Provides Regional Investments to Transform Local Economies,*
*Create Good-Paying Jobs, Jumpstart Emerging Industries, and Prepare
Workforce for the Future*

**WASHINGTON** – Today, President Biden will announce the 21 winners of
the $1 billion [Build Back Better Regional
Challenge](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/), the most impactful
regional economic development competition in decades. Funded by
President Biden’s American Rescue Plan and administered by the U.S.
Commerce Department’s Economic Development Administration (EDA), the
Regional Challenge provides each award winner funding to rebuild
regional economies, promote inclusive and equitable recovery, and create
thousands of good-paying jobs in industries of the future such as clean
energy, next-generation manufacturing, and biotechnology.

Awardees span 24 states and will receive between $25 million and $65
millionto execute transformational projects and revitalize local
industries. Projects include developing workforce training programs and
connecting workers to jobs; providing support to family-owned
manufacturers to transition from traditional automotives to electric
vehicles; establishing a digital finance sector to support small
businesses in Tribal communities; providing digital resources to small
farms; renovating and repurposing industrial buildings for new
businesses; rebuilding pharmaceutical supply chains in the U.S. to lower
drug costs; building advanced manufacturing centers for testing and
training; deploying solar energy on former coal land; and more.
Additionally, private sector companies and local organizations are
investing an additional $300 million in these local projects.

“Since day one, President Biden has been laser-focused on ensuring that
economic opportunity is delivered to all Americans, especially
communities that have grappled with decades of disinvestment or suffered
economic distress exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic,” said U.S.
Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo. “As we invest and grow critical
industries in the U.S., we want to create industry hubs in diverse
communities across the country. These grants will provide critical and
historic funding directly to community coalitions to invest in new
infrastructure, research and development, and workforce development
programs while creating good-paying jobs, supporting workers, and
prioritizing equity.”

Equity was a key consideration for project finalists, with a focus on
rural, Tribal, and coal communities, as well as communities facing high
and persistent poverty. Funding awards include $87 million to two
primarily Tribal coalitions and, as part of EDA’s $300 million [Coal
Community Commitment](https://eda.gov/arpa/coal-communities/), over $150
million for projects serving energy communities impacted by the
declining use of fossil fuels. These grants will support 236 rural
counties, 136 persistent poverty counties, and 121 counties that include
Tribal areas.

Project winners brought together employers, labor unions and worker
organizations, state and local governments, institutions of higher
education, and community-based organizations for their applications and
will work together on implementing projects. With this funding, projects
will create jobs directly in their community that offer supporting wages
and career stability. Over $270 million of the funding will be allocated
to develop workforce training and development programs and place workers
in jobs.

“EDA is proud to ignite the bold visions of these 21 regional coalitions
to craft ambitious and regionally driven plans to rebuild their
communities,” said Alejandra Y. Castillo, Assistant Secretary of
Commerce for Economic Development. “EDA asked communities directly what
they needed to attract industry and workers to their region, and these
grants are a direct response to their needs. Not only will the projects
offer clear pathways to good jobs and competitive wages, but they will
ensure that economic-based prosperity reaches all pockets of this
country.”

The Build Back Better Regional Challenge winners:

[Central Valley Community
Foundation](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Central-Valley-Community-Foundation.htm) (California)

$65.1 million for the F3 – Fresno-Merced Future of Food

[City of
Manchester](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/City-of-Manchester.htm) (New
Hampshire)

$44 million for The BioFabrication Cluster

[Coalfield
Development](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Coalfield-Development.htm) (West
Virginia)

$62.8 million for the Appalachian Climate Technologies (ACT Now)
Initiative        

[Detroit Regional Partnership
Foundation](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Detroit-Regional-Partnership-Foundation.htm) (Michigan)

$52.2 million for the Global Epicenter of Mobility

[Empire State
Development](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Empire-State-Development-Corporation.htm) (New
York)

$25 million for the Western New York’s Advanced Manufacturing Cluster

[Four Bands Community
Fund](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Four-Bands-Community-Fund.htm) (South
Dakota)

$45 million for the Mountain | Plains Regional Native CDFI Coalition

[Georgia Tech Research
Corporations](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Georgia-Tech-Research-Corporations.htm) (Georgia)

$65 million for GA-AIM

[Greater New Orleans Development
Foundation](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Greater-New-Orleans-Development-Foundation.htm) (Louisiana)

$50 million for H2theFuture

[Greater St. Louis,
Inc.](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Greater-St-Louis.htm) (Missouri)

$25 million for the St. Louis Tech Triangle

[Indian Nations Council of
Governments](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Indian-Nations-Council-of-Governments.htm) (Oklahoma)

$39 million for the Tulsa Regional Advanced Mobility Cluster

[Invest Nebraska
Corporation](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Invest-Nebraska-Corporation.htm) (Nebraska)

$25 million for the Heartland Robotics Cluster

[North Carolina Biotechnology
Center](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/North-Carolina-Biotechnology-Center.htm) (North
Carolina)

$25 million for Accelerate NC – Life Sciences Manufacturing

[Oklahoma City Economic Development
Foundation](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Oklahoma-City-Economic-Development-Foundation.htm) (Oklahoma)

$35 million for the Oklahoma Biotech Innovation Cluster Initiative

[Osceola County Board of County
Commissioners](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Osceola-County-Board-of-County-Commissioners.htm) (Florida)

$50.8 million for the Building Central Florida’s Semiconductor Cluster
for Broad-Based Prosperity

[Port of
Portland](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Port-of-Portland.htm) (Oregon)      

$41.4 million for the Oregon Mass Timber Coalition

[Southeast
Conference](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Southeast-Conference.htm) (Alaska)

$49 million for the Alaska Mariculture Cluster

[Southwestern Pennsylvania New Economy
Collaborative](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Southwestern-Pennsylvania-New-Economy-Collaborative.htm) (Pennsylvania)

$62.7 million for the Southwestern Pennsylvania New Economy
Collaborative 

[The State University of New York (SUNY) at
Binghamton](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/The-Research-Foundation-for-the-State-University-of-New-York.htm) (New
York)  

$63.7 million for New Energy New York

[The University of Texas at El
Paso](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/University-of-Texas-at-El-Paso.htm) (Texas)

$40 million for the West Texas A&D Cluster

[Virginia Biotechnology Research Partnership
Authority](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Virginia-Biotechnology-Research-Partnership-Authority.htm) (Virginia)

$52.9 million for the VA BIO Advanced Pharma Manufacturing (APM) and R&D

[Wichita State
University](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/finalists/Wichita-State-University.htm) (Kansas)

$51.4 million for the South Kansas Coalition

The 21 BBBRC winners were chosen from 60 EDA-designated finalists that
each received approximately $500,000 in funding and technical assistance
to continue developing their cluster strategies. The funding for each
coalition listed above is approximate, with awards to be signed later in
September. Those 60 finalists were chosen from a Phase 1 applicant pool
of 529 applications, which exemplifies the tremendous demand for
transformational regional economic development approaches. EDA will
continue to support all 60 finalists with the creation of a Community of
Practice that will provide technical support, foster connectedness with
peer regions, and build capacity.

The Build Back Better Regional Challenge is one of EDA’s many programs
aimed at building strong regional economies and supporting community-led
economic development. EDA was allocated $3 billion in supplemental
funding under the American Rescue Plan to assist communities nationwide
in their efforts to build back better by accelerating economic recovery
from the coronavirus pandemic and building local economies that will be
resilient to future economic shocks. As a part of this funding, EDA
allocated $300 million through a Coal Communities Commitment to support
coal communities in pandemic recovery and help them create new jobs and
opportunities, including through the creation or expansion of a new
industry sector. Specifically, EDA has dedicated $100 million of its
[Build Back Better Regional
Challenge](https://eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/) funds and $200
million of its [Economic Adjustment
Assistance](https://eda.gov/arpa/economic-adjustment-assistance/) funds
to directly support coal communities. Grantees for EDA’s full suite of
American Rescue Plan programs will be awarded on a rolling basis through
September 30, 2022. For more information, visit
<https://www.eda.gov/ARPA/>.

\###
