---
date: '2022-09-14'
published_time: 2022-09-14 15:41:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/14/white-house-appoints-2022-2023-class-of-white-house-fellows/
tags: statements-releases
title: "White\_House Appoints 2022-2023 Class of White\_House\_Fellows"
---
 
The President’s Commission on White House Fellows is pleased to announce
the appointment of the 2022-2023 class of White House Fellows. Founded
in 1964, the White House Fellows program offers exceptional young
leaders first-hand experience working at the highest levels of the
Federal government. Fellows spend a year working with senior White House
Staff, Cabinet Secretaries, and other top-ranking Administration
officials, and leave the Administration equipped to serve as better
leaders in their communities. Fellowships are awarded on a non-partisan
basis.  
  
This year’s Fellows advanced through a highly competitive selection
process, and they are a remarkably gifted, passionate, and accomplished
group. These Fellows bring experience from across the country and from a
broad cross-section of professions, including from the private sector,
local government, academia, the non-profit sector, medicine, law, and
the armed forces.  
  
Applications for the 2023-2024 Fellowship year will be accepted starting
November 1, 2022. The application link and additional information is
available at: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/get-involved/fellows/apply/>.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">2022-2023 Class of White
House Fellows:</span>**  
  
**Samuel Ayres is from Denver, Colorado, and is placed at the White
House Domestic Policy Council.** Sam earned a J.D. from Yale Law School,
where he published scholarship on environmental law and was a member of
the law journal. Prior to law school, Sam served as a noncommissioned
officer in the U.S. Army’s 75th Ranger Regiment. He deployed multiple
times to Afghanistan, where he led a fire team and rifle squad of
Rangers. Before enlisting in the Army, Sam was a foreign policy
researcher and writer. Sam earned a B.A. in English and Political
Science from Yale College, where he was a Truman Scholar. Following the
Fellowship, he will clerk on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit and the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.  
  
**Jacqueline Burgette is from Issaquah, Washington, and is placed at the
Office of the National Cyber Director.** Jacqueline is a pediatric
dentist, educator, and community-engaged researcher working at the
forefront of advancing dental health equity for all Americans.
Jacqueline earned her DMD from the Harvard School of Dental Medicine as
a Presidential Scholar and Ph.D. in Health Policy and Management from
the University of North Carolina. She served on the faculty at the
University of Pittsburgh where she mentored trainees in research and
clinical practice. Jacqueline led multi-site studies that amplified the
voices of vulnerable families to improve child dental health in
Appalachia. She developed a dental education “video box” for communities
with high rates of tooth decay and founded a dental clinic that serves
children living with HIV/AIDS in Haiti. Jacqueline spearheaded
academic-community partnerships, established novel interprofessional
health curricula, and published prominent research in dental public
health and health policy.  
  
**Makini Chisolm-Straker is from New York City, New York, and is placed
at the Social Security Administration.** Makini is an emergency medicine
physician and a public health expert focused on centering invisible
populations and reframing social policies as determinants of wellbeing.
She led multiple research teams, including those that produced the first
validated, comprehensive trafficking screening tools for undomiciled
young adults and emergency department patients; she co-founded the
advocacy organization HEAL Trafficking; and she helped expand the
anti-trafficking paradigm to one that employs public health principles.
She has served in Africa, the Caribbean, Central America, and the Middle
East in low-resource, disaster, and conflict settings. Makini co-edited
two public health textbooks and has written multiple chapters and
academic articles on labor and sex trafficking, genderqueer emergency
care, and unaccompanied/separated minors. Makini earned an A.B. in
Religious Studies and an M.D. from Brown University, and an M.P.H. from
Columbia University.  
  
**Vanessa Cobarrubias is from Harlingen, Texas, and is placed at
theDepartment of Health and Human Services and the Office of the First
Lady focusing on the Cancer Moonshot Initiative.** After receiving a
Bachelor of Communication Arts from St. Mary’s University and prior to
transitioning into healthcare, Vanessa was an accomplished educator and
speech language pathology assistant. Since obtaining a Master of
Physician Assistant Studies at the University of Texas – Rio Grande
Valley, she has worked tirelessly to serve the Rio Grande community (an
area in which COVID-related deaths were twice that of the rest of the
state of Texas) throughout the pandemic. In addition to overseeing
antibody infusions for over 10,000 patients, she founded and worked
diligently on a door-to-door vaccine awareness program serving the
region’s indigent population. A community-recognized “Texas Healthcare
Hero,” this daughter of educators and granddaughter of immigrant
farmworkers is driven to empower those who cannot speak for
themselves**.**  
  
**Kevin Flores is from Springdale, Arkansas, and is placed at the Small
Business Administration.** Kevin is an attorney and former city
councilman. Born in El Salvador, he and his family came to the U.S. upon
fleeing the Salvadoran civil war. At seventeen, Kevin enlisted in the
U.S. Marine Corps, where he deployed to Iraq in 2007 and was then
assigned to the State Department as an embassy security guard. Kevin
later worked at the Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C., before
returning to Arkansas. In 2020, he became the first Hispanic and first
immigrant elected to the Springdale City Council. Kevin has served on
numerous non-profit boards and is an active Rotarian. He has founded
various mentoring programs and bilingual professional programs in
Springdale Public Schools, the largest school district in Arkansas.
Kevin earned a B.A. in International Political Economics from Fordham
University and a J.D. from the University of Arkansas, School of Law.  
  
**Maria Gilbert is from New York City, New York, and is placed at the
Department of Homeland Security.** Maria is a Lieutenant for the New
York City Police Department (NYPD). As a Lieutenant, she is responsible
for evaluating programs and policies that govern over 50,000 staff
members and for all organizational changes. She also volunteers as a
peer support member for the NYPD, providing critical mental health
resources to employees in need. Outside of the NYPD, Maria is the
founder of Beads of Hope Inc., a non-profit organization focused on
cancer awareness, prevention, and finding a cure while emphasizing the
mental well-being of those affected by cancer. She has a Bachelor of
Computer Engineering Degree and a Master’s Degree in Public
Administration from the Harvard Kennedy School, and she uses this
skillset to merge technology with policy.

**Adan Gonzalez, is from Dallas, Texas, and is placed at the Department
of Education.** As the son of immigrants, Adan values the power of
education. He graduated from Georgetown University, majoring in
Government with a minor in Education, Inquiry and Justice. He earned a
Masters in Education Leadership at Columbia University and a Masters in
Education Policy and Management from Harvard University. Adan has
engaged with students and parents globally to advocate for the
importance of higher education, parental support, and community
involvement. He has served his local community as a teacher and Director
of School & Family Partnerships. He is the Founder of Puede Network, a
family empowerment organization that provides underserved minority
students—many from Dallas’ Oak Cliff neighborhood where Adan grew up and
continues to live—with transformative programming encompassing;
academics, health and nutrition, community stewardship, recreational
athletics, and socio-emotional support. Adan enjoys being a youth soccer
and boxing coach in his spare time, and he aspires to make his family
proud.

**Harrison Hines is from Carmel, Indiana, and is placed at the White
House Domestic Policy Council.** Harrison is a neurologist who leverages
his background in theology and policy to address healthcare disparities
burdening vulnerable populations. As a legislative aide to California
State Assemblymember Shirley Weber, he championed initiatives expanding
insurance coverage for developmentally disabled Californians and
improving representation for incarcerated individuals. During residency
training at University of California, San Francisco, Harrison served on
the boards of trustees for local and state medical societies where he
advocated for equitable COVID-19 vaccine distribution and fair medical
trainee employment practices. Harrison founded a volunteer networking
organization, directed community outreach at a free clinic, and
participated in international research on faith-based healthcare
delivery. He earned his M.D. from Stanford University, Master of
Theological Studies from Duke Divinity School as a Theology, Medicine,
and Culture Fellow, and B.A. from Duke University as a Robertson
Scholar.  
  
**William Jones is from Annapolis, Maryland, and is placed at the
National Security Council.** Will is a Lieutenant Commander in the
United States Navy and has served as a SEAL Officer for 12 years. During
his career in Naval Special Warfare, he has deployed multiple times
focused on combating terrorism in East and North Africa, and South
America. Will’s most recent tour was as the Operations Officer for the
Intelligence and Targeting organization within the SEAL Teams, managing
the operational and logistic requirements for a 400-person command
conducting sensitive operations. Will is a volunteer for the Naval
Special Warfare diversity outreach program, focused on expanding
diversity within maritime Special Operations through education and
engagement across the civilian sector. Will is a graduate of Penn State
University, where he received a Bachelor of Science in Institutional
Management and was captain of his NCAA Division-1 lacrosse program. He
earned his Master of Arts in International Business and Policy from
Georgetown University.  
  
**Jeffrey Nadel is from Centennial, Colorado, and is placed at the
Department of Veterans Affairs.** Jeff is a resident neurosurgeon at the
University of Utah, committed to ensuring equitable access to surgery
for all. In his work combatting health disparities across the globe,
Jeff collaborated with the Costa Rican government to build a national
literacy program for the elderly. He also worked to cultivate a global
surgery research partnership in Uganda. Domestically, he co-directed a
free clinic for the homeless and helped lead an effort to fund community
health workers in Detroit. Jeff served as a researcher at The Brookings
Institution and the National Institutes of Health. He has published more
than three dozen peer-reviewed papers, book chapters, and press
articles. Jeff earned an M.D. and M.S. (Clinical Research) from the
University of Michigan as a Dean’s Scholar, and a B.A. from Colorado
College as a Boettcher Scholar.  
  
**Elizabeth Ragan is from Beavercreek, Oregon, and is placed at the
Office of Science and Technology Policy.** Lizzy is a public health
professional with expertise in infectious diseases and has managed a
range of global and domestic research portfolios. In response to
COVID-19, Lizzy worked with Boston Medical Center leadership to launch
and sustain a novel biorepository to support critical pandemic response
research. She also managed a Massachusetts-wide program addressing
inequitable access to COVID-19 vaccines and care. Most recently, Lizzy
served in a senior management role in research operations. Lizzy is a
disability and DEI advocate, and is a former member of Oregon Health
Authority’s Health Equity Committee. Lizzy earned her B.S. from Oregon
State University where she graduated summa cum laude and received both
the Waldo-Cummings and Kalervo Oberg Outstanding Senior Awards. She
earned her M.P.H. in Global Health and Epidemiology from the Boston
University School of Public Health.  
  
**Graham Van Hook is from Alexandria,** **Virginia, and is placed at the
Office of Cabinet Affairs.** Graham is a fourth generation Naval
Officer, lately serving as a liaison to the Congressional Appropriations
Committees. He has deployed five times around the world, most recently
as Commanding Officer of USS Tornado. While in command, his crew seized
over 50 million dollars in narcotics, and earned the coveted Battle “E”
award as the number one ship in her class. His leadership and policy
articles have been featured in several professional publications. He
served on the Board of the Surface Navy Association and is a Term Member
on the Council on Foreign Relations. Graham dedicates his free time to
United Through Reading, Service2School, and the Oyster Recovery
Partnership. Graham holds a B.S. from the U.S. Naval Academy, a M.S.
from the University of Arkansas and a M.B.A. from Northwestern
University’s Kellogg School of Management.  
  
**Lav Varshney is from Champaign, Illinois,** **and is placed at** **the
National Security Council, Deputy Advisor for Cyber and Emerging
Technology.** He is a professor of engineering, computer science, and
neuroscience at the University of Illinois, where he conducts scholarly
research, technological innovation, teaching, and broad public
engagement. He works with Brookhaven National Laboratory on computing
for national security. He has published widely in core areas of
information theory and artificial intelligence (AI), as well as
applications in climate, sustainability, food, public health, medicine,
creativity, telecommunications, semiconductors, and infrastructure. As
an entrepreneur, he has been chief scientist of startup companies: one
using AI to optimize wastewater treatment, another using AI in social
music co-creativity platforms, and a third making food systems more
resilient and flavorful. He holds a B.S. degree in electrical and
computer engineering from Cornell and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering
and computer science from MIT.  
  
**Vanessa Velasquez is from** **Vero Beach,** **Florida,** **and is
placed at the** **U.S.** **Navy.** Vanessa has extensive project
management experience, most recently at Apple as a Global Supply Manager
where she helped manage sourcing components for the iPhone. In this
role, she engaged with international suppliers for capital equipment.
Previously at Amazon, Vanessa first started in a fulfillment center
running operations, eventually working her way up to corporate
headquarters where she focused on Amazon’s engagement with Hispanic
businesses. In her portfolios, she generated over $20 million in revenue
and led projects worth over $100 million. As a proud Latina raised by a
single mom, Vanessa dedicates her time in and out of work to underserved
communities. She mentors Hispanic Scholarship Fund scholars to cultivate
future Hispanic leaders. She previously served as the inaugural Director
of Fulfillment Center and Community Engagement at Glamazon (Amazon’s
LGBTQ+ ERG). Vanessa earned her B.B.A. and B.A. from Mississippi State
University.  
  
**Joshua Woehr is from Clearwater, Florida, and is placed at the Office
of the First Lady Joining Forces Initiative. ** Josh is a Sergeant Major
in the U.S. Army and has served over 20 years in Special Operations as a
Green Beret and Ranger, having deployed over 15 times. He recently
returned from Iraq, where he led the integration of next-generation
technology onto the battlefield. A father of six children, Josh is
passionate about serving military families. In 2014, he and his wife
founded the Rick Herrema Foundation, establishing “Rick’s Place” at Fort
Bragg, NC. Rick’s Place is a 50-acre campus that provides a place of
community and activity to thousands of military family members every
year. Josh is a first-generation college graduate, holding a B.A. in
Arabic Studies from California University of Pennsylvania and an M.A. in
Social-Organizational Psychology from Teachers College, Columbia
University.

\###
