---
date: '2022-09-16'
modified_time: 2022-09-16 18:23:02-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-16 18:23:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/16/icymi-week-of-climate-action-from-the-biden-harris-administration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI: Week of Climate Action from the Biden-\u2060Harris\_Administration"
---
 
President Biden’s economic plan is building a clean energy future in
America that is creating good-paying jobs, lowering energy costs, and
tackling the climate crisis.  
  
On Tuesday, President Biden welcomed thousands of guests to the White
House to celebrate passage of the Inflation Reduction Act—the most
aggressive action the United States has taken to combat climate change,
while advancing environmental justice and saving families money. On
Wednesday, he toured the Detroit Auto Show to celebrate the American
electric vehicle manufacturing boom spurred by his economic plan.  
  
Throughout the week, the Biden-Harris Administration charged forward
with major executive actions across sectors to tackle the climate
crisis:

-   [**Electric
    Vehicles**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/14/fact-sheet-president-bidens-economic-plan-drives-americas-electric-vehicle-manufacturing-boom/):
    At the Detroit Auto Show, President Biden highlighted the $85
    billion invested since he took office to make electric vehicles,
    batteries, and chargers in America. He also announced the
    Administration’s [approval](https://highways.dot.gov/newsroom/biden-harris-administration-announces-approval-first-35-state-plans-build-out-ev-charging) of
    the first 35 state plans for EV charging made possible by the
    President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
-   [**Offshore
    Wind**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-expand-u-s-offshore-wind-energy/)**:** The
    Administration launched actions to drive U.S. leadership on floating
    offshore wind platforms, an emerging technology key to harnessing
    the clean energy potential of deep waters along the West Coast, Gulf
    of Maine, and other areas. The actions aim to reduce the costs of
    floating offshore wind by at least 70% by 2035, and the
    Administration set a new deployment goal of 15 gigawatts of floating
    offshore wind by 2035.
-   [**Cleaner Industry & Construction
    Materials**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-buy-clean-actions-to-ensure-american-manufacturing-leads-in-the-21st-century/)**:** The
    Administration announced new actions under the Federal Buy Clean
    Initiative to prioritize purchase of lower-carbon steel, concrete,
    asphalt, and flat glass—materials that account for nearly half of
    all U.S. manufacturing greenhouse gas emissions. Transportation
    Secretary Pete Buttigieg, GSA  Administrator Robin Carnahan, and
    Deputy National Climate Advisor Ali Zaidi made the announcements at
    the Cleveland-Cliffs Direct Reduction steel plant in Toledo, Ohio,
    an emblem of good-paying jobs in clean American manufacturing.
-   [**Climate-Smart
    Agriculture**](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2022/09/14/biden-harris-administration-announces-historic-investment):
    Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack embarked on a five-state tour to
    announce that USDA tripled its commitment to climate-smart
    agriculture to support a first round of 70 projects—reaching more
    than 50,000 farms and sequestering over 50 million metric tons of
    greenhouse gas emissions.

The Administration also
launched [CleanEnergy.gov](https://cleanenergy.gov/), a website to help
families learn how the Inflation Reduction Act can save them money on
more energy efficient appliances that bring down utility bills, buying a
new or used electric vehicle, and more.

*Read below for coverage of this week’s announcements:*  
  
**<u>ELECTRIC VEHICLE MANUFACTURING BOOM</u>**  
  
**The New York Times: **[**At Detroit Auto Show, Biden Announces Money
for Charging
Stations**](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/09/14/us/politics/detroit-biden-charging-stations.html)  
\[Zach Montague and Coral Davenport, 9/14/22\]

President Biden, a self-described “car guy” and Corvette owner, toured
the North American International Auto Show in Detroit on Wednesday and
announced the **approval of an initial $900 million investment to begin
building electric vehicle charging stations** across the federal highway
system.  
  
**Reuters: **[**Biden declares ‘Detroit is back’ as he lauds shift to
electric
vehicles**](https://www.reuters.com/business/autos-transportation/biden-promote-shift-evs-visit-detroit-auto-show-2022-09-14/)  
\[David Shepardson and Jeff Mason, 9/14/22\]  
  
President Joe Biden took a victory lap on Wednesday at the Detroit auto
show, highlighting automakers’ increasing shift to electric vehicles
and **billions of dollars in new investments in battery plants **. . .
White House National Climate Adviser Ali Zaidi told Reuters automakers
and battery firms in 2022 announced “$13 billion into EV manufacturing”
as they accelerate “the pace of their investment into capital projects
here in the United States.”  
  
**AP: **[**Car guy Biden to tout electric vehicles at Detroit auto
show**](https://apnews.com/article/biden-detroit-north-america-auto-show-e30f83b1d6e7df491b1a7953507dbaa4)  
\[Colleen Long and Tom Krisher, 9/14/22\]

In Detroit, Biden announced approval of the first $900 million in
infrastructure money to build** EV chargers across 53,000 miles of the
national highway system in 34 states and Puerto Rico.** “The great
American road trip is going to be fully electrified,” Biden said.  
  
**<u>OFFSHORE WIND TO POWER FIVE MILLION HOMES</u>**

  
**The Verge: **[**The Biden administration’s big new plans for floating
offshore wind
turbines**](https://www.theverge.com/2022/9/15/23354923/biden-administration-floating-offshore-wind-turbines)  
\[Justine Calma, 9/15/22\]

The Biden administration announced splashy new goals today aimed
at **positioning the US as a leader in the development of
next-generation floating wind turbines.** The announcement substantially
expands Biden’s previous offshore wind ambitions by opening up new areas
that traditional fixed-bottom turbines haven’t been able to reach.  
  
**Reuters: **[**U.S. sets target for floating offshore wind farms
expansion**](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/us-sets-target-floating-offshore-wind-farms-expansion-2022-09-15/)  
\[Nichola Groom, 9/15/22\]  
The Biden administration on Thursday unveiled a plan to accelerate
development of next-generation floating offshore wind farms
by **slashing the cost of the technology by 70% and setting a goal for
it to power 5 million U.S. homes by 2035**. The announcement was the
latest in the White House’s push to bolster the nation’s fledgling
offshore wind industry as part of its climate-change agenda.

**AP: **[**Biden plans floating platforms to expand offshore wind
power**](https://apnews.com/article/biden-technology-pacific-ocean-oceans-wind-power-1c74aa9de1ff741d37008ea521017c0d)  
\[Matthew Daly and Jennifer McDermott, 9/15/22\]  
  
Oregon Gov. Kate Brown said her state and California have some of the
best wind resources in the world, but called floating platforms crucial
to develop them due to the depth of the ocean floor along the West
Coast. Heather Zichal, CEO of the American Clean Power Association, an
industry group, called the announcement **a “game changer” that will
spark investment in a new domestic supply chain **and allow the U.S. to
lead in this emerging technology.  
  
**CNN: **[**Biden administration announces plan to develop floating
offshore wind turbines for West
Coast**](https://www.cnn.com/2022/09/15/politics/floating-offshore-wind-turbines-biden-climate/index.html)  
\[Ella Nilsen, 9/15/22\]

The Biden administration on Thursday announced several new initiatives
to develop technology for massive, floating offshore wind turbines as
part of the effort to **launch offshore wind in California and elsewhere
on the Pacific and Atlantic coasts** . . . Outgoing White House climate
adviser Gina McCarthy called offshore wind a “new American industry
that’s really booming” and said the new initiative were designed so the
US can try to position itself “to lead the world on floating offshore
wind.”  
  
**<u>BUYING CLEAN CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS</u>**

**Bloomberg: **[**White House Releases Plan to Cut Construction Carbon
Emissions**](https://news.bloomberglaw.com/environment-and-energy/white-house-releases-plan-to-cut-construction-carbon-emissions)  
\[Stephen Lee, 9/15/22\]

The Biden administration said Thursday it will tell agencies to buy
low-carbon types of steel, concrete, asphalt, and flat glass. Taken
together, **those four materials account for nearly half of all domestic
carbon emissions from the manufacturing sector**, and 98% of the
government’s construction materials purchases, according to a White
House fact sheet. The plan also extends to federally-funded projects,
the White House said.  
  
**Toledo Blade: **[**Transportation Secretary Buttigieg highlights
Cleveland-Cliffs in climate, infrastructure
plans**](https://www.toledoblade.com/local/politics/2022/09/15/buttigieg-cleveland-cliffs-climate-infrastructure-plans/stories/20220915130)  
\[Trevor Hubert, 9/15/22\]

For U.S. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg, Thursday served as
a “win-win-win,” as he highlighted the department’s commitment
to **tackling climate change by purchasing clean materials **. . . The
Biden Administration delegation led by Mr. Buttigieg, deputy national
climate adviser Ali Zaidi, and U.S. General Services Administration
administrator Robin Carnahan used the Cleveland-Cliffs facility as an
example of what the administration is looking for: American-made,
energy-efficient material production to power everything from electric
vehicles to wind turbines.  
  
**E&E News: **[**Biden officials tout moves to buy greener
materials**](https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/eenews/2022/09/15/biden-officials-tout-moves-to-buy-greener-materials-00057027)  
\[Robin Bravender, 9/15/22\]

The administration announced Thursday that it’s **adding additional
agencies to its Buy Clean Task Force. **That task force — led by the
Council on Environmental Quality and White House Office of Domestic
Climate Policy — was launched in February to promote the purchase of
lower-emitting construction materials.

**CLIMATE-SMART AGRICULTURE PROJECTS ACROSS 50,000**

**<u>FARMS</u>**  
**Reuters: **[**U.S. farm agency to triple investment in
climate-friendly
farming**](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/us-farm-agency-triple-investment-climate-friendly-farming-2022-09-14/)  
\[Leah Douglas, 9/14/22\]

The U.S. Department of Agriculture will **invest nearly $3 billion in
projects to reduce climate-harming emissions from farming and forestry,
tripling the funding** it had initially envisioned for the program, the
agency announced on Wednesday. The investment is part of a broader
effort by the administration of President Joe Biden to decarbonize the
U.S. economy within decades and make the United States a leader in the
fight against global climate change.

**Iowa Capital Dispatch: **[**USDA more than triples funding for
‘climate smart’
agriculture**](https://iowacapitaldispatch.com/2022/09/14/usda-more-than-triples-funding-for-climate-smart-agriculture/)  
\[Jared Strong, 9/14/22\]

The Biden administration plans to distribute more than $3 billion to
fund projects that will **reduce greenhouse gas emissions and sequester
carbon in agriculture and forestry** — a tripling of its initial
commitment in February . . . The initial round of projects is expected
to encompass the production of livestock, milk, corn, soybeans, wheat,
rice, peanuts, cotton, timber and others, with producers in each state
included in at least one project. The program requires that those
project leaders make periodic reports of their progress.

**Michigan Farm News: **[**Payments, incentives for ‘climate-smart’
practices coming to MI through USDA-backed
projects**](https://www.michiganfarmnews.com/payments-incentives-for-climate-smart-practices-coming-to-mi-through-usda-backed-projects-)  
\[Farm News Media, 9/14/22\]

USDA anticipates projects through the Climate-Smart Commodities program
will result in **hundreds of expanded markets and revenue streams for
producers across more than 50,000 farms and more than 20 million acres
of working land.** The department used recommendations from the Food and
Agricultural Climate Alliance (FACA), a group comprised of more than 80
member organizations — including AFBF — when developing the Partnerships
for Climate-Smart Commodities.  
  
**<u>CLEANENERGY.GOV TO SAVE CONSUMERS MONEY</u>**

**New York Times: **[**How the Climate Law Can Save You Thousands of
Dollars**](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/09/13/climate/climate-law-tax-credits.html)  
\[Coral Davenport, 9/13/22\]  
  
The Inflation Reduction Act signed into law by President Biden in August
includes about $370 billion to fight climate change, some of it in the
form of **tax credits and rebates to help consumers save thousands of
dollars on energy-efficient appliances, plug-in vehicles and renewable
electricity** for their homes . . . The Biden administration has created
a [website](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cleanenergy/?utm_source=www.cleanenergy.gov) designed
to help you figure out which cars, appliances and home improvements will
qualify for the tax credits and rebates.  
  
**The Verge: **[**The Inflation Reduction Act’s tax credits are
confusing, so the White House launched a website to
help**](https://www.theverge.com/2022/9/13/23350787/inflation-reduction-act-green-energy-tax-credit-website)  
\[Andrew J. Hawkins, 9/13/22\]

The Biden administration launched a new website — CleanEnergy.gov —
aimed at helping Americans navigate the new green energy tax credits
contained in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA) . . . **The new
website is designed to help Americans save money on home upgrades or new
purchases while also steering them toward cleaner, more efficient
products.** The website serves as a hub for basic questions about the
clean energy tax credits, redirecting visitors to other government sites
that contain more detailed information about solar roof installation,
heat pumps, and other repairs they could make to make their home more
energy efficient.

\###
