---
date: '2022-09-21'
modified_time: 2022-09-21 15:21:44-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-21 15:19:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/21/what-they-are-reading-in-the-states-president-bidens-student-debt-relief-plan-will-benefit-borrowers-in-every-state/
tags: statements-releases
title: "What They Are Reading in the States:\_President\_Biden\u2019s Student Debt\
  \ Relief Plan Will Benefit Borrowers in Every\_State"
---
 
  
Local news outlets across the country – from Oregon to Ohio– are
reporting on new state-by-state data that demonstrates how the
Biden-Harris Administration’s plan for student debt relief will benefit
borrowers in all fifty states, Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration expects that over 40 million borrowers
are eligible for its student debt relief plan, and nearly 20 million
borrowers could see their entire remaining balance discharged. Nearly
90% of relief dollars will go to those earning less than $75,000 per
year – and no relief will go to any individual or household in the top
5% of incomes in the United States.  
  
*Read below for a sample of what Americans are reading in the states:*  
  
  
***Alabama***  
  
**AL.com:** [**588,000 eligible for student debt relief in Alabama,
White House
estimates**](https://www.al.com/news/2022/09/588000-eligible-for-student-debt-relief-in-alabama-white-house-estimates.html)  
  
As the White House gears up for student debt relief applications to
open, newly released estimates show 588,000 Alabamians will be eligible
for $10,000 in federal loan relief, along with 404,900 Pell borrowers
eligible for up to $20,000 in relief.  
  
  
***Arkansas***  
  
**Arkansas Democrat Gazette:** [**U.S. Education Department: 365,600
Arkansans can receive break on student loans under Biden
plan**](https://www.arkansasonline.com/news/2022/sep/21/us-education-department-365600-arkansans-can/)  
More than 350,000 Arkansans can receive at least some student loan debt
forgiveness under a plan announced last month by President Joe Biden,
according to state-by-state data released by the U.S. Department of
Education and White House on Tuesday.  
  
  
***California***  
  
**KGET:** [**California has more than 3.5M borrowers eligible for
student loan
forgiveness**](https://www.kget.com/news/state-news/heres-how-many-people-in-your-state-may-get-student-loan-relief/)  
According to the White House, 90% of this student loan relief will go to
borrowers earning less than $75,000 a year.… In California, over 3.5
million borrowers are expected to receive up to $10,000 in student debt
cancelation.  
  
  
***Colorado***  
  
**Colorado Newsline:** [**White House estimates almost 700K Coloradans
will benefit from student loan
forgiveness**](https://coloradonewsline.com/briefs/white-house-700k-coloradans-student-loan/)  
Almost 700,000 student loan borrowers in Colorado are expected to
benefit from President Joe Biden’s student debt relief plan. The White
House released state-by-state data today showing that over 40 million
borrowers are eligible across the country for debt relief. In Colorado,
an estimated total of 698,100 borrowers will be eligible, while about
419,000 of those borrowers received Pell Grants and are eligible for
higher relief.  
  
  
***Connecticut***  
  
**The Charger Bulletin:** [**What you need to know about President
Biden’s student loan forgiveness
plan**](https://chargerbulletin.com/what-you-need-to-know-about-president-bidens-student-loan-forgiveness-plan/)  
President Joseph Biden and his administration have recently rolled out a
loan forgiveness plan to eliminate student loan debt for lower income
families. This three-part plan is designed to help working and middle
class federal student loan borrowers transition back to regular payment
as pandemic-related support expires.  
  
**Connecticut Insider:** [**In CT, 454,200 qualify for federal student
debt
forgiveness**](https://www.ctinsider.com/news/article/In-CT-454-200-qualify-for-federal-student-debt-17455658.php?src=ctipdensecp)  
An estimated 454,200 borrowers in Connecticut are eligible to receive at
least $10,000 in federal student debt relief implemented under President
Joe Biden’s plan on loan forgiveness, according to data released by the
White House on Tuesday.  
  
  
***Georgia***  
  
**Atlanta Journal Constitution:** [**Feds: Georgia student loan relief
to mostly help low-income
borrowers**](https://www.ajc.com/education/feds-georgia-student-loan-relief-to-mostly-help-low-income-borrowers/AEKR3AJCVNFBBPXEBYUCECAAO4/)  
About 1.5 million Georgians are eligible for student loan forgiveness,
most of them low-income borrowers, White House officials said Tuesday in
an effort to strengthen support for the initiative. Nearly 70% of those
in Georgia eligible for forgiveness are also Pell Grant recipients.  
  
  
***Illinois***  
  
**WGN (News Radio Chicago, IL):** [**Here’s how many people in Illinois
and all states may get student loan
relief**](https://wgnradio.com/news/heres-how-many-people-in-illinois-and-all-states-may-get-student-loan-relief/)  
While 8 million borrowers are expected to qualify for automatic federal
student loan forgiveness, the majority of eligible borrowers will need
to wait until early October to apply for debt relief, according to the
Department of Education.  
  
  
***Iowa***  
  
**Ames Tribune:** [**White House says more than 400,000 Iowans eligible
for student debt
relief**](https://www.amestrib.com/story/news/education/2022/09/20/biden-white-house-95-percent-iowans-student-loan-forgiveness/10435902002/)  
About 95% of Iowans with student loan debt will be eligible for some
relief, according to new numbers released by the Biden administration
Tuesday.  
  
  
***Kansas***  
  
**Kansas City Star:** [**More than 1 million Kansans and Missourians
eligible for student debt
relief**](https://www.kansascity.com/news/politics-government/article266069666.html#storylink=cpy)  
More than 1 million residents in Kansas and Missouri will be eligible
for student loan relief under a new proposal by the Biden administration
to forgive up to $10,000 in student loan debt.  
  
**Kansas Reflector:** [**Thousands of Kansans eligible for student debt
forgiveness, White House officials
say**](https://kansasreflector.com/2022/09/20/thousands-of-kansans-eligible-for-student-debt-forgiveness-white-house-officials-say/)  
Kansans who have struggled to repay student debt may receive relief,
with hundreds of thousands in the state eligible for some form of debt
forgiveness, the Biden-Harris administration announced Tuesday. In
Kansas, about 360,900 student loan recipients qualify for some form of
loan forgiveness, with 225,500 Kansan Pell Grant recipients eligible.  
  
**Topeka Capital Journal:** [**Here’s how many Kansans are set to be
affected by President Joe Biden’s student debt
plan**](https://www.cjonline.com/story/news/education/2022/09/21/kansas-student-loan-forgiveness-residents-get-how-apply-taxes-debt/10435289002/)  
Over 360,000 Kansans are set to benefit from a plan announced by
President Joe Biden last month to provide student loan debt relief
nationally, according to figures released by the White House on Tuesday.
If every person eligible claims the maximum amount they are eligible
for, Kansans would receive over $5.8 billion in relief.  
  
  
***Kentucky***  
  
**Lexington Herald Leader:** [**Over 563,000 Kentuckians eligible for
student loan
forgiveness.**](https://www.kentucky.com/news/local/education/article266070051.html#storylink=cpy)  
More than half a million Kentuckians could have their student loan debt
forgiven under President Joe Biden’s plan, the White House announced
Tuesday.  
  
  
***Louisiana***  
  
**Lafayette Daily Advertiser:** [**Here’s how more than 600,000
Louisiana student borrowers can claim debt
relief**](https://www.theadvertiser.com/story/news/2022/09/20/heres-how-louisiana-student-borrowers-can-claim-bidens-debt-relief/69507454007/)  
More than 600,000 Louisiana student borrowers are eligible for debt
relief of up to $20,000 under President Joe Biden’s plan with about half
of those eligible to have all of their student loans forgiven, according
to data released by the White House Tuesday. In all, 40% of all
Louisiana adults who attended college are eligible for relief and 13% of
the state’s population is eligible.  
  
  
***Maine***  
  
**Maine Beacon:** [**White House: Nearly 280000 Mainers qualify for
student loan
forgiveness**](https://mainebeacon.com/white-house-nearly-280000-mainers-qualify-for-student-loan-forgiveness/)  
Almost 280,000 Mainers are eligible to have some or all of their student
loans forgiven, the White House announced Tuesday. Most of the Maine
recipients — 175,000 — are eligible for up to $10,000 in student loan
forgiveness. The remaining 105,300 Mainers could have up to $20,000
forgiven because they received Pell Grants, which are provided to
students whose families can’t help them pay for college.  
  
  
***Massachusetts***  
  
**Boston Globe:** [**More than 800,000 Mass. student loan borrowers
eligible for debt relief, White House
says**](https://www.bostonglobe.com/2022/09/20/business/more-than-800000-mass-student-loan-borrowers-eligible-debt-relief-white-house-says/)  
Some 813,000 Massachusetts residents will be eligible for loan
forgiveness under the Biden Administration’s recently announced plan to
tackle student debt, and roughly half of them are Pell Grant recipients,
meaning they may have a greater share of their debt forgiven, the White
House said Tuesday.  
  
**WBUR (NPR Boston, MA):** [**1 in 9 Mass. residents could get some
student debt canceled. Here are the next
steps**](https://www.wbur.org/news/2022/09/21/student-debt-relief-lasell-university-learning-disability-screening-newsletter)  
813,000 — or one in nine — Massachusetts residents stand to benefit from
the plan, according to figures released Tuesday by the White House. That
includes 401,200 Pell Grant recipients in the state who could get as
much as $20,000 of their student loans eliminated. Other borrowers could
get up to $10,000 of their loans canceled (remember: the income limit
for relief is $125,000 a year for individuals or $250,000 for couples).

**CommonWealth:** [**White House says 813,000 in Mass. eligible for
student debt
relief**](https://commonwealthmagazine.org/education/white-house-says-813000-in-mass-eligible-for-student-debt-relief/)  
An estimated 813,000 student loan borrowers in Massachusetts will
qualify for debt relief under President Biden’s student debt relief
plan, according to data released by the White  
  
  
***Michigan***  
  
**The Detroit News:** [**Estimated 1.3M in Michigan eligible for student
debt
relief**](https://www.detroitnews.com/story/news/politics/2022/09/20/estimated-1-3-m-michigan-eligible-student-debt-relief-white-house-says/8064734001/)  
The White House said Tuesday that an estimated 1.3 million student
borrowers in Michigan would see relief under the forgiveness plan that
President Joe Biden announced last month. That figure includes 849,300
Pell Grant borrowers that would be eligible for relief and an estimated
600,000 of Michiganians who could have their debt eliminated entirely,
according to data from the U.S. Department of Education.  
  
  
***Minnesota***  
  
**Star Tribune:** [**About 730,000 Minnesota borrowers to benefit from
student debt
relief**](https://www.startribune.com/department-of-education-about-730000-minnesota-borrowers-to-benefit-from-student-debt-relief/600208670/)  
About 729,700 borrowers in Minnesota are eligible for student debt
relief under President Joe Biden’s loan forgiveness plan, according to
estimates from the Department of Education.  
  
**Brainerd Dispatch:** [**White House: 920K Minnesotans, Dakotans would
benefit from $14.5B in student loan
forgiveness**](https://www.brainerddispatch.com/news/white-house-920k-minnesotans-dakotans-would-benefit-from-14-5b-in-student-loan-forgiveness)  
More than 900,000 borrowers in Minnesota and the Dakotas could benefit
from roughly $14.5 billion in student loan forgiveness before the year’s
end, according to new data released by the White House.  
  
  
***Mississippi***  
  
**Mississippi Politics and News:** [**Y’all Politics: White House: 40%
of all adult Mississippi college attendees to see student loan
forgiveness**](https://yallpolitics.com/2022/09/20/white-house-40-of-all-adult-mississippi-college-attendees-to-see-student-loan-forgiveness/)  
In Mississippi, Louisiana, West Virginia, and Ohio, the White House told
Y’all Politics that the impact will be so far reaching that 40 percent
of all adults who attended college “will see much-needed relief.” The
White House says an estimated 417,200 borrowers in Mississippi are
eligible for the federal forgiveness. In addition, the Administration
estimates that 316,400 Mississippians are Pell Grant borrowers eligible
for the larger debt forgiveness.  
  
**WCBI (CBS Columbus, MS):** [**White House releases information on
student loan forgiveness
eligibility.**](https://www.wcbi.com/white-house-releases-information-on-student-loan-forgiveness-eligibility/)  
Today, the White House released state-by-state estimated numbers, and
the totals may surprise you. In Mississippi and Alabama, just over 1.7
million people may be eligible for some level of student loan relief.  
  
  
***Missouri***  
  
**Ozark Radio News:** [**93% of Missourians with Student Load Debt To
Benefit From Forgiveness
Plan**](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwinzYrqkab6AhWDEVkFHWJwAFUQFnoECB0QAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ozarkradionews.com%2Flocal-news%2F93-of-missourians-with-student-load-debt-to-benefit-from-forgiveness-plan&usg=AOvVaw368q1LGOG7tQX9ybG7l_8p)  
With over a sixth of Missourians feeling the weight of student load
debt, most will see some relief from the Biden Administration Student
Loan Forgiveness Plan. Of the roughly 833,400 Missourians with student
load debt, 777,300, or 93.3%, are eligible for student debt relief
according to recent information released by the White House.  
  
  
***Nebraska***  
  
**Omaha World-Herald:** [**White House estimates 232,100 Nebraskans are
eligible for student debt
relief**](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwjLhe-Ikqb6AhUjFFkFHd1XAkkQFnoECAoQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fomaha.com%2Fnews%2Flocal%2Feducation%2Fwhite-house-estimates-232-100-nebraskans-are-eligible-for-student-debt-relief%2Farticle_df490d92-390a-11ed-919b-631f58070a15.html&usg=AOvVaw1K9gNitPhR47j6Pqg6BJJd)  
The federal government on Tuesday released the number of borrowers in
Nebraska who will be eligible for student debt relief. In a press
release, the White House estimated that about 232,100 borrowers,
including 136,000 Pell grant recipients, will be eligible for the
one-time debt relief plan announced by President Joe Biden last month.  
  
  
***Nevada***  
  
**Las Vegas Review-Journal:** [**More than 300K Nevadans eligible for
student debt
relief**](https://www.reviewjournal.com/local/education/more-than-300k-nevadans-eligible-for-student-debt-relief-2643518/)  
More than 300,000 Nevadans are eligible for federal student debt relief,
according to state-level estimates released Tuesday by the White
House.  
  
**Nevada Current:** [**Majority of Nevadans eligible for student loan
relief will qualify for $20K, estimates White
House**](https://www.nevadacurrent.com/blog/majority-of-nevadans-eligible-for-student-loan-relief-will-qualify-for-20k-estimates-white-house/)  
More than two-thirds of Nevadans eligible for student debt relief are
Pell Grant recipients, according to estimates released by The White
House. The Biden-Harris Administration released a statewide breakdown
Tuesday of those who could benefit from student loan forgiveness that
estimated 315,800 borrowers in Nevada could be eligible. Of those,
216,900 are Pell Grant recipients.  
  
  
***New Jersey***  
  
**New Jersey Advance Media:** [**Nearly 1.1M residents in N.J. could
benefit from student loan forgiveness program, White House
says**](https://www.nj.com/education/2022/09/nearly-11m-residents-in-nj-could-benefit-from-student-loan-forgiveness-program-white-house-says.html)  
Nearly 1.1 million New Jersey residents could benefit from President Joe
Biden’s plan to forgive up to $20,000 in student loans, new White House
statistics show. Figures released Tuesday showed that 1,082,900 state
residents could take advantage of the program announced last month, with
more than half, 590,300, receiving up to $20,000 in loan forgiveness
since they receive Pell Grants, given to lower-income college
students.  
  
  
***New York***  
  
**WKBW (ABC Buffalo, NY):** [**White House releases state-by-state data
on benefits of student debt
relief**](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwitnPe9kqb6AhVUD1kFHaZzAroQFnoECA0QAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.wkbw.com%2Fnews%2Flocal-news%2Fwhite-house-releases-state-by-state-data-on-benefits-of-student-debt-relief&usg=AOvVaw3FCyAtoJ_nSvHJuUpDSkYh)  
New York State has an estimated 2,258,800 student loan borrowers that
are eligible for student debt relief – coming in at the fourth highest
in the country after California, Texas, and Florida. The number of New
York Pell Grant recipients eligible for the student loan relief comes in
at 1,320,100 – also fourth in the nation.  
  
  
***North Carolina***  
  
**News & Observer:** [**More student loan relief will go to low-income
NC
borrowers**](https://www.newsobserver.com/news/local/education/article266070436.html#storylink=cpy)  
More than one million North Carolinians will save thousands of dollars
or have their student loans eliminated under the Biden Administration’s
new debt relief plan. Most of them were low-income students who had
federal Pell grants in college. The U.S. Department of Education
estimates that 1,190,500 borrowers in North Carolina are eligible for
the debt relief and 785,000 of them are eligible for up to $20k because
they received Pell grants, according to a new state-by-state data
analysis.  
  
  
***Ohio***  
  
**Cleveland Plain Dealer:** [**White House estimates more than 1.5
million Ohioans would benefit from student loan debt relief
plan**](https://www.cleveland.com/open/2022/09/white-house-estimates-more-than-15-million-ohioans-would-benefit-from-student-loan-debt-relief-plan.html)  
The U.S. Department of Education on Tuesday estimated that more than 1.5
million Ohioans will be able to take advantage of President Joe Biden’s
plan to forgive as much as $20,000 in federal student loan debts to
borrowers who received Pell Grants and as much as $10,000 for other
borrowers.

**WHIO (Cox Media Dayton, OH):** [**Student debt relief: White House
projects half of 40M eligible borrowers could see clean
slates**](https://www.whio.com/news/trending/student-debt-relief-white-house-projects-half-40m-eligible-borrowers-could-see-clean-slates/SYMSKQRYHJHWZHHH6LCZ5JEI34/#:~:text=Trending-,Student%20debt%20relief%3A%20White%20House%20projects%20half%20of%2040M,borrowers%20could%20see%20clean%20slates&text=WASHINGTON%20%E2%80%94%20More%20than%2040%20million,White%20House%20projections%20released%20Tuesday.)  
Per the debt relief plan, the U.S. Department of Education will cancel
up to $20,000 worth of debt for Pell Grant recipients and $10,000 worth
of debt for those who did not receive Pell Grants, officials said.
Borrowers who make more than $125,000 individually or $250,000 as a
household are not eligible for the debt cancellation, according to
authorities.    
  
***Oklahoma***  
  
**KRMG (Cox Media Tulsa, OK):** [**White House reveals how many
Oklahomans will benefit from student debt
relief**](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwjBnfXokqb6AhX7MlkFHbkBAdMQFnoECAsQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.krmg.com%2Fnews%2Flocal%2Fwhite-house-reveals-how-many-oklahomans-will-benefit-student-debt-relief%2F2JYV42QGHFBTZG7SOQ72U4RR7U%2F&usg=AOvVaw3ADaelsa0z6dSoyKBSgWRM)  
In Oklahoma, the White House estimated 454,300 borrowers are eligible to
receive up to $10,000 is student debt relief. For those who received a
Pell Grant, the White House estimated 321,600 borrowers are eligible to
receive up to $20,000 in student debt relief.  
  
  
***Oregon***  
  
**Oregon Capital Chronicle:** [**White House: Nearly 500,000 Oregonians
qualify for student loan
forgiveness**](https://oregoncapitalchronicle.com/2022/09/20/white-house-nearly-500000-oregonians-qualify-for-student-loan-forgiveness/)  
Almost 500,000 Oregonians are eligible to have some or all of their
student loans forgiven, the White House announced Tuesday. Most of the
Oregon recipients – more than 332,100 – could have up to $20,000
forgiven because they received Pell Grants, which are provided to
students whose families can’t help them pay for college. The remaining
nearly 168,000 Oregonians are eligible for up to $10,000 in student loan
forgiveness.  
  
**Central Oregon Daily News:** [**Half-million Oregonians could benefit
from student loan relief: White
House**](https://centraloregondaily.com/student-loan-forgiveness-oregon/)  
The White House says nearly a half-million Oregonians could benefit from
the recently announced cancellation of $10,000 of student loan debt. And
more than 300,000 could benefit from the planned $20,000 in relief to
Pell Grant recipients. The Education Department says 499,000 Oregonians
would benefit from the basic student loan relief. About 332,100 would
get Pell Grant forgiveness.  
  
  
***South Dakota***  
  
**KELO (CBS Sioux Falls, SD):** [**Over 150,000 South Dakotans qualify
for student loan
forgiveness**](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwj00fy7k6b6AhVTEFkFHRRgBeIQFnoECAwQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.keloland.com%2Fnews%2Feducation%2Fover-150000-south-dakotans-qualify-for-student-loan-forgiveness%2F&usg=AOvVaw0o0-VZJ0ZPZ33fLaolhtFC)  
Nearly 20% of South Dakotans will have at least $10,000 less in student
loan debt due to Joe Biden’s debt relief plan.  
  
  
***Tennessee***  
  
**WKRN (ABC Nashville, TN):** [**Here’s how many people in Tennessee,
other states may get student loan
relief**](https://www.wkrn.com/news/national/heres-how-many-people-in-your-state-may-get-student-loan-relief/)  
Over 40 million Americans are expected to qualify for federal student
loan forgiveness from the Biden administration, with as many as 20
million likely to have their remaining balances entirely erased.  
  
  
***Texas***  
  
**Houston Chronicle:** [**As Republicans fight Biden student loan
forgiveness, data shows 3.3 million Texans would
benefit**](https://www.houstonchronicle.com/politics/texas/article/Biden-plan-would-clear-student-debt-of-Texans-17454306.php)  
More Texans would benefit from President Joe Biden’s plan to forgive
student loan debt than residents of nearly any other state — and 1.6
million would have their balances completely cleared — according to new
White House estimates released as Republicans call it an
unconstitutional giveaway to the elite and seek to derail it. More than
3.3 million Texans would be eligible to have at least $10,000 forgiven
and most people in that group, 2.3 million, would have $20,000
forgiven.  
  
  
***Virginia***  
  
**WCAV (CBS Charlottesville, VA):** [**Hundreds of thousands of
Virginians could be helped by student debt
relief**](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwiHjeumlKb6AhX-EFkFHWNhBFAQFnoECBoQAQ&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.cbs19news.com%2Fstory%2F47326503%2Fhundreds-of-thousands-of-virginia-could-be-helped-by-student-debt-relief&usg=AOvVaw2a1otHOyj4HT9Mg03MS-59)  
Nearly one million Virginians are expected to benefit from student debt
relief.  
  
  
***Washington, D.C.***  
  
**Washington Informer:** [**40M Will Receive Student Loan Forgiveness
Under Biden
Plan**](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwjA1ZaQlKb6AhWHGVkFHX-UA4MQFnoECBwQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.washingtoninformer.com%2F40m-will-receive-student-loan-forgiveness-under-biden-plan%2F&usg=AOvVaw1T1LEPAsXrqWwcMSeeIvc4)  
An estimated 165,900 borrowers from D.C. are eligible for student debt
relief under Biden’s loan forgiveness plan, including 60,300 Pell Grant
recipients.  
  
  
***West Virginia***  
  
**WBOY (NBC/ABC Clarksburg, WV):** [**Here’s how many West Virginians
are eligible for student loan
forgiveness**](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwiCo7LMlKb6AhWnFVkFHeWQB08QFnoECBYQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.wboy.com%2Fonly-on-wboy-com%2Fwboy-com-lists-and-rankings%2Fheres-how-many-west-virginians-are-eligible-for-student-loan-forgiveness%2F&usg=AOvVaw1hakhlb9MD6JlLBTEwow8k)  
The Department of Education Tuesday shared the estimated number of
Americans in each state who are eligible for student debt relief.  
  
  
***Wyoming***  
  
**KTWO (K2 Radio Casper, Wyoming):** [**Almost 50,000 Wyomingites
Eligible for Biden’s Student Debt Relief
Program**](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwj27PnilKb6AhXrFFkFHVKfBx4QFnoECAsQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fk2radio.com%2Falmost-50000-wyomingites-eligible-for-bidens-student-debt-relief-program%2F&usg=AOvVaw3ITLN1Ux9T_LjaRLZ2Su-O)  
In a fact sheet put out by the White House on how many people are
eligible for President Joe Biden’s student debt relief plan, there are
49,600 people in Wyoming eligible for relief.

\###
