---
date: '2022-09-30'
published_time: 2022-09-30 17:43:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/30/icymi-pennsylvania-leaders-visit-white-house-meet-with-president-biden-and-administration-officials-to-discuss-strong-economic-recovery/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI:  Pennsylvania Leaders Visit White\_House, Meet With President\_Biden\
  \ and Administration Officials to Discuss Strong Economic\_Recovery"
---
 
Across the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, local newspapers and TV
stations are reporting on the White House’s “Communities in Action:
Building a Better Pennsylvania” event, which was attended by nearly 50
elected officials and community leaders from across the Keystone State.

During the half-day forum, President Biden and senior administration
officials highlighted the impact of the President’s economic plan —
including the American Rescue Plan, Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
Inflation Reduction Act, and the CHIPS and Science Act — which is
creating good paying jobs, bringing manufacturing back to America, and
lowering costs for Pennsylvania families. They also discussed how the
Biden-Harris administration will continue to partner with state and
local leaders to create and expand opportunities across Pennsylvania.

*Read below for a sample of what Pennsylvanians are reading today:*

**Pennsylvania Capital-Star:** [**Pa. leaders at White House forum to
‘shine a spotlight’ on
recovery**](https://www.penncapital-star.com/government-politics/pa-leaders-at-white-house-forum-to-shine-a-spotlight-on-recovery-thursday-morning-coffee/)

In a brief interview on Wednesday, Julie Chavez Rodriguez, the director
of the White House’s Office of Intergovernmental Affairs, told the
Capital-Star that the administration had made a deliberate effort to
obtain the perspective of leaders outside the state’s largest cities…“
We tried to get a good cross-section of the state and throughout the
different regions,” she said. “These are folks that we’ve been working
with over the last 19 months as we’ve been implementing the American
Rescue Plan and the \[Bipartisan\] Infrastructure Law.”

**Scranton Times-Tribune:** [**Cognetti, Powell participate in
Pennsylvania-focused forum at White
House**](https://www.thetimes-tribune.com/news/cognetti-powell-participate-in-pennsylvania-focused-forum-at-white-house/article_f629c2fd-e6df-5e54-a479-6ed4c3a381aa.html)

Scranton Mayor Paige Gebhardt Cognetti and Lackawanna County District
Attorney Mark Powell provided a local perspective Thursday at the White
House during a Pennsylvania-focused forum hosted by the Biden
administration…The Communities in Action: Building a Better Pennsylvania
forum featured local elected and community leaders from across the
state…Biden, a Scranton native, stopped by briefly before a briefing on
Hurricane Ian’s impact. Cognetti said he greeted her and noted how his
late mother used to always say she was from Scranton despite living in
Delaware for decades.

**The Morning Call:** [**Allentown Mayor Matt Tuerk visits White House,
discusses violence prevention, American Rescue Plan
investments**](https://www.mcall.com/news/local/allentown/mc-nws-allentown--20220929-2mxbpv4l6zcghfuubqzmfgbjvi-story.html/)

Allentown Mayor Matt Tuerk visited the White House Thursday as part of
President Biden’s “Building a Better America” initiative…Tuerk
participated in a half-day forum along with other Pennsylvania local
leaders and senior members of the Biden-Harris administration…The forum
was a chance for Biden-Harris officials to tout the investments they’ve
made in communities across Pennsylvania, through laws like the American
Rescue Plan Act and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Act. Those acts gave
millions to local municipalities to fund schools, improve
infrastructure, build housing and more.

**The Valley Ledger:** [**Mayor Tuerk Attends Communities in Action:
Building a Better Pennsylvania at the White House on
Thursday**](https://www.thevalleyledger.com/?p=113909)

“I cannot overemphasize how much the Biden-Harris Administration has
positively impacted Allentown residents,” said Mayor Tuerk. “American
Rescue Plan funding allowed us to make critical investments in our
infrastructure and public safety. The new firefighter academy, once
constructed, will prepare men and women for new realities, and keep them
safe as they keep us safe. We’re grateful for continued commitment from
the Administration and look forward to future investment into
Allentown.”

**WFMZ (Allentown, PA):** [**Allentown Mayor Matt Tuerk visits White
House, addresses school transportation, gun
violence**](https://www.wfmz.com/news/area/lehighvalley/allentown-mayor-matt-tuerk-visits-white-house-addresses-school-transportation-gun-violence/article_355813e4-403c-11ed-b3b0-df35146dfa61.html)

Allentown Mayor Matt Tuerk snapped a picture Thursday in front of the
White House, but he was no tourist…He and other local Pennsylvania
leaders were invited by President Joe Biden to hear ways the White House
has invested in our communities…”Through things like the American Rescue
Plan, bipartisan infrastructure laws, the CHIPS Act to help bring the
country back during the pandemic,” Tuerk said…Tuerk says Biden also
talked about initiatives they’re still working on.

**Centre Daily Times:** [**Centre County official visits White House to
share local impacts of Biden’s
policies**](https://www.centredaily.com/news/local/community/article266556361.html)

Commissioner Michael Pipe joined about 50 other elected officials, labor
leaders and directors of nonprofits and other community organizations
for the event, “Communities in Action: Building a Better Pennsylvania,”
at the White House on Thursday…In a press release, Pipe said he was
honored to be invited and that it was a “unique opportunity to share
real-life examples of the progress we’ve made and collaborate with
officials from the Biden-Harris Administration.”

**StateCollege.com:** [**Commissioner Represents Centre County at White
House
Forum**](https://www.statecollege.com/commissioner-represents-centre-county-at-white-house-forum/)

Board of Commissioners Chairman Michael Pipe was among nearly 50
Pennsylvania elected officials, labor leaders and nonprofit directors
taking part in the “Communities in Action: Building a Better
Pennsylvania” event…“Major and significant pieces of legislation signed
by President Biden have already had positive impacts on Centre County.
Case in point is the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) that has enabled
the Centre County Board of Commissioners to continue to invest in our
small businesses, improve public health outcomes, reform the criminal
justice system and keep property taxes low.”
