---
date: '2022-09-14'
modified_time: 2022-09-14 10:49:40-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-14 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/14/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-7/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Anna Eleanor Roosevelt, Commission Member, Roosevelt Campobello
    International Park Commission
-   Margaret Jane Kravchuk, Alternate Commission Member, Roosevelt
    Campobello International Park Commission
-   Donald G. Soctomah, Alternate Commission Member, Roosevelt
    Campobello International Park Commission
-   Anne J. Castle, United States Commissioner, Upper Colorado River
    Commission

**<u>Roosevelt Campobello International Park Commission</u>**

Roosevelt Campobello International Park serves as a memorial to
President Franklin D. Roosevelt and a symbol of cooperation between the
U.S. and Canada. President Franklin D. Roosevelt and First Lady Eleanor
Roosevelt’s summer home is preserved at the park in a combination indoor
museum and outdoor nature park on Campobello Island, New Brunswick,
Canada. The Park is administered by a Commission, which includes
appointees from both the U.S. and Canada.

**Anna Eleanor Roosevelt, Commission Member, Roosevelt Campobello
International Park Commission**

Anna Eleanor Roosevelt (known as Anne) recently retired as Chief
Executive Officer for Goodwill of Northern New England. She previously
served as Vice President for Global Corporate Citizenship at The Boeing
Company until 2011. In 2013, Roosevelt was presented with the Queen’s
Commissioner’s Medal of Merit of the Province of Zeeland in The
Netherlands in recognition of her work carrying forward the legacy and
values of her grandparents. Currently, she chairs the Roosevelt
Institute in New York and serves on the boards of Maine Grains, Inc.,
the Maine Community College System, and The Jim Browne Foundation.
Roosevelt holds a Bachelor of Arts from Stanford University and a Master
of Science in Library Science from the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, as well as several honorary doctorates. She lives in the
State of Maine and dotes on her five grandchildren.

**Margaret Jane Kravchuk, Alternate Commission Member, Roosevelt
Campobello International Park Commission**

Margaret Kravchuk graduated from the University of Maine School of Law
in Portland, Maine in 1976. She moved to Bangor, Maine, and spent the
next thirty-eight years as a prosecutor and judge in Maine. In 1985,
Governor Joseph Brennan appointed her to the Maine District Court and
Governor Jock McKernan elevated her to the Maine Superior Court five
years later. Kravchuk became a United States Magistrate Judge in 2000,
serving on the federal district court in Maine and working in Bangor and
Portland. Kravchuk and her husband purchased a small summer home on
Campobello Island in Wilsons Beach, New Brunswick for a weekend retreat
in 2002. Since retirement from the federal bench in 2014, Kravchuk has
spent summers on Campobello whenever possible. She volunteers at the
Campobello Public Library in Welshpool, New Brunswick, working with
others in the library gardens. Kravchuk also volunteers in the Calais
and Machias state courts, assisting with mediations in cases involving
small claims and landlord tenant disputes.

**Donald G. Soctomah, Alternate Commission Member, Roosevelt Campobello
International Park Commission**

Donald Soctomah was born in Eastport, Maine across the Bay from the
Roosevelt Campobello International Park in New Brunswick. Soctomah
attended school at Pleasant Point Passamaquoddy’s two-room schoolhouse,
and later attended other schools across the nation from Hawaii to
Brunswick, Maine. He graduated from the University of Maine – Orono with
his Bachelor of Science and worked with the U.S. Forest Service for
three years. He later worked with the Passamaquoddy Forestry Department
for ten years. Soctomah was elected to the Maine Legislature for eight
years, serving as the Passamaquoddy Legislative Representative, and is
currently working as the Tribal Historic Preservation Officer with the
Passamaquoddy Tribe. He is the author of a children’s book titled
*Remember Me*, which tells the story of a young Franklin D. Roosevelt
and Passamaquoddy Chief Tomah Joseph on Campobello Island.

**<u>Upper Colorado River Commission</u>**

The Upper Colorado River Commission is an interstate water
administrative agency established by action of five state legislatures
and Congress with the enactment of the 1948 Upper Colorado River Basin
Compact. The Commission’s role is to ensure the appropriate allocation
of water from the Colorado River to the Upper Division States of
Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, and New Mexico and to ensure compliance with
the 1922 Colorado River Compact to the Lower Division States of Nevada,
Arizona, and California and to the Republic of Mexico.

**Anne J. Castle, United States Commissioner, Upper Colorado River
Commission**

Anne Castle is a senior fellow at the Getches-Wilkinson Center for
Natural Resources, Energy, and the Environment at the University of
Colorado Law School, focusing on western water issues, including
Colorado River policy and management. She is a founding member of the
Water Policy Group. From 2009 to 2014, Castle was the Assistant
Secretary for Water and Science at the U.S. Department of the Interior
where she oversaw water and science policy for the Department and had
responsibility for the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation and the U.S.
Geological Survey. While at Interior, Castle spearheaded the
Department’s WaterSMART program, which provides federal leadership and
funding to support sustainable water supplies and launched the federal
Open Water Data Initiative. Castle provided hands-on leadership on
Colorado River issues and was the Chair of the Glen Canyon Dam Adaptive
Management Work Group and a champion of Minute 319 between the U.S. and
Mexico.

Castle practiced law for 28 years in Denver, Colorado with the Rocky
Mountain-based law firm of Holland & Hart LLP, specializing in water
issues. She chaired the law firm’s management committee and its natural
resources law department. She serves on the boards of the Colorado Water
Trust, Western Resource Advocates, Airborne Snow Observatories, Stanford
University’s Water in the West program, and the Colorado River Water and
Tribes Initiative, where she is co-leading an initiative on universal
access to clean drinking water on Indian reservations.

\###
