---
date: '2022-09-12'
published_time: 2022-09-12 21:17:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/12/fact-sheet-how-the-inflation-reduction-act-will-help-small-businesses/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: How the Inflation Reduction Act Will Help Small\_Businesses"
---
 
By signing the Inflation Reduction Act, President Biden is delivering on
his promise to build an economy that works for working families and
small businesses. The Inflation Reduction Act makes urgent investments
to lower prescription drug costs, health care costs, and energy costs to
create opportunities for America’s 33 million small businesses and
innovative startups. It is the most aggressive action we have taken to
confront the climate crisis. It will help the Fed tackle inflation by
reducing the deficit. The super wealthy and large corporations are asked
to pay their fair share, and no small business or family making under
$400,000 per year will pay a penny more in taxes.

President Biden and Congressional Democrats beat back the special
interests to pass this historic legislation to deliver for American
families and small businesses and grow the economy from the bottom up
and middle out. 

**<u>Lowering Costs for Small Businesses</u>**

The Inflation Reduction Act will reduce costs for small businesses by
maintaining lower health care costs, supporting energy-saving
investments, and bolstering supply chain resiliency. 

**Preserving Critical Support for Small Business Health Care Costs.**
The Inflation Reduction Act would preserve the American Rescue Plan’s
premium tax credit supports for Affordable Care Act (ACA) plans by
extending them through 2025. According to a recent analysis of 2021 tax
data [issued by the Department of Health and Human
Services](https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/36e5e989516728adcc63e398b3e3d23d/aspe-marketplace-coverage-economic-benefits.pdf),
the ACA Marketplace serves as an important source of coverage for 2.6
million small business owners and self-employed adults. Moreover, small
business owners and self-employed people make up 25 percent of
Marketplace enrollment among working-age adults. Since the
implementation of the ACA, the uninsured rate for the self-employed has
fallen dramatically from 30% in 2013 to 20.5% in 2019, resulting in 1.3
million less uninsured self-employed adults. Overall**,** about [13
million
Americans](https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/1647ad29528ee85a48d6ffa9e7bfbc8f/arp-ptc-sunset-impacts-03-22-22%20Final.pdf)
will save an average of about [$800
annually](https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/36e5e989516728adcc63e398b3e3d23d/aspe-marketplace-coverage-economic-benefits.pdf)
on their health insurance premiums compared to what they would pay
without the Inflation Reduction Act. This investment will continue to
spur new business starts and job creation, as entrepreneurs may take the
leap of starting a business without the risk of going uninsured.

**Cutting Energy Costs for Small Businesses**. The Inflation Reduction
Act includes a number of provisions that will save small business owners
money on energy costs:

-   Small businesses can receive a tax credit that covers 30% of the
    cost of switching over to low-cost solar power – lowering operating
    costs and protecting against the volatile energy prices that are
    currently squeezing small businesses. 
-   Small business building owners can receive a tax credit up to $5 per
    square foot to support energy efficiency improvements that deliver
    lower utility bills.
-   Small businesses that use large vehicles like trucks and vans will
    benefit from tax credits covering 30% of purchase costs for clean
    commercial vehicles, like electric and fuel cell models.

  
As small businesses save on energy costs, they will also help combat the
climate crisis. The greater frequency and scale of natural disasters has
put more small businesses and communities at risk of devastation and
disruption. The Inflation Reduction Act’s historic action on climate
change will provide economic stability and growth for Main Streets
across the country.

**Lowering the Deficit to Fight Inflation.** The Inflation Reduction Act
is more than fully paid for and will drive deficit reduction over the
course of the coming decade. This will build upon the significant debt
reduction that has taken place under the Biden-Harris Administration.
The Administration is projected to achieve more than $1.5 trillion in
deficit reduction this year, after reducing the deficit by more than
$350 billion last year. This will be the largest ever one-year decline
in our country’s history, and will leave the deficit lower than the
Congressional Budget Office projected it would be before the passage of
the American Rescue Plan. And numerous leading economists and
commentators have argued that, by building on the deficit reduction we
have achieved to date under President Biden with hundreds of billions in
additional deficit reduction, the Inflation Reduction Act will help ease
inflationary pressure. When small businesses operate with more price
stability, on costs from gas to wages, it will be easier for
entrepreneurs to plan and grow their businesses.

**Lower Prescription Drug Costs for Seniors.** Many small businesses are
owned by seniors.  Americans pay 2-3 times more for their prescription
drugs than people in other wealthy countries. High prices contribute to
racial and ethnic health inequities. The Inflation Reduction Act will
help close the gap in access to medication by improving prescription
drug coverage and lowering drug prices in Medicare. The law:

-   Caps the amount that seniors will have to pay for prescription drugs
    they buy at the pharmacy at $2,000 a year. 
-   Caps the amount that seniors will have to pay for insulin at $35 for
    a month’s supply.
-   Provides access to a number of additional free vaccines, including
    the shingles vaccine, for Medicare beneficiaries. 
-   Will further lower prescription drug costs for seniors by allowing
    Medicare to negotiate the price of high-cost drugs and requiring
    drug manufacturers to pay Medicare a rebate when they raise prices
    faster than inflation.

  
**<u>Expanding Economic Opportunities for Small Businesses  
</u>**The Inflation Reduction Act will help small businesses grow and
create good-paying jobs in communities across America.  
  
**Doubling the Research and Development (R&D) Tax Credit for Small
Businesses**. Pre-revenue startups create jobs and support economic
growth through research, discovery, and innovation. However, they have
not been able to take advantage of the R&D tax credit to the same extent
as large businesses. This bill levels the playing field and will help
spur their high-impact R&D, by increasing the refundable research and
development tax credit for small businesses from $250,000 to $500,000.
Small businesses, starting in 2023, may use the credit to further reduce
payroll taxes and several other business expenses by up to $500,000
annually so they can do what they do best: innovate and commercialize to
solve global problems and create jobs to propel our economy forward.

**Boosting American Manufacturing and Competitiveness.** The Act opens
opportunities up for small businesses and invests in American workers
and industry by spurring U.S. supply chains across technologies like
solar, wind, carbon capture, and clean hydrogen, at a time when
countries around the world are racing to lead the clean energy economy.
The legislation includes targeted tax incentives aimed at manufacturing
U.S.-sourced materials like batteries, solar, and wind parts, and
technologies like carbon capture systems and electrolyzers to make
hydrogen. The legislation also includes key requirements around domestic
sourcing—for example, for use of domestic steel in wind projects—and
around prevailing wage and apprenticeships to ensure we create
good-paying jobs.

**  
Supporting Local Clean Energy Economies:** The Act creates a new Clean
Energy and Sustainability Accelerator, which will seed state and local
clean energy financing institutions, supporting the deployment of
distributed zero-emission technologies like heat-pumps, community solar,
and EV charging. This Accelerator will expand opportunities for clean
energy entrepreneurship while prioritizing over 50% of its investments
in disadvantaged communities.

**Expanding Rural Opportunities.** The Act significantly expands the
Rural Energy for America Program, which supports rural small businesses
and agricultural producers with clean energy and energy efficiency
upgrades. The U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates that this
expansion will reach more than 41,500 small businesses and farms. The
Act also provides more than $9 billion to assist rural electric
cooperatives, which serve more than 21 million businesses, homes, and
farms, in boosting resilience, reliability, and affordability, including
through clean energy projects.

**<u>Leveling the Playing Field by Reforming the Tax Code</u>**  
President Trump and Congressional Republicans’ 2017 tax law only made an
unfair tax system worse. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 is a
critical step forward in making our tax code fairer. It will raise
revenue by:

-   Ensuring that the ultra-wealthy and large corporations pay the taxes
    they already owe.
-   Cracking down on large, profitable corporations with more than $1
    billion in annual profits that currently get away with paying little
    to no federal income tax.
-   Imposing a 1% surcharge on corporate stock buybacks that will
    encourage businesses to invest. 

Small businesses and working families will have better access to the
benefits they are entitled to under the tax code and be able to get
their questions answered quickly and efficiently, thanks to the Act’s
transformational investments in the Internal Revenue Service. Treasury
Secretary Janet Yellen [has
directed](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0918) the
Internal Revenue Service to not use any of the additional funding
provided by the bill to increase the share of small business or
households below the $400,000 threshold that are audited relative to
historical levels. This will help ensure that no family or small
business making less than $400,000 per year will see their taxes go up
by a single cent. 

\###
