---
date: '2022-09-15'
modified_time: 2022-09-15 16:05:03-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-15 16:02:40-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/15/president-biden-announces-three-new-nominee-to-serve-as-u-s-attorneys/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Three New Nominees to Serve as U.S.\_Attorneys"
---
 
President Biden is announcing three new nominees to serve as U.S.
Attorneys. These are officials who will be indispensable to upholding
the rule of law as top federal law enforcement officials.

These individuals were chosen for their devotion to enforcing the law,
their professionalism, their experience and credentials, their
dedication to pursuing equal justice for all, and their commitment to
the independence of the Department of Justice.

The President has proposed a budget that would significantly increase
funding for law enforcement as part of a comprehensive approach to
tackling the rising crime rate this administration inherited last year.

The President has also launched a comprehensive effort to take on the
uptick in gun crime that has been taking place since 2020—putting more
cops on the beat, supporting community prevention programs, and cracking
down on illegal gun trafficking. Confirming U.S. Attorneys as the chief
federal law enforcement officers in their district is important for
these efforts.

The President has now announced 60 nominees to serve as U.S. Attorneys.

**<u>United States Attorney Announcements</u>**

**1.** **<u>Roger B. Handberg: Candidate for United States Attorney
nominee for the Middle District of Florida</u>**

Roger B. Handberg has been the appointed United States Attorney for the
Middle District of Florida since 2021. Mr. Handberg was an Assistant
United States Attorney for the Middle District of Florida from 2002 to
2021. From 1999 to 2002, Mr. Handberg served as a Senior Assistant
Attorney General in the Florida Attorney General’s Office. From 1994 to
1999, he was an associate at King & Spalding in Atlanta, Georgia. Mr.
Handberg received his J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1994 and his B.A.
from the University of North Carolina in 1991.

**2. <u>Markenzy Lapointe: Candidate for United States</u>** **Attorney
for the Southern District of Florida**

Markenzy Lapointe has been a partner at Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman
LLP in Miami, Florida since 2017.  Before joining Pillsbury, Mr.
Lapointe was a partner at Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP in Miami,
Florida, where he first began working in 2006. From 2002 to 2006, he
served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District
of Florida. Mr. Lapointe served as a law clerk for Florida Supreme Court
Justice Harry Lee Anstead from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Lapointe received his
J.D. from Florida State University College of Law in 1999 and his B.S.
from Florida State University in 1993. Mr. Lapointe is a veteran of the
United States Marine Corps.

**3. <u>McLain J. Schneider: Candidate for United States Attorney for
the District of North Dakota</u>**

McLain J. Schneider is a partner at the Schneider Law Firm, where he has
worked since 2008. Previously he served in the North Dakota Senate from
2008 to 2016. From 2011 to 2017, Mr. Schneider was an adjunct faculty
member at the University of North Dakota School of Law. Mr. Schneider
received his J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center in 2008 and his
B.A. from the University of North Dakota in 2002.

\###
