---
date: '2022-09-14'
published_time: 2022-09-14 15:30:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/14/what-they-are-saying-bipartisan-praise-of-the-united-we-stand-summit/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Bipartisan Praise of the United We Stand\_Summit"
---
 
Tomorrow, President Biden will host the United We Stand Summit to
counter the corrosive effects of hate-fueled violence on our democracy
and public safety, highlight the response of the Biden-Harris
Administration and communities nationwide to these dangers, and put
forward a shared vision for a more united America. The United We Stand
Summit will present an important opportunity for Americans of all races,
religions, regions, political affiliations, and walks of life to stand
together to help heal the soul of our nation.  
  
*See what a bipartisan group of leaders are saying ahead of the
Summit:*  
  
**<u>Elected Officials</u>**  
  
[**Mayor David Holt, Oklahoma City,
OK**](https://twitter.com/davidfholt/status/1560747284316520449)**:**
“We certainly can use more of this. Our @OKCNM illustrates the price of
hate, dehumanization & political violence. It is long past time for each
of us to elevate our discourse & assume that obligation personally.
Looking forward to the ideas that will come out of this summit.”  
  
**Fmr. Rep. Mia Love (R-UT):** “The greatest threat to America is the
contempt-driven hatred and politically-poisoned rhetoric we are spewing
toward each other. We must realize that as Americans we are sisters and
brothers and fellow travelers with common hopes, dreams and goals. Hate
and the violent words, attitudes and actions that follow have no place
in this most extraordinary nation.  
America is at its best when we are country of big ideas, diverse
opinions and respectful, rigorous debate. ‘We the people’ must choose to
live up to the better angels of our nature.”  
  
[**Rep. Jamie Raskin
(D-MD):**](https://twitter.com/RepRaskin/status/1560697750416678919?s=20&t=HZAXZMmRGkQoKgo7lvYmTg)
“I’m delighted that President Biden has announced the United We Stand
Summit to reject political violence and heal America’s divisions.
Leaders from across the spectrum will convene to discuss how we can
overcome extremism and foster safe & civil political discourse.”  
  
**Governor Spencer Cox (R- UT):** “It’s never a bad thing to invite
people from different parties to sit down, learn about each other, and
figure out together how to bridge hate and division. We’re always
looking for opportunities to find common ground.”  
  
[**Rep. Brian Higgins
(D-NY):**](https://twitter.com/RepBrianHiggins/status/1560602597018451968?s=20&t=HZAXZMmRGkQoKgo7lvYmTg)
“For Buffalo, the terror and destruction of hate-filled violence is
personal. Next month @POTUS Biden will be leading a conversation on how
we can work to bring people together rather than tear communities
apart.”  
  
[**Mayor John Giles, Mesa,
AZ:**](https://twitter.com/MayorGiles/status/1561884008203505664?s=20&t=UZrAQbN50bB6RTkZx2mH2A)
“We are better when we lead with compassion and look to what we have in
common rather than our differences. Hate-fueled violence has no place in
our country. Let’s focus on what brings us together rather than what
tears us apart. \#TogetherMesa \#UnitedWeStand”  
  
**Fmr. Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-VA):** “For the past decade there has
been a troubling increase in hate crimes and violence against minority,
religious and ethnic groups.  I welcome President Biden’s Summit and the
needed bipartisan attention to this issue at every level of government –
federal, state and local – as well as from our religious communities.
Hate crimes and the violence it creates divides our communities and
strikes fear in those who are targets.  We must stand united against
such violence and encourage our elected officials, law enforcement, and
leaders at all levels to work together in the way President Lincoln once
inspired his countrymen – touched ‘by the better angels of our
nature’.”   
  
**<u>Faith Leaders</u>**  
  
**Nathan Diament,** [**Executive Director for Public Policy for the
Orthodox
Union**](https://twitter.com/NDiament/status/1560622742956900352?s=20&t=kBXSpw54EfqGZ5NDCRFrhA)**:
“**We @OUAdvocacy welcome the plan to convene, per our advocacy, a
@WhiteHouse summit on combating hate-fueled violence, including
\#antisemitism.  We look forward to further partnership w/@POTUS &
others on this critical front.”  
  
**Salam Al-Marayati,**[**President of the** **Muslim Public Affairs
Council**](https://mpac.medium.com/mpac-welcomes-united-we-stand-summit-to-combat-domestic-terrorism-25a39bcbabad?source=rss------congress-5):
“We welcome the United We Stand Summit. Only through unity can we defeat
this cancer in our society. We believe in developing a better
understanding as the primary means of defeating hate and for bringing
light to the situation to overcome the darkness. “United We Stand”
promises to be an excellent first step to understanding the problem and
creating lasting change that will reduce hate-based violence.”  
  
**Sister Donna Markham, President of** [**Catholic Charities
USA:**](https://twitter.com/ccharitiesusa/status/1562538997565468679?s=27&t=UNS6HjObgbuDK08e1Z67RA)
“At a time when our society is becoming increasingly contentious and
divisions between us more extreme and dangerous, the importance of
opportunities such as the White House unity summit, “United We Stand:
Countering Hate-Fueled Violence Together,” could not be more timely.  It
is crucial that we hear the voices of those with whom we disagree
without engaging in violence, personal attacks and vitriolic
interchanges that serve only to divide us further and shred the
beautiful tapestry of our national identity.”  
  
[**The Sikh
Coalition:**](https://twitter.com/sikh_coalition/status/1560684657573871617)
“Today, the Biden Administration announced that on Thursday, September
15, @POTUS will host the United We Stand Summit at the @WhiteHouse to
counter the corrosive effects of hate-fueled violence on our nation. The
event falls on the anniversary of the 2001 hate-fueled murder of Balbir
Singh Sodhi and the 1963 16th Street Baptist Church Bombing–both painful
reminders that white supremacist hate violence is not a new phenomenon
in our nation. We can no longer allow white supremacy to spread and
continue to cause long-lasting harm to our houses of worship, community
centers, and people. The Sikh Coalition continues to work with the White
House to address hate violence and looks forward to participating in the
summit.”  
  
**Ed Stetzer,** [**Billy Graham Distinguished Chair of Church, Mission,
and Evangelism at Wheaton College and Executive Director of the Billy
Graham Center at Wheaton
College:**](https://twitter.com/edstetzer/status/1562559592436940800?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet)
“The @WhiteHouse is planning “United We Stand: Countering Hate-Fueled
Violence Together.” It indicates a commitment to “put forward a shared,
bipartisan vision for a more united America.”  
  
[**MultiFaith Neighbor
Network**](https://twitter.com/multifaithnn/status/1562474892918149122?s=27&t=UNS6HjObgbuDK08e1Z67RA%3c):
“Just as we are working to build resilient communities together despite
theological differences, the United We Stand Summit will be an
opportunity for Americans of all races, religions, regions and political
affiliations to prevent acts of hate together.”  
  
[**National Latino Evangelical
Coalition**](https://twitter.com/NalecNews/status/1562873195400957952)**:**
“The @WhiteHouse is calling for a united stand against hate-fueled
violence. No matter your political affiliation, all people of good will
should work to end hate-fueled violence. Ending violence is a
non-partisan activity. Let’s work on it together.”  
  
**Jim Wallis,** [**Founder of Sojourners and Director of the Georgetown
University Center on Faith and
Justice**](https://twitter.com/jimwallis/status/1560729093422731264?s=21&t=c7UiJDCF4vLZu4QALkpx0w)**:**
“No matter our politics, it is time for faith & community leaders to
unite together against the escalation of fear + hate that is causing a
rise in political violence. So I am grateful for the White House United
We Stand Summit on September 15. I’ll be there with hopes & prayers.”  
  
**All Dulles Area Muslim Society (ADAMS) Center:** “ADAMS has long
history of Interfaith and MultiFaith work going back to the 1990s. ADAMS
has consistently worked together with Protestant, Roman Catholic,
Evangelical Christian, Latter-day Saints, Jewish, Muslim, Hindu, Sikh,
Jain, Baha’i, Buddhist, and Zoroastrian faith communities to counter all
hate and bigotry. ADAMS looks forward to working with the White House on
this MultiFaith effort. We have worked with Local, Regional and National
Law Enforcement to partner together for safer and peaceful
communities.”  
  
[**The Shoulder to Shoulder
Campaign:**](https://s2scampaign.medium.com/united-we-stand-summit-d04de130888)
“The Shoulder to Shoulder Campaign welcomes the “United We Stand:
Countering Hate-Fueled Violence Together” Summit at The White House on
September 15, 2022, and looks forward to participating in this important
convening. As a national multifaith coalition of religious denominations
and faith-based organizations, we are committed to addressing,
countering, and preventing anti-Muslim discrimination and violence in
the United States. We help faith communities understand that anti-Muslim
discrimination is not just a Muslim issue. It is a problem that impacts
us all. In this work, we have the privilege of working with national and
local “uniters” who are faith and community leaders building bridges and
countering discrimination and hate-fueled violence at all levels of
society. We are eager to partner with all those who are committed to
creating safer and more resilient interconnected communities here in our
nation. We thank our nation’s leaders for prioritizing this important
and necessary effort.”  
  
**<u>Civic Leaders and Civil Rights Leaders</u>**  
  
**Marc Morial, President and CEO of the National Urban League:** “The
murderous attack in Buffalo, NY by a white supremacist, the Synagogue
shooting in Pennsylvania, bomb threats against Historically Black
Colleges and Universities, and the heinous attack against Asian women in
Atlanta are just a few examples that prove the threat of hate-fueled
violence and extremism is growing at a rapid pace. Set on the
anniversary of the tragic 16th Street Baptist Church bombing in 1963,
the United We Stand Summit will give officials from all levels of
government, faith leaders, civil society groups, and directly impacted
communities across the country the opportunity to address these issues
firsthand. We commend President Biden for his leadership in organizing
this summit and giving these groups a platform to acknowledge the
lasting impact these incidents have on our communities. This is a
necessary first step to addressing the spread of violence and preserving
our democracy.”  
  
**Jonathan Greenblatt,** [**Anti-Defamation League CEO and National
Director**](https://www.adl.org/resources/press-release/adl-welcomes-united-we-stand-summit-combat-violent-extremism):
“Hate and extremism are at a historic high. They threaten our democratic
institutions and undermine our norms of inclusion and tolerance. Violent
extremists like white supremacists threaten our children and our
neighbors, and they create terror that reverberates across our
communities. United We Stand promises to be an excellent first step to
understanding the problem and creating lasting change to reduce these
threats.”  
  
**John Bridgeland, President and CEO of Civic Enterprises and former
Director of the White House Domestic Policy Council under President
George W. Bush:** “American greatness starts with the big idea that we
can disagree without demonizing each other so we can move forward in
common purpose.  I’m excited to see the President call on all of us –
even his Administration’s fiercest critics and members of the opposition
party – to take a stand against hatred and violence to help heal our
land and get our country moving again. Combating hatred and violence is
not a red or blue cause. It’s an American cause.”  
  
**Michael Gerson, Assistant to the President for Policy and Strategic
Planning, President George W. Bush:** “Nothing is more destructive to
democratic self-government than the dehumanization of political
opponents, which invariably turns into an excuse for intimidation and
violence. A firm, concerted, bipartisan response — in which people of
every ideological background are willing to confront the offenses of
their own supporters — is the only way to expose and stigmatize this
dangerous trend in American life. And such a response must be rooted in
a conviction that all people — political allies and opponents alike —
are created with equal rights and dignity. This belief is the basis for
a successful democracy, and the much-needed focus of the
administration’s summit.”  
  
**Reverend Al Sharpton,** [**Founder and President, National Action
Network:**](https://twitter.com/TheRevAl/status/1560672502019264515?s=20&t=L4ZObw2riT6B854p_N4Zcg)
“In late May in the aftermath of the Hate Massacre in Buffalo, NAN & 3
national groups called for a White House Summit on Hate Violence. It is
good to see that the WH announced such a Summit today. We look forward
to a substantive and concrete event.”  
  
**Arthur Brooks, Professor at Harvard University and Former President of
American Enterprise Institute (AEI):** “This is such a great country.
But we are weakening it from the inside out by not standing together.
America and its strength are a gift to the world. We have an opportunity
to make the world a better place, but only if we stand together. And our
strength is in our diversity and in our differences. Let’s all be an
example of how we can still love each other – especially when we
disagree. I will be proud to see what happens from this important Summit
and praying for its success.”  
  
[**The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human
Rights:**](https://twitter.com/civilrightsorg/status/1560671104787554304?s=20&t=L4ZObw2riT6B854p_N4Zcg)
**“**We welcome the @WhiteHouse’s announced United We Stand summit to
counter the ongoing threat of hate violence. We look forward to
participating in the summit and continuing the important work of
addressing this scourge on our democracy.”  
  
**Peter Wehner, Director of the Office of Strategic Initiative and
Deputy Director of Presidential Speechwriting under President George W.
Bush:** “We need to come together in common purpose to address hate and
violence in America.  I’m heartened to see the President initiate a
White House Summit to bring Americans together to find solutions to this
national challenge.”   
  
**Sindy Benavides, CEO of the League of United Latin American Citizens
(LULAC):**  
“Unfortunately, the Latino community, as well as many other minority and
religious communities, have been victimized over and over again by
deadly gun violence. As a civil rights and social justice organization,
LULAC applauds the White House for bringing this issue to the forefront
and acknowledging that government needs to have a leading role in
addressing domestic extremism in all forms. LULAC looks forward to
working with the Biden Administration, law enforcement, stakeholders at
all levels of government and other community groups to find long-term
solutions.”  
  
[**John C. Yang, Executive Director of Asian Americans Advancing Justice
— AAJC:**](https://twitter.com/AAAJ_AAJC/status/1560754611790692354)
“Asian Americans Advancing Justice — AAJC commends the Biden
administration for announcing its ‘United We Stand’ Summit to bring
Americans together to discuss how we can build bridges and address
hate-fueled violence and division. We look forward to sharing our
perspectives on what Asian American communities need to feel safe in the
face of ongoing anti-Asian hate and reinforcing our commitment to
building solidarity across communities impacted by hate.”  
  
  
**Rodrigo Heng-Lehtinen,** [**Executive Director of the National Center
for Transgender
Equality**](https://transequality.org/press/releases/biden-administration-takes-stand-against-hate-and-extremism):
“We see examples every day of the rising threat from violence fueled by
extremism and hate. Whether you’re transgender or not, Black, white or
brown, born in the United States or a newcomer to our country, extremism
and hate impact all of our lives and put all of us at risk. Violence
against transgender people, particularly Black transgender women, is on
the rise, stoked by attacks from some politicians who want to divide our
communities for political gain. The Biden-Harris administration
recognizes the danger of hate-fueled violence and is taking a stand
against it. President Biden understands the severity of anti-trans
violence and the risk that hate and extremism pose to our democracy, and
he’s doing something about it.”  
  
**Margaret Huang,** [**President and CEO, Southern Poverty Law
Center**](https://www.splcenter.org/presscenter/splcs-margaret-huang-summit-address-hate-violence-extremism-important-opportunity-unify):
“We welcome President Biden’s announcement today that the White House
will host a national summit next month to address hate violence and
extremism. President Biden has repeatedly demonstrated that he
understands the importance of speaking out against hate. We hope the
summit will provide an opportunity for elected officials and faith,
business, and community leaders to come together to identify best
practices to address hate-fueled violence. And we hope this event will
launch a continuing commitment to address these issues in our
communities…We applaud the president’s important effort to help unify
our nation and we stand ready to assist in this essential work.”  
  
**Joni Madison,** [**Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Interim
President**](https://www.hrc.org/press-releases/human-rights-campaign-commends-white-house-for-hosting-summit-to-combat-extremist-violence):
“We are living in a time of polarization and extremism, with dangerous,
extremist rhetoric on the rise. We have seen a marked increase in online
vitriol against LGBTQ+ people that has led to acts of intimidation and
violence in real life – not to mention an increase in state legislation
that targets the LGBTQ+ community. The rise of this online hate does not
have only political implications; violent rhetoric leads to stigma,
radicalization, and ultimately violent actions. Nearly one-in-five of
any type of hate crime is now motivated by anti-LGBTQ+ bias, and the
last two years have been the deadliest for transgender people,
particularly Black transgender women.  
  
“The “United We Stand Summit” cannot come at a more crucial time, and
the Human Rights Campaign is grateful to President Biden for focusing on
this key issue and convening this event. We look forward to joining with
other leaders to combat the rise of extremism and violence.”  
  
**Jim Steyer,** [**Founder and CEO of Common Sense
Media:**](https://twitter.com/jimsteyer/status/1560683149696303106?s=20&t=LxqQaAUM8nS8KIUtnYfdqg)
“Next month’s @WhiteHouse summit on hate-fueled violence in the country
could not be more important. In the meantime, we can all do our part to
help protect our kids from deadly violence spawned by online hatred &
lies—whether in the classroom or chatroom. \#SocialMedia provides the
cover to openly display and share hatred and ignorance, intentional
misinformation, and acts of violence. Promoting hatred online is
inexcusable, as is \#BigTech companies’ deliberate effort to profit from
it. \#StopHateforProfit. Time and time again, hatred for others is the
catalyst for gun violence that ends in tragedy. We must hold \#BigTech
accountable so that \#SocialMedia and other online platforms can no
longer serve as safe spaces for racism, antisemitism, and all forms of
prejudice to fester. The @WhiteHouse summit must also focus on how these
platforms amplify hate in the pursuit of profit. \#SocialMedia’s role in
spreading hate-filled messages, misinformation, and disinformation
cannot be overlooked, now or in the future.  
  
[**National Asian Pacific American Women’s
Forum**](https://www.napawf.org/press-releases/220819): “NAPAWF applauds
the White House’s announcement to host the United We Stand Summit in an
effort to counter hate-fueled violence, prevent radicalization and
mobilization to violence, and foster unity. NAPAWF appreciates President
Biden’s recognition of the need to discuss and address hate-fueled
violence.  
  
“Violence has been rising in our community over the last few years in
part due to the COVID-19 pandemic and increasing political extremism,”
says Isra Pananon Weeks, Interim Executive Director and Chief of Staff
of the National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum (NAPAWF). “This
violence has disproportionately impacted AAPI women, who are twice as
likely to have reported incidents of discrimination. We are heartened by
President Biden’s actions to address hate-fueled violence and will
continue to advocate that our community and others most impacted by
growing violence are centered in the strategies to address this critical
issue.”  
  
[**Stop Hate for Profit
Coalition**](https://www.stophateforprofit.org/united-we-stand-summit):
“The nation’s leading coalition of civic advocacy organizations
committed to protecting civil and human rights and the well-being of
families online, Stop Hate for Profit (#SHFP) applauds the Biden White
House for announcing a summit on what can be done to reduce hate fueled
violence in America in the wake of mass shootings rooted in racism,
antisemitism, hatred, and America’s very real youth mental health
crisis.  
  
​“As a coalition that has focused on the role that social media plays in
spreading hate-filled messages, misinformation, and disinformation, we
believe the summit is a critical opportunity to shine a bright light on
the well documented amplification of hatred by social media platforms in
the pursuit of profit.  We can and must reduce the spread of online
hatred and lies that lead to deadly violence.”

\###
