---
date: '2022-09-16'
published_time: 2022-09-16 17:48:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/16/president-biden-announces-twenty-fourth-operation-fly-formula-mission/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Twenty-Fourth Operation Fly Formula\_Mission"
---
 
*Biden Administration will facilitate air shipment of approximately
740,000 8-ounce bottle equivalents of Nestlé Health Science
Alfamino<sup>®</sup> Infant and Alfamino<sup>®</sup> Junior formula on
September 16*

  
Today, President Biden is announcing that his Administration is sourcing
a flight, facilitated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS), for Operation Fly Formula to transport Nestlé Health
Science Alfamino<sup>®</sup> Infant and Alfamino<sup>®</sup> Junior
formula from Switzerland to Plainfield, IN via a flight on September 16.
This delivery will include in total approximately 63,000 pounds of
Nestlé formula, the equivalent of approximately 740,000 8-ounce bottles.
The products will be distributed primarily to hospitals and home health
care providers and are intended for use under medical supervision.

Beginning in May, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced that
the agency is exercising enforcement discretion so that Nestlé can
export additional infant formula into the U.S. Nestlé will import both
standard and specialty infant formulas including Nestlé
NAN<sup>®</sup> SupremePro 1 and NAN<sup>®</sup> SupremePro 2, Nestlé
NAN® EXPERTpro SensiPro, Nestlé Health Science
Alfamino<sup>®</sup> Infant and Alfamino<sup>®</sup> Junior, Vitaflo PKU
start<sup>™</sup>, Gerber® Good Start<sup>®</sup> Gentle and
Gerber<sup>®</sup> Good Start® Extensive HA<sup>®</sup>, and Nestlé SMA
Nutrition Althéra. Over time Nestlé plans to bring approximately more
than 42 million 8-ounce bottle equivalents into the U.S. market.

President Biden launched Operation Fly Formula to speed up the import of
infant formula and start getting more formula to stores as soon as
possible. Under Operation Fly Formula, the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the
General Services Administration (GSA), and the Department of Defense
(DOD) are partnering to pick up overseas infant formula that meets U.S.
health and safety standards, so it can get to store shelves, hospitals,
and home health care providers faster. By September 16, Operation Fly
Formula will have transported almost 91 million 8-ounce bottle
equivalents to the U.S.

In addition, the Biden Administration has taken a number of other
important actions to ensure there is enough safe infant formula for
families, including invoking the Defense Production Act, entering into a
consent agreement between the FDA and Abbott Nutrition to reopen the
company’s Sturgis facility, and issuing FDA guidance so that major
formula manufacturers can safely import formula that is not currently
being produced for the U.S. market. Details of our actions can be found
at [whitehouse.gov/formula](https://www.whitehouse.gov/Users/Adam.Friedlander/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/JHSFK5EH/whitehouse.gov/formula).

![](https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/_compresseds/74caa425-1dc8-735f-dcf4-97eedbf975d2.jpg)

\###
