---
date: '2022-09-30'
modified_time: 2022-09-30 15:51:03-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-30 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/30/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-9/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve as members on the National Council on
Disability:  

-   Hoskie Benally, Jr.
-   Theo W. Braddy
-   Claudia L. Gordon
-   Risa Jaz Rifkind
-   Emily Voorde

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**National Council on
Disability**  
</span>  
National Council on Disability (NCD) is an independent federal agency
charged with advising the President, Congress, and other federal
agencies regarding policies, programs, practices, and procedures that
affect people with disabilities. NCD is comprised of a team of
Presidential and Congressional appointees, an Executive Director
appointed by the Chair, and a full-time professional staff.  
  
NCD’s mission is to be a trusted advisor, in collaboration with people
with disabilities, to: the President; Congress; Federal entities; State,
tribal communities, and local governments; and other entities and
organizations. NCD fulfills its advisory roles regarding disability
policies, programs, procedures, and practices that enhance equal
opportunity by: convening stakeholders to acquire timely and relevant
input for recommendations and action steps; gathering and analyzing data
and other information; engaging and influencing current debates and
agendas;  
identifying and formulating solutions to emerging and long-standing
challenges; and providing tools to facilitate effective
implementation.  
  
**Hoskie Benally, Jr., Member, National Council on Disability**  
  
Hoskie Benally Jr., is a Member of the Navajo Nation and is Legally
Blind. He is currently employed with the Native American Disability Law
Center as the Community and Government Liaison engaged in Disability
Systems Advocacy with the Navajo Nation and other Native American
Tribes. Benally is also involved with the National Congress of American
Indians, Disability Sub-Committee. Prior to joining the Law Center,
Benally was the CEO of a Residential Treatment Center for Native
American Youth that successfully integrated Navajo culture into
western-based mental health treatment.  
  
Benally is the current President of the Navajo Nation Advisory Council
on Disabilities, a former Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor, and a
former Member of the New Mexico Developmental Disability Planning
Council. Grounded in Navajo tradition and fluent in Navajo, Benally is
an experienced cultural instructor. He has a Bachelor of Science degree
in Sociology from Brigham Young University,  
  
**Theo W. Braddy, Member, National Council on Disability**  
  
Theo W. Braddy has advocated on behalf of people with disabilities for
over 40 years. At the age of 15, he became a person with a disability
due to a high school football accident that left him paralyzed from the
neck down. In 1988, Braddy was hired as CEO of the Center for
Independent Living of Central Pennsylvania, where he served for over 30
years. As CEO, Braddy created an independent living center that became a
strong and growing voice for people with disabilities, and started the
Living Well with a Disability Initiative. Additionally, he has taught at
Temple University and Millersville University as an Adjunct Professor.  
  
Two different Governors have appointed Braddy as a Commissioner for the
Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission and to serve on the Pennsylvania
Statewide Independent Living Council. In 2021, Governor Wolf appointed
him to serve on the State Board of Vocational Rehabilitation. In 2022,
Braddy was selected by Senator Robert Casey, Jr., as one of four Black
leaders in Pennsylvania who has demonstrated power and persistency in
overcoming challenges and creating meaningful change in the State, and
his contribution was acknowledged on the Senate Floor at a Congressional
Hearing. He graduated from Temple University with his MSW in 1988 after
receiving his BSW from Edinboro University. Braddy is married to Rovenia
Braddy, who is an author and playwright. He is the father of two
children, a daughter, Kimmi Braddy, and a son, Theo Braddy Jr.  
  
**Claudia L. Gordon, Member, National Council on Disability**  
  
Claudia Gordon is a dedicated advocate for people with disabilities with
nearly 30 years of versatile professional expertise, with a personal
mission to level the playing field and ensure the same opportunities are
provided for all. She currently serves as the Senior Accessibility
Strategist with T-Mobile US, Inc. In this role, she drives strategies
for a disability inclusive culture and an accessible plus equitable work
environment. Gordon has held senior leadership positions with Sprint
Corporation, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the National
Council on Disability, and the National Association of the Deaf Law and
Advocacy Center. During the Obama-Biden Administration, Gordon served as
the Chief of Staff for the U.S. Department of Labor’s Office of Federal
Contract Compliance Programs and the Associate Director of Public
Engagement for the White House Office of Public Engagement.  
  
Adding to Gordon’s professional expertise is her lived experience as an
immigrant at the intersections of race, disability, and gender, which is
the foundation for the strong emphasis on disabled individuals with
multiple marginalized identities that she brings to her work. For her
unrelenting commitment to advocacy, compliance, civic engagement, and
mentoring, Gordon has been recognized by the American Association of
People with Disabilities, Google, AT&T Humanity of Connection, National
Disability Mentoring Coalition, National Association of the Deaf,
National Black Deaf Advocates, and The Root 100. Gordon is a native of
Jamaica, graduate of Howard University, and graduate of the American
University’s Washington College of Law.  
  
**Risa Jaz Rifkind, Member, National Council on Disability**  
  
Risa Jaz Rifkind is a justice advocate who seeks to make change by
shifting access to power and influence. As the Director of Civic
Engagement and Marketing for Disability Lead, she propels the
organization to realize its vision to have people with disabilities lead
with power and influence. By identifying and developing strategic
partnerships, Rifkind positions Members to take on leadership roles that
advance their careers, civic engagement, and equity for people with
disabilities. In 2020, she served on the Disability Inclusion Fund’s
grantmaking committee.  
  
Previously, Rifkind was Program Manager at The Chicago Community Trust,
where she developed their disability inclusion priorities and practices
and managed several disability inclusion initiatives, including the
Disabilities Fund, ADA 25 Advancing Leadership, and ADA 25 Chicago.
Rifkind is passionate about the arts and serves as Treasurer for the
Chicago Cultural Accessibility Consortium. She is also a Member of
Disability Lead. Rifkind received a B.A. from Johns Hopkins
University.  
  
**Emily Voorde, Member, National Council on Disability**  
  
Emily Voorde is an Associate Director with NEWCO Strategies, a
full-service strategic consulting firm that helps progressive campaigns,
organizations, and companies achieve their goals. She most recently
served as an Associate Director in the White House Office of Public
Engagement as the Biden-Harris Administration’s liaison to Disabled
Americans and K-12 educators.  
  
Voorde’s personal passions and professional expertise center on justice
for individuals with disabilities and equitable access to education. Her
career began as an AmeriCorps member and 2nd grade teacher in
Pascagoula, Mississippi. In the summer of 2019, Voorde returned to her
hometown of South Bend, Indiana to support Secretary Pete Buttigieg’s
run for President, serving as Chasten Buttigieg’s full-time body woman
on the campaign trail. During the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic,
Voorde served as an Associate Director with the University of Notre
Dame’s Sara Bea Center for Students with Disabilities. She holds a
Bachelor of Arts from the University of Notre Dame, a Masters of
Education from the University of Notre Dame, and a Masters of Public
Policy in Education from Vanderbilt University. Voorde recently returned
to her hometown of South Bend, Indiana.

\###
