---
date: '2022-09-16'
modified_time: 2022-09-16 10:27:15-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-16 05:58:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/16/fact-sheet-white-house-releases-first-ever-comprehensive-framework-for-responsible-development-of-digital-assets/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:\_ White\_House Releases First-Ever Comprehensive Framework for\
  \ Responsible Development of Digital\_Assets"
---
 
*Following the President’s Executive Order, New Reports Outline
Recommendations to Protect Consumers, Investors, Businesses, Financial
Stability, National Security, and the Environment*

The digital assets market has grown significantly in recent years.
Millions of people globally, including 16% of adult Americans, have
purchased digital assets—which reached a market capitalization of [$3
trillion](https://time.com/6115300/cryptocurrency-value-3-trillion/)
globally last November. Digital assets present potential opportunities
to reinforce U.S. leadership in the global financial system and remain
at the technological frontier.  But they also pose real risks as
evidenced by recent events in crypto markets. The May crash of a
so-called stablecoin and the subsequent wave of insolvencies wiped out
over $600 billion of investor and consumer funds.

President Biden’s March 9 Executive Order (EO) on Ensuring Responsible
Development of Digital Assets outlined the first whole-of-government
approach to addressing the risks and harnessing the potential benefits
of digital assets and their underlying technology. Over the past six
months, agencies across the government have worked together to develop
frameworks and policy recommendations that advance the six key
priorities identified in the EO: consumer and investor protection;
promoting financial stability; countering illicit finance; U.S.
leadership in the global financial system and economic competitiveness;
financial inclusion; and responsible innovation.

The nine reports submitted to the President to date, consistent with the
EO’s deadlines, reflect the input and expertise of diverse stakeholders
across government, industry, academia, and civil society. Together, they
articulate a clear framework for responsible digital asset development
and pave the way for further action at home and abroad. The reports call
on agencies to promote innovation by kickstarting private-sector
research and development and helping cutting-edge U.S. firms find
footholds in global markets. At the same time, they call for measures to
mitigate the downside risks, like increased enforcement of existing laws
and the creation of commonsense efficiency standards for cryptocurrency
mining. Recognizing the potential benefits and risks of a U.S. Central
Bank Digital Currency (CBDC), the reports encourage the Federal Reserve
to continue its ongoing CBDC research, experimentation, and evaluation
and call for the creation of a Treasury-led interagency working group to
support the Federal Reserve’s efforts.

**<u>Protecting Consumers, Investors, and Businesses</u>**

Digital assets pose meaningful risks for consumers, investors, and
businesses. Prices of these assets can be highly volatile: the current
global market capitalization of cryptocurrencies is approximately
one-third of its November 2021 peak. Still sellers commonly mislead
consumers about digital assets’ features and expected returns, and
non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations remains widespread.
One study
[found](http://www.wsj.com/articles/buyer-beware-hundreds-of-bitcoin-wannabes-show-hallmarks-of-fraud-1526573115)
that almost a quarter of digital coin offerings had disclosure or
transparency problems—like plagiarized documents or false promises of
guaranteed returns. Outright fraud, scams, and theft in digital asset
markets are on the rise: according to FBI statistics, reported monetary
losses from digital asset scams were nearly 600 percent higher in 2021
than the year before.

Since taking office, the Biden-Harris Administration and independent
regulators have worked to protect consumers and ensure fair play in
digital assets markets by [issuing
guidance](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/ebsa/ebsa20220310),
[increasing enforcement
resources](https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2022-78), and
aggressively [pursuing fraudulent
actors](https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/8549-22). As
outlined in the reports released today, the Administration plans to take
the following additional steps:

-   The reports encourage regulators like the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC) and Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC),
    consistent with their mandates, to **aggressively pursue
    investigations and enforcement actions against unlawful practices in
    the digital assets space.**

<!-- -->

-   The reports encourage Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)
    and Federal Trade Commission (FTC), as appropriate, to **redouble
    their efforts to monitor consumer complaints and to enforce against
    unfair, deceptive, or abusive practices.**

<!-- -->

-   The reports encourage agencies to issue guidance and rules to
    **address current and emergent risks** in the digital asset
    ecosystem. Regulatory and law enforcement agencies are also urged to
    **collaborate** to address acute digital assets risks facing
    consumers, investors, and businesses.  In addition, agencies are
    encouraged to **share data on consumer complaints** regarding
    digital assets—ensuring each agency’s activities are maximally
    effective.

<!-- -->

-   The Financial Literacy Education Commission (FLEC) will **lead
    public-awareness efforts to help consumers understand the risks
    involved with digital assets**, identify common fraudulent
    practices, and learn how to report misconduct.

**<u>Promoting Access to Safe, Affordable Financial Services</u>**

Today, traditional finance leaves too many behind. Roughly 7 million
Americans have no bank account. Another 24 million rely on costly
nonbank services, like check cashing and money orders, for everyday
needs. And for those who do use banks, paying with traditional financial
infrastructure can be costly and slow—particularly for cross-border
payments.

The digital economy should work for all Americans. That means developing
financial services that are secure, reliable, affordable, and accessible
to all. To make payments more efficient, the Federal Reserve has planned
the 2023 launch of FedNow—an instantaneous, 24/7 interbank clearing
system that will further advance nationwide infrastructure for instant
payments alongside The Clearinghouse’s Real Time Payments system. Some
digital assets could help facilitate faster payments and make financial
services more accessible, but more work is needed to ensure they truly
benefit underserved consumers and do not lead to predatory financial
practices.

To promote safe and affordable financial services for all, the
Administration plans to take the following steps:

-   Agencies will encourage the adoption of instant payment systems,
    like FedNow, by **supporting the development and use of innovative
    technologies by payment providers** to increase access to instant
    payments, and **using instant payment systems for their own
    transactions** where appropriate – for example, in the context of
    distribution of disaster, emergency or other government-to-consumer
    payments.

<!-- -->

-   The President will also consider agency recommendations to **create
    a federal framework to regulate nonbank payment providers**.

<!-- -->

-   Agencies will prioritize efforts to improve the efficiency of
    cross-border payments by working to **align global payments
    practices, regulations, and supervision protocols, while exploring
    new multilateral platforms** that integrate instant payment systems.

<!-- -->

-   The National Science Foundation (NSF) will **back research in
    technical and socio-technical disciplines and behavioral economics
    to ensure that digital asset ecosystems are designed to be usable,
    inclusive, equitable, and accessible** by all.

**<u>Fostering Financial Stability</u>**

Digital assets and the mainstream financial system are becoming
increasingly intertwined, creating channels for turmoil to have
spillover effects. Stablecoins, in particular, could create disruptive
runs if not paired with appropriate regulation. The potential for
instability was illustrated in May 2022 by the crash of the so-called
stablecoin TerraUSD and the subsequent wave of insolvencies that erased
nearly $600 billion in wealth. In October, the Financial Stability
Oversight Council (FSOC) will publish a report discussing digital
assets’ financial-stability risks, identifying related regulatory gaps,
and making additional recommendations to foster financial stability.

The Biden-Harris Administration has long recognized the need for
regulation to address digital assets’ stability risks. For example, in
2021, the [President’s Working Group on Financial
Markets](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0456#:~:text=Featured%20Stories-,FACT%20SHEET%3A%20President%27s%20Working%20Group%20on%20Financial%20Markets%20(PWG),the%20Comptroller%20of%20the%20Currency&text=Stablecoins%20are%20digital%20assets%20that,currency%20or%20other%20reference%20assets.)
recommended steps for Congress and regulators to make stablecoins safer.
Building on this work, the Administration plans to take the additional
following steps:

-   The Treasury will **work with financial institutions to bolster
    their capacity to identify and mitigate cyber vulnerabilities** by
    sharing information and promoting a wide range of data sets and
    analytical tools.

<!-- -->

-   The Treasury will work with other agencies to **identify, track, and
    analyze emerging strategic risks** that relate to digital asset
    markets. It will also collaborate on identifying such risks with
    U.S. allies, including through international organizations like the
    Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and
    the Financial Stability Board (FSB).

**<u>Advancing Responsible Innovation</u>**

U.S. companies lead the world in innovation. Digital asset firms are no
exception. As of 2022, the United States is home to [roughly
half](https://courses.cfte.education/ranking-of-largest-fintech-companies/)
of the world’s 100 most valuable financial technology companies, many of
which trade in digital asset services.

The U.S. government has long played a critical role in priming
responsible private-sector innovation. It sponsors cutting-edge
research, helps firms compete globally, assists them with compliance,
and works with them to mitigate harmful side-effects of technological
advancement.

In keeping with this tradition, the Administration plans to take the
following steps to foster responsible digital asset innovation:

-   The Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and NSF will
    **develop a Digital Assets Research and Development Agenda** to
    kickstart fundamental research on topics such as next-generation
    cryptography, transaction programmability, cybersecurity and privacy
    protections, and ways to mitigate the environmental impacts of
    digital assets. It will also continue to support research that
    translates technological breakthroughs into market-ready products.
    Additionally, NSF will **back social-sciences and education research
    that develops methods of informing, educating, and training diverse
    groups of stakeholders** on safe and responsible digital asset use.

<!-- -->

-   The Treasury and financial regulators are encouraged to, as
    appropriate, **provide innovative U.S. firms developing new
    financial technologies with regulatory guidance, best-practices
    sharing, and technical assistance** through things like [tech
    sprints](https://regulationinnovation.org/techsprints/dc-regulatory-techsprint-on-aml-2/)
    and [Innovation
    Hours](https://www.fincen.gov/resources/fincens-innovation-initiative).

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, and
    other agencies will consider further **tracking digital assets’
    environmental impacts; developing performance standards as
    appropriate; and providing local authorities with the tools,
    resources, and expertise** to mitigate environmental harms. Powering
    crypto-assets can take a large amount of electricity—which can emit
    greenhouse gases, strain electricity grids, and harm some local
    communities with noise and water pollution. Opportunities exist to
    align the development of digital assets with transitioning to a
    net-zero emissions economy and improving environmental justice.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Commerce will examine **establishing a standing
    forum to convene federal agencies, industry, academics, and civil
    society to exchange knowledge and ideas that could inform federal
    regulation, standards, coordinating activities, technical
    assistance, and research support.**

**<u>Reinforcing Our Global Financial Leadership and
Competitiveness</u>**

Today, global standard-setting bodies are establishing policies,
guidance, and regulatory recommendations for digital assets. The United
States is working actively with its partners to set out these policies
in line with our goals and values, while also reinforcing the United
States’ role in the global financial system. Similarly, the United
States has a valuable opportunity to partner with countries still
developing their digital assets ecosystems, helping to ensure that
countries’ financial, legal, and technological infrastructures respect
core values including data privacy, financial stability, and human
rights.

To reinforce U.S. financial leadership and uphold U.S. values in global
digital asset markets, the Administration will take the following steps
outlined in the framework for international engagement released by the
Treasury Department earlier this summer:

-   U.S. agencies will **leverage U.S. positions in international
    organizations to message U.S. values related to digital assets.**
    U.S. agencies will also **continue and expand their leadership roles
    on digital assets work at international organizations and
    standard-setting bodies**—such as the G7, G20, OECD, FSB, Financial
    Action Task Force (FATF), and the International Organization for
    Standardization. Agencies will promote standards, regulations, and
    frameworks that reflect values like data privacy, free and efficient
    markets, financial stability, consumer protection, robust law
    enforcement, and environmental sustainability.

<!-- -->

-   The State Department, the Department of Justice (DOJ), and other
    U.S. enforcement agencies will **increase collaboration with—and
    assistance to—partner agencies in foreign countries** through global
    enforcement bodies like the Egmont Group, bilateral information
    sharing, and capacity building.

<!-- -->

-   The State Department, Treasury, USAID, and other agencies will
    **explore further technical assistance to developing countries
    building out digital asset infrastructure and services.** As
    appropriate, this assistance may include technical assistance on
    legal and regulatory frameworks, evidence-gathering and
    knowledge-sharing on the impacts, risks, and opportunities of
    digital assets.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Commerce will **help cutting-edge U.S. financial
    technology and digital asset firms find a foothold in global markets
    for their products.**

**<u>Fighting Illicit Finance</u>**

The United States has been a leader in applying its anti-money
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) framework
in the digital asset ecosystem. It has published relevant guidance,
engaged in regular public-private dialogue, used its enforcement tools,
and led in setting international AML/CFT standards. While our efforts
have strengthened the U.S. financial system, digital assets— some of
which are pseudonymous and can be transferred without a financial
intermediary —have been exploited by bad actors to launder illicit
proceeds, to finance terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction, and to conduct a wide array of other crimes. For example,
digital assets have facilitated the rise of ransomware cybercriminals;
narcotics sales and money laundering for drug trafficking organizations;
and the funding of activities of rogue regimes, as was the case in the
recent thefts by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK)-
affiliated Lazarus Group.

It is in the national interest to mitigate these risks through
regulation, oversight, law enforcement action, and the use of other
United States Government authorities. To fight the illicit use of
digital assets more effectively, the Administration plans to take the
following steps:

-   The President will evaluate whether to call upon Congress to **amend
    the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), anti-tip-off statutes, and laws against
    unlicensed money transmitting to apply explicitly to digital asset
    service providers**—including digital asset exchanges and
    nonfungible token (NFT) platforms. He will also consider urging
    Congress to **raise the penalties for unlicensed money
    transmitting** to match the penalties for similar crimes under other
    money-laundering statutes and to **amend relevant federal statutes**
    to let the Department of Justice prosecute digital asset crimes in
    any jurisdiction where a victim of those crimes is found.

<!-- -->

-   The United States will **continue to monitor the development of the
    digital assets sector and its associated illicit financing risks**,
    to identify any gaps in our legal, regulatory, and supervisory
    regimes.  As part of this effort, **Treasury will complete an
    illicit finance risk assessment on decentralized finance** by the
    end of February 2023 and an assessment on non-fungible tokens by
    July 2023.

<!-- -->

-   Relevant departments and agencies will **continue to expose and
    disrupt illicit actors and address the abuse of digital assets**. 
    Such actions will hold cybercriminals and other malign actors
    responsible for their illicit activity and identify nodes in the
    ecosystem that pose national security risks.

<!-- -->

-   Treasury will **enhance dialogue with the private sector** to ensure
    that firms understand existing obligations and illicit financing
    risks associated with digital assets, share information, and
    encourage the use of emerging technologies to comply with
    obligations.  This will be supported by a Request for Comment
    published to the Federal Register for input on several items related
    to AML/CFT.

Informing the above recommendations, the Treasury, DOJ/FBI, DHS, and NSF
drafted risk assessments to provide the Administration with a
comprehensive view of digital assets’ illicit-finance risks. The CFPB,
an independent agency, also voluntarily provided information to the
Administration as to risks arising from digital assets. The risks that
agencies highlight include, but are not limited to, money laundering;
terrorist financing; hacks that result in losses of funds; and
fragilities, common practices, and fast-changing technology that may
present vulnerabilities for misuse.

**<u>Exploring a U.S. Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC)</u>**

A U.S. CBDC – a digital form of the U.S. dollar – has the potential to
offer significant benefits. It could enable a payment system that is
more efficient, provides a foundation for further technological
innovation, facilitates faster cross-border transactions, and is
environmentally sustainable. It could promote financial inclusion and
equity by enabling access for a broad set of consumers. In addition, it
could foster economic growth and stability, protect against cyber and
operational risks, safeguard the privacy of sensitive data, and minimize
risks of illicit financial transactions. A potential U.S. CBDC could
also help preserve U.S. global financial leadership, and support the
effectiveness of sanctions. But a CBDC could also have unintended
consequences, including runs to CBDC in times of stress.

Recognizing the possibility of a U.S. CBDC, the Administration **has
developed** **Policy Objectives for a U.S. CBDC System**,which reflect
the federal government’s priorities for a potential U.S. CBDC. These
objectives flesh out the goals outlined for a CBDC in the E.O. A U.S.
CBDC system, if implemented, should protect consumers, promote economic
growth, improve payment systems, provide interoperability with other
platforms, advance financial inclusion, protect national security,
respect human rights, and align with democratic values. But further
research and development on the technology that would support a U.S.
CBDC is needed.  The Administration encourages the Federal Reserve to
continue its ongoing CBDC research, experimentation, and evaluation. To
support the Federal Reserve’s efforts and to advance other work on a
potential U.S. CBDC, the Treasury will lead an interagency working group
to **consider the potential implications of a U.S. CBDC, leverage
cross-government technical expertise, and share information with
partners**. The leadership of the Federal Reserve, the National Economic
Council, the National Security Council, the Office of Science and
Technology Policy, and the Treasury Department will meet regularly to
discuss the working group’s progress and share updates on and share
updates on CDBC and other payments innovations.
