---
date: '2022-09-16'
modified_time: 2022-09-16 17:00:27-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-16 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/16/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-the-presidents-advisory-committee-on-the-arts-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to the President\u2019s Advisory\
  \ Committee on the\_Arts"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve as members of the President’s Advisory
Committee on the Arts:

-   Mary R. Boyle
-   Guy Cecil
-   Merle C. Chambers
-   Leslie Jackson Chihuly
-   Cynthia Friedman
-   Robin Leeds
-   Robert A. Mandell
-   Tom Mims
-   Cheryl McKibben Najafi
-   Esther Brollier Oppenheimer
-   Eric Paquette
-   Michael Parham
-   Mark D. Sena
-   Jessica Slater
-   Gary Sugarman
-   Carri Belinda Twigg
-   Charlotte R. Cramer Wagner
-   Stephen N. Zack

Established in 1958 by President Eisenhower, the President’s Advisory
Committee on the Arts (PACA) has played a valuable role in sustaining
the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the National
Cultural Center. Members of the Committee are civic and cultural leaders
who are selected by the President of the United States to serve as
representatives in their own communities for the Kennedy Center. The
Center considers PACA appointees to be “Ambassadors for the Arts.”
Acting as a national network for the Center, the PACA helps to broaden
the Center’s influence and extend its vision across the country. The
Committee serves as a national forum, giving its members the opportunity
to share with the Kennedy Center their views on the Center’s artistic
programming.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Mary R. Boyle, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Mary R. Boyle is a community leader and philanthropist in
Portland, Oregon. Her leadership and involvement has impacted numerous
nonprofit organizations. Her interests range from education, the arts,
social service agencies, and children’s issues. Boyle currently serves
on the boards of the Portland Art Museum, University of Portland, and
Legacy Hospital Foundation’s Women’s Committee. She has served on the
Board of Directors of Portland Center Stage, Oregon College of Arts and
Crafts, Outward Bound, Jesuit High School, YWCA, St Mary’s Academy, and
SMART, a literacy program for children. She attended the University of
Oregon.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Guy Cecil, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Born and raised in Miami, Florida, Guy Cecil has spent time as a
high school teacher, minister, community and political leader, field
organizer, non-profit board chairman, and university adjunct lecturer.
He is currently the Chairman of Priorities USA, senior strategist for
Priorities USA Action, and President of Miles Strategies. Cecil
previously served as Executive Director of the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee and Chief of Staff to U.S Senator Michael Bennet of
Colorado. Cecil has made a mark in public affairs and issue advocacy,
having served as a Principal at the Dewey Square Group and National
Field Director for the Children’s Defense Fund. He has appeared as an
analyst and guest on MSNBC, CNN, NBC, ABC, CBS, Fox News, NPR, and in
news outlets across the country.  
  
Cecil has served on the boards of Foundry United Methodist Church, Color
of Change, Faith Forward, EL Haynes PCS, and Run for Something. He is a
graduate of the University of Florida where he previously served as an
adjunct lecturer for the Graduate School of Political Science. He lives
in Washington, DC, with his husband Ed McNulty.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Merle C. Chambers, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>A pioneer of women’s leadership, Merle C. Chambers was one of few
women CEOs in the male-dominated oil and gas industry. For more than 20
years, Chambers led Axem Resources, a privately held independent oil and
gas exploration and production company. In 1997, she founded Chambers
Fund, a private foundation with a commitment to social justice. In 2020,
Chambers deepened her commitment to equity, democracy, and economic
security with Chambers Initiative, a strategic alignment of her personal
giving and the foundation’s grantmaking.  
  
Actively involved in civic and cultural affairs in Colorado, Chambers
believes arts and culture institutions are vital in creating and
sustaining vibrant and livable communities, inspiring civic pride, and
providing educational and engaging experiences. For decades, she has
supported numerous arts organizations in Denver to sustain their general
operations and ensure future viability. Chambers has been a major donor
to various arts and culture capital campaigns, including the Denver Art
Museum, Clyfford Still Museum, Cleo Parker Robinson Dance, Ellie
Caulkins Opera House, Colorado Ballet, Colorado Symphony, Aspen Music
Festival & School, and the National Museum of African American History &
Culture. Chambers was instrumental in the construction of the new
building housing Kirkland Museum of Fine & Decorative Art. Her financial
support was an investment in Kirkland Museum as a Colorado art
institution, and in the further development of the Golden Triangle
Neighborhood and Denver’s nationally important art scene. Chambers
currently serves on the boards of Kirkland Museum and Denver Art
Museum.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Cynthia Friedman, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Cynthia Friedman is a private investor and lifelong advocate for
educational programs, political engagement, and access to the arts. She
is a member of the Board of Trustees of Carnegie Mellon University and
currently serves on the College of Fine Arts’ Advisory Council. For the
past 20 years, the University’s “Friedman Fellows” Internship Program
has provided students with scholarships to intern and study government
policy in Washington, DC. Previously, Friedman co-chaired Carnegie
Mellon’s School of Music 100th Anniversary/Centennial Celebration and
served on the University’s traveling advisory group.  
  
In Palm Beach, Friedman currently sits on the Board of Directors of the
Chamber Music Society and is a longtime member of The Society of the
Four Arts. She also serves on the American Friends of the Louvre Board
of Trustees and on the Advisory Council of New York City’s Orpheus
Chamber Orchestra. Friedman is a former member of the Collector’s
Committee at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC and, in 1999,
was appointed by President Bill Clinton to the President’s Committee on
the Arts and Humanities. She graduated with a B.S. from the University
of Pittsburgh and continued her education at the George Washington
University Graduate School of Public Administration. Born in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, she now resides in Palm Beach, FL and maintains an
apartment in New York City. Friedman and her late husband Milton are the
parents of three grown children.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Robin Leeds, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Robin Leeds is CEO of Winning Strategies, a communications
advisory firm in Washington, DC that specializes in multi-cultural and
crisis communications, public policy advocacy, coalition building,
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, and corporate social responsibility
planning. A Woodrow Wilson fellow and member of the National Museum of
Women in the Arts Advisory Board, Leeds has devoted her career to
expanding access to economic, civil, and social opportunities for all
Americans with a focus on increasing visibility for social impact
artists, women, people of color, and other underrepresented groups. For
over four decades, she played key leadership roles in presidential,
gubernatorial, and congressional campaigns and administrations. While
serving in the Clinton White House Office on Women’s Initiatives and
Outreach, Leeds coordinated domestic and global engagement efforts,
organized the President’s Childhood Immunization Initiative at the
Department of Health and Human Services, directed the interagency
implementation of the National Voter Registration (Motor Voter) Act for
the White House Office of Cabinet Affairs, and cultivated public-private
partnerships for the Youth Opportunity Movement at the Department of
Labor.  
  
Leeds was the National Co-Chair of Women for Kerry’s 2004 presidential
campaign and served as a senior women’s policy advisor during the
presidential campaigns of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. Most
recently, she served on the women’s outreach and policy teams for the
Biden for President campaign. Leeds’ knack for coalition building
combined with a deep understanding of public policy advocacy and a
talent for forging connections among diverse constituencies has earned
her leadership positions at the National Council of Jewish Women,
Harvard Women’s Leadership Board, the Radcliffe Center for Advanced
Leadership, and the Women in Politics Institute at American
University.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Leslie Jackson Chihuly,
Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Leslie Jackson Chihuly is an American arts executive and
philanthropist committed to democratizing access to the arts and to arts
education. She is the president and CEO of Chihuly Studio, the working
studio of American artist Dale Chihuly; co-founder of Warm Springs
Productions, which aims to strengthen community through music, art,
sport, and visual media; and co-founder of the Dale and Leslie Chihuly
Foundation, which educates the public regarding all forms of art and
ensures ongoing viability for artists and arts organizations. Chihuly is
Chair of Seattle’s Benaroya Hall Music Center and serves on the boards
of Vassar College, Pilchuck Glass School, and the Seattle Symphony. She
was elected Chair Emerita of the Seattle Symphony after serving nine
years as Board Chair and implementing revitalizing changes. Chihuly is a
speaker and advocate who shares her distinct perspective in keynotes for
organizations such as the Foster School of Business, Fidelity, Path with
Art, and Tugboat Institute. She is a spokesperson for McLean Hospital’s
“Deconstructing Stigma” international campaign to change perceptions
around mental illness. Chihuly was awarded the Women of Valor Award by
Senator Maria Cantwell and was inducted into the College of Fine Arts
Hall of Fame at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, in recognition of
her extraordinary achievements in the arts.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Robert A. Mandell, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Robert A. Mandell is a retired U.S. Ambassador and currently
serves on the boards of the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History, The
Corporation for Public Broadcasting, and Human Rights First in New York
City. Mandell is currently a partner in Velocitas Venture, a medical
device company. He previously was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of The Greater Construction Corp. in Orlando, Florida. He has also been
involved in state and regional governments, including as chairman of the
Florida Environmental Regulation Commission and chairman of the
Orlando-Orange County Expressway Authority. Additionally, Mandell has
served on the boards of Florida Hospital, a division of Adventist Health
Systems; the Burnham Institute for Medical Research of La Jolla,
California; and the Vermont Studio Center. In 2010, he was named by
President Barack Obama to the President’s Export Council and was later
appointed as U.S. Ambassador to Luxembourg, where he served from 2011
until 2015. He was the first ambassador in 60 years to be honored with
induction into the Order of the Oak Crown by Grand Duke Henri for
outstanding service to Luxembourg. Mandell earned a B.S. from the
University of Florida in 1969 and a Juris Doctorate in 1972. In
addition, he graduated from the Harvard Business School Owner/President
Management program in 2000. Mandell is married to Julie Walker Mandell
and is father to four grown children  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Tom Mims, Member, President’s
Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Tom Mims is Founder and President of T. Mims Corp., a central
Florida investment, real estate, ranching, sand mining, and development
company, owning and managing 10,000 acres. His development of the Alafia
River Wetland Mitigation Bank is the largest wetland mitigation bank in
the Alafia River basin consolidating and optimizing environmental
impacts. Mims has worked with solar companies to develop solar farms and
address their long-term sustainability. Elected to the Florida House of
Representatives at the age of 24, Mims became steeped in recognizing the
importance of equity, social justice, and economic responsibility. He is
a Trustee of the National Symphony Orchestra at the Kennedy Center. Mims
and his wife Paula are extensively involved in their community including
the arts, public education, and maternal health equity. A longtime
patron of Polk Museum of Art at Florida Southern College, Florida House
in Washington, DC, Volunteers in Service to the Elderly, the League of
Women Voters, Bonnet Springs Park, local music programs, and many
others, his philanthropic interests are at the forefront of his daily
efforts. Mims is a graduate of the University of Florida with a B.S. in
Accounting and earned his MBA in Accounting at Florida Southern
College.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Cheryl McKibben Najafi,
Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Cheryl Najafi is a best-selling author, speaker, activist, and
entrepreneur. In 2010 she founded food website EverydayDishes.com. After
a decade in media, she founded The Cause Collection, a socially
responsible clothing company to support nonprofits who fight for
equality, humanitarianism, and social justice. Her latest initiative is
writing and producing an children’s animated TV series that addresses
social, environmental, and humanitarian issues. Najafi currently serves
on the executive committee of the Barrow Neurological Institute
Foundation Board, Charter 100, ASU Art Museum Creative Impact Board,
University of Chicago Parent Council, and The New American Council for
Arts and Design at Arizona State University. Najafi holds a B.A. and
M.A. in Communication from Arizona State University. She has been the
recipient of several awards including Arizona’s Most Intriguing Women
for its Centennial Celebration as the 48th state and ASU’s 2019 College
of Liberal Arts and Sciences Leader, among others. Najafi splits her
time among Phoenix, Los Angeles, and New York City.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Esther Brollier Oppenheimer,
Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Esther B. Oppenheimer is an artist residing in Boise, Idaho. She
has served on and chaired the Idaho Governor’s Commission for
Volunteerism and Community Service. Oppenheimer has also served on the
Boise Art Museum, including serving as Chair of the Board. She worked as
a licensed and board-certified mental health counselor and as an art
therapist working with families and children. Oppenheimer was named the
Idaho Counselor Supervisor of the Year and also awarded the Idaho
Association for the Education of Young Children Annual Stick Your Neck
Out for Children Award. She is currently working as a studio artist with
ceramic and mixed media pieces.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Eric Paquette, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Eric Paquette has over thirty years of experience creating
content for some of the biggest media companies in the world such as CBS
News & Sports, Metro Goldwyn Mayer, and Sony Pictures. Paquette, a
well-respected executive and producer, is currently the CEO of the film
and television company Meridian Pictures and is the Founder and CEO of
the co-viewing start-up LetScreen. For the past fifteen years, he served
as Senior Vice President of Production at Sony Pictures Entertainment’s
Screen Gems where he supervised the development and production of
feature films with budgets ranging between $10 million to $60 million.
Prior to joining Sony in 2005, Paquette served in senior executive
positions at Metro Goldwyn Mayer and Phoenix Pictures. He started his
career in media as a researcher for CBS Sports and as an Associate
Producer for Dan Rather and Connie Chung at CBS News. He is an advisory
board member for The Johns Hopkins School of Education and is the former
President and current Commissioner of The Los Angeles Department of
Cultural Affairs. Paquette is also a member of The Academy of Motion
Picture, Arts and Sciences and was a previous member of the
International Feature Film Executive Committee. He co-founded Tudela
Futbol Club Los Angeles and has run twenty-six marathons, including the
Boston Marathon three times. He lives in Los Angeles with his wife
Jessica Postigo and their two daughters, Libby and Nina. He and his
family are beekeepers.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Michael Parham, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Michael Parham is the Senior Vice-President and General Counsel
of RealNetworks, the company that pioneered streaming media on the
internet. Previously, he served as the Regional Counsel for IBM in
Chicago, where he began his legal career at the law firm of Chapman and
Cutler. He is highly-regarded for his commitment to civic engagement.
Parham serves on the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees of the
Seattle Art Museum. He has served as Chairman of the United
States-Canada Fulbright Foundation Board of Trustees and President of
the Seattle Public Library Board of Trustees. Parham has served on the
Board of Trustees of the Bullitt Environmental Foundation, the
Washington Technology Industry Association, and the education
non-profits Communities In Schools and America’s Promise Alliance. He is
also a co-founder of the Black Boardroom Initiative, established to
develop a pipeline to increase corporate board diversity. He received
his law degree from the University of Michigan Law School. Parham
resides in Seattle with his wife Hyeok Kim and their son Marc.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Mark D. Sena, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Mark D. Sena is a Florida resident with a professional background
in investment banking specializing in media, communications, and
entertainment. He is currently president of Mars Communications, Inc., a
telecommunications company with FCC spectrum licenses deployed for
wireless broadband and cellular communications. Sena serves as a trustee
of the international dance center Jacob’s Pillow, a trustee of the
Community Foundation of Tampa Bay, an advisory board member of WUSF
Public Media in Tampa, and an advisory board member of the Institute for
Research in Art at the University of South Florida. He is an alumnus of
the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University
and an emeritus member of the school’s advisory board. Sena has been a
trustee of the Tampa Museum of Art and Tampa’s Straz Center for the
Performing Arts. He is a member of Leadership Florida (Class XXIV), the
Tampa Bay Committee on Foreign Relations, and an inductee in the Cable
TV Pioneers. Sena lives in Tampa, New York, and the Berkshires of
western Massachusetts.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Jessica Slater, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Jessica Slater is a Director at The Slater Foundation, where she
works to identify grant recipients and manage commitments. Additionally,
she focuses on the continued support and development of the foundation’s
relationships with its chosen grantees. Slater is involved in fostering
partnerships with a variety of organizations ranging in both size and
mission, from local grassroots to major institutions. Slater has worked
on the establishment of endowments at institutions including Boston
University, Massachusetts General Hospital, and Harvard Medical School.
She also serves as an Overseer at the Boston Children’s Museum.
Previously, she produced a narrative feature film, with major
distribution from Sony Pictures and Netflix. Slater graduated from
Suffolk University with a Bachelors of Arts in Marketing and Journalism
and lives in Boston’s Back Bay neighborhood with her husband Sam and
their two sons, James and Dylan.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Gary Sugarman, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Gary Sugarman is Principal of Richfield Associates Fl, Inc., a
firm he founded that provides equity investments in the telecom sector.
He was Managing Member of Richfield Capital Partners, a fund that he
formed that provided working capital investments in the technology
sector. Sugarman has invested in and operated numerous telecom/data
companies through Associates and Capital Partners. He is currently a
freelance consultant for Morrison and Co, an infrastructure fund based
in New Zealand and previously served as their Senior Digital
Infrastructure Advisor. He is also on the board of a telecom operating
company, LICT Corp, and an investor in a fintech company, Interchecks,
based in New York.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Carri Belinda Twigg, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Carri Belinda Twigg is Co-founder and Head of Development for
Culture House media, a Black, Brown, Women owned, full service, premium
film and TV production company that specializes in storytelling about
the urgent cultural questions confronting America and the world. Prior
to Culture House, Twigg spent ten years in politics and government,
including serving as Special Assistant to President Obama and Director
of Public Engagement for then-Vice President Biden. She also leads
Culture House’s consultancy work, collaborating with major studios like
Paramount Pictures and creatives to ensure their projects are culturally
productive. Twigg is an expert in crafting engaging, socially relevant,
and politically resonant stories, and has been seen on stages from TedX
to SXSW. Select current TV series include *The Hair Tales* for Hulu and
OWN, *Growing Up* for Disney+, and a to-be-announced project for Netflix
about racism, misogyny, and music.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Charlotte R. Cramer Wagner,
Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Charlotte R. Cramer Wagner resides in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
and is a longtime advocate and supporter of contemporary art. She is the
Founder and President of Wagner Foundation, whose vision of a “just and
robust” community recognizes that the arts are essential to societal
well-being. Additionally, the foundation focuses on health equity and
economic mobility, and engages historical inequities as part of a
broader commitment to cultural transformation. Her appreciation of the
cultural and institutional role of the arts is matched by a personal
commitment to supporting socially engaged artists and artworks. Wagner
is a Trustee on the Boards of the Institute of Contemporary Art/Boston,
VIA Art Fund, and Partners In Health. She is also a member of the
Leadership Council at the Center for Public Leadership, Harvard Kennedy
School. Prior to her philanthropic focus, Wagner held positions at
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Fidelity Investments, and Tribune Media
Services. She has an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago and A.B. from
the University of Michigan.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Stephen N. Zack, Member,
President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
</span>Stephen N. Zack is an Attorney, Partner, and Executive Committee
member at Boies Schiller Flexner LLP. He was nominated by President
Barack Obama for the position of Alternate U.S. Representative to the
Sixty-eighth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, and
he served as Senior Advisor to the United States Department of State. He
served as the first Hispanic President of the American Bar Association
and he was also the youngest President of the Florida Bar. Zack
represented former Vice President Al Gore in the trial of Bush v. Gore.
He was appointed by Governor Lawton Chiles to re-write the Florida
Constitution as a member of the Florida Constitution Revision
Commission. Zack served as General Counsel to Florida’s former Governor
and U.S. Senator Bob Graham and also Chaired the Florida Ethics
Commission. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the
American Law Institute. Zack is a Life Fellow of the American Bar
Foundation. He was recognized by The American Lawyer with a Lifetime
Achievement Award for his many years of service and accomplished career.
Zack received a B.A. from the University of Florida and a J.D. from the
University of Florida Law School and received the Distinguished Alumni
Award from the University. He has also received honorary degrees from
numerous law schools.

\###
