---
date: '2022-09-21'
modified_time: 2022-09-21 21:57:43-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-21 21:57:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-raises-record-level-funding-for-global-health-through-global-fund-seventh-replenishment/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:\_President\_Biden Raises Record Level Funding for Global Health\
  \ through Global Fund Seventh\_Replenishment"
---
 
Today, at the Global Fund Seventh Replenishment Conference, President
Biden announced that the replenishment conference had raised $14.25
billion to date, the largest amount ever raised for the Global Fund and
one of the single largest fundraising efforts for global health ever.

Over the past 20 years, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria (Global Fund) has invested more than $53 billion, saving 44
million lives and reducing the combined death rate from HIV, TB, and
malaria by more than half in the low- and middle-income countries where
the Global Fund invests. On September 21, 2022, the United States
Government and the Global Fund brought together governments, civil
society, and the private sector at the Global Fund’s Seventh
Replenishment Conference in New York to take bold action toward the
fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.  

Government donors and the private sector formally pledged their
contributions to ensure the Global Fund can continue to do its critical
life-saving work. The funding will be used in the 2023-2025 grant cycle
to reach over 120 low- and middle-income countries. These investments
will enhance our global capacity to fight against these existing
epidemics and will build more resilient health systems in preparation
for future health threats and pandemics. This work is also essential to
prevent and respond to gender-based violence and advance sexual and
reproductive health and rights both in the United States and around the
world.

President Biden’s FY 2023 budget includes a request for $2 billion for
the Global Fund intended to be a first part of a total U.S. $6 billion
three-year Seventh Replenishment pledge. This demonstrates the United
States Government’s readiness to match $1 for every $2 contributed by
other donors, and our firm commitment to save lives and continue the
fight against HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria. We are working with Congress to
build upon these long-standing and bipartisan investments.

The United States is proud to be the largest donor for global health. As
we work to end the HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria epidemics, we remain
committed to strengthening health systems and institutions; advancing
global health security; advancing sexual and reproductive health and
rights, including maternal, neonatal, and child health; closing gaps in
nutrition and non-communicable diseases; and accelerating efforts
towards universal health coverage and the Sustainable Development
Agenda. In Fiscal Year (FY) 2021, the United States provided over $9
billion to support global health programs, in addition to nearly $16
billion for life-saving health, economic, and humanitarian COVID-19
assistance to our partners to fight this virus and its impacts. These
funds are delivering shots in arms, lifesaving supplies to hospitals,
and support that reaches the most marginalized communities.

The U.S. Government’s substantial investments in these health priorities
reflect our commitment to working with partners to strengthen health
systems and end these epidemics, including ending HIV here in the United
States**.** Core to this work is a focus on equity, which means ensuring
that everyone – no matter who they are, who they love, or where they
come from – is able to live a healthy, productive and fulfilling life.

***Highlights of Global Fund Pledges at the Seventh Replenishment
Conference***

The United States applauds all government donors who contributed
robustly to support the lifesaving work of the Global Fund. Core global
fund donors, including Japan ($1.08 billion), Germany (€1.3 billion),
the European Commission (€715 million), France (nearly €1.6 billion),
and Canada ($1.21 billion Canadian), all increased their pledges since
the last replenishment. Korea quadrupled its commitment (to $100
million), while Kenya increased their pledge by two-thirds (to $10
million).

The Global Fund’s implementing partner countries also showed up in force
and made significant commitments to invest in their own health programs.
In an unprecedented demonstration of global solidarity, twenty of Global
Fund’s implementing partners announced pledges to the Global Fund
Seventh Replenishment, 18 of whom are from the African continent. 

The private sector is at the core of the Global Fund partnership, and it
has been a key contributor ever since the Global Fund’s creation. The
Global Fund takes private sector innovations and rapidly scales them up
to fast-track progress against HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria in priority
areas. Since 2002, private sector partners (including corporations,
foundations, and philanthropists) have committed over $3.6 billion to
the Global Fund. For the Seventh Replenishment, the Global Fund’s
private sector partners committed a total of $1.23 billion, led by the
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and (RED).

The full list of pledges will be regularly updated on [the Global Fund
website](https://www.theglobalfund.org/).

The United States is proud to stand with other Global Fund donors to end
AIDS, TB, and malaria by 2030. A successful Seventh Replenishment
enables the Global Fund to continue saving lives, reducing deaths from
HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria, and supporting health systems strengthening.

\###
