---
date: '2022-09-08'
modified_time: 2022-09-08 12:34:10-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-08 12:34:09-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/08/fact-sheet-biden-administration-outlines-plan-to-get-americans-an-updated-covid-19-vaccine-shot-and-manage-covid-19-this-fall/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Outlines Plan to Get Americans an Updated\
  \ COVID-\u206019 Vaccine Shot and Manage COVID-\u206019 this\_Fall"
---
 
Today, the Biden Administration is announcing its plan to get Americans
their updated COVID-19 vaccine shot this fall, to ensure that the nation
continues to effectively manage COVID-19 and minimize its disruptions,
and to stay prepared for whatever may come.

This plan builds on the Administration’s work over the past 19 months to
make COVID-19 vaccines, treatments, tests, masks, and other critical
tools widely available to the American people. As the first nation in
the world with updated vaccines that target the strain of Omicron that
is dominant in the U.S. and around the world, we have a new, powerful
tool to prevent serious illness and death, keep businesses and schools
open, and get back to our more normal routines.

This summer, we showed that we know how to manage fluctuations in
COVID-19 and move forward safely. In fact, even as the BA.5 subvariant
of Omicron drove a rise in infections, the U.S. experienced far lower
rates of hospitalization and death than in previous surges. Today, daily
COVID-19 deaths are down nearly 90 percent since the President took
office, and when properly used, the tools we now have can prevent nearly
all COVID-19 deaths.

As we head into the fall, we know that there is a potential for an
increase in infections, in part due to increased waning of immunity from
vaccines and prior infection. Additionally, as the weather gets colder
and people spend more time indoors, contagious viruses like COVID-19 can
spread more easily. And, as we saw last fall with the emergence of
Omicron, we must continue to stay prepared for the possibility of a
potential new variant of concern.

The Administration’s plan to manage COVID-19 this fall focuses on making
sure that Americans continue to have easy and equitable access to
lifesaving tools, particularly the updated COVID-19 vaccines, and
encouraging Americans to use them. Its success relies on all
Americans—state and local leaders, health care providers, employers,
educators, community- and faith-based organizations, and
individuals—doing their part and taking commonsense actions to protect
themselves, their loved ones, and their communities.

**The Administration’s plan includes:**

1\. **<u>Getting Americans the best available protection through free
and easy access to new, updated COVID-19 vaccines.</u>**Following
actions last week by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), we are launching a
new, updated COVID-19 vaccine this week. The new vaccines provide the
strongest available protection from the Omicron strain of the COVID
virus, which did not exist when the original vaccine was developed. As
the virus continues to change, we will now be able to update our
vaccines annually to target the dominant variant. Everyone age 12 years
and older is eligible for these updated vaccines at least two months
after their primary series or their most recent booster. Given the
potential for cases to increase in the fall and winter, it is critical
that Americans get a new, updated COVID-19 vaccine to stay protected.
The Administration is launching a comprehensive effort to make sure that
these vaccines are free, widely available, and easy to access for all
Americans.

-   **Offering new, updated COVID-19 vaccines for free at tens of
    thousands of trusted locations, with convenient appointment and
    walk-in hours:** The Administration has secured over 170 million
    doses of the updated COVID-19 vaccines, which will be made available
    to the American people for free at tens of thousands of convenient
    locations nationwide, including pharmacies, doctor’s offices, health
    centers, and state and local health departments. Americans can visit
    Vaccines.gov to find locations with the new, updated vaccines near
    them—with more locations and appointments becoming available in the
    coming days and weeks. After pre-ordered doses are delivered, over
    90 percent of Americans will have a location with free, updated
    COVID-19 vaccines within 5 miles of where they live. The
    Administration is working with providers to ensure that vaccinations
    are offered at convenient hours for working families, including on
    the weekends and in the evenings, and through walk-in appointments.
    These efforts will help to ensure that the public can get boosted in
    trusted locations and at times that work best for them.
    -   *<u>Helping people get their COVID-19 shot and flu shot at the
        same time in one place:</u>* Americans can elect to get their
        annual flu shot at the same time as their updated COVID-19
        vaccine. For Americans who want to get their updated COVID-19
        shot and their annual flu shot at the same time, the
        Administration is working with providers to be able to offer
        both vaccines at many locations, so Americans can easily and
        efficiently get the protection that they need for the fall and
        winter.
    -   *<u>Launching new community vaccination centers where
        needed:</u>* The Administration remains ready to help
        jurisdictions interested in standing up new community
        vaccination centers increase access to the updated COVID-19
        vaccines. The Federal Emergency Management Agency will continue
        to offer reimbursement for 90 percent of the eligible costs of
        setting up vaccination sites—from procuring equipment to
        offering translation and transportation services to communities.

<!-- -->

-   **Focusing on protecting those most at-risk:** The Administration is
    launching a targeted campaign to get highest-risk
    Americans—including older Americans and immunocompromised
    individuals—their updated COVID-19 vaccine shot as quickly as
    possible.
    -   In the coming weeks, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
        Services (CMS) will reach out to the more than 16 million people
        who receive Medicare emails to share information on these
        updated vaccines, including when and how to get them. CMS will
        also add a message on the updated COVID-19 shots to the
        1-800-MEDICARE line, reaching approximately 2 million people
        each month. The Administration for Community Living (ACL) will
        help older adults find information about where and how to get
        boosted through the Eldercare Locator, including connecting
        individuals who face barriers to leaving their homes with local
        services. The Administration will also continue to provide
        moderately or severely immunocompromised individuals the support
        they need to live their lives safely. This includes providing
        clear information on how to access the updated COVID-19 vaccines
        and further expanding access to and awareness of effective
        pre-exposure prophylactics such as Evusheld to supplement
        vaccine protection.
    -   The Administration will work with long-term care and other
        congregate settings serving older Americans and people with
        disabilities to ensure that we are protecting those most at risk
        with these updated vaccines. CMS will offer resources to
        thousands of nursing homes so that they have tools to help get
        residents and staff vaccinated, including: helping schedule
        on-site vaccination clinics; meeting directly with nursing home
        administrators to help make a plan to get their staff and
        residents boosted; and offering office hours with technical
        assistance and support. ACL will provide information to
        residents of long-term care facilities and their families about
        the benefits of updated vaccines.
    -   ACL’s Disability Information and Assistance Line (DIAL) will
        help people with disabilities find vaccination locations
        offering the updated vaccine, make appointments, and get
        connected to resources to overcome barriers to getting
        vaccinated, including transportation. ACL will also continue to
        work with state and local disability and aging organizations to
        use the remaining grant funding they were awarded last year to
        support vaccine access for people with disabilities and older
        adults.  

<!-- -->

-   **Empowering people with facts and answers to their questions:** The
    Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is launching a
    comprehensive public education campaign that will leverage deep
    relationships with national and local organizations and will include
    paid media to meet people where they are with facts and answers to
    their questions.
    -   *<u>Engaging community organizations:</u>* Building on the
        successful efforts that have gotten over 600 million shots in
        arms since January 2021, HHS will engage national, regional, and
        local community-based organizations to reach people with trusted
        information on the new, updated COVID-19 vaccines. This
        continued collaboration will help meet people where they are,
        and foster conversations with trusted members of their
        communities. Activities in September include:
        -   Local chapters of the National Parent Teacher Association
            hosting “Shots to Go” vaccination clinics throughout the
            month.
        -   Organizations with strong reach among racial and ethnic
            minority communities—including the National Coalition of 100
            Black Women, the Cobb Institute, and the National Hispanic
            Pastor Alliance—hosting community health expos and vaccine
            drives in cities.
        -   Faith-based groups, such as the Women’s Missionary Society
            Foundation, hosting a series of vaccine events at AME
            Churches in several states.
        -   Groups with strong reach across rural communities, such as
            Healthy Trucking of America, hosting pop-up clinics.
    -   *Paid media:* HHS’s We Can Do This Campaign will launch a paid
        media campaign aimed at increasing COVID-19 vaccination, with a
        focus on those over age 50, as well as Black, Hispanic, rural,
        Asian American/Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, and American
        Indian/Alaska Native audiences through TV, radio, digital and
        print outlets

**2.** **Ensuring that Americans continue to have easy access to
COVID-19 testing and treatments to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 and
to keep people out of the hospital.** COVID-19 tests and
treatments—which the Administration has made widely available and easy
to access—have played an essential role in getting schools and
businesses open again, reducing serious illness, and minimizing
disruption to daily life. These tools will continue to be critical as we
head into the fall. While the lack of additional COVID-19 funding from
Congress puts constraints on what we are able to do, the Administration
will do everything in its power to ensure that tests and treatments
remain widely available and easy to access, and will encourage Americans
to use them.

-   **Purchasing more at-home COVID-19 tests for the nation’s stockpile
    and bolstering the manufacturing of tests made in America:**The
    Administration is acting, within its limited funding, to increase
    the supply of at-home COVID-19 tests in the Strategic National
    Stockpile (SNS) by purchasing over 100 million additional at-home,
    rapid tests from domestic manufacturers. While insufficient to
    adequately replenish our existing stockpile of at-home tests, this
    procurement will help meet some testing needs in the months ahead
    and will put us in a better position to manage a potential increase
    in testing demand this fall and winter. And, it will further the
    Administration’s goal of mobilizing and strengthening the domestic
    testing manufacturing industrial base.

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing equitable access to COVID-19 treatments, including
    through additional Test to Treat sites:**The Administration will
    work to expand the Test to Treat footprint beyond the 2,800 current
    Test to Treat sites, including more mobile and telehealth-based
    models that will meet people where they are and reduce barriers to
    access for highest-risk individuals. As part of this effort, the
    National Institutes of Health (NIH) Rapid Acceleration of
    Diagnostics (RADx<sup>®</sup>) Tech program and ASPR are launching a
    new telehealth Test to Treat pilot program that will partner with
    state, local, Tribal, and/or territorial health departments to serve
    as many as 15 rural and high-risk communities. This pilot will allow
    individuals in vulnerable communities to receive home-delivery of
    at-home tests, use telehealth to consult a clinician without having
    to leave home, receive a prescription for COVID-19 treatment when
    appropriate, and have the medications delivered to their home, all
    at no cost to the individual.

<!-- -->

-   **Investing in testing innovations for at-home tests accessible to
    people with disabilities, and for next-generation, high-performance
    COVID-19 rapid tests:**The NIH’s National Institute of Biomedical
    Imaging and Bioengineering is launching two key initiatives as part
    of its RADx Fast Track Program to ensure equitable access to at-home
    tests. The first program will accelerate the development of at-home
    diagnostic technologies that will provide improved accessibility and
    ease-of-use for populations with disabilities. The second is to
    accelerate the development of next-generation COVID-19 diagnostic
    technologies with improved performance. These investments will
    ensure that our nation’s testing and diagnostic capabilities can
    continue to stay ahead of the virus and will help provide additional
    access to testing for individuals with disabilities.

**3. <u>Calling on all Americans to use every tool at their disposal to
keep communities safe and schools and businesses open.</u>**We now have
more tools than ever before to protect and build on the progress we have
made, and these tools are widely available—but we must continue to use
them this fall. To keep America moving forward safely, the
Administration is once again calling on all Americans—including private
sector and education leaders—to do their part and take steps to protect
themselves and their communities through vaccinations, testing,
treatments, and indoor air quality improvements.

-   **Calling on all businesses to take key actions to protect employees
    and customers:** The Administration is calling on employers to take
    actions this fall in three key areas of COVID-19 mitigation and
    protection against serious illness: helping their employees access
    updated COVID-19 vaccines; ensuring that they know about COVID-19
    treatment options and how to access them; and improving indoor air
    quality across their buildings. This includes actions such as
    offering paid-time-off for vaccination; working with local vaccine
    providers to host on-site vaccination clinics for employees,
    including by offering both the annual flu shot and updated COVID-19
    vaccines; incorporating clear information about COVID-19 treatments
    into employee health plans and employee communications; and taking
    concrete steps to improve indoor air quality, such as commissioning,
    repairing, and improving HVAC systems, and installing high-quality
    air filters and air cleaners. To help businesses take action, the
    Administration will release clear information about steps that
    businesses of all kinds can take to protect their workforce and
    customers and to keep their doors open this fall, and will work
    across the federal government and with business organizations to
    share information, answer questions, and support actions in any way
    that we can.

<!-- -->

-   ****Calling on all school districts, colleges, and universities to
    leverage every available tool to protect educators, staff, and
    students and keep students in classrooms:**** The Administration is
    calling on every school district in America to host at least one
    vaccination clinic by Thanksgiving, as we continue to provide
    resources to help schools to do so. The Administration is also
    calling on colleges and universities to launch vaccination campaigns
    in the fall, including on-site clinics for students and faculty. In
    addition to ensuring that educators, staff, students, and campus
    communities are up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations, the
    Administration is calling on schools to use funding provided through
    the American Rescue Plan to improve ventilation and make other
    indoor air quality improvements. To help make indoor air quality
    improvements easier for schools to navigate, the Administration is
    collaborating with organizations that provide expert guidance and
    technical support from skilled, trained, and qualified technicians,
    and the Department of Energy is providing 1-1 consultations for K-12
    schools around the country on how to improve indoor air quality.

4\. **<u>Preparing for potential surges and new variants and building a
resilient national COVID-19 response moving forward.</u>** Federal
agencies have worked at unprecedented levels of speed and coordination
to effectively fight back the COVID-19 surges the nation has seen to
date. While we have made significant progress in our ability to manage
COVID-19 without surges in hospitalizations and deaths, the
Administration is clear that we must stay on our front foot and act
aggressively in the face of an unpredictable virus. We will also
continue to provide clear information on steps Americans can take to
protect themselves, including on when to consider masking in crowded,
indoor public spaces based on their COVID-19 Community Levels. And, as
we drive additional progress on vaccinations, testing, treatments,
indoor air quality, and more, the Administration will continue to chart
the path for managing COVID-19 in the future.

-   **Strengthening our national readiness and preparedness to respond
    to whatever may come through federal table-top preparedness
    exercises:** In the fall, the Administration will continue relying
    on the crucial surveillance tools we have built to monitor the
    spread of COVID-19 across the U.S., and to detect any future
    variants. This includes CDC’s National Wastewater Surveillance
    System, which now collects data from over 1,000 wastewater treatment
    plant sampling sites in sewer systems that serve roughly half of all
    Americans. In addition, the entire weight of the federal government
    will continue to be able to rapidly bring resources to bear in the
    event of a new surge or variant. This includes activating the robust
    emergency response infrastructure we have built to surge federal
    personnel, critical supplies, personal protective equipment, testing
    capacity, and other support to local health systems when needed.
    Federal agencies will continue to conduct tabletop exercises and
    scenario planning this fall to ensure that our national response
    remains sharp and teams remain ready to respond to any changing
    circumstances.

<!-- -->

-   **Calling on Congress to provide additional COVID-19 funding to meet
    critical needs:** The Administration has made clear to Congress that
    we need additional funding for the nation’s COVID-19 response. As we
    warned for months, Congressional inaction has forced us to make
    difficult tradeoffs that harm our response and preparedness. Last
    week, we sent an updated $22.4 billion request to Congress to meet
    immediate short-term domestic needs, including testing; to
    accelerate the research and development of next-generation vaccines
    and therapeutics; to increase our understanding of Long COVID; to
    prepare for future surges and variants; and to support the global
    response to COVID-19. While we have made tremendous progress on
    COVID-19, Congress must step up to ensure that we can continue stay
    on our front foot against this unpredictable virus.

<!-- -->

-   **Planning to eventually transition procurement and distribution of
    COVID-19 vaccines, tests, treatments to the commercial market:** The
    Administration will continue to provide lifesaving tools—including
    updated COVID-19 vaccines—to the American people this fall for free.
    To the extent that Congress fails to fund ongoing needs, we are
    forced to accelerate transitioning procurement and distribution of
    these critical tools in a way that may leave Americans vulnerable.
    With additional funding, the Administration will be able to work
    with state and local health departments, health insurers, health
    care providers, patients, and other stakeholders to drive a
    thoughtful, well-coordinated transition—in a way that does not leave
    large gaps in coverage or prevent easy access to vaccines, tests,
    and treatments to the American people. The timeline of this
    transition should be dictated by the state of the pandemic and by
    the need to ensure an orderly transition, not by the lack of
    funding.
