---
date: '2022-09-02'
modified_time: 2022-09-02 14:12:51-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-02 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/02/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-30/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his
administration:   

-   Richard L. Revesz, Nominee for Administrator of the Office of
    Information and Regulatory Affairs, U.S Office of Management and
    Budget
-   Nickolas H. Guertin, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Navy
    (Research, Development, and Acquisition), U.S. Department of Defense
-   Gene Rodrigues, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Energy (Office of
    Electricity), U.S. Department of Energy
-   Danté Quintin Allen, Nominee for Commissioner of the Rehabilitation
    Services Administration, U.S. Department of Education
-   George P. Kent, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Estonia
-   Donna Ann Welton, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
-   Roger Israel Zakheim, Nominee for Member of the United States
    Institute of Peace

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Richard L. Revesz, Nominee
for Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs,
U.S. Office of Management and Budget**  
</span>  
Richard L. Revesz, the AnBryce Professor of Law and Dean Emeritus at the
New York University (NYU) School of Law, is one of the nation’s leading
voices in the fields of environmental and regulatory law and policy. He
has published ten books and more than 80 articles in major law reviews
and journals advocating for protective and rational climate change and
environmental policies, and examining the institutional contexts in
which regulatory policy is made. Revesz founded the Institute for Policy
Integrity, a think tank and advocacy organization that promotes
desirable public policies for the environment, public health, and
consumers. Revesz is also the Director of the American Law Institute, a
leading independent organization in the United States producing
scholarly work to clarify, modernize, and otherwise improve the law.  
  
As Dean of NYU Law School from 2002 to 2013, Revesz increased the size
of the full-time faculty by more than 30 percent, recruiting 46 new
full-time professors and building the leading faculty groups in many
significant areas of law. He raised a record-breaking $550 million to
support the law school’s core initiatives and used a significant portion
of these resources to enhance the law school’s commitment to diversity,
equity, and inclusion. Revesz designed and launched the AnBryce
Scholarship Program, which gives full-tuition scholarships and
institutional support to first generation college students from
socio-economically disadvantaged backgrounds. Revesz was born in
Argentina, learned English as a second language, and immigrated to the
United States when he was 17. He graduated summa cum laude from
Princeton University, earned a Master’s degree in Environmental
Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and received
a Juris Doctor from Yale Law School, where he was editor-in-chief of the
Yale Law Journal. Following clerkships with Chief Judge Wilfred Feinberg
of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and Justice Thurgood
Marshall of the U.S. Supreme Court, Revesz joined the NYU Law School
faculty in 1985.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Nickolas H. Guertin, Nominee
for Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Research, Development, and
Acquisition), U.S. Department of Defense**  
</span>  
Nickolas H. Guertin is the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation in
the Office of the Secretary of Defense. He serves as the senior advisor
to the Secretary of Defense on operational and live fire testing, and
evaluation of Department of Defense weapon systems. He has an extensive
four-decade combined military and civilian career in submarine
operations, ship construction and maintenance, development and testing
of weapons, sensors, combat management products including the
improvement of systems engineering, and defense acquisition. Most
recently, he has performed applied research for government and academia
in software-reliant and cyber-physical systems at Carnegie Mellon
University’s Software Engineering Institute.  
  
Over his career, he has been in leadership roles of organizational
transformation, improving competition, application of modular open
system approaches, as well as prototyping and experimentation. He has
also researched and published extensively on software-reliant system
design, testing, and acquisition. He received a B.S. in Mechanical
Engineering from the University of Washington and an M.B.A. from Bryant
University. He is a retired Navy Reserve Engineering Duty Officer.
Guertin is also Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA)
certified in Program Management and Engineering, and is also a
registered professional engineer (mechanical). Guertin is involved with
his community as a Committee Chair and Merit Badge Counselor for a
Scouts B.S.A. troop as well as being an avid amateur musician. He hails
from Redding, Connecticut, and is a resident of McLean, Virginia, with
his wife Maria and their 15-year-old twin children.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Gene Rodrigues, Nominee for
Assistant Secretary of Energy (Office of Electricity), U.S. Department
of Energy**  
</span>  
Gene Rodrigues is a nationally-recognized expert in clean energy policy
and programs with over 30 years of professional experience in the field.
Rodrigues is a Vice President in the Energy, Environment and
Infrastructure practice at ICF, a global advisory and digital services
provider. Prior to joining ICF, Rodrigues garnered 23 years of industry
experience at Southern California Edison (SCE), one of the nation’s
largest electric utilities. During his tenure at SCE, he represented the
company in regulatory proceedings and held leadership positions over the
company’s portfolio of demand-side management programs and policies,
which helped to ensure the provision of affordable, reliable, and
resilient electric service for over 15 million people in Southern
California.   
  
Over his professional career, Rodrigues has also held leadership
positions in industry nonprofit organizations, including most recently
as a member of the board of the American Council for an Energy-Efficient
Economy, as the Chair of the board for the California Efficiency &
Demand Management Council, and as Chair of the Outreach Committee for
the bipartisan Alliance to Save Energy’s Active Efficiency
initiative. Previously, Gene also served as the Chair of the Consortium
for Energy Efficiency and on the boards of the China-US Energy
Efficiency Alliance and California’s Low-Income Oversight Board. In
recognition of his industry leadership, in 2012 the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency presented Gene with its Climate Leadership Award for
individual leadership. Gene is a graduate of University of California,
Hastings College of the Law, and of Northern Arizona University. He and
his wife make their home in Manhattan Beach, California.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Danté Quintin Allen, Nominee
for Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration, U.S.
Department of Education**  
</span>  
Danté Allen currently serves as the Executive Director for CalABLE,
California’s qualified federal ABLE Act savings and investment program
for people with disabilities. Allen has led CalABLE since its launch in
2018 and has grown the program’s reach with more than 8,000 active
accounts with nearly $80 million in assets under management. During its
three years in operation, CalABLE has become the fastest growing ABLE
program in the United States. Prior to joining CalABLE, Allen has also
served as a communications leader in the public and private sector.
Allen served in the California Department of Public Health’s newly
formed Office of Health Equity as a Senior Communications Officer, and
also at Kaiser Permanente, where he served as the Communications
Director for the organization’s senior operations executive.  
  
Born with Spina bifida, Allen is a fulltime wheelchair user. Allen is a
staunch proponent of disability rights and equity. He has been a
champion in advocating for the awareness of the reduction of healthcare
and financial disparities especially among people of color and people
with disabilities. He serves as a board member for Resources for
Independent Living, Sacramento, a nonprofit that supports the needs of
people with disabilities to live as independently as possible. He has
also contributed in leadership roles in employee resource groups for
people with disabilities throughout his career. Allen received his
undergraduate degree from the University of California at Davis and a
Master’s degree at The University of Southern California’s Annenberg
School of Journalism and Communication.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**George P. Kent, Nominee for
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Republic of
Estonia**  
</span>  
George P. Kent, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Minister-Counselor, most recently served as Deputy Assistant
Secretary in the European and Eurasian Bureau at the U.S. Department of
State. Previously, he was Deputy Chief of Mission in Kyiv,
Ukraine. Prior to that, Kent was the Senior Anti-Corruption Coordinator
in the State Department’s European Bureau. He has also served as
Director for Europe and Asia in the Bureau of International Narcotics
and Law Enforcement. Since joining the Foreign Service in 1992, Kent has
served in U.S. Diplomatic Missions in Tashkent, Uzbekistan; Warsaw,
Poland; Bangkok, Thailand (twice), and Kyiv, Ukraine (twice). Other
State Department assignments include Special Assistant to the Under
Secretary of State for Political Affairs, Operations Center Watch
Officer, and Thai desk officer. Kent holds an A.B. from Harvard in
Russian History and Literature, an M.A. from Johns Hopkins’ SAIS, and an
M.S. from the National Defense University’s Eisenhower School. He speaks
Ukrainian, Russian, and Thai. Kent is a Kirby Simon Fund Trustee.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Donna Ann Welton, Nominee for
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Democratic Republic
of Timor-Leste**  
</span>  
Donna Ann Welton, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as Acting Deputy Assistant
Secretary for Programs and Operations for the Bureau of
Political-Military Affairs at the U.S. Department of State. Prior to
that, she was Assistant Chief of Mission in Kabul, Afghanistan, after
three years serving as Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in
Helsinki, Finland, where she served over eighteen months as Chargé
d’affaires, ad interim. Earlier, she was on detail to the Department of
Defense as the Acting Director for Southeast Asia in the Office of the
Secretary of Defense (Policy). Welton began her career with the United
States Information Agency, serving in the Republic of Korea as the
Assistant Cultural Affairs Officer in Seoul and as American Center
Director in Daegu, then as American Center Director in Fukuoka, Japan,
before returning to graduate school. She then worked at the Metropolitan
Museum of Art and at the American Federation of Arts in New York. Welton
returned to the Foreign Service at the Department of State in 2000,
serving in public diplomacy positions in Tokyo and Nagoya, Japan,
Washington, and Jakarta, Indonesia. Welton also served as Consul General
in Sapporo, Japan. She then took over as Counselor for Public Affairs in
Kabul, followed by service at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations as
Deputy Director of Communications and Public Affairs. Welton also served
as Minister-Counselor for Political Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in
Tokyo, Japan. Welton earned her A.B. from Yale University and holds a
Master’s degree in Strategic Studies from the Army War College. She
speaks Japanese fluently, and also speaks Korean, Indonesian, German,
some Dari, and Finnish.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Roger Israel Zakheim, Nominee
for Member of the United States Institute of Peace**  
</span>  
Roger Zakheim is Director of the Reagan Institute in Washington, D.C.,
which promotes the legacy of President Reagan by advancing the timeless
principles of individual liberty, national security, economic
opportunity, global democracy, and national pride. Zakheim serves on the
Board of Directors of the National Defense Industrial Association (NDIA)
and on the Board of Directors of Marvell Government Solutions, the
federal business unit of Marvell Technology, Inc. Zakheim previously
served as a Commissioner on the Commission on the National Defense
Strategy of the United States established by Congress in 2017, and is a
former Visiting Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. Prior to
joining the Reagan Institute in 2018, Zakheim was a Partner at Covington
& Burling LLP, where he led the firm’s Public Policy and Government
Affairs practice group.  
  
Zakheim’s government experience includes serving as General Counsel and
Deputy Staff Director on the U.S. House Armed Services Committee. In
this role, Zakheim managed the passage of the annual National Defense
Authorization Act. Zakheim also served as a Deputy Assistant Secretary
of Defense during the George W. Bush Administration. Zakheim frequently
speaks and writes on national security and defense issues. His views
have appeared in the Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Politico,
National Public Radio, Fox News, CNN, The Atlantic, National Review, and
other media outlets. Zakheim received his B.A. from Columbia University
and holds an M. Phil in International Relations from Cambridge
University, and a Juris Doctor from New York University School of Law.
He lives in Silver Spring, Maryland, with his wife Tamar and five
children.

\###
