---
tags: blog
date: '2021-04-02'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/04/02/strengthening-our-nations-commitment-to-preventing-and-responding-to-gender-based-violence/
published_time: 2021-04-02 08:21:20-04:00
title: "Strengthening our Nation\u2019s Commitment to Preventing and Responding to\
  \ Gender-Based\_Violence"
---
 
By Rosie Hidalgo and Libby Washburn

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Women’s History Month has provided an opportunity for us to shine a
light on so many courageous women who have made valuable contributions
while overcoming significant barriers and challenges.  This is certainly
the case for many survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault,
whose voices, resilience, leadership, and dedication have paved the way
for legal reforms and the creation of services to prevent and respond to
gender-based violence.  It is that leadership and activism, and the
willingness of survivors to tell their stories, that led President Biden
to write and champion the passage of the Violence Against Women Act
(VAWA) as a senator in 1994. Since then, he has led efforts to ensure
that Congress passed legislation renewing and strengthening VAWA three
times with bipartisan support: in 2000, 2005, and in his capacity as
Vice President in 2013. Each reauthorization of VAWA has improved the
legislation by expanding access to safety, services, and support for all
victims and survivors. As we mark [Sexual Assault Awareness
Month](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-sexual-assault-prevention-and-awareness-month-2021/)
in April, we have an opportunity to focus on important ways to enhance
prevention efforts and improve the response to sexual assault, including
for survivors from historically marginalized communities who face
additional barriers to safety and wellbeing.

As President Biden recently
[stated](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/21/statement-by-president-biden-on-the-international-day-for-the-elimination-of-racial-discrimination/)
on the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination,
“We must recognize the ways that racism, gender discrimination, and
other forms of marginalization intersect with and compound one another.”
That intersection is central to the President’s executive order
establishing the [White House Gender Policy
Council](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/08/executive-order-on-establishment-of-the-white-house-gender-policy-council/),
which considers [the interwoven components of racial
equity](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/03/29/approaching-policy-with-equity-in-mind/)
in its plans to advance gender equity and equality and develop a
government-wide approach to ending gender-based violence, both
domestically and globally. In order to reach every community and address
gender-based violence wherever it exists, we need to bring that broad
lens to bear to develop more comprehensive approaches. 

Applying that intersectional frame is imperative to supporting Native
American women, for example, who face unique barriers to safety and
heightened risks of gender-based violence. Native American women are
victimized at higher rates than any other population in the United
States, and the vast majority of Native American survivors report being
victimized by a non-Native individual. Courageous survivors, like Diane
Millich, provided
[testimony](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ahE6D4MjX1g) and advocacy
during the last reauthorization of VAWA to shine a light on the fact
that, because of the complex legal issues of jurisdiction in Indian
country, Native American victims of domestic violence could not seek the
assistance of Tribal courts or Tribal law enforcement in cases where the
abuser was not Native American. Thereafter, VAWA’s 2013 reauthorization
included a recognition of the inherent authority of Tribal Courts to
exercise special criminal jurisdiction over non-Indian abusers who
commit crimes of domestic violence or dating violence or who violate
qualifying protection orders in Indian country. Over time, as more
Tribal Courts have taken steps to implement VAWA jurisdiction, these
hard-won reforms have proven to be very effective in protecting Native
women. However, they have also revealed additional gaps in the law that
continue to undermine Native women’s safety.

As efforts are underway once again in Congress to renew and strengthen
VAWA, it is imperative that we listen to and heed the voices of
survivors, communities, and advocates in order to strengthen our
nation’s commitment to improving the response to gender-based violence.
Native American women are leading advocacy efforts to expand the special
criminal jurisdiction of Tribal courts. They have shared stories of
Native women being sexually assaulted by non-Indian offenders while
working on Tribal land, and not being able to seek justice because
Tribal law enforcement and courts still lack jurisdiction to hold
non-Indian offenders accountable for those crimes if they do not qualify
as crimes of domestic violence or dating violence. Recently, the
[Domestic Policy Council](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/dpc/) and [Gender
Policy Council](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/gpc/) cohosted a listening
session with Tribal judges, advocates, and survivors about the pressing
need for expanding the jurisdictional provisions in VAWA to protect
Native women, children, and the elderly, and to also allow prosecutions
when Tribal law enforcement officers are assaulted while responding to
these cases.

The VAWA Reauthorization Act of 2021, which recently passed the House of
Representatives with bipartisan support, includes important provisions
that respond to the voices of survivors and advocates. This bill would
build on the successes of the 2013 VAWA reauthorization by reaffirming
inherent tribal authority to prosecute certain non-Indian offenders —
extending the same protections from domestic violence and dating
violence to Native American victims of sexual violence, stalking,
trafficking, child abuse, elder abuse, and assault against law
enforcement or justice personnel when crimes are committed on Tribal
territory.

VAWA reauthorization is crucial, especially when the pandemic and
economic crisis have further exacerbated the risks of abuse and the
barriers to safety for women across the United States. The Biden-Harris
Administration will continue to make reauthorization a top priority, and
the President has urged the Senate to swiftly pass the VAWA
Reauthorization Act of 2021. As we commemorate Sexual Assault Awareness
Month in April, we must recommit ourselves to preventing sexual assault
and improving our response for all survivors — including by addressing
the unique challenges faced by Native American women — and strive to
uphold the dignity and human right of all people to live free from
sexual violence.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Rosie Hidalgo is Special Assistant to the President for Gender Policy
and Senior Advisor for Gender-Based Violence.*

*Libby Washburn is Special Assistant to the President for Native Affairs
for the Domestic Policy Council.*
