---
category: legislation
date: '2021-01-20'
modified_time: 2021-03-12 10:04:37-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2021/01/20/president-biden-announces-american-rescue-plan/
published_time: 2021-01-20 18:30:00-05:00
title: President Biden Announces American Rescue Plan
---
 
*Emergency Legislative Package to Fund Vaccinations, Provide Immediate,
Direct Relief to Families Bearing the Brunt of the COVID-19 Crisis, and
Support Struggling Communities*

The COVID-19 pandemic and the corresponding economic crisis are
devastating families across the country. More than [20 million
Americans](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html)
have contracted COVID-19, and at least 370,000 have died. From big
cities to small towns, too many Americans are barely scraping by, or not
scraping by at all. And the pandemic has shined a light on the
persistence of racial injustice in our healthcare system and our
economy. The need to act is clear in the lines at food banks, the small
businesses that are closed or closing, and the
[growing](https://www.census.gov/data-tools/demo/hhp/#/?measures=HIR)
number of Americans experiencing housing insecurity. After nearly a year
of the public health crisis, our nation remains in this dark winter of
the pandemic and facing a deep economic crisis.

President Biden is laying out the first step of an aggressive, two-step
plan for rescue, from the depths of this crisis, and recovery, by
investing in America, creating millions of additional good-paying jobs,
combatting the climate crisis, advancing racial equity, and building
back better than before.

While Congress’s bipartisan action in December was a step in the right
direction, it was only a down payment. It fell far short of the
resources needed to tackle the immediate crisis. We are in a race
against time, and absent additional government assistance, the economic
and public health crises could worsen in the months ahead; schools will
not be able to safely reopen; and vaccinations will remain far too slow.

As last month’s jobs report underscored, the virus and our economy are
intertwined. We cannot rescue our economy without containing this virus.

Today, President Biden is announcing the American Rescue Plan to change
the course of the pandemic, build a bridge towards economic recovery,
and invest in racial justice. The American Rescue Plan will address the
stark, intergenerational inequities that have worsened in the wake of
COVID-19. Researchers at Columbia University estimate that these
proposals will cut child poverty in half.

<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Hero_2500x1250_V31.png?w=2360"
class="lazy-load object-fit-cover"
data-sizes="(max-width: 2360px) 100vw, 2360px" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2360px) 100vw, 2360px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Hero_2500x1250_V31.png 5000w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Hero_2500x1250_V31.png?resize=615,308 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Hero_2500x1250_V31.png?resize=768,384 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Hero_2500x1250_V31.png?resize=1270,635 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Hero_2500x1250_V31.png?resize=1536,768 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Hero_2500x1250_V31.png?resize=2048,1024 2048w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Hero_2500x1250_V31.png?resize=1180,590 1180w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Hero_2500x1250_V31.png?resize=2360,1180 2360w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Hero_2500x1250_V31.png?resize=1200,600 1200w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Hero_2500x1250_V31.png?resize=1038,519 1038w"
width="2360" height="1180" />

## How will the American Rescue Plan Help<span class="dewidow"> </span>You?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a href="https://www.whitehouse.gov/american-rescue-plan/"
class="btn">Learn about the Plan</a>

Specifically, President Biden’s American Rescue Plan will:

-   **Mount a national vaccination program, contain COVID-19, and safely
    reopen schools**, including by setting up community vaccination
    sites nationwide, scaling up testing and tracing, eliminating supply
    shortage problems, investing in high-quality treatments, providing
    paid sick leave to contain spread of the virus, addressing health
    disparities, and making the necessary investments to meet the
    president’s goal of safely reopening a majority of K-8 schools in
    the first 100 days.  
      
-   **Deliver immediate relief to working families bearing the brunt of
    this crisis** bysending $1,400 per-person checks to households
    across America, providing direct housing and nutrition assistance,
    expanding access to safe and reliable childcare and affordable
    healthcare, increasing the minimum wage, extending unemployment
    insurance, and giving families with kids and childless workers an
    emergency boost this year.  
      
-   **Support communities that are struggling in the wake of COVID-19**
    by providing support for the hardest-hit small businesses,
    especially small businesses owned by entrepreneurs of color, and
    protecting the jobs of the first responders, transit workers, and
    other essential workers we depend on.

In addition to addressing the public health and economic crises head on,
the President’s plan will provide emergency funding to upgrade federal
information technology infrastructure and address the recent breaches of
federal government data systems. This is an urgent national security
issue that cannot wait.

President Biden’s $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan is ambitious, but
achievable, and will rescue the American economy and start beating the
virus. Congress should act expeditiously to help working families,
communities, and small businesses persevere through the pandemic.

This legislative package is needed now to address the immediate crises.
In the coming weeks, President Biden will lay out his economic recovery
plan to invest in America, create millions of additional good-paying
jobs, combat the climate crisis, and build back better than before.

**<u>Mount a national vaccination program, contain COVID-19, and safely
reopen schools</u>**

The pandemic is raging, with [record
high](https://covid.cdc.gov/covid-data-tracker/#cases_casesper100klast7days)
infection and death rates. A new strain of the virus that is [even more
contagious](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/transmission/variant.html)
is appearing in communities across the country. Meanwhile, Americans are
waiting to get their vaccines, even while doses are sitting on shelves.
More than ten months into the pandemic, we still lack necessary testing
capacity and are suffering from shortages of supplies like basic
protective equipment for those on the front lines. Americans of color
are being infected and are dying from COVID-19 at [greater
rates](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/health-equity/racial-ethnic-disparities/disparities-deaths.html)
because of lasting systemic racism in our health care system. And,
[older
Americans](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nvss/vsrr/covid_weekly/index.htm#AgeAndSex)
continue to suffer at disproportionate rates.

We can’t wait to slow the spread of this virus. And, we can’t fight this
pandemic in fits and starts. President Biden is putting forward a
comprehensive plan to deal with this crisis and launch a
whole-of-government COVID-19 response plan that will change the course
of the pandemic by ensuring we have necessary supplies and protective
gear, increasing testing to mitigate spread, vaccinating the US
population, safely reopening schools, and addressing COVID-19 health
disparities.

To support this plan, President Biden is calling on Congress to provide
the $160 billion in funding necessary to save American lives and execute
on his plan to mount a national vaccination program, expand testing,
mobilize a public health jobs program, and take other necessary steps to
build capacity to fight the virus. He is also calling on Congress to
ensure our schools have everything they need to safely reopen and to
provide emergency paid leave so people can stay home when needed to help
contain the spread of the virus. Altogether, this would put over $400
billion toward these critical measures for addressing COVID-19.

President Biden’s rescue proposal will:

**Mount a national vaccination program.** Current vaccination efforts
are not sufficient to quickly and equitably vaccinate the vast majority
of the U.S. population. We must ensure that those on the ground have
what they need to get vaccinations into people’s arms. The president’s
proposal will invest $20 billion in a national vaccination program in
partnership with states, localities, Tribes and territories. This will
include launching community vaccination centers around the country and
deploying mobile vaccination units to hard-to-reach areas. The Biden
Administration will take action to ensure all people in the United
States–regardless of their immigration status–can access the vaccine
free-of-charge and without cost-sharing. To help states ensure that all
Medicaid enrollees will be vaccinated, President Biden will also work
with Congress to expand the Federal Medicaid Assistance Percentage
(FMAP) to 100% for the administration of vaccines.

**Scale up testing to stop the spread of COVID, safely reopen schools,
and protect at-risk populations.** While we are working to vaccinate the
population, we need to focus on what we know works. Testing is a
critical strategy for controlling the spread of COVID-19, yet the U.S.
is still not using it effectively. Despite innovations to improve
testing, [tests are still not widely
available](https://www.gao.gov/reports/GAO-21-191/). The president’s
plan invests $50 billion in a massive expansion of testing, providing
funds for the purchase of rapid tests, investments to expand lab
capacity, and support to help schools and local governments implement
regular testing protocols. Expanded testing will ensure that schools can
implement regular testing to support safe reopening; that vulnerable
settings like prisons and long-term care facilities can regularly test
their populations; and that any American can get a test for free when
they need one.

**Mobilize a public health jobs program to support COVID-19 response.**
The president’s plan includes an historic investment in expanding the
public health workforce. This proposal will fund 100,000 public health
workers, [nearly
tripling](https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes211094.htm) the country’s
community health roles. These individuals will be hired to work in their
local communities to perform vital tasks like vaccine outreach and
contact tracing in the near term, and to transition into community
health roles to build our long-term public health capacity that will
help improve quality of care and reduce hospitalization for low-income
and underserved communities.

**Address** **health disparities and COVID-19.** While COVID-19 has
devastated the entire country, it has hit some groups and communities of
color [much
harder](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/health-equity/racial-ethnic-disparities/index.html)
than others. President Biden is committed to addressing the disparities
evident in the pandemic at every step, from ensuring equitable
distribution of vaccines and supplies to expanding health care services
for underserved communities. His proposal includes funding to provide
health services for underserved populations, including expanding
Community Health Centers and investing in health services on tribal
lands. These funds will support the expansion of COVID treatment and
care, as well as our ability to provide vaccination to underserved
populations.

**Protect vulnerable populations in congregate settings.** Long-term
care residents and workers [account
for](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html)
almost 40% of all U.S. COVID-19 deaths. Further, African-American and
Latina women, who have borne the brunt of the pandemic, are
overrepresented among [long-term care
workers](https://phinational.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/11/Racial-and-Gender-Disparities-in-DCW-PHI-2017.pdf).
The president’s proposal provides critical funding for states to deploy
strike teams to long-term care facilities experiencing COVID-19
outbreaks–which may impede vaccination of residents and workers–and to
conduct better infection control oversight.

1 in 5 state and federal prisoners in the U.S. [has
had](https://apnews.com/article/pandemics-race-and-ethnicity-prisons-united-states-coronavirus-pandemic-0bef0673013aa579551db5ad61b885e0)
COVID-19, and African Americans and Latinos are overrepresented among
[incarcerated individuals](https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/p18.pdf).
The proposal also supports COVID-19 safety in federal, state, and local
prisons, jails, and detention centers by providing funding for COVID-19
mitigation strategies, including supplies and physical distancing; safe
re-entry for the formerly incarcerated; and the vaccination of both
incarcerated people and staff.

**Identify and address emerging strains of COVID-19.** The
identification of new strains of SARS-CoV-2 in the United Kingdom and
South Africa highlight a key vulnerability in our nation’s COVID
response: we simply do not have the kind of robust surveillance
capabilities that we need to track outbreaks and mutations. Tracking the
way the virus is changing and moving through the population is essential
to understanding outbreaks, generating treatments and vaccines, and
controlling the pandemic. The president’s proposal includes funding to
dramatically increase our country’s sequencing, surveillance, and
outbreak analytics capacity at the levels demanded by the crisis.

**Provide emergency relief and purchase critical supplies and deploy
National Guard.** [Persistent supply
shortages](https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/coronavirus-covid-19-and-medical-devices/medical-device-shortages-during-covid-19-public-health-emergency)
– from gloves and masks to glass vials and test reagents – are
inhibiting our ability to provide testing and vaccination and putting
frontline workers at risk. The president’s plan will invest $30 billion
into the Disaster Relief Fund to ensure sufficient supplies and
protective gear, and to provide 100% federal reimbursement for critical
emergency response resources to states, local governments, and Tribes,
including deployment of the National Guard. The president will call for
an additional $10 billion investment in expanding domestic manufacturing
for pandemic supplies. These funds will support President Biden in
fulfilling his commitment to fully use the Defense Production Act and to
safeguard the country by producing more pandemic supplies in the U.S.

**Invest in treatments for COVID-19.** Months into this pandemic, we
still do not have reliable and accessible treatments. The federal
government urgently needs to invest to support development,
manufacturing, and purchase of therapies to ensure wide availability and
affordability of effective treatments, as well as invest in studies of
the long-term health impacts of COVID-19 and potential therapies to
address them.

**Protect workers against COVID-19.** Millions of Americans, many of
whom are people of color, immigrants, and low-wage workers, continue to
put their lives on the line to keep the country functioning through the
pandemic. They should not have to lie awake at night wondering if
they’ll make it home from work safely the next day, or if they’ll bring
home the virus to their loved ones and communities. The president is
calling on Congress to authorize the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration to issue a COVID-19 Protection Standard that covers a
broad set of workers, so that workers not typically covered by OSHA,
like many public workers on the frontlines, also receive protection from
unsafe working conditions and retaliation. And, President Biden is
calling on Congress to provide additional funding for OSHA enforcement
and grant funding, including for the Susan Harwood grant program, for
organizations to help keep vulnerable workers healthy and safe from
COVID-19. These steps will help keep more workers healthy, reopen more
businesses safely, and beat the virus.

**Restore U.S. leadership globally and build better preparedness.**
Protecting the United States from COVID-19 requires a global response,
and the pandemic is a grave reminder that biological threats can pose
catastrophic consequences to the United States and the world. The
president’s plan will provide $11 billion including to support to the
international health and humanitarian response; mitigate the pandemic’s
devastating impact on global health, food security, and gender-based
violence; support international efforts to develop and distribute
medical countermeasures for COVID-19; and build the capacity required to
fight COVID-19, its variants, and emerging biological threats.

**Provide schools the resources they need to reopen safely.** A critical
plank of President Biden’s COVID-19 plan is to safely reopen schools as
soon as possible – so kids and educators can get back in class and
parents can go back to work. This will require immediate, urgent action
by Congress. The COVID-19 pandemic created unprecedented challenges for
K-12 schools and institutions of higher education, and the students and
parents they serve. School closures have disproportionately impacted the
[learning of Black and Hispanic
students](https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/public-and-social-sector/our-insights/covid-19-and-learning-loss-disparities-grow-and-students-need-help),
as well as [students with
disabilities](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Emily_Hurley2/publication/342248636_Advocating_for_Children_During_the_COVID-19_School_Closures/links/5ef0b5e8a6fdcc73be94514a/Advocating-for-Children-During-the-COVID-19-School-Closures.pdf)
and [English language
learners](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/29/nyregion/coronavirus-english-language-students.html).
While the December down payment for schools and higher education
institutions was a start, it is not sufficient to address the crisis.
President Biden is calling on Congress to provide $170 billion —
supplemented by additional state and local relief resources — for K-12
schools and institutions of higher education. These resources will help
schools serve all students, no matter where they are learning, and help
achieve President Biden’s goal to open the majority of K-8 schools
within the first 100 days of his Administration. ****

-   **Provide $130 billion to help schools to safely reopen.** Schools
    need flexible resources to safely reopen and operate and/or
    facilitate remote learning. The president’s plan will provide $130
    billion to support schools in safely reopening. These funds can be
    used to reduce class sizes and modify spaces so students and
    teachers can socially distance; improve ventilation; hire more
    janitors and implement mitigation measures; provide personal
    protective equipment; ensure every school has access to a nurse;
    increase transportation capacity to facilitate social distancing on
    the bus; hire counselors to support students as they transition back
    to the classroom; close the digital divide that is exacerbating
    inequities during the pandemic; provide summer school or other
    support for students that will help make up lost learning time this
    year; create and expand community schools; and cover other costs
    needed to support safely reopening and support students. These funds
    will also include provisions to ensure states adequately fund
    education and protect students in low-income communities that have
    been hardest hit by COVID-19. Districts must ensure that funds are
    used to not only reopen schools, but also to meet students’
    academic, mental health and social, and emotional needs in response
    to COVID-19, (e.g. through extended learning time, tutoring, and
    counselors), wherever they are learning. Funding can be used to
    prevent cuts to state pre-k programs. A portion of funding will be
    reserved for a COVID-19 Educational Equity Challenge Grant, which
    will support state, local and tribal governments in partnering with
    teachers, parents, and other stakeholders to advance equity- and
    evidence-based policies to respond to COVID-related educational
    challenges and give all students the support they need to succeed.
    In addition to this funding, schools will be able to access FEMA
    Disaster Relief Fund resources to get reimbursed for certain
    COVID-19 related expenses and will receive support to implement
    regular testing protocols.
-   **Expand the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund.** The
    president’s plan will ensure colleges have critical resources to
    implement public health protocols, execute distance learning plans,
    and provide emergency grants to students in need. This $35 billion
    in funding will be directed to public institutions, including
    community colleges, as well as, public and private Historically
    Black Colleges and Universities and other Minority Serving
    Institutions. This funding will provide millions of students up to
    an additional $1,700 in financial assistance from their college.
-   **Hardest Hit Education Fund.** Provide $5 billion in funds for
    governors to use to support educational programs and the learning
    needs of students significantly impacted by COVID-19, whether K-12,
    higher education, or early childhood education programs.

**Provide emergency paid leave to 106 million more Americans to reduce
the spread of the virus.** No American should have to choose between
putting food on the table and quarantining to prevent further spread of
COVID-19. And yet,
[nearly](https://www.bls.gov/ncs/ebs/benefits/2019/ownership/civilian/table31a.pdf)
[1 in 4 workers and close to half of low-income
workers](https://www.bls.gov/ncs/ebs/benefits/2019/ownership/civilian/table31a.pdf)
lack access to paid sick leave, disproportionately burdening Americans
of color. Lack of paid leave is threatening the financial security of
working families and increasing the risk of COVID-19 infections,
hospitalizations, and deaths. Congress did the right thing last year
when it created an emergency paid leave program through the Families
First Coronavirus Response Act. That action [decreased daily infections
by 400 cases per state per
day](https://www.healthaffairs.org/doi/10.1377/hlthaff.2020.00863) in
states that previously had no paid sick leave requirement. While the
December down payment extended the Families First employer tax credits
through March 2021, it did not renew the requirement that employers
provide leave. President Biden is calling on Congress to:

-   **Put the requirement back in place and eliminate exemptions for
    employers with more than 500 and less than 50 employees.** He will
    also make it clear that healthcare workers and first responders get
    these benefits, too. Closing these loopholes in the Families First
    Coronavirus Response Act will extend emergency paid leave to [up to
    106
    million](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/news/2020/04/17/483287/coronavirus-paid-leave-exemptions-exclude-millions-workers-coverage/)
    additional workers.
-   **Provide expanded paid sick and family and medical leave.** The
    president will provide over 14 weeks of paid sick and family and
    medical leave to help parents with additional caregiving
    responsibilities when a child or loved one’s school or care center
    is closed; for people who have or are caring for people with
    COVID-19 symptoms, or who are quarantining due to exposure; and for
    people needing to take time to get the vaccine.
-   **Expand emergency paid leave to include federal workers.** This
    measure will provide paid leave protections to approximately [2
    million](https://fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R43590.pdf)
    [Americans](https://fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R43590.pdf) who work for
    the federal government.
-   **Provide a maximum paid leave benefit of $1,400 per-week for
    eligible workers.** This will provide full wage replacement to
    workers earning up to $73,000 annually, [more than three-quarters of
    all
    workers](https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/cps/tables/pinc-10/2020/pinc10_1.xlsx).
-   **Reimburse employers with less than 500 employees for the cost of
    this leave.** Extending the refundable tax credit will reimburse
    employers for 100 percent of the cost of this leave.
-   **Reimburse state and local government for the cost of this leave.**
-   **Extend emergency paid leave measures until September 30, 2021.**
    With so much uncertainty surrounding the pandemic, extending paid
    leave until the end of September will help to limit the spread of
    COVID-19 and provide economic security to millions of working
    families.

**<u>Deliver Immediate, Direct Relief to Families Bearing the Brunt of
the Crisis.</u>**

As a result of the COVID-19 crisis, millions of Americans are hurting
through no fault of their own. More than [10
million](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/pdf/empsit.pdf) Americans are
unemployed, and 4 million have been out of work for half a year or
longer. The jobs crisis is particularly severe in communities of color,
where [1 in 10 Black
workers](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/pdf/empsit.pdf) and 1 in 11
Latino workers are unemployed. Large numbers of families are struggling
to pay rent or their mortgages and put food on the table. And, last
month, it only got worse: we lost [140,000 jobs in
December](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/pdf/empsit.pdf), including
20,000 public educators, and nearly 400,000 jobs at restaurants and
bars.

President Biden is calling on Congress to take urgent action to deliver
immediate, direct relief to Americans bearing the brunt of this crisis.
Altogether, this would devote about $1 trillion towards building a
bridge to economic recovery for working families and, according to
researchers at Columbia University, cut child poverty in half.

President Biden’s plan will:

**Give working families a $1,400 per-person check to help pay their
bills**, **bringing their total relief payment from this and the
December down payment to $2,000.** More than [1 in
3](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2020/demo/hhp/hhp20.html)
households — and
[half](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2020/demo/hhp/hhp20.html) of
Black and Latino households — are struggling to pay for usual household
expenses like rent and groceries during the pandemic. In this crisis,
working families need more than the $600 per person that Congress passed
last year. President Biden is calling on Congress to increase that
direct financial assistance to $2,000. An additional $1,400 per person
in direct checks will help hard-hit households cover expenses, spend
money at local businesses in their communities, and stimulate the
economy. President Biden’s plan will also expand eligibility to adult
dependents who have been left out of previous rounds of relief and all
mixed status households. And, his plan will ensure that the Treasury
Department has the flexibility and resources it needs to deliver
stimulus checks to the families that need them most, including the
millions of families that still haven’t received the $1,200 checks they
are entitled to under the CARES Act.

**Extend and expand unemployment insurance benefits so American workers
can pay their bills.** Around 18
[million](https://www.dol.gov/ui/data.pdf)
[Americans](https://www.dol.gov/ui/data.pdf) rely on the unemployment
insurance program. Congress did the right thing by continuing expanded
eligibility and extending the number of weeks unemployed workers can
receive benefits. One study
[estimates](https://www.epi.org/blog/reinstating-and-extending-the-pandemic-unemployment-insurance-programs-through-2021-could-create-or-save-5-1-million-jobs/)
that extending pandemic unemployment insurance programs through 2021
could create or save over five million jobs. But these benefits are set
to expire in weeks — even as the COVID-19 pandemic worsens. Millions of
Americans are receiving benefits through unemployment insurance programs
that will no longer serve new beneficiaries starting in mid-March.

President Biden is calling on Congress to extend these and other
programs, providing millions of hard-hit workers with the financial
security and peace of mind they need and deserve. And, he believes
Congress should provide a $400 per-week unemployment insurance
supplement to help hard-hit workers cover household expenses. The
president is committed to providing these emergency supports to families
for as long as the COVID-19 crisis continues and employment
opportunities remain limited. The president is proposing to extend these
emergency unemployment insurance programs through September 2021, and
will work with Congress on ways to automatically adjust the length and
amount of relief depending on health and economic conditions so future
legislative delay doesn’t undermine the recovery and families’ access to
benefits they need.

President Biden’s plan will:

-   **Extend financial assistance for workers who have exhausted their
    regular unemployment compensation benefits.** Extending and
    increasing the additional weeks provided under the emergency
    unemployment insurance program will ensure that approximately [5
    million](https://www.dol.gov/ui/data.pdf)
    [Americans](https://www.dol.gov/ui/data.pdf) continue to receive
    assistance in the months ahead.
-   **Extend financial assistance for unemployed workers who do not
    typically qualify for unemployment compensation benefits.** The
    president believes Congress should extend unemployment support for
    self-employed workers, like ride-share drivers and many grocery
    delivery workers, who do not typically qualify for regular
    unemployment compensation. And, he supports increasing the number of
    weeks these workers can receive the benefit to provide long-term
    financial security to the program’s approximately [8
    million](https://www.dol.gov/ui/data.pdf)
    [beneficiaries](https://www.dol.gov/ui/data.pdf).
-   **Fully fund states’ short-time compensation programs and additional
    weeks of benefits.** Short-time compensation programs, also known as
    work sharing, help small businesses stay afloat and economically
    vulnerable workers make ends meet by enabling workers to stay on the
    job at reduced hours, while making up the difference in pay. These
    programs avoid layoffs and pave the way for rapid rehiring and an
    accelerated recovery.

**Help struggling households keep a roof over their heads.** The
economic fallout of COVID-19 has made it more difficult for working
families, especially families of color, to cover their housing expenses.
Across the country, [1 in
5](https://www.cbpp.org/research/poverty-and-inequality/tracking-the-covid-19-recessions-effects-on-food-housing-and)
renters and 1 in 10 homeowners with a mortgage are behind on payments.
Congress took an important step in the right direction by securing $25
billion in rental assistance and extending the federal eviction
moratorium until January 31. However, American families already owe [$25
billion](https://www.moodysanalytics.com/-/media/article/2020/weekly-market-outlook-markets-avoid-great-recessions-calamities.pdf)
in back rent, and the threat of widespread evictions will still exist at
the end of January. Further, [more than 10 million
homeowners](https://www.cbpp.org/research/poverty-and-inequality/tracking-the-covid-19-recessions-effects-on-food-housing-and)
have fallen behind on mortgage payments. Failing to take additional
action will lead to a wave of evictions and foreclosures in the coming
months, overwhelming emergency shelter capacity and
[increasing](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3739576)
the likelihood of COVID-19 infections. And Americans of color, who have
on average [a
fraction](https://www.brookings.edu/blog/up-front/2020/02/27/examining-the-black-white-wealth-gap/)
of the wealth available to white families, face higher risks of eviction
and housing loss without critical assistance.

President Biden is calling on Congress to take immediate action to
forestall a coming wave of COVID-related evictions and foreclosures.

-   **Ensure that families hit hard by the economic crisis won’t face
    eviction or foreclosure.** The president is calling on Congress to
    extend the eviction and foreclosure moratoriums and continue
    applications for forbearance on federally-guaranteed mortgages until
    September 30, 2021. These measures will prevent untold economic
    hardship for homeowners, while limiting the spread of COVID-19 in
    our communities. The president is also calling on Congress to
    provide funds for legal assistance for households facing eviction or
    foreclosure.
-   **Help renters and small landlords make ends meet by providing an
    additional $30 billion in rental and critical energy and water
    assistance for hard-hit individuals and families.** While the $25
    billion allocated by Congress was an important down payment on the
    back rent accrued during this crisis, it is insufficient to meet the
    scale of the need. That’s why President Biden is proposing an
    additional $25 billion in rental assistance to provide much-needed
    rental relief, especially for low- and moderate-income households
    who have lost jobs or are out of the labor market. The president is
    also proposing $5 billion to cover home energy and water costs and
    arrears through programs like the Low Income Home Energy Assistance
    Program, for struggling renters. These funds will ensure that the
    hardest-hit renters and small landlords, including those in
    disadvantaged communities that have suffered disproportionately in
    terms of pollution and other environmental harms, aren’t put in the
    position where they can’t cover their own housing expenses. This
    program includes a competitive set-aside of funding for states to
    invest in clean energy and energy efficiency projects that reduce
    electricity bills for families in disadvantaged communities.
-   **Deliver $5 billion in emergency assistance to help secure housing
    for people experiencing or at risk of homelessness.** This funding
    will allow states and localities to help approximately 200,000
    individuals and families obtain stable housing, while providing a
    downpayment on the president’s comprehensive approach to ending
    homelesness and making housing a right for all Americans.
    Specifically, these funds will provide flexibility for both
    congregate and non-congregate housing options, help jurisdictions
    purchase and convert hotels and motels into permanent housing, and
    give homeless services providers the resources they need to hire and
    retain staff, maintain outreach programs, and provide essential
    services.

**Address the growing hunger crisis in America.** About [1 in
7](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2020/demo/hhp/hhp21.html)
households nationwide, including more than [1 in
5](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2020/demo/hhp/hhp21.html) Black
and Latino households and many Asian American and Pacific Islander
households, are struggling to secure the food they need. While the
December down payment provided $13 billion to strengthen and expand
federal nutrition programs, it will not solve the hunger crisis in
America. President Biden is calling on Congress to ensure all Americans,
regardless of background, have access to healthy, affordable groceries.
The president’s plan will:

-   **Extend the 15 percent Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
    (SNAP) benefit increase.** Maintaining the increase through the
    summer – when childhood hunger spikes due to a lack of school meals
    – is a critical backstop against rising food insecurity. This change
    will help keep hunger at bay for around [40 million
    Americans](https://www.cbpp.org/research/poverty-and-inequality/tracking-the-covid-19-recessions-effects-on-food-housing-and).
    The president is calling for this to be extended through
    September 2021. He is also committed to providing this boost for as
    long as the COVID-19 crisis continues, and will work with Congress
    on ways to automatically adjust the length and amount of relief
    depending on health and economic conditions so future legislative
    delay doesn’t undermine the recovery and families’ access to
    benefits they need.
-   **Invest $3 billion to help women, infants and children get the food
    they need.** This multi-year investment in the Special Supplemental
    Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) is needed
    to account for increased enrollment due to growing hunger and to
    increase outreach to ensure that low-income families have access to
    high-quality nutritious food and nutrition education.
-   **Partner with restaurants to feed American families and keep
    restaurant workers on the job at the same time.** The FEMA
    Empowering Essential Deliveries (FEED) Actwill leverage the
    resources and expertise of the restaurant industry to help get food
    to families who need it, and help get laid-off restaurant workers
    across the country back on the job.
-   **Support SNAP by temporarily cutting the state match.** The
    president is calling for a one time emergency infusion of
    administrative support for state anti-hunger and nutrition programs
    to ensure that benefits get to the kids and families that need it
    most.
-   **Provide U.S. Territories with $1 billion in additional nutrition
    assistance for their residents.** Bolstering the Nutrition
    Assistance Program block grant will help thousands of working
    families in Puerto Rico, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the
    Northern Mariana Islands put food on the table for the duration of
    the pandemic.

**Raise the minimum wage to $15 per hour.** Throughout the pandemic,
millions of American workers have put their lives on the line to keep
their communities and country functioning, including the [40
percent](https://cepr.net/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/2020-04-Frontline-Workers.pdf)
of frontline workers who are people of color. As President Biden has
said, let’s not just praise them, let’s pay them. Hard working Americans
deserve sufficient wages to put food on the table and keep a roof over
their heads, without having to keep multiple jobs. But millions of
working families are struggling to get by. This is why the president is
calling on Congress to raise the minimum wage to $15 per hour, and end
the tipped minimum wage and sub-minimum wage for people with
disabilities so that workers across the country can live a middle class
life and provide opportunity for their families.

**Call on employers to meet their obligations to frontline essential
workers and provide back hazard pay.** Essential workers — who are
disproportionately Black, Latino, and Asian American and Pacific
Islander– have risked their lives to stock shelves, harvest crops, and
care for the sick during this crisis. They have kept the country running
even during the darkest days of the pandemic. A number of large
employers, especially in the retail and grocery sectors, have seen
bumper profitability in 2020 and yet done little or nothing at all to
compensate their workers for the risks they took. The president believes
these employers have a duty to do right by their frontline essential
workers and acknowledge their sacrifices with generous back hazard pay
for the risks they took across 2020 and up to today. He and the Vice
President will call on CEOs and other business leaders to take action to
meet these obligations.

**Expand access to high-quality, affordable child care.** We are facing
an acute, immediate child care crisis in America, which is exacerbating
our economic crisis. Due to increased costs and lower enrollment, a
[recent
survey](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1WOQR4hkghhLhjlWE82ZaHtG3v6F18z__/view)
of child care providers showed that most child care providers expect
that they will close within a few months without relief or are uncertain
how long they can stay open. If left unaddressed, many child care
providers will close — some permanently — and millions of children could
go without necessary care, and millions of parents could be left to make
devastating choices this winter between caring for their children and
working to put food on the table. Early childcare providers are almost
entirely women, among whom [40
percent](https://cscce.berkeley.edu/racial-wage-gaps-in-early-education-employment/)
are people of color, and so these closures could devastate engines of
opportunity for minority- and women-owned businesses. President Biden is
calling on Congress to take immediate actions to address this crisis by
helping child care centers reopen and remain open safely, and by making
that care affordable to families who need it.

In addition, too many families are unable to afford child care, while
early educators earn [wages so
low](https://www.urban.org/urban-wire/educator-wages-dont-reflect-significance-early-childhood)
that they can’t support their own families. This challenge [existed
before
COVID-19](https://equitablegrowth.org/child-care-is-essential-for-working-parents-but-is-the-industry-ready-and-safe-to-reopen/),
and the pandemic has exacerbated it. President Biden is calling on
Congress to ease the financial burden of care for families, expand
financial support for child care providers so that this critical sector
can stay afloat during the pandemic and beyond, and make critical
investments to improve wages and benefits for the essential child care
sector. President Biden’s plan will:

-   **Help hard-hit child care providers, including family child care
    homes, cover their costs and operate safely by creating a $25
    billion emergency stabilization fund.** This Emergency Stabilization
    Fund will help hard-hit child care providers that are in danger of
    closing and provide support to nearly half of all child care
    providers. It will also assist those that have had to shut down meet
    their financial obligations during the pandemic, so that they can
    reopen. It will help providers pay for rent, utilities, and payroll,
    as well as increased costs associated with the pandemic including
    personal protective equipment, ventilation supplies, smaller group
    sizes, and modifications to make the physical environment safer for
    children and workers.
-   **Expand child care assistance to help millions of families and help
    parents return to work.** Millions of parents are risking their
    lives as essential workers, while at the same time struggling to
    obtain care for their children. Others have become 24/7 caregivers
    while simultaneously working remotely. Still more are unemployed,
    caring for their children full-time, and worrying about how they
    will make ends meet or afford child care when they do find a job.
    And, the limited access to child care during the pandemic has caused
    more women to leave the workforce. While the December down payment
    provides $10 billion in funding through the Child Care and
    Development Block Grant program, the president’s proposal expands
    this investment with an additional $15 billion in funding, including
    for those who experienced a job interruption during the COVID-19
    pandemic and are struggling to afford child care. This additional
    assistance with child care costs will help the disproportionate
    number of women who left the labor force to take on caregiving
    duties reenter the workforce. And, this expanded investment will
    also help rebuild the supply of child care providers, and encourage
    states to take meaningful steps towards increasing the pay and
    benefits of child care workers.
-   **Increase tax credits to help cover the cost of childcare.** To
    help address the childcare affordability crisis, President Biden is
    calling on Congress to expand child care tax credits on an emergency
    basis for one year to help working families cover the cost of
    childcare. Families will get back as a tax credit as much as half of
    their spending on child care for children under age 13, so that they
    can receive a total of up to $4,000 for one child or $8,000 for two
    or more children. The tax credit will be refundable, meaning that
    families who don’t owe a lot in taxes will still benefit. The full
    50 percent reimbursement will be available to families making less
    than $125,000 a year. And, all families making between $125,000 and
    $400,000 will receive a partial credit so they receive benefits at
    least as generous as those they can receive today.

**Bolster financial security for families and essential workers in the
midst of the pandemic.** The lowest income families are particularly
vulnerable in the midst of the pandemic, and President Biden is calling
for one year expansions of key supports for families on an emergency
basis. The Child Tax Credit should be made fully refundable for the
year. Currently, [27 million
children](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/temporarily-expanding-child-tax-credit-and-earned-income-tax-credit-would#:~:text=Specifically%2C%20the%20next%20fiscal%20stimulus,families'%20earnings%20are%20too%20low.)
live in families with household incomes low enough that they didn’t
qualify for the full value of the Child Tax Credit, and this measure
would give these children and their families additional needed
resources. The president is also calling to increase the credit to
$3,000 per child ($3,600 for a child under age 6) and make 17 year-olds
qualifying children for the year.

He is also calling for an expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit for
the year to ensure that the lowest income workers get critical support
including millions of essential workers. He is proposing to raise the
maximum Earned Income Tax Credit for childless adults from roughly $530
to close to $1,500, raise the income limit for the credit from about
$16,000 to about $21,000, and expand the age range that is eligible
including by eliminating the age cap for older workers and expanding
eligibility for younger workers so that they can claim the credit they
deserve. Expanding the Earned Income Tax Credit for childless adults
would give a needed boost to the earnings of [several
million](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/temporarily-expanding-child-tax-credit-and-earned-income-tax-credit-would)
workers, including cashiers, home health aides, delivery people, and
other people working in essential occupations. The president  also is
committed to making sure that Americans who see their earnings fall in
2021 due to the pandemic don’t see the Earned Income Tax Credit reduced
as a result.

Lastly, the president is calling for an additional $1 billion for states
to cover the additional cash assistance that Temporary Assistance to
Needy Families (TANF) recipients needed as a result of the pandemic
crisis. The pandemic has led to [increased TANF
caseloads](https://www.cbpp.org/research/family-income-support/cash-assistance-should-reach-millions-more-families-to-lessen),
generated higher costs for many TANF recipients – from higher utility
costs to the need for internet access for remote schooling – and longer
periods of joblessness given high unemployment. These funds will provide
sorely needed relief.

**Preserving and expanding health coverage.** Roughly [two to three
million
people](http://kff.org/policy-watch/how-has-the-pandemic-affected-health-coverage-in-the-u-s/)
lost employer sponsored health insurance between March and September,
and even families who have maintained coverage may struggle to pay
premiums and afford care. Further, going into this crisis, [30 million
people](https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/2020-09/56504-Health-Insurance.pdf)
were without coverage, limiting their access to the health care system
in the middle of a pandemic. To ensure access to health
coverage,President Biden is calling on Congress to subsidize
continuation health coverage (COBRA) through the end of September. He is
also asking Congress to expand and increase the value of the Premium Tax
Credit to lower or eliminate health insurance premiums and ensure
enrollees – including those who never had coverage through their jobs –
will not pay more than 8.5 percent of their income for coverage.
Together, these policies would reduce premiums for [more than ten
million](https://www.kff.org/health-reform/state-indicator/marketplace-enrollment/?currentTimeframe=0&sortModel=%7B%22colId%22:%22Location%22,%22sort%22:%22asc%22%7D)
people and reduce the ranks of the uninsured by millions more.

**Expanding access to behavioral health services.** The pandemic has
made access to mental health and substance use disorder services more
essential than ever. The president is calling on Congress to appropriate
$4 billion to enable the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration and the Health Resources and Services Administration to
expand access to these vital services.

**Ensure adequate funding for veterans’ health.** COVID-19 has put
enormous pressure on America’s veterans and on the Veterans Health
Administration that is charged with providing and facilitating top-notch
care for them. The president is committed to ensuring America delivers
on its promise to the people who have served our country. To account for
increased usage as many veterans have lost access to private health
insurance, higher overall costs, and other pandemic-related impacts, the
president is immediately requesting an additional $20 billion to make
sure that veterans’ health care needs can be met through this crisis.

**Combat increased risk of gender-based violence.** The COVID-19
pandemic has exacerbated domestic violence and sexual assault, creating
a “[shadow pandemic](https://news.un.org/en/story/2020/11/1078812)” for
many women and girls who are largely confined to their home with their
abuser and facing economic insecurity that makes escape more difficult.
President Biden is calling for at least $800 million in supplemental
funding for key federal programs that protect survivors. 

**<u>Provide Critical Support to Struggling Communities.</u>**

COVID-19 and the resulting economic crisis has devastated communities
across the country. Schools remain closed, with students struggling with
remote learning and parents – 1.6
[million](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/10/29/upshot/mothers-leaving-jobs-pandemic.html)
mothers this fall – leaving the workforce. Small businesses, the
backbones of their communities that employ [nearly
half](https://cdn.advocacy.sba.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/04144224/2020-Small-Business-Economic-Profile-US.pdf)
of American workers, are unable to keep their doors open. And, some
state and local essential workers are seeing their wages reduced or
their [jobs
disappear.](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CES9092000001) President
Biden is calling on Congress to send a lifeline to small businesses;
protect educators, public transit workers, and first responders from
lay-offs; and keep critical services running at full strength.
Altogether, his plan would provide approximately $440 billion in
critical support to struggling communities. This is in addition to funds
that President Biden is requesting for safely reopening schools
throughout the country.

President Biden’s plan will:

**Provide small businesses with the funding they need to reopen and
rebuild.** Small businesses
[sustain](https://equitablegrowth.org/main-streets-workers-families-and-small-businesses-are-now-suffering-as-wall-street-prospers-from-policies-to-fight-the-coronavirus-recession/)
half of the private sector jobs in America, and they have struggled in
the wake of COVID-19. Black- and Brown-owned [small
businesses](https://www.publicprivatestrategies.com/Business-Owners-of-Color-Covid-19-Survey),
and those in [hard-hit industries](https://tracktherecovery.org/) like
restaurants, hotels, and the arts, have suffered disproportionately.
Nationally, small business revenue is down [32
percent](https://tracktherecovery.org/), and at least
[400,000](https://www.brookings.edu/research/from-survival-to-revival-how-to-help-small-businesses-through-the-covid-19-crisis/)
firms have permanently closed. To help hard-hit firms survive the
pandemic and fully recover, President Biden is calling on Congress to:

-   **Provide grants to more than 1 million of the hardest hit small
    businesses.** This $15 billion in flexible, equitably distributed
    grants will help small businesses get back on their feet, put the
    current disaster behind them, and build back better.
-   **Leverage $35 billion in government funds into $175 billion in
    additional small business lending and investment.** With a $35
    billion investment in successful state, local, tribal, and
    non-profit small business financing programs, Congress can generate
    as much as $175 billion in low-interest loans and venture capital to
    help entrepreneurs — including those in the clean energy sector —
    innovate, create and maintain jobs, build wealth, and provide the
    essential goods and services that communities depend on.

In addition, the president wants to work with Congress to make sure that
restaurants, bars, and other businesses that have suffered
disproportionately have sufficient support to bridge to the recovery,
including through the Community Credit Corporation at the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA).

**Provide support for first responders and other essential workers.**
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, first responders, frontline public
health workers, and countless other essential workers have risked their
lives to keep our communities safe and functioning. Educators have
worked tirelessly to keep our children learning and growing, coming up
with new ways to reach and engage their students, often while balancing
caring for their own children. Without these front line workers, we will
not be able to effectively respond to the pandemic, administer the
vaccine, or safely reopen our schools. President Biden is calling on
Congress to provide $350 billion in emergency funding for state, local,
and territorial governments to ensure that they are in a position to
keep front line public workers on the job and paid, while also
effectively distributing the vaccine, scaling testing, reopening
schools, and maintaining other vital services. The president is also
calling on Congress to allocate $3 billion of this funding to the
Economic Development Administration (EDA). Grants from EDA provide
resources directly to state and local government entities, tribal
institutions, institutions of higher education, and non-profits to fund
initiatives that support bottom’s up economic development and enable
good-paying jobs. This funding – double the amount provided by the CARES
Act – will support communities nationwide with a broad range of
financial needs as they respond to and recover from COVID-19.

**Protect the future of public transit.** Safe and dependable public
transit systems are critical for a robust and equitable economy
recovery. The president is calling for $20 billion in relief for the
hardest hit public transit agencies. This relief will keep agencies from
laying off transit workers and cutting the routes that essential workers
rely on every day while making these transit systems more resilient and
ensuring that communities of color maintain the access to opportunity
that public transportation provides.

**Support Tribal governments’ response to COVID-19.** COVID-19 has
exacted an especially high toll in Indian Country. People living on
reservations are [four times more
likely](https://journals.lww.com/jphmp/Fulltext/2020/07000/American_Indian_Reservations_and_COVID_19_.14.aspx)
to have COVID-19 and American Indian and Alaska Natives are [nearly
twice](https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6949a3.htm?s_cid=mm6949a3_w)
as likely to die from COVID-19 than white Americans. While the December
down payment had many beneficial provisions, it included little direct
funding to help Tribal governments respond to COVID-19. President Biden
is calling on Congress to give Tribes the resources they need to obtain
sufficient personal protective equipment, increase access to clean water
and electricity, and expand internet access so that children can learn
remotely and more families can obtain basic health care through
telemedicine. President Biden’s plan would invest $20 billion in Indian
Country to support Tribal governments’ response to the pandemic.These
resources will help to reduce stark and persistent inequities in
COVID-19 transmission, hospitalization, and death, while improving
economic conditions and opportunity.

**<u>Modernize federal information technology to protect against future
cyber attacks.</u>**

In addition to the COVID-19 crisis, we also face a crisis when it comes
to the nation’s cybersecurity. The recent cybersecurity breaches of
federal government data systems underscore the importance and urgency of
strengthening U.S. cybersecurity capabilities. President Biden is
calling on Congress to launch the most ambitious effort ever to
modernize and secure federal IT and networks. To remediate the
SolarWinds breach and boost U.S. defenses, including of the COVID-19
vaccine process, President Biden is calling on Congress to:

-   **Expand and improve the Technology Modernization Fund.** A $9
    billion investment will help the U.S. launch major new IT and
    cybersecurity shared services at the Cyber Security and Information
    Security Agency (CISA) and the General Services Administration and
    complete modernization projects at federal agencies. In addition,
    the president is calling on Congress to change the fund’s
    reimbursement structure in order to fund more innovative and
    impactful projects.
-   **Surge cybersecurity technology and engineering expert hiring**.
    Providing the Information Technology Oversight and Reform fund with
    $200 million will allow for the rapid hiring of hundreds of experts
    to support the federal Chief Information Security Officer and U.S.
    Digital Service.
-   **Build shared, secure services to drive transformational
    projects.** Investing $300 million in no-year funding for Technology
    Transformation Services in the General Services Administration will
    drive secure IT projects forward without the need of reimbursement
    from agencies.
-   **Improving security monitoring and incident response activities.**
    An additional $690M for CISA will bolster cybersecurity across
    federal civilian networks, and support the piloting of new shared
    security and cloud computing services.

\###
