---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-01-25'
modified_time: 2021-01-25 14:06:19-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-enabling-all-qualified-americans-to-serve-their-country-in-uniform/
published_time: 2021-01-25 11:30:00-05:00
title: 'Fact Sheet: President Biden Signs Executive Order Enabling All Qualified Americans
  to Serve Their Country in Uniform'
---
 
President Biden signed today an Executive Order that sets the policy
that all Americans who are qualified to serve in the Armed Forces of the
United States should be able to serve.  The All-Volunteer Force thrives
when it is composed of diverse Americans who can meet the rigorous
standards for military service, and an inclusive military strengthens
our national security.

President Biden believes that gender identity should not be a bar to
military service, and that America’s strength is found in its diversity.
 This question of how to enable all qualified Americans to serve in the
military is easily answered by recognizing our core values.  America is
stronger, at home and around the world, when it is inclusive.  The
military is no exception. Allowing all qualified Americans to serve
their country in uniform is better for the military and better for the
country because an inclusive force is a more effective force.  Simply
put, it’s the right thing to do and is in our national interest.

In 2016, a comprehensive study requested by the Department of Defense
found that enabling transgender individuals to serve openly in the
United States military would have only a minimal impact on military
readiness and healthcare costs.  The study also concluded that open
transgender service has had no significant impact on operational
effectiveness or unit cohesion in foreign militaries.

These facts were confirmed by testimony in 2018 to Congress by the
then-serving Chief of Staff of the Army, Chief of Naval Operations,
Commandant of the Marine Corps, and Chief of Staff of the Air Force that
they were not aware of any issues of unit cohesion, disciplinary
problems, or issues of morale resulting from open transgender service.
 In addition, former United States Surgeons General, who served under
both Democratic and Republican Presidents, supported this posture, noted
in 2018 that “transgender troops are as medically fit as their
non-transgender peers and that there is no medically valid reason —
including a diagnosis of gender dysphoria — to exclude them from
military service or to limit their access to medically necessary care.”

Today’s executive action revokes the Presidential Memorandum of March
23, 2018 (Military Service by Transgender Individuals), and also
confirms the revocation of the Presidential Memorandum of August 25,
2017 (Military Service by Transgender Individuals).  This executive
order:

**Directs the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Homeland Security to
implement this order.**  The President has directed the Secretary of
Defense, and Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to the Coast
Guard, after consultation with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to take all
necessary steps to ensure that all directives, orders, regulations, and
policies of their respective departments are consistent with this
order. 

**Immediately Prohibits Involuntary Separations, Discharges, and Denials
of Reenlistment or Continuation of Service on the Basis of Gender
Identity or Under Circumstances Relating to Gender Identity.**  And, the
order directs an immediate start to the identification and examination
of the records of service members who have been involuntarily separated,
discharged, or denied reenlistment or continuation of service onthe
basis of gender identity or under circumstances relating to gender
identity, as well as the correction of the military records.  Simply
put, transgender servicemembers will no longer be subject to the
possibility of discharge or separation on the basis of gender identity;
transgender servicemembers can serve in their gender when transition is
complete and the gender marker in the Defense Enrollment Eligibility
Reporting System (DEERS) is changed and transgender servicemembers
should know that they are accepted throughout the US military.

**Requires an initial report from the Secretary of Defense and the
Secretary of Homeland Security** be made to the President within 60 days
on their progress in implementing the directives and policy included in
today’s Executive Order.

\###
