---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-01-20'
modified_time: 2021-02-16 19:03:59-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/20/a-letter-to-dr-eric-s-lander-the-presidents-science-advisor-and-nominee-as-director-of-the-office-of-science-and-technology-policy/
published_time: 2021-01-20 14:37:00-05:00
title: "A Letter to Dr. Eric S. Lander, the President\u2019s Science Advisor and nominee\
  \ as Director of the Office of Science and Technology\_Policy"
---
 
*On January 15, 2021, then-President-Elect Biden sent this following
letter to Dr. Eric S. Lander, his appointee as the President’s Science
Advisor and nominee as Director of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy, tasking him and his colleagues, working broadly and
transparently with the diverse scientific leadership of American society
and engaging the broader American public, to refresh and reinvigorate
our national science and technology strategy. The letter poses five big
questions.*

Dear Dr. Lander:

In 1944, President Franklin D. Roosevelt authored a letter to his
science advisor, Dr. Vannevar Bush, posing the question of how science
and technology could best be applied to benefit the nation’s health,
economic prosperity, and national security in the decades that would
follow the Second World War. Dr. Bush’s response came in the form of a
report, titled *Science—the Endless Frontier*, that would form the basis
of the National Science Foundation and set the course of scientific
discovery in America for the next 75 years.

Those years have brought about some of the most consequential scientific
advancements in human history with America leading the way. But three
quarters of a century later, the contours of our lives have changed.
Technologies and industries have risen and fallen, and the emergence of
the digital arena has redefined the ways we innovate, communicate, and
experience the world. And the nature of discovery itself has changed by
leaps and bounds—reaching celestial heights, and microscopic
complexities, that were unimaginable not so long ago.

For this reason, I believe it is essential that we refresh and
reinvigorate our national science and technology strategy to set us on a
strong course for the *next* 75 years, so that our children and
grandchildren may inhabit a healthier, safer, more just, peaceful, and
prosperous world. This effort will require us to bring together our
brightest minds across academia, medicine, industry, and
government—breaking down the barriers that too often limit our vision
and our progress, and prioritizing the needs, interests, fears, and
aspirations of the American people.

President Roosevelt asked Dr. Bush to consider four specific questions.
Today, I am tasking you and your colleagues with five. My hope is that
you, working broadly and transparently with the diverse scientific
leadership of American society and engaging the broader American public,
will make recommendations to our administration on the **general
strategies, specific actions, and new structures** that the federal
government should adopt to ensure that our nation can continue to
harness the full power of science and technology on behalf of the
American people.

**1. What can we learn from the pandemic about what *is* possible—or
what *ought to be possible*— to address the widest range of needs
related to our public health?**

Even as we work urgently to overcome the coronavirus pandemic, we must
learn from this moment by grappling with the challenges, inequities, and
opportunities we’ve seen in order to better prepare for the future. 

How can we dramatically improve our ability to rapidly address threats
from pathogens, including emerging pandemics, potential bioweapons, and
antibiotic resistance? How can we dramatically speed our ability to
develop and conduct clinical trials of therapies for other types of
diseases like cancer? How can we enable the rapid sharing, with patient
consent, of health information to build a smarter and more effective
healthcare system? How can we use telemedicine to improve health for all
Americans? 

2\. **How can breakthroughs in science and technology create powerful
new solutions to address climate change—propelling market-driven change,
jump-starting economic growth, improving health, and growing jobs,
especially in communities that have been left behind?** 

Climate change represents an existential threat that requires bold and
urgent action. But at the same time, the necessity of solving it also
presents us with an extraordinary opportunity to make groundbreaking
investments in our infrastructure, enhance America’s resilience, promote
environmental justice, and create new cutting-edge industries and
millions of good-paying jobs that will advance American leadership for
generations to come. 

Achieving our commitment of net-zero carbon emissions by 2050 will
require deploying existing, cost-effective clean energy technologies
manufactured in America; drawing on innovative solutions to capture and
store carbon; and spurring American technological ingenuity to develop
new zero-carbon technologies that can reshape the marketplace. This
effort will fortify our economy for the future, create a durable stream
of good-paying union jobs in communities across the country, and
reassert American leadership on climate change around the globe.

The United States has a long, successful, and bipartisan history of
using federal research, purchasing, and policies to help jumpstart
critical industries—including, for example, when we pioneered and led
the semiconductor industry. How can we refresh that model to deliver a
healthier, safer, more prosperous, and sustainable future for our
children, while preserving our natural environment for future
generations?  

3\. **How can the United States ensure that it is the world leader in
the technologies and industries of the future that will be critical to
our economic prosperity and national security, especially in competition
with China?**

From artificial intelligence to synthetic biology, new technologies are
emerging in increasingly rapid cycles that promise to transform our
lives. Each arrives with a distinct set of promises and challenges—and
each carries the capacity to dramatically impact job creation, equity,
and national security.

Other countries—especially China—are making unprecedented investments
and doing everything in their power to promote the growth of new
industries and eclipse America’s scientific and technological
leadership. Our future depends on our ability to keep pace with our
competitors in the fields that will define the economy of tomorrow.

The right strategy for the United States will necessarily differ from
that of our competitors, but it will also likely differ from our own
past playbook. What is the right level of national investment, and what
are the pillars of a national strategy that will rapidly propel both
research and development of critical technologies? What structures,
infrastructures, and policies are needed to accelerate the path from
research laboratories to development projects to the marketplace? How
can we strengthen and expand the connections between academia, industry,
and government, which have historically been crucial for advancing
technology and protecting national security? And, importantly, how do we
ensure that technological advances create rather than diminish
high-quality jobs?

4\. **How can we guarantee that the fruits of science and technology are
fully shared across America and among all Americans?** 

The benefits of science and technology remain unevenly distributed
across racial, gender, economic, and geographic lines. How can we ensure
that Americans of all backgrounds are drawn into both the creation and
the rewards of science and technology? How can we ensure that science
and technology hubs flourish in every part of the country, driving
economic development in every American hometown? How can we ensure that
advances in medical science benefit the health of all Americans,
including substantially reducing racial and socioeconomic health
disparities?

5\. **How can we ensure the long-term health of science and technology
in our nation? **

Science and technology have flourished in the United States because of a
rich ecosystem of people, policies, and institutions. This ecosystem
must be nurtured and refreshed to succeed in a rapidly changing world. 

How can we protect scientific integrity within government—and make
government a premier destination for scientists and technologists to
work? How can we address stresses on academic research labs and promote
creative models for federal research support? How can we reimagine and
transform STEM education, empowering teachers and deploying technology
to enhance the educational experience? How can we ensure the United
States will remain a magnet for the best and brightest minds throughout
the world? 

I believe that the answers to these questions will be instrumental in
helping our nation embark on a new path in the years ahead—a path of
dignity and respect, of prosperity and security, of progress and common
purpose. They are big questions, to be sure, but not as big as America’s
capacity to address them. I look forward to receiving your
recommendations—and to working with you, your team, and the broader
scientific community to turn them into solutions that ease everyday
burdens for the American people, spark new jobs and opportunities, and
restore American leadership on the world stage.

Sincerely,

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
