---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-01-26'
modified_time: 2021-01-27 09:37:05-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/26/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-take-action-to-advance-racial-equity-and-support-underserved-communities/
published_time: 2021-01-26 12:30:00-05:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: President Biden to Take Action to Advance Racial Equity and Support
  Underserved Communities'
---
 
***Administration to Purchase Additional 200 Million Doses to Be
Delivered This Summer***

This afternoon, President Biden will outline his vision and new elements
of his agenda for advancing racial equity for Americans who have been
underserved and left behind. Equal opportunity is the fundamental
promise of America. But systemic racism and discrimination in our
economy, laws, and institutions have put the promise of America out of
reach for too many families of color.  
   
President Biden will renew the federal government’s commitment to making
the American Dream real for families across the nation by taking bold
and ambitious steps to root out inequity from our economy and expand
opportunities for communities of color and other underserved
Americans.  
   
President Biden will sign four executive actions this afternoon to
advance racial equity and take first steps to root out systemic racism
in housing and criminal justice. He will direct the Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to take steps necessary to redress
racially discriminatory federal housing policies that have contributed
to wealth inequality for generations. The President will sign an
Executive Order to end the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) use of private
prisons. He will recommit the federal government to respect Tribal
sovereignty and strengthen the Nation-to-Nation relationship between the
United States and Tribal Nations. And, President Biden will take action
to combat xenophobia against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.  
   
These orders build on actions the President took during his first week
in office to advance equity, which historians have described as one of
the most robust efforts to advance racial justice in the first weeks of
any new administration. On his first day in office, President Biden
signed an unprecedented Executive Order establishing a
whole-of-government initiative to address racial equity and support
underserved communities, and redress systemic racism in federal
policies, laws, and programs. He took immediate action to roll back
harmful policies, such as President Trump’s 1776 Commission and ban on
diversity and inclusion training for federal employees and contractors.
In the days ahead, President Biden will reinvigorate the federal
government’s role as a model employer by expanding and building on the
efforts of the Obama-Biden Administration, by requiring all agencies to
take affirmative steps to promote diversity, equity, and inclusion, as
well as by requiring accessibility.  
   
President Biden committed to embedding racial equity across his
Administration’s response to COVID-19 and the economic crisis. In his
first week in office, he signed executive actions to provide relief to
American families that will aid families of color that are being
disproportionately impacted by this economic crisis. He directed the
Department of Agriculture to address the growing crisis of hunger facing
more than one in five Black and Latino households by increasing access
to nutritious food for millions of children missing meals due to school
closures, issuing new guidance to help an additional 12 million
Americans access nutrition assistance, and beginning the process to
increase the value of supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits
to better reflect today’s grocery costs. The President extended the
pause on federal student loan payments and collections, protecting
borrowers burdened by educational debt, who are disproportionately
Americans of color. He extended the federal government’s foreclosure and
eviction moratoriums until February 28, 2021, helping families who are
more likely to be rent burdened to stay safely housed.  President Biden
directed the Department of Treasury to take steps to make the delivery
of stimulus benefits more equitable to help the 8 million households,
many of whom are families of color, who never received the first
stimulus checks they were entitled to. And, the President began the
process of requiring federal contractors to pay a $15 minimum wage and
provide emergency paid leave to workers bringing financial relief to low
wage workers.  
      
These actions are just the start. The President is committed to working
with Congress to pass bold legislation that advances racial equity,
including increasing funding for small businesses, investing in
Historically Black Colleges and Universities and other Minority Serving
Institutions, and tripling funding for Title I schools, which serve a
majority of low-income students. As the President has said, he is
focused on ensuring that small businesses owned by people of color and
others who have been historically disadvantaged – many of whom were shut
out of previous relief packages – receive support.  
   
And President Biden’s American Rescue Plan will provide immediate,
direct relief to communities and families bearing the brunt of the
crisis – including communities and families of color. Economists
estimate that the investments in the American Rescue Plan will lift over
eight million Black, Latino, and Asian Americans out of poverty and will
provide relief across sectors where families of color are most
disproportionately impacted in this crisis: in food and financial
security, healthcare access, and education and child care. The
President’s rescue plan will expand protections for frontline workers,
40 percent of whom are people of color.  It will increase and extend
Unemployment Insurance benefits, supporting the one in ten Black workers
and one in eleven Latino workers who are unemployed. And, the plan will
provide critical relief to Native American communities and Tribes.  
   
Today, President Biden will sign additional executive actions to:  
   
**Advance Fair Housing.** President Biden will sign a Presidential
Memorandum “Redressing Our Nation’s and the Federal Government’s History
of Discriminatory Housing Practices and Policies.” This memorandum
recognizes the central role the federal government has played
implementing housing policies across the United States, from redlining
to mortgage discrimination to destructive federal highway construction,
that have had racially discriminatory impacts. The Fair Housing Act
requires the federal government to advance fair housing and combat
housing discrimination, including disparate impact discrimination that
appears neutral but has an unjustified discriminatory effect in
practice. This Presidential Memorandum directs HUD to examine the
effects of the previous Administration’s regulatory actions that
undermined fair housing policies and laws.  And, it directs HUD to take
steps necessary based on that analysis to fully implement the Fair
Housing Act’s requirements.  
   
**Reform our Incarceration System to End the Use of Private Prisons**.
More than two million people are currently incarcerated in the United
States, and a disproportionate number of these individuals are people of
color. Mass incarceration imposes significant costs on our society and
communities, while private prisons profiteer off of federal prisoners in
less safe conditions for prisoners and correctional officers alike.
President Biden is committed to reducing mass incarceration while making
our communities safer. That starts with ending DOJ’s reliance on private
prisons. The Order directs the Attorney General not to renew Department
of Justice contracts with privately operated criminal detention
facilities.  
   
**Reaffirm the Federal Government’s Commitment to Tribal Sovereignty and
Consultation.** The Biden Administration is committed to re-establishing
federal respect for Tribal sovereignty, strengthening the
Nation-to-Nation relationship between the federal government and
American Indian and Alaska Native Tribes, empowering self-determination,
and advancing racial justice for Native communities. This Executive
Order reinvigorates the commitment of all federal agencies to engage in
regular, robust, and meaningful consultation with Tribal governments.  
   
**Combat Xenophobia Against Asian American and Pacific
Islanders.** While bullying and discrimination against Asian Americans
and Pacific Islanders (AAPIs) is a long-standing and unacceptable
problem in our country, rates of harassment and violence against AAPIs
have risen dramatically in the past year. President Biden will sign a
Presidential Memorandum acknowledging the harm that these actions have
caused, and establishing that the policy of his Administration is to
condemn and denounce anti-Asian bias and discrimination. This Memorandum
directs the Department of Health and Human Services, in coordination
with the COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force, to consider issuing guidance
describing best practices to advance cultural competency, language
access, and sensitivity towards AAPIs in the federal government’s
COVID-19 response. It also directs the Department of Justice to partner
with AAPI communities to prevent hate crimes and harassment against
AAPIs.

\###
