---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-01-21'
modified_time: 2021-01-31 16:16:24-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/21/national-security-directive-united-states-global-leadership-to-strengthen-the-international-covid-19-response-and-to-advance-global-health-security-and-biological-preparedness/
published_time: 2021-01-21 17:07:15-05:00
title: "National Security Memorandum on United States Global Leadership to Strengthen\
  \ the International COVID- \u2060 19 Response and to Advance Global Health Security\
  \ and Biological Preparedness"
---
 
NATIONAL SECURITY MEMORANDUM – 1

SUBJECT: United States Global Leadership to Strengthen the International
COVID-19 Response and to Advance Global Health Security and Biological
Preparedness 

The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is a grave reminder
that biological threats, whether naturally occurring, accidental, or
deliberate, can have significant and potentially existential
consequences for humanity.  This memorandum reaffirms Executive Order
13747 of November 4, 2016, which made clear that these threats pose
global challenges that require global solutions.  United States
international engagement to combat COVID-19 and advance global health
security and biopreparedness is thus an urgent priority — to save lives,
promote economic recovery, and develop resilience against future
biological catastrophes.  My Administration will treat epidemic and
pandemic preparedness, health security, and global health as top
national security priorities, and will work with other nations to combat
COVID-19 and seek to create a world that is safe and secure from
biological threats.  

Section 1.  Strengthening and Reforming the World Health Organization. 
On January 20, 2021, the United States reversed its decision to withdraw
from the World Health Organization (WHO) by submitting a letter to the
United Nations Secretary-General informing him of the President’s
decision that the United States will remain a member of the
organization.  Accordingly, the Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs (APNSA) shall, in coordination with the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), the heads of
other relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies), and the
Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response and Counselor to the President
(COVID-19 Response Coordinator), provide to the President within 30 days
of the date of this memorandum recommendations on how the United States
can:  (1) exercise leadership at the WHO and work with partners to lead
and reinvigorate the international COVID-19 response; (2) participate in
international efforts to advance global health, health security, and the
prevention of future biological catastrophes; and (3) otherwise
strengthen and reform the WHO.

Sec. 2.  United States Leadership in the Global Response to COVID-19.

(a)  COVID-19 Global Vaccination, Research, and Development.  In order
to support global vaccination and research and development for
treatments, tests, and vaccines: 

\(i\)   The Secretary of State and the Secretary of HHS shall inform the
WHO and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, of the United States’ intent to
support the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator and join the
multilateral vaccine distribution facility, known as the COVID-19
Vaccine Global Access (COVAX) Facility.  The Secretaries shall also
promptly deliver to the President, through the APNSA and the COVID-19
Response Coordinator, a framework for donating surplus vaccines, once
there is sufficient supply in the United States, to countries in need,
including through the COVAX Facility.

(ii)  The Secretary of State and the Secretary of HHS, in coordination
with the heads of other relevant agencies, shall promptly deliver to the
APNSA and the COVID-19 Response Coordinator a plan for engaging with and
strengthening multilateral initiatives focused on the global COVID-19
response, including the organizations identified in section 2(a)(i) and
other initiatives focused on equitable development and distribution of
vaccines, therapeutics, tests, and personal protective equipment, such
as the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and the Global
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. 

(b)  Health, Diplomatic, and Humanitarian Response to COVID-19.  In
order to enable the United States to play an active role in the
international COVID-19 public health and humanitarian response,
including with respect to the pandemic’s secondary effects:

(i)    The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of
HHS, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID), the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC), and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall
promptly develop and submit to the President, through the APNSA and the
COVID-19 Response Coordinator, a Government-wide plan to combat the
global COVID-19 pandemic, which shall identify principal strategic
objectives, corresponding lines of effort, and lead agencies.

\(ii\)   The Secretary of State shall, in coordination with the heads of
other relevant agencies, promptly review and, as necessary, adjust the
United States’ current and planned future deployments of public health,
health security, and health diplomacy personnel overseas focused on the
COVID-19 response, taking into account best practices for such
deployments from partner nations’ COVID-19 response strategies.

(iii)  Within 14 days of the date of this memorandum or as soon as
possible thereafter, the Secretary of State shall develop, in
consultation with the Secretary of HHS, the Representative of the United
States to the United Nations, the Administrator of USAID, and the
Director of the CDC, a diplomatic outreach plan for enhancing the United
States’ response to the COVID-19 pandemic, with a focus on engaging
partner nations, the United Nations (including the United Nations
Security Council), and other multilateral stakeholders on: 

(A)  the financing of and capacity for strengthening the global COVID-19
response;

(B)  the provision of assistance, including in humanitarian settings and
to mitigate secondary impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic such as food
insecurity and gender-based violence; and

(C)  the provision of support, including with the United Nations and
other relevant multilateral fora, for the capacity of the most
vulnerable communities to prevent, detect, respond to, mitigate, and
recover from impacts of COVID-19. 

(c)  COVID-19 Sanctions Relief.** ** The Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Commerce, in
consultation with the Secretary of HHS and the Administrator of USAID,
shall promptly review existing United States and multilateral financial
and economic sanctions to evaluate whether they are unduly hindering
responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, and provide recommendations to the
President, through the APNSA and the COVID-19 Response Coordinator, for
any changes in approach.

Sec. 3.  Review of Funding for COVID-19 Response and Global Health
Security and Biodefense.  In order to ensure that global health security
considerations are central to United States foreign policy, global
health policy, and national security, the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall, in coordination with the heads of relevant
agencies and the APNSA: 

(a)  review the funding allocated for the COVID-19 response, including
the secondary impacts of the pandemic, as well as for global health
security, global health, pandemic preparedness, and biodefense; and 

(b)  provide the President with an assessment of whether that funding,
as well as funding for subsequent budgetary years, is sufficient to
support operations and administrative needs related to the COVID-19
response, as well as future global health security, global health,
pandemic preparedness, and biodefense needs.

Sec. 4.  Financing for Global Health Security.** ** In order to develop
a health security financing mechanism, make strategic use of
multilateral and bilateral channels and institutions, and assist
developing countries in preparing for, preventing, detecting, and
responding to COVID-19 and other infectious disease threats: 

(a)  The APNSA, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of HHS, the Administrator of
USAID, the Chief Executive Officer of the United States International
Development Finance Corporation, and the heads of other agencies
providing foreign assistance and development financing, shall promptly
provide to the President recommendations for creating an enduring
international catalytic financing mechanism for advancing and improving
existing bilateral and multilateral approaches to global health
security.

(b)  The Secretary of the Treasury shall promptly provide to the
President, through the APNSA, a strategy on how the United States can
promote in international financial institutions, including the World
Bank Group and International Monetary Fund, financing, relief, and other
policies that are aligned with and support the goals of combating
COVID-19 and strengthening global health security. 

Sec. 5.  Advancing Global Health Security and Epidemic and Pandemic
Preparedness.  

(a)  The APNSA shall:

(i)    coordinate the Federal Government’s efforts to prepare for,
prevent, detect, respond to, and recover from biological events, and to
advance global health security, international pandemic preparedness, and
global health resilience;

\(ii\)   coordinate the development of priorities for, and elevate
United States leadership and assistance in support of, the Global Health
Security Agenda;

(iii)  conduct, in coordination with the heads of relevant agencies, a
review of existing United States health security policies and strategies
and develop recommendations for how the Federal Government may update
them, including by, as appropriate:  developing stronger global
institutions focused on harmonizing crisis response for emerging
biological events and public health emergencies; taking steps to
strengthen the global pandemic supply chain and address any barriers to
the timely delivery of supplies in response to a pandemic; working with
partner countries and international organizations to strengthen and
implement the International Health Regulations; reducing racial and
ethnic disparities in the COVID-19 global response and disproportionate
impacts on marginalized and indigenous communities, women and girls, and
other groups; reviewing and developing priorities for multilateral fora
aimed at reducing the risk of deliberate or accidental biological
events; combating antimicrobial resistance; and fighting climate change
as a driver of health threats; and

\(iv\)   develop, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of HHS, the Administrator of USAID, the Director of the CDC,
and the heads of other relevant agencies, protocols for coordinating and
deploying a global response to emerging high-consequence infectious
disease threats.  These protocols should outline the respective roles
for relevant agencies in facilitating and supporting such response
operations, including by establishing standard operating procedures for
how USAID and the CDC coordinate their response efforts.

(b)  The APNSA, in coordination with the COVID-19 Response Coordinator,
the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, and the heads of
relevant agencies, shall promptly develop a plan for establishing an
interagency National Center for Epidemic Forecasting and Outbreak
Analytics and modernizing global early warning and trigger systems for
scaling action to prevent, detect, respond to, and recover from emerging
biological threats.

(c)  The Secretary of State and the Representative of the United States
to the United Nations shall provide to the President, through the APNSA,
recommendations regarding steps the United States should take to
encourage or support the establishment of a new position in the office
of the United Nations Secretary-General of a facilitator for
high-consequence biological threats, particularly for events involving
significant collaboration and equities across the United Nations.

(d)  To assist in the Federal Government’s efforts to provide warning of
pandemics, protect our biotechnology infrastructure from cyber attacks
and intellectual property theft, identify and monitor biological threats
from states and non-state actors, provide validation of foreign data
and response efforts, and assess strategic challenges and opportunities
from emerging biotechnologies, the Director of National Intelligence
shall:

(i)    Review the collection and reporting capabilities in the United
States Intelligence Community (IC) related to pandemics and the full
range of high-consequence biological threats and develop a plan for how
the IC may strengthen and prioritize such capabilities, including
through organizational changes or the creation of National Intelligence
Manager and National Intelligence Officer positions focused on
biological threats, global public health, and biotechnology; 

\(ii\)   Develop and submit to the President, through the APNSA and the
COVID-19 Response Coordinator, a National Intelligence Estimate on (A)
the impact of COVID-19 on national and economic security; and (B)
current, emerging, reemerging, potential, and future biological risks to
national and economic security; and

(iii)  In coordination with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of HHS, the Director of the CDC, the
Administrator of USAID, the Director of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy, and the heads of other relevant agencies, promptly
develop and submit to the APNSA an analysis of the security implications
of biological threats that can be incorporated into modeling,
simulation, course of action analysis, and other analyses. 

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
