---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-01-22'
modified_time: 2021-01-22 11:02:05-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/22/fact-sheet-president-bidens-new-executive-actions-deliver-economic-relief-for-american-families-and-businesses-amid-the-covid-19-crises/
published_time: 2021-01-22 11:02:04-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: President\_Biden\u2019s New Executive Actions Deliver Economic\
  \ Relief for American Families and Businesses Amid the COVID-\u206019\_Crises"
---
 
The COVID-19 pandemic has forced the United States economy into an
economic crisis. Across the country, more than [10 million
Americans](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/empsit.nr0.htm) are
unemployed, [14 million
renters](https://www.cbpp.org/research/poverty-and-inequality/tracking-the-covid-19-recessions-effects-on-food-housing-and)
are behind on payments, and 29 million adults – and at least 8 million
children – are struggling with food insecurity. Because of pervasive
systemic racism and inequality in our economy, the burdens of this
economic crisis are hitting communities of color and other underserved
families hardest. One in ten [Black
workers](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/empsit.nr0.htm) and one in
eleven Latino workers are unemployed. Navigating through the current
crisis and emerging stronger requires immediate action to provide
equitable economic relief to working families everywhere. 

Last week, President Biden unveiled a historic legislative package
designed to change the course of the pandemic, get students back to
school, give families and businesses a bridge to an economic recovery,
and invest in advancing racial equity. His plan came on the heels of
December’s bipartisan deal to provide a down payment on long-term
economic relief for working families. Congress should finish the job by
expeditiously passing the American Rescue Plan into law. But the
American people cannot afford to wait for Congress to act – they need
help and they need it now. 

Today, the President is issuing an Executive Order that will launch an
all-of-government effort to provide equitable emergency economic relief
to working families, communities, and small businesses across the
nation. The actions taken as part of this effort will provide relief to
millions of American workers who have lost their jobs and had their
hours or wages slashed through no fault of their own. They will help
working families feed their children and keep a roof over their head.
They will help ensure that unemployed Americans no longer have to choose
between paying their bills and keeping themselves and their families
safe from COVID-19 by clarifying that workers who refuse unsafe working
conditions can still receive unemployment insurance. And, they will help
more unemployed workers pay for training and college so they can find
better jobs and succeed in an increasingly competitive job market.

That all-of-government effort will:

-   **Address the growing hunger crisis facing 29 million Americans —
    and as many as 12 million children –** by asking the U.S. Department
    of Agriculture to consider expanding and extending federal nutrition
    assistance programs. 
-   **Ensure equitable and effective delivery of direct payments —**
    **by asking the Treasury Department to consider changing its
    delivery structure** and focus on getting relief to the 8 million
    Americans who still have not received the financial assistance to
    which they are entitled.
-   **Help approximately 2 million veterans maintain their financial
    footing** by asking the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to
    consider pausing federal collections on overpayments and debts. 
-   **Help ensure that unemployed Americans no longer have to choose
    between paying their bills and keeping themselves and their families
    safe from COVID-19** by asking the U.S. Department of Labor to
    consider clarifying that workers who refuse unsafe working
    conditions can still receive unemployment insurance.
-   **Enable effective and equitable distribution of government
    assistance** by establishing an interagency benefit coordination
    structure.

While additional congressional action is urgently needed to help working
families through the remainder of the crisis, these emergency measures
are important steps to give millions of Americans real relief during the
pandemic. This executive order, combined with the President’s historic
relief package and forthcoming jobs package will help Americans
persevere through the pandemic and lay the foundation for a strong and
equitable recovery. The President is also recommending immediate action
to improve the wages, benefits, and bargaining rights of federal workers
and contractors.  

### COVID ECONOMIC RELIEF EXECUTIVE ORDER 

**Address the Growing Hunger Crisis Facing 29 Million Adults — And As
Many As 12 Million Children.** Across the country [1 in 7
households](https://www.cbpp.org/research/poverty-and-inequality/tracking-the-covid-19-recessions-effects-on-food-housing-and),
and more than 1 in 5 Black and Latino households, report that their
household is struggling to secure the food they need. In December,
Congress bolstered food assistance programs and provided new funding for
food banks and school and child care meals. But these measures alone
will not solve the growing hunger crisis in America. As part of his
American Rescue Plan proposal, President Biden is calling on Congress to
provide additional support to ensure that all Americans, regardless of
background, have access to healthy, affordable groceries by extending
the 15% Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefit
increase, investing $3 billion to help women, infants and children get
the food they need, and other key steps. The President is also asking
the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to consider taking the
following steps to provide nutrition assistance to working families,
including to: 

-   **Increase access to nutritious food for millions of children
    missing meals due to school closures.** Established under Families
    First Coronavirus Response Act, the Pandemic Electronic Benefits
    Transfer (P-EBT) connects low-income families with kids with food
    dollars equivalent to the value of the school meals missed due to
    COVID-related school closures. To date, the program has only allowed
    P-EBT benefit amounts up to $5.70 per child per school day and many
    households have had trouble claiming benefits. To address these
    concerns and expand needed relief, the President is asking USDA to
    consider issuing new guidance increasing P-EBT benefits by
    approximately 15% to accurately reflect the costs of missing meals
    and make it easier for households to claim benefits. For instance,
    this action could provide a family with three children more than
    $100 of additional support every two months.
-   **Allow larger emergency Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
    allotments for the lowest-income households.** Congress authorized
    emergency increases to SNAP benefits to help address food insecurity
    during the pandemic. So far, those benefit increases have not been
    made available to all of the lowest income households. USDA will
    consider issuing new guidance that would allow states to increase
    SNAP emergency allotments for those who need it most.  This would be
    the first step to ensuring that an additional [12 million
    people](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/poverty/news/2020/07/28/488085/12-million-people-excluded-emergency-increases-snap-benefits/)
    get enhanced SNAP benefits to keep nutritious food on the table.
-   **Update food assistance benefits to reflect the true cost of a
    basic healthy diet.** More than [40 million
    Americans](https://www.cbpp.org/research/poverty-and-inequality/tracking-the-covid-19-recessions-effects-on-food-housing-and)
    count on SNAP to help put food on the table. Currently, however,
    USDA’s Thrifty Food Plan, the basis for determining SNAP benefits,
    is out of date with the economic realities most struggling
    households face when trying to buy and prepare healthy food. As a
    result, the benefits fall short of what a healthy, adequate diet
    costs for many households. Therefore, as directed by the 2018 Farm
    Bill, the President will ask USDA to consider beginning the process
    of revising the Thrifty Food Plan to better reflect the modern cost
    of a healthy basic diet. 

**Ensure Equitable and Effective Delivery of Direct Payments.** As the
President fights to get Americans the full $2,000 in direct payments
they deserve, his administration is also working to ensure that all
those who are eligible receive their full payments. Many Americans faced
challenges receiving the first round of direct payments and as many as
eight million eligible households did not receive the payments issued in
March. In December, Congress passed legislation that would provide
Americans with $600 in stimulus. The President’s American Rescue Plan
proposes an additional $1,400 per-person payments to ensure that
households get the support they need to help pay bills, put food on the
table, and support small businesses and their communities. While
Treasury and career staff at the IRS have worked tirelessly to deliver
two rounds of payments in the midst of a pandemic, the work is far from
over. To ensure equitable and effective delivery of direct payments and
focus on getting relief to eligible individuals who have not received
the financial assistance to which they are entitled, the President is
asking the Department of Treasury to consider taking a series of actions
to expand and improve delivery of Economic Impact Payments including
establishing online tools for claiming their payments, working to make
sure that those who have not yet accessed their funds get the relief
they deserve, and analyzing unserved households to inform additional
outreach efforts.

**Guarantee that No American Has to Choose Between Paying Their Bills
and Keeping Themselves and Their Families Safe from COVID-19**. In 2019,
[43% of American
households](https://news.gallup.com/poll/269003/households-report-preexisting-conditions.aspx)
reported having at least one member with pre-existing conditions, many
of whom may have a heightened risk of serious illness or death if they
contract COVID. President Biden believes that workers should have the
right to safe work environments and that no one should have to choose
between their livelihoods and their own or their families’ health. As
one of many measures to help keep workers and their families’ safe
throughout the pandemic, the President is asking the Department of Labor
to consider clarifying that workers have a federally guaranteed right to
refuse employment that will jeopardize their health and if they do so,
they will still qualify for unemployment insurance.

**Help Families, Workers and Small Businesses Access Relief Resources
Quickly, Easily and Equitably through Coordinated Benefit Delivery
Teams.** During the pandemic government programs have provided much
needed support to help tens of millions of Americans pay rent, mortgages
and other bills, get the food they need, and access healthcare. However,
critical support does not always reach the people who need it: families
struggle to navigate complicated eligibility rules while [over
20%](https://www.eitc.irs.gov/eitc-central/participation-rate/eitc-participation-rate-by-states)
of Earned Income Tax Credits go unclaimed; [many small businesses in
communities of
color](https://www.brookings.edu/research/new-data-shows-small-businesses-in-communities-of-color-had-unequal-access-to-federal-covid-19-relief/)
cannot easily access loans; and according to one survey [less than
40%](https://www.hks.harvard.edu/faculty-research/policy-topics/poverty-inequality-opportunity/only-one-quarter-service-sector?utm_medium=socialmedia&utm_source=hkslinkedin)
of service workers who were laid off or furloughed at the height of
pandemic closures actually received timely unemployment benefits due to
system failures as applications surged. At the same time, an estimated
[47% of
children](https://www.cbpp.org/research/poverty-and-inequality/tracking-the-covid-19-recessions-effects-on-food-housing-and)
live in households that have trouble covering usual expenses such as
food, housing, and medical care. The stakes are too high and too many
families are in need for people not to get the relief that they are
entitled to. The Biden-Harris Administration is establishing a network
of benefit delivery teams and a coordination structure across federal
and state administered programs to reduce the time and burden to access
urgent support that provides greater stability and builds towards an
equitable recovery.

### PROTECTING AND EMPOWERING FEDERAL WORKERS AND CONTRACTORS

The federal government should only award contracts to employers who give
their workers the pay and benefits they have earned; President Biden is
today directing his administration to start the work that would allow
him to issue an Executive Order within the first 100 days that requires
federal contractors to pay a $15 minimum wage and provide emergency paid
leave to workers.

He is also taking critical steps to protect and empower federal
employees, who dedicate their careers to serving the American people.
They keep us healthy, safe, and informed, and their work transcends
partisan politics. They are health care workers who care for veterans,
the elderly, and the disabled. They are expert scientists, medical
doctors, and technicians who maintain world-class standards, prevent and
combat the spread of infectious diseases, and save countless lives. They
deliver our mail, run our national parks, keep our federal buildings up
and running, help protect us against climate change and environmental
poisoning, and ensure that the law is applied faithfully and fairly.
They are talented, hard-working, and inspiring Americans, worthy of the
utmost dignity and respect. But, over the last four years, they’ve been
undermined and demoralized. The President will sign an executive order
taking steps to protect and empower federal employees who are so
essential to this country. It:

-   **Restores collective bargaining power and worker protections** by
    revoking Trump Executive Orders 13836, 13837, and 13839. It goes
    further to direct agencies to bargain over permissible,
    non-mandatory subjects of bargaining when contracts are up for
    negotiation so that workers have a greater voice in their working
    conditions.
-   **Eliminates Schedule F, which undermines the foundations of the
    civil service.** Its existence threatens the critical protections of
    career employees and provides a pathway to burrow political
    appointees into the civil service.
-   **Promotes a $15 minimum wage**. The Executive Order directs the
    Office of Personnel Management to develop recommendations to pay
    more federal employees at least $15 per hour.

These steps will help ensure the federal government is a model employer
and restore protections to career civil servants who are so essential to
this country.

\# \# \#
