---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-01-27'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/27/statement-by-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-on-international-holocaust-remembrance-day/
published_time: 2021-01-27 10:34:27-05:00
title: "Statement by President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. on International Holocaust Remembrance\_\
  Day"
---
 
Today, we join together with people from nations around the world to
commemorate International Holocaust Remembrance Day by remembering the 6
million Jews, as well as the Roma and Sinti, Slavs, disabled persons,
LGBTQ+ individuals, and many others, who were murdered by the Nazis and
their collaborators during the Shoah. We must never forget the truth of
what happened across Europe or brush aside the horrors inflicted on our
fellow humans because of the doctrines of hatred and division.

I first learned about the horrors of the Holocaust listening to my
father at the dinner table. The passion he felt that we should have done
more to prevent the Nazi campaign of systematic mass murder has stayed
with me my entire life. It’s why I took my children to visit Dachau in
Germany, and why I hope to do the same for each of my grandchildren — so
they too would see for themselves the millions of futures stolen away by
unchecked hatred and understand in their bones what can happen when
people turn their heads and fail to act.

We must pass the history of the Holocaust on to our grandchildren and
their grandchildren in order to keep real the promise of “never again.”
That is how we prevent future genocides. Remembering the victims,
heroes, and lessons of the Holocaust is particularly important today as
Holocaust deniers and minimizers are growing louder in our public
discourse. But the facts are not up for question, and each of us must
remain vigilant and speak out against the resurgent tide of
anti-Semitism, and other forms of bigotry and intolerance, here at home
and around the world.

The horrors we saw and heard in Charlottesville in 2017, with white
nationalists and neo-Nazis spewing the same anti-Semitic bile we heard
in the 1930s in Europe, are the reason I ran for president. Today, I
recommit to the simple truth that preventing future genocides remains
both our moral duty and a matter of national and global importance.

The Holocaust was no accident of history. It occurred because too many
governments cold-bloodedly adopted and implemented hate-fueled laws,
policies, and practices to vilify and dehumanize entire groups of
people, and too many individuals stood by silently. Silence is
complicity. As my late friend and Holocaust survivor Tom Lantos so
frequently reminded us: “The veneer of civilization is paper thin. We
are its guardians, and we can never rest.”

When hatred goes unchecked, and when the checks and balances in
government and society that protect fundamental freedoms are lost,
violence and mass atrocities can result. The United States will continue
to champion justice for Holocaust survivors and their heirs. We are
committed to helping build a world in which the lessons of the Holocaust
are taught and in which all human lives are valued.

\###
