---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-01-28'
modified_time: 2021-02-01 09:42:12-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/28/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-sign-executive-orders-strengthening-americans-access-to-quality-affordable-health-care/
published_time: 2021-01-28 05:40:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President Biden to Sign Executive Orders Strengthening Americans\u2019\
  \ Access to Quality, Affordable Health Care"
---
 
***The Biden-Harris Administration will open a Special Enrollment Period
for Americans to sign up for health coverage and roll back attacks on
the Affordable Care Act, Medicaid, and access to reproductive health
care***.

After four years of attempts to strip health care from millions of
Americans, President Biden will sign two executive actions that will
begin to restore and strengthen Americans’ access to quality, affordable
health care. The Biden-Harris administration will re-open enrollment to
the Health Insurance Marketplace, take additional steps to strengthen
Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act, and protect women’s health. These
actions demonstrate a strong commitment by the Biden-Harris
Administration to protect and build on the Affordable Care Act, meet the
health care needs created by the pandemic, reduce health care costs,
protect access to reproductive health care, and make our health care
system easier to navigate and more equitable.

For President Biden, this is personal. He believes that every American
has a right to the peace of mind that comes with knowing they have
access to affordable, quality health care. Because of the Affordable
Care Act, [over 100 million
people](https://avalere.com/press-releases/repeal-of-acas-pre-existing-condition-protections-could-affect-health-security-of-over-100-million-people)
no longer have to worry that an insurance company will deny coverage or
charge higher premiums just because they have a pre-existing condition.
Roughly [20 million additional
Americans](https://www.kff.org/uninsured/fact-sheet/key-facts-about-the-uninsured-population/)
obtained the security that comes with health insurance, and young people
transitioning from school to a job can stay covered by their parents’
plan until age 26.

As we continue to battle COVID-19, it is even more critical that
Americans have meaningful access to affordable care. The actions the
President is taking today complement the commitment he made in the
American Rescue Plan to make health insurance coverage more affordable
for millions of Americans. Reliable and affordable access to health
insurance doesn’t just benefit families’ health; it is a critical source
of economic security and peace of mind for all.

Today’s actions include:

**Strengthening Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act.** This Executive
Order takes critical steps to reverse attacks on and strengthen Medicaid
and the Affordable Care Act, so they can continue to provide access to
life-saving care for millions of Americans. Based on this Executive
Order, it is expected that the Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) will open HealthCare.gov for a “Special Enrollment Period,” from
February 15, 2021 – May 15, 2021. This Special Enrollment Period will
give Americans that need health care coverage during this global
pandemic the opportunity to sign up.

The President will also direct federal agencies to reconsider rules and
other policies that limit Americans’ access to health care, and consider
actions that will protect and strengthen that access.

Agencies are directed to re-examine:

-   Policies that undermine protections for people with pre-existing
    conditions, including complications related to COVID-19;
-   Demonstrations and waivers under Medicaid and the ACA that may
    reduce coverage or undermine the programs, including work
    requirements;
-   Policies that undermine the Health Insurance Marketplace or other
    markets for health insurance;
-   Policies that make it more difficult to enroll in Medicaid and the
    ACA; and
-   Policies that reduce affordability of coverage or financial
    assistance, including for dependents. 

As part of their reviews, agencies will consider whether to take
additional actions to strengthen and protect access to health care. 

**Protecting Women’s Health at Home and Abroad.** Across the country and
around the world, people — particularly women, Black, Indigenous and
other people of color, LGBTQ+ people, and those with low incomes — have
been denied access to reproductive health care. President Biden is also
issuing a Presidential Memorandum to protect and expand access to
comprehensive reproductive health care. The memorandum reflects the
policy of the Biden-Harris Administration to support women’s and girls’
sexual and reproductive health and rights in the United States, as well
as globally. Like memoranda issued by President Clinton and President
Obama before him, it immediately rescinds the global gag rule, also
referred to as the Mexico City Policy, which bars international
non-profits that provide abortion counseling or referrals from receiving
U.S. funding. In recognition of the additional work necessary to protect
access to reproductive health care, President Biden’s memorandum also
directs the Department of Health and Human Services to take immediate
action to consider whether to rescind regulations under its Title X
family planning program.

\###
