---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-01-26'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/26/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-steps-to-boost-vaccine-supply-and-increase-transparency-for-states-tribes-and-territories/
published_time: 2021-01-26 16:44:28-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: President\_Biden Announces New Steps to Boost Vaccine Supply and\
  \ Increase Transparency for States, Tribes, and\_Territories"
---
 
***Administration to Purchase Additional 200 Million Doses to Be
Delivered This Summer***

Just over a year since the first COVID-19 case was confirmed in the
United States, the nation has hit another grim milestone in the
pandemic, reaching 25 million infections and counting. The pace in which
this virus has spread throughout the U.S. is staggering and with new
variants emerging, the spread is not slowing any time soon. That’s why
it is critical that we vaccinate as many people as possible, as quickly
as possible.

President Biden has a comprehensive National Action Strategy to put the
pandemic behind us and he and the COVID-19 response team are
aggressively implementing it.  Today, the President is announcing bold
steps that will help meet the goal of administering 100 million shots in
100 days and ramp up vaccine supply as fast as possible. As a result of
these actions, the federal government will have enough vaccine supply
for the entire U.S. population by the end of the summer.

The President is taking the following actions today:

**An Increase in Weekly Vaccine Supply to States, Tribes and
Territories:** The Biden-Harris Administration will increase overall,
weekly vaccine supply to states, Tribes and territories from 8.6 million
doses to a minimum of 10 million doses. This increase of 1.4 million
doses per week will allow millions more Americans to get vaccinated
sooner than previously anticipated. The Administration is committing to
maintaining this as the minimum supply level for the next three weeks.

**Increased transparency for States, Tribes, and Territories to Help
Their Vaccination Efforts:** The Biden-Harris Administration is taking
action to provide states, Tribes and territories with a reliable
three-week supply look-ahead. The Department of Health and Human
Services will provide allocation estimates for the upcoming three weeks
as opposed to the one week look-ahead that they previously received.
This increased transparency will give state and local leaders greater
certainty around supply so that they can plan their vaccination efforts
and administer vaccines effectively and efficiently.

**Purchase 200 Million Additional Doses to Be Delivered This Summer,
Double the Nation’s Vaccine Supply:** President Biden directed his
COVID-19 Response Coordinator to work with HHS to increase our total
vaccine supply for the American people.  The Biden-Harris Administration
is working to purchase an additional 100 million doses of each of the
two Food and Drug Administration-authorized vaccines – Pfizer and
Moderna.** ** This increases the total vaccine order for the U.S. by
50%, from 400 million to 600 million with these additional doses
expected to deliver this summer. With these additional doses, the U.S.
will have enough vaccine to fully vaccinate 300 million Americans by the
end of this summer.

***\###***
