---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-01-20'
modified_time: 2021-01-25 02:18:32-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/20/fact-sheet-president-elect-bidens-day-one-executive-actions-deliver-relief-for-families-across-america-amid-converging-crises/
published_time: 2021-01-20 05:00:00-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: President-elect Biden\u2019s Day One Executive Actions Deliver\
  \ Relief for Families Across America Amid Converging\_Crises"
---
 
*Actions Address the COVID-19 Pandemic, Provide Economic Relief, Tackle
Climate Change, and Advance Racial Equity*

Today, hours after taking the oath of office, President-elect Biden will
take a historic number of actions to deliver immediate relief for
families across America that are struggling in the face of converging
crises. He will sign a combination of executive orders, memoranda,
directives, and letters to take initial steps to address these crises,
including by changing the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, providing
economic relief, tackling climate change, and advancing racial equity.
President-elect Biden will take action — not just to reverse the gravest
damages of the Trump administration — but also to start moving our
country forward. These actions are bold, begin the work of following
through on President-elect Biden’s promises to the American people, and,
importantly, fall within the constitutional role for the president.

Below are more details about how President-elect Biden’s executive
actions will deliver relief for American families and address the crises
we face.

**CHANGING THE COURSE OF THE COVID PANDEMIC AND PROTECTING PUBLIC
HEALTH**

**Launch a “100 Days Masking Challenge” and Leading by Example in the
Federal Government **  
Today, President-elect Biden is launching his “100 Days Masking
Challenge,” asking the American people to do their part — their
patriotic duty — and mask up for 100 days. The Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention has found that masks “are a critical tool in the
fight against COVID-19 that could reduce the spread of the disease.”
President-elect Biden is also doing his part by issuing an Executive
Order today requiring masks and physical distancing in all federal
buildings, on all federal lands, and by federal employees and
contractors. He is also asking the Department of Health and Human
Services and Center for Disease Control to engage with state, local,
Tribal, and territorial officials to implement masking, physical
distancing, and other CDC public measures to stop the spread of
COVID-19.

**Re-Engage with the World Health Organization (WHO) to Make Americans
and the World Safer**  
Today, President-elect Biden will take action to cease the previous
Administration’s process of withdrawing from the World Health
Organization — an entity that is critical to coordinating the
international response to COVID-19, advancing preparedness for future
epidemics and pandemics, and improving the health of all people. The
Biden-Harris Administration — with Dr. Tony Fauci as Head of Delegation
— will participate in the WHO Executive Board meeting that is ongoing
this week. Dr. Fauci will deliver remarks as Head of Delegation to the
Executive Board on January 21. Once the United States resumes its
engagement with the WHO, the Biden-Harris Administration will work with
the WHO and our partners to strengthen and reform the organization,
support the COVID-19 health and humanitarian response, and advance
global health and health security.

**Structure Our Federal Government to Coordinate a Unified National
Response**  
The federal government must act swiftly and aggressively to combat
COVID-19. President-elect Biden will sign an Executive Order creating
the position of COVID-19 Response Coordinator, who will report directly
to the President and be responsible for coordinating all elements of the
COVID-19 response across government, including managing efforts to
produce, supply, and distribute personal protective equipment, vaccines,
and tests. In addition, this Executive Order restores the NSC
Directorate for Global Health Security and Biodefense to focus on
domestic and global biological threats, play a critical role in stopping
the COVID-19 pandemic, and prevent future biological catastrophes.

**PROVIDING ECONOMIC RELIEF AND SUPPORT TO WORKING FAMILIES**

**Extend Eviction and Foreclosure Moratoriums **  
The COVID-19 pandemic has triggered an almost unprecedented housing
affordability crisis. Today, 1 in 5 renters and 1 in 10 homeowners with
a mortgage are behind on payments. President-elect Biden is asking the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to consider immediately
extending the federal eviction moratorium until at least March 31, 2021,
while calling on Congress to provide much needed rental assistance and
extend it further. And, he will ask the Department of Veterans Affairs,
Department of Agriculture, and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, to consider extending foreclosure moratoriums for federally
guaranteed mortgages and continuing applications for forbearance for
federally guaranteed mortgages until at least March 31, 2021. On
Tuesday, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) extended its
foreclosure and eviction moratoriums until February 28, 2021. The
president-elect will call on the agency to consider extending the
foreclosure moratorium further and continue forbearance applications for
all loans guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

**Extend Student Loan Pause **  
Currently, borrowers owe over $1.5 trillion in federal student loans.
Borrowers of all ages are often faced with a tough tradeoff between
making their student loan payments, investing in their long-term
financial future, or paying their bills. The pandemic has only increased
the economic hardship of the millions of Americans who have student
debt. The president-elect is asking the Department of Education to
consider immediately extending the pause on interest and principal
payments for direct federal loans until at least September 30, 2021.

**TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE, CREATING GOOD UNION JOBS, AND ADVANCING
ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE**

**Rejoin the Paris Agreement on Climate Change**  
The president-elect will sign the instrument to rejoin the Paris
Agreement. The instrument will be deposited with the United Nations
today, and the United States will officially become a Party again 30
days later. The United States will be back in position to exercise
global leadership in advancing the objectives of the Agreement.

**Roll Back President Trump’s Environmental Actions in Order to Protect
Public Health and the Environment and Restore Science **  
Today, President-elect Biden will sign an Executive Order that takes
critical first steps to address the climate crisis, create good union
jobs, and advance environmental justice, while reversing the previous
administration’s harmful policies.

The order jumpstarts swift, initial action to tackle the climate crisis
by:

-   Directing all executive departments and agencies to immediately
    review and take appropriate action to address federal regulations
    and other executive actions taken during the last four years that
    were harmful to public health, damaging to the environment,
    unsupported by the best available science, or otherwise not in the
    national interest, including agency actions identified on the
    attached list;
-   Directing agencies to consider revising vehicle fuel economy and
    emissions standards, methane emissions standards, and appliance and
    building efficiency standards to ensure that such standards cut
    pollution, save consumers money, and create good union jobs;
-   Directing the Department of Interior to protect our nation’s
    treasures by reviewing the boundaries and conditions of the Grand
    Staircase-Escalante, Bears Ears, Northeast Canyons, and Seamounts
    Marine National Monuments and placing a temporary moratorium on all
    oil and natural gas leasing activities in the Arctic National
    Wildlife Refuge;
-   Re-establishing the Interagency Working Group on the Social Cost of
    Greenhouse Gases (GHG) and directing the issuance of an interim
    social cost of GHG schedule to ensure that agencies account for the
    full costs of GHG emissions, including climate risk, environmental
    justice and intergenerational equity; and
-   Revoking, revising, or replacing additional Executive Orders,
    Presidential Proclamations, Memoranda, and Permits signed over the
    past 4 years that do not serve the U.S. national interest, including
    revoking the Presidential permit granted to the Keystone XL
    pipeline.

**ADVANCING RACIAL EQUITY & SUPPORTING UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES**

The president-elect’s equity agenda is grounded in advancing racial
justice and building back better for communities who have been
underserved, including people of color and Americans with disabilities,
LGBTQ+ Americans, religious minorities, and rural and urban communities
facing persistent poverty.

Everyone across America benefits when we take deliberate steps to become
a more just society. Analysis suggests that closing racial gaps in
wages, housing credit, lending opportunities, and access to higher
education would amount to an additional $5 trillion in gross domestic
product in the American economy over the next 5 years, and create
millions of new jobs. We are a nation founded on principles of equality
and it is in the interest of everyone across the country that the
government be intentional in ensuring that its policies reach all of us
in an equitable way. By advancing such equity, the federal government
can build pathways so that everyone across America has the opportunity
to reach their potential.

President-elect Biden will sign executive actions today to:

**Launch a Whole-of-Government Initiative to Advance Racial Equity **  
The president-elect will sign an Executive Order beginning the work of
embedding equity across federal policymaking and rooting out systemic
racism and other barriers to opportunity from federal programs and
institutions. The Executive Order will define equity as the consistent
and systematic fair, just, and impartial treatment of all individuals,
including individuals who belong to underserved communities, such as
Black, Latino, Indigenous and Native American persons, Asian Americans
and Pacific Islanders, and other persons of color; LGBTQ+ persons;
people with disabilities; religious minorities, persons who live in
rural areas; and persons otherwise affected by persistent poverty or
inequality. The president-elect will:

-   Establish that advancing equity for all — including people of color
    and others who have been historically underserved and marginalized
    — is the responsibility of the whole of our government;
-   Direct every federal agency to undertake a baseline review of the
    state of equity within their agency and deliver an action plan
    within 200 days to address unequal barriers to opportunity in agency
    policies and programs;
-   Launch a new equitable data working group to ensure that federal
    data reflects the diversity of America;
-   Task the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) with working to more
    equitably allocate federal resources to empower and invest in
    communities of color and other underserved communities;
-   Improve the delivery of government benefits and services to ensure
    that families of all backgrounds across the country can access
    opportunity, for example by reducing language access barriers;
-   Study new methods that federal agencies can use to assess whether
    proposed policies advance equity;
-   Direct agencies to engage with communities who have been
    historically underrepresented, underserved, and harmed by federal
    policies.

President-elect Biden has asked Ambassador Susan Rice, as Domestic
Policy Advisor, to lead a robust interagency process to hold the federal
government accountable for advancing equity for families across America.

In this Executive Order, the president-elect will also rescind the Trump
Administration’s 1776 Commission, which has sought to erase America’s
history of racial injustice. And, he will revoke President Trump’s
damaging executive order limiting the ability of federal government
agencies, contractors and even some grantees from implementing important
and needed diversity and inclusion training. Additional actions in the
coming weeks will restore and reinvigorate the federal government’s
commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility.

**Reverse President Trump’s Executive Order Excluding Undocumented
Immigrants from the Reapportionment Count **  
President-elect Biden will sign an Executive Order to revoke the prior
Administration’s orders setting out an unlawful plan to exclude
noncitizens from the census and apportionment of Congressional
representatives. President-elect Biden will ensure that the Census
Bureau has time to complete an accurate population count for each state.
He will then present to Congress an apportionment that is fair and
accurate so federal resources are efficiently and fairly distributed for
the next decade.

**Preserve and Fortify Protections for Dreamers**  
In 2012, the Obama-Biden administration adopted Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals (DACA) to provide temporary relief from deportation
on a case-by-case basis to Dreamers, young people who were brought to
this country as children. Since then, more than 700,000 young people
have applied for this relief and met rigorous requirements and
background checks. Many are serving our country in the armed services or
as essential workers on the front lines of the pandemic. The Trump
administration has tried to terminate DACA since 2017, but the U.S.
Supreme Court rejected that effort and required reconsideration of that
decision. The program continues, accepting new applications and renewing
DACA for those who qualify under the 2012 requirements. But those
opposed to DACA continue to challenge the program, threatening its
continuance. The president-elect is committed to preserving and
fortifying DACA. Today, he will sign a Presidential Memorandum directing
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Attorney
General, to take all appropriate actions under the law to achieve that
goal. The Presidential Memorandum will also call on Congress to enact
legislation providing permanent status and a path to citizenship for
people who came to this country as children and have lived, worked, and
contributed to our country for many years.

**Reverse the Muslim Ban**  
The president-elect will sign an Executive Action putting an end to the
Muslim Ban, a policy rooted in religious animus and xenophobia. It
repeals Proclamations 9645 and 9983, which restrict entry into the
United States from primarily Muslim and African countries, and instructs
the State Department to restart visa processing for affected countries
and to swiftly develop a proposal to restore fairness and remedy the
harms caused by the bans, especially for individuals stuck in the waiver
process and those who had immigrant visas denied. This is an important
step in providing relief to individuals and families harmed by this
Trump Administration policy that is inconsistent with American values.
The Executive Action also provides for the strengthening of screening
and vetting for travelers by enhancing information sharing with foreign
governments and capacity building with our partners, and directs reviews
of other Trump Administration “extreme vetting” practices.

**Repeal of Trump Interior Enforcement Executive Order**  
President-elect Biden will sign an Executive Order revoking a Trump
Executive Order that directed harsh and extreme immigration enforcement.
This revocation will allow the Department of Homeland Security and other
agencies to set civil immigration enforcement policies that best protect
the American people and are in line with our values and priorities.

**Stop Border Wall Construction **  
Bipartisan majorities in Congress refused in 2019 to fund President
Trump’s plans for a massive wall along our southern border, even after
he shut down the government over this issue. He then wastefully diverted
billions of dollars to that construction. By proclamation,
President-elect Biden will today declare an immediate termination of the
national emergency declaration that was used as a pretext to justify
some of the funding diversions for the wall. The proclamation directs an
immediate pause in wall construction projects to allow a close review of
the legality of the funding and contracting methods used, and to
determine the best way to redirect funds that were diverted by the prior
Administration to fund wall construction.

**Deferred Enforced Departure for Liberians Presidential Memorandum**  
The president-elect will sign a Presidential Memorandum to extend until
June 30, 2022 the long-standing Deferred Enforced Departure (DED)
designation for Liberians who have been in the United States for many
years. Liberians with DED will also have their work authorization
extended. This PM also directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to
ensure that Citizen Immigration Services facilitates ease of application
and timely adjudication for Liberians applying for residency by the
Liberian Relief and Fairness Act.

**Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender
Identity or Sexual Orientation**  
All persons should receive equal treatment under the law, no matter
their gender identity or sexual orientation. The Biden-Harris
Administration will prevent and combat discrimination on the basis of
gender identity and sexual orientation. To begin this work,
President-elect Biden will sign an Executive Order that builds on the
U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Bostock v. Clayton County (2020) and
ensures that the federal government interprets Title VII of the the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 as prohibiting workplace discrimination on the
basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. This Order will also
direct agencies to take all lawful steps to make sure that federal
anti-discrimination statutes that cover sex discrimination prohibit
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity,
protecting the rights of LGBTQ+ persons.

**ENSURING GOVERNMENT WORKS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE**

**Executive Branch Personnel Ethics Executive Order**  
President-elect Biden will sign an Executive Order to restore and
maintain public trust in government, and ensure that we are a government
for the people. The president-elect is ordering every appointee in the
executive branch to sign an ethics pledge. The ethics pledge and related
ethics rules in the Executive Order are designed to ensure that
executive branch employees act in the interest of the American people
and not for personal gain. And, the pledge commits federal employees to
uphold the independence of the Department of Justice.

**Regulatory Process Executive Order and Presidential Memorandum **  
Regulations are an important tool for the federal government to address
the crises facing the nation. The Trump Administration unnecessarily
hamstrung this critical tool by creating arbitrary obstacles to
regulatory action. Today, the president-elect will issue a Presidential
Memorandum withdrawing the Trump Administration’s regulatory process
executive orders to remove those needless obstacles to regulating in the
public’s interest. And, the president-elect will direct the Director of
the OMB to develop recommendations for improving and modernizing
regulatory review. These recommendations will create a process to
advance regulations that promote public health and safety, economic
growth, social welfare, racial justice, environmental stewardship, human
dignity, equity, and the interests of future generations.

Today, the White House Chief of Staff will also issue a regulatory
freeze memo that will pause any new regulations from moving forward and
give the incoming Administration an opportunity to review any
regulations that the Trump Administration tried to finalize in its last
days. The memo directs all agencies to confer with the Director of OMB
before renewing any regulatory activity. This action will allow the
Biden Administration to prevent any detrimental so-called “midnight
regulations” from taking effect, while ensuring that urgent measures in
the public’s interest can proceed.

*As President-elect Biden works to aggressively tackle the simultaneous
crises our country faces, he is focused on ensuring that the approaches
he takes benefit working Americans and advance racial equity across our
society. An assessment of how these day one actions further both of
those fundamental goals of the Biden presidency is below.*

**THE PRESIDENT-ELECT’S EXECUTIVE ACTIONS ADVANCE RACIAL EQUITY **

President-elect Biden’s executive actions to restore equal treatment
under the law for people across America and to direct a
whole-of-government approach to racial justice redirects the federal
government to treat Americans fairly. These sweeping actions deliver on
the president-elect’s commitments to equity and task agencies with
taking immediate steps to redress injustices.

The COVID-19 crisis has claimed more than 400,000 American lives — but
for Black and Brown Americans, it’s a mass casualty event. Because of
structural racism, people of color are contracting COVID-19 at higher
rates and dying from COVID-19 at higher rates. President-elect Biden’s
executive orders to change the course of the virus, including
establishing a coordinated national response and implementing a mask
mandate on federal property, will help slow the spread of the virus in
communities of color.

Extending the federal eviction moratorium and asking federal agencies to
consider extending foreclosure moratoriums for federally guaranteed
mortgages will provide relief to the families of color that face higher
risks of eviction and housing loss.

The president-elect has also directed all executive departments and
agencies to review actions taken over the last four years and revise
those policies that run counter to his commitment to environmental
justice, including undoing the harmful rollbacks of clean air and clean
water protection that disproportionately impact low-income communities
and communities of color.

**THE PRESIDENT-ELECT’S EXECUTIVE ACTIONS SUPPORT AND PROTECT WORKERS**

The president-elect’s day one executive actions will protect workers
from COVID-19, including by ensuring that federal employees and
contractors wear masks and follow other CDC guidelines, setting an
example for employers around the country.

They will provide relief to American workers who have lost their jobs or
had their hours or wages slashed through no fault of their own, by
extending the pause on student debt and the eviction and foreclosure
moratorium.

They will help spur the growth of American manufacturing and supply
chains, competitiveness of our industries, and creation of good union
jobs by directing agencies to consider revising vehicle fuel economy and
emissions standards, methane emissions standards, and appliance and
building efficiency standards.

And, they’ll take steps to prevent workplace discrimination on the basis
of sexual orientation and gender identity, and revoke President Trump’s
damaging executive order which limited critical diversity and inclusion
training in the workplace.
