---
date: '2023-09-29'
published_time: 2023-09-29 14:25:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/29/a-proclamation-on-cybersecurity-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Cybersecurity Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
     Digital technologies today touch nearly every aspect of American
life — from our classrooms and communities, to our economy and national
security.  That is why — this Cybersecurity Awareness Month — my
Administration renews our commitment to securing cyberspace and seizing
the unlimited potential of our digital future. 

     From the start of my Administration, I have made cybersecurity a
national security priority because cyber threats affect every sector of
society, from the critical infrastructure that underpins our daily lives
to the schools where we educate our children and the products we use in
our homes.  In May 2021, I issued an Executive Order to modernize the
Federal Government’s cyber defenses — creating mechanisms for agencies
to quickly identify and respond to cyberattacks.  I instituted minimum
cybersecurity standards for critical infrastructure sectors, including
mandates for the protection of pipelines, rail, and aviation.  This past
August, the White House hosted a Cybersecurity for K-12 Schools Summit,
where we announced new resources for schools to address the threat of
ransomware attacks.  We launched the “U.S. Cyber Trust Mark” program
with voluntarily participation from leading product manufacturers and
retailers to help Americans choose safer smart devices to bring into
their homes — while also establishing security standards for software
purchased by the Government, helping to raise the market standard for
digital technologies writ large.  In July, we released a new National
Cyber Workforce and Education Strategy, which will empower more
Americans to pursue careers in the cyber field and strengthen our
resilience for generations to come.  And, as we implement historic
legislation like the Inflation Reduction Act, the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, and the CHIPS and Science Act, we are committed to
incorporating cybersecurity measures into everything we build and
produce — from bridges and roads to computer chips and the electrical
grid.

     Cyber threats cross borders, which is why we are also taking the
same historic action on the global stage.  In 2021, my Administration
established the International Counter-Ransomware Initiative, which will
convene for the third time this fall in Washington, D.C., bringing
together more than 40 partners from around the globe to address the
scourge of ransomware.  We have created new cyber dialogues with allies
and partners to enhance our collective cyber defense and deterrence —
including launching a new virtual rapid response mechanism at NATO to
ensure Allies can effectively and efficiently offer each other support
in response to cyber incidents.  And, early this year, we released a new
National Cybersecurity Strategy — which will allow us to work in
lockstep with our partners to ensure cyberspace is grounded in
democratic values — not those of our autocratic competitors.

     Our world — including our digital world — stands at an inflection
point, where the decisions we make today will determine the direction of
our world for decades to come.  This is particularly true as we develop
and enforce norms for conduct in cyberspace.  We must ensure the
Internet remains open, free, global, interoperable, reliable, and secure
— anchored in universal values that respect human rights and fundamental
freedoms.  And, we must ensure that digital connectivity is a tool that
uplifts and empowers, not one used for repression and coercion.  Today,
and every day, the United States commits to advancing this vision from a
position of strength — leading in lockstep with our allies and partners
everywhere who share our aspiration for a brighter digital future.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2023 as Cybersecurity Awareness Month.  I call upon the people,
businesses, and institutions of the United States to recognize and act
on the importance of cybersecurity and to observe Cybersecurity
Awareness Month in support of our national security and resilience.  I
also call upon business and institutions to take action to better
protect the American people against cyber threats and create new
opportunities for American workers to pursue good-paying cyber jobs. 
Americans can also take immediate action to better protect themselves
such as turning on multifactor authentication, updating software on
computers and devices, using strong passwords, and remaining cautious of
clicking on links that look suspicious.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
