---
date: '2023-09-29'
modified_time: 2023-09-29 14:35:38-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-29 14:35:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/29/a-proclamation-on-national-community-policing-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Community Policing Week,\_2023"
---
 
     All Americans want the same thing:  neighborhoods free of violence
and crime, for our loved ones to come home safely each day, and fair and
impartial justice under the law.  During National Community Policing
Week, we recommit to achieving those goals by strengthening the trust
and partnership between law enforcement and communities across our
Nation.

     The vast majority of police officers put their lives on the line
every day to do the right thing.  They pin on their shield and walk out
the door toward danger, risking their lives to keep the rest of us safe.
 They are good, dedicated, honorable people, who work hard to cultivate
positive relationships with the communities they have sworn to protect,
serving at a time when working in law enforcement is harder than it has
ever been.  Law enforcement officers are expected to act as counselors,
social workers, and psychologists as they respond to drug overdoses,
domestic violence, abandoned children, mental health crises, and other
incredibly challenging situations.

     Trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve is the
foundation of public safety.  When officers on the beat know the
neighborhoods and the families they are serving and protecting; when
they get the training, resources, and tools they need to do their jobs;
and when they earn the community’s trust, we are all safer and stronger.
 Without public trust, there is less public safety — crimes go
unreported, cases go unsolved, witnesses fear coming forward, victims
suffer in isolation, perpetrators remain free, and justice remains
undelivered.    

     That is why my Administration has taken historic steps to support
community policing and strengthen public trust in law enforcement by
providing officers with the resources and training they need to be the
partners and protectors our communities deserve.  When funding for
police was at risk because of the pandemic, my Administration’s American
Rescue Plan delivered a historic $350 billion to help States and cities
respond.  Hundreds of communities across our Nation have committed over
$10 billion of those funds to retain and hire more officers; pay
overtime and bonuses; and secure more crisis responders and personnel to
provide for substance use disorder, mental health, and violence
intervention services.  We committed more Federal resources to
supporting State and local law enforcement in the first year of my
Administration than almost any other year on record.  Furthermore, I
signed the most sweeping gun safety law in nearly 30 years to ensure
that officers are not out-gunned on the streets.  And we are
strengthening background checks for gun purchasers, cracking down on
illegal gun sales, and reigning in ghost guns that officers have
increasingly reported finding at crime scenes.  

     After Senate Republicans blocked the passage of the George Floyd
Justice in Policing Act in 2021, I signed an Executive Order — with the
support of leaders from law enforcement and civil rights groups as well
as affected families, including the Floyd family — that put Federal
policing on a path to becoming the gold standard for effective and
accountable policing.  Incorporating key elements of the George Floyd
Justice in Policing Act, the Executive Order requires Federal law
enforcement agencies to ban chokeholds, restrict no-knock warrants,
provide de-escalation training, and implement stronger use-of-force
policies that include the duty to intervene and render medical aid.
 Further, we mandated that Federal officers submit use-of-force data to
the FBI’s Use-of-Force Data Collection and log officer misconduct and
commendation records into a new national accountability database.  The
Executive Order also directs Federal resources to support similar
reforms within State, Tribal, local, and territorial law enforcement
agencies as we continue to call on the Congress to pass the George Floyd
Justice in Policing Act.

     My Administration’s Safer America Plan builds on these actions by
seeking an additional $37 billion to hire 100,000 more State and local
police officers trained in safe, effective, and accountable community
policing consistent with the standards in my Executive Order; to provide
law enforcement with mental health and wellness resources; to ensure
more psychologists and social workers are available to respond to a
crisis alongside them; and to establish and support programs that are
proven to tackle the root causes of crime. 

     There is no greater responsibility of government than ensuring the
safety of the American people and those who sacrifice to protect us
all.  This week, let us recognize the heroism, selflessness, and courage
of police officers across America.  Let us honor the communities they
serve for their undaunted efforts to advance equal justice, safety, and
dignified treatment for all.  And let us commit to building a future
that supports public safety, promotes trust, and unites communities
across the Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 1 through October 7, 2023, as National Community Policing Week. 
I call upon law enforcement agencies, elected officials, and all
Americans to observe this week by recognizing ways to improve public
safety, build trust, and strengthen community relationships.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
