---
date: '2023-09-18'
published_time: 2023-09-18 17:59:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/18/a-proclamation-on-national-voter-registration-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Voter Registration Day,\_2023"
---
 
The right to vote and to have that vote counted is the threshold of
democracy.  Without it, nothing is possible, but with it, anything is. 
On National Voter Registration Day, we reaffirm our commitment to
ensuring every American has equal opportunity to participate in our
democracy, and we encourage all eligible Americans to register to vote.

Since the founding of our country, countless Americans have fought to
secure the right to vote and to have that vote counted for all.  Women
did not secure the right to vote until 1920.  Black Americans were
denied full citizenship and voting rights up until 1965.  Time and
again, Americans have fought against great opposition — they have
marched, protested, and even died for the right to vote.  They have done
the hard work of our democracy by registering voters and getting them to
the polls. 

Yet, even today, the voting rights of so many hang in the balance.  The
Supreme Court weakened the landmark Voting Rights Act, and in the years
since, States have enacted dozens of anti-voting laws.  On January 6,
2021 — one of the darkest moments of our Nation’s history — we saw the
violent and deadly insurrection at the Capitol perpetrated by election
deniers.  It is clear that the fight to preserve our democratic values
and norms is not over.  Just as generations of Americans past rose to
the occasion, protecting and securing the right to vote, we must answer
the call to fight for our democracy today.  

Delivering a Government by and for the people begins and ends with the
ballot box.  My Administration will do everything in our power to
protect it.  It is why I signed an Executive Order that established a
whole-of-government effort to promote access to voter registration and
election information all across America, including in underserved
communities.  In response, Federal agencies have taken action to help
make it easier for veterans and college students to register to vote.
 The Department of Justice has also doubled its voting rights staff.  As
President, I will continue to fight back against State legislation that
undermines the will of the American people.  I continue to call on the
Congress to pass the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting
Rights Advancement Act to expand access to voting and prevent voter
suppression.  Passing these laws is the only way to fully secure the
right to vote in every State. 

Today, I think of the words of the late civil rights trailblazer
Representative John Lewis:  “Democracy is not a state; it is an act.” 
As our democracy faces threats from those who seek to weaken the right
to vote, it has never been more important to act — to protect and expand
the right to vote.  I know that we will — not just because our cause is
just, our vision is clear, and our hearts are full but because
generations of Americans refused to give up until they secured voting
rights for all of us.  Now it is our turn to secure the right to vote
for all Americans once more.  For the generations to come, for the
strength of our democracy, and for the preservation of our extraordinary
experiment in self-government, we must remain committed to securing the
right to vote for all and redeeming the soul of our Nation. 

On National Voter Registration Day, I call on all eligible Americans to
ensure that they are registered to vote by checking that their
registration is accurate and up to date and to help their communities do
the same.  Visit www.Vote.gov for more information on how to register to
vote.  I also urge policymakers and constituents alike to join me in
preserving, reinforcing, and expanding this essential constitutional
right.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 19, 2023, as
National Voter Registration Day.  I call on all eligible Americans to
observe this day by ensuring that they are accurately registered and by
committing to cast a ballot in upcoming elections.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                          JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
