---
date: '2023-09-29'
published_time: 2023-09-29 14:06:44-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/29/a-proclamation-on-national-youth-justice-action-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Youth Justice Action Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During National Youth Justice Action Month, we recognize that young
people deserve second chances, and we recommit to transforming the
juvenile justice system by creating safer and more supportive
communities where young people can thrive.

     Between 2000 and 2020, the youth population in juvenile justice
facilities declined by nearly 80 percent.  But those who do enter the
juvenile justice system are often confined in unsafe environments, live
with trauma and mental health conditions that go untreated, and serve
adult sentences.  They are disproportionately young people of color and
young people with disabilities.  Without the support, resources, or
guidance for meaningful rehabilitation, many young people who are
released can fall back into old patterns that lead to their return to
the justice system. 

     My Administration has made historic investments in improving our
youth justice system.  We are working to shift its focus from punishment
to support and making our Nation’s promise of equal justice a reality
for all.  My Administration is establishing and expanding evidence-based
diversion programs when appropriate and broadening access to lawyers who
will advocate for and advise children who are facing juvenile and
criminal justice system involvement.  For those leaving the system, our
investments and programs are helping youth find housing, educational
opportunities, mentorship, job training, and other services to support
them once they return home.  My new budget also calls for $760 million
to advance juvenile justice programs with the goal of making the entire
system more equitable. 

     I believe that to keep children out of trouble we need to ensure
all of them have a fair shot at building a bright future with access to
good schools, safe communities, and equal opportunities.  To this end,
my Administration has launched the National Partnership for Student
Success to bring together 250,000 people across the country to serve as
tutors and mentors for our students.  We have secured $1.3 billion in
funding for rural and inner-city schools to support afterschool and
summer learning programs for K-12 students.  

     We also doubled funding for Full-Service Community Schools that
support students and their families outside of the classroom with
services like health care and career counseling.  And when we passed the
Nation’s first major gun safety law in nearly three decades, we included
measures to further increase the number of school psychologists and
mental health counselors available to our children, and we made it
easier for schools to use Medicaid to deliver health services, including
mental health care.  My Administration also launched 988, the National
Suicide and Crisis Lifeline, which can connect young people experiencing
a crisis with trained crisis counselors via phone, chat, and text.  And
we have invested in mobile crisis response teams, which often work with
law enforcement to deliver immediate mental health professional support
for those in crisis.

     Our young people are the kite strings that keep our national
ambitions aloft — the future of our Nation is in their hands.  During
National Youth Justice Action Month, we recommit to expanding
opportunities for all of our Nation’s children and building a justice
system that allows our youth to thrive.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October
2023 as National Youth Justice Action Month.  I call upon all Americans
to observe this month by taking action to support our youth and by
participating in appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs in
their communities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
