---
date: '2023-09-29'
published_time: 2023-09-29 14:21:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/29/a-proclamation-on-national-breast-cancer-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Breast Cancer Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
Cancer touches nearly every family in America, including mine.  That is
why finding cures and addressing the needs of patients and their
families is a central pillar of my Unity Agenda, as I discussed in my
very first State of the Union address — it is the kind of goal that can
unite us all as Americans, regardless of our differences.  This National
Breast Cancer Awareness Month, let us all recommit to the work of ending
cancer as we know it.  May we honor those we have lost, offer strength
to those who continue to live with breast cancer, and work to protect
the health of future generations. 

     Nearly 300,000 women will be diagnosed with breast cancer this
year, and one in eight women in America will be diagnosed with the
disease in their lifetimes.  We have made enormous progress in our
decades-long fight against cancer — discovering new prevention and
early-detection measures and exploring medicines and therapies to extend
and save lives.  Despite these advancements, a breast cancer diagnosis
is not only frightening but also a doorway into a confusing world of
appointments, procedures, and expenses.  While facing months of grueling
treatments, breast cancer patients and their families are flooded with a
bewildering amount of medical information to decipher and often have to
advocate to receive basic care and attention.  On top of these stresses,
they also worry about paying their medical bills.

     That is why the First Lady and I reignited the Cancer Moonshot and
set ambitious goals to cut the overall cancer death rate by at least
half in the next 25 years, transform more cancers from death sentences
into treatable diseases, and improve the treatment experience for
patients and their families.  As a first step toward realizing these
goals, I established the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health
(ARPA-H) and secured $2.5 billion in bipartisan funding to drive
scientific breakthroughs in prevention, detection, and treatment for
cancer and other diseases.  The agency is pioneering partnerships to
help disseminate the impact of those breakthroughs to clinics and
patients.  And recently, it announced research into the use of mRNA
technology, an innovative component of the COVID-19 vaccine, to train
our own immune systems to fight cancer and other diseases.  It will also
lead the exploration of novel technologies to enhance the precision and
accuracy of surgical procedures involved in removing cancerous tumors
from the body.  Also, the first class of Moonshot scholars has been
selected, which will help build a cancer research workforce that better
represents the diversity of America and prepare a new wave of innovators
in the cancer field.

     Improving treatment options is only part of the fight.  We also
need to make those treatments affordable for everyone who needs them. 
That is why I made it a priority for the Inflation Reduction Act to cap
out-of-pocket drug costs for seniors on Medicare at $2,000 per year —
including expensive cancer drugs.  My Administration has also
strengthened Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act (ACA) to expand and
protect health care coverage, saving nearly 15 million Americans $800
per year on health insurance premiums.

     Because screening and early detection are critical to saving the
lives of breast cancer patients, my Administration remains committed to
maintaining and improving the accessibility of cancer care secured in
the ACA.  This means requiring insurers to pay for cancer screenings —
including mammograms — as well as maintaining coverage for cancer
survivors and others who have preexisting conditions.  In addition, we
are doubling our investment and making new alliances with community
health centers that provide early detection and support services to
underserved communities.  Most recently, we also expanded access to
breast cancer screenings for any veteran exposed to burn pits —
regardless of their age or family history.

     More information is available online at cancer.gov/types/breast or
by calling 1-800-422-6237 to reach information specialists at the
National Cancer Institute, who can answer cancer-related questions in
English and Spanish.  Also, the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention’s National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program
provides breast cancer screenings and diagnostic services to those with
low incomes who are uninsured or otherwise qualify for the program —
learn more at cdc.gov/cancer/nbccedp/screenings.htm.

     For the lives we can save and those we have lost, let this National
Breast Cancer Awareness Month be a moment of unity that rallies the
country to end cancer as we know it.  Together, we can give patients,
survivors, and their families the care, hope, and support they deserve.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2023 as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, and other interested groups to join in activities that
will increase awareness of what Americans can do to prevent and control
breast cancer and pay tribute to those who have lost their lives to this
disease.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
