---
date: '2023-09-22'
modified_time: 2023-09-22 18:27:30-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-22 17:09:34-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/22/a-proclamation-on-national-public-lands-day-2023-2/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Hunting and Fishing Day,\_2023"
---
 
America’s natural wonders are the heart and soul of our Nation, and the
tens of millions of Americans who hunt and fish have often led the fight
to conserve them.  On National Hunting and Fishing Day, we recommit to
the work of conservation and celebrate the place that hunting and
fishing hold in our national story, embodying the American spirit of
adventure and resourcefulness.

Hunting and fishing have long been a way of life and a cherished pastime
in our Nation, and central to the cultures and livelihoods of Tribal
Nations.  From day one, I have taken historic steps to conserve the
lands and waters that these activities rely on and to ensure our public
lands are available to every American.

     In my first week as President, I signed an Executive Order
establishing our country’s most ambitious conservation goal ever:  to
conserve or restore at least 30 percent of our Nation’s lands and waters
by 2030.  In just my first year in office, we protected more territory
than any President since John F. Kennedy.  We have protected iconic and
sacred places from Alaska’s Tongass Forest to Avi Kwa Ame National
Monument and the Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante National
Monuments — all as part of our “America the Beautiful” initiative to
support locally led conservation and restoration work.  In addition, we
have expanded access for hunting and fishing on over two million acres
of land within our national wildlife refuge system, the largest such
expansion in recent history.  Working together with the Hunting and
Wildlife Conservation Council, the Departments of Agriculture and the
Interior are pursuing further improvements to hunters’ and anglers’
access to public lands and waters.

     At the same time, climate change poses an existential threat to
wildlife and their habitats.  Longer heatwaves and droughts, more
unpredictable storms, and more devastating wildfires make hunting and
fishing tougher and far riskier.  We have fought to change that.
 Through the landmark Inflation Reduction Act, my Administration is
making the biggest investment in combating the climate crisis in the
history of the world by strengthening clean energy, advancing
environmental justice, and shoring up communities’ resilience to extreme
weather, ensuring that hunting and fishing can sustainably continue as
they have for generations.

     It is simple:  Hunting and fishing are part of who we are as
Americans — central to our history, heritage, and prosperity and
ingrained in the soul of our Nation.  Protecting the natural resources
that allow hunting and fishing are also an important part of upholding
our sacred trust, treaty, and subsistence responsibilities to Tribal
Nations and Indigenous communities.  On National Hunting and Fishing
Day, we honor these profound contributions and recommit to working
together with sportsmen and sportswomen, land owners, State officials,
local leaders, and Tribal Nations to safeguard our great outdoors for
the ages.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 23, 2023, as National Hunting and Fishing Day.  I call upon
all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-second day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                          JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
