---
date: '2023-09-08'
published_time: 2023-09-08 12:13:31-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/08/a-proclamation-on-patriot-day-and-national-day-of-service-and-remembrance-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Patriot Day and National Day of Service and Remembrance,\_\
  2023"
---
 
Today we remember all the heroes who were forged in the hours, days, and
years that followed that terrible morning of September 11, 2001 —
ordinary Americans who, amidst the terror, smoke, and flames,
demonstrated extraordinary courage and selflessness.  Together, their
bravery helped prove to our Nation and the world that what those
terrorists most hoped to wound could never be broken:  the character of
our Nation.

     In the crucible that was September 11th, we saw just how deep that
character goes.  We saw it in the civilians, service members, and first
responders who leapt into action that day, running into the searing
flames and crumbling buildings — risking and losing their own lives to
save others.  We saw it in the incredible courage and resolve of the
passengers on board Flight 93, who refused to let their plane be used as
a weapon against more innocent Americans.  We saw it in the police
officers and firefighters who returned to the twisted steel and broken
concrete slabs of Ground Zero and the Pentagon for months — breathing in
toxins and ash that would damage their own health but nonetheless
refusing to stop searching through the destruction.  And we saw it in
the millions of Americans across our country who responded to the
September 11th attacks by signing up to defend our Constitution and join
the greatest fighting force in the history of the world.

     In the years since September 11th, hundreds of thousands of
American troops have served — and sacrificed — around the world to deny
terrorists safe haven and protect the American people.  The First Lady
and I hold in our hearts all those whose loved ones gave their last full
measure of devotion in this fight.  We owe them — and all our veterans
and Gold Star Families as well as their survivors, caregivers, and loved
ones — a debt of gratitude.  While we can never fully repay that debt,
we will never fail to meet our sacred obligation:  to prepare and equip
all those we send into harm’s way and care for them and their families
when they return. 

     In honor of all the lives we lost 22 years ago — and in honor of
all the heroes who have given their whole souls to the cause of this
Nation every moment since — may today not only be observed with solemn
remembrance but also with renewal and resolve.  And I invite all
Americans to observe this day with service; you can find opportunities
to volunteer in your community by visiting americorps.gov/911-day. 
Together, may we continue to demonstrate that the rights and freedoms
that those terrorists sought to destroy on September 11, 2001, remain
unwavering — strengthened by generations of Americans who have dared all
and risked all to defend, protect, and preserve our democracy. 

     By a joint resolution approved December 18, 2001 (Public Law
107-89), the Congress has designated September 11 of each year as
“Patriot Day,” and by Public Law 111-13, approved April 21, 2009, the
Congress has requested the observance of September 11 as an annually
recognized “National Day of Service and Remembrance.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim September 11, 2023, as Patriot Day
and National Day of Service and Remembrance.  I call upon all
departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the United States to
display the flag of the United States at half-staff on Patriot Day and
National Day of Service and Remembrance in honor of the individuals who
lost their lives on September 11, 2001.  I invite the Governors of the
United States and its Territories and interested organizations and
individuals to join in this observance.  I call upon the people of the
United States to participate in community service in honor of those our
Nation lost, to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities, including remembrance services, and to observe a moment of
silence beginning at 8:46 a.m. eastern daylight time to honor the
innocent victims who perished as a result of the terrorist attacks on
September 11, 2001.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
