---
date: '2023-09-15'
published_time: 2023-09-15 12:57:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/15/a-proclamation-on-constitution-day-and-citizenship-day-and-constitution-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, and Constitution Week,\_\
  2023"
---
 
     More than two centuries ago, our Founders set in motion the most
extraordinary experiment of self-government the world has ever known
with three simple words:  “We, the People.”  These timeless words from
our Constitution help capture the very idea of America — that we are all
created equal and deserve to be treated equally throughout our lives. 
On Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, and during Constitution Week,
we recommit to doing the work of upholding our Constitution, defending
our democracy, and building an America that is more prosperous, more
equal, and more just.

     History requires us to acknowledge that we have never fully lived
up to the promise of America.  But we have never fully walked away from
it either.  Burning inside each generation of Americans is the flame of
liberty lit at Independence Hall that has guided our Nation from the
horrors of slavery to the justice of abolition, from the tragedy of a
Civil War to the preservation of our Union, and from economic turmoil
and world wars to movements for universal suffrage and civil rights.
 Our commitment to a Government — of, by, and for the people — has
ensured that our Nation remains a citadel of liberty.

     American democracy hinges on a fundamental freedom guaranteed by
our Constitution:  the right to vote.  In our own time, as in
generations past, this freedom has been under attack.  The Supreme Court
weakened the landmark Voting Rights Act, and States have enacted dozens
of anti-voting laws in the years since.  In one of the darkest moments
of our Nation’s history, on January 6, 2021, we saw the violent and
deadly insurrection at the Capitol perpetrated by election deniers.
 My Administration will not allow the right to vote and have that vote
counted be taken from the American people.  This year, I signed the
Electoral Count Reform Act to preserve the will of the people and help
protect the peaceful transfer of power.  And I continue to urge the
Congress to pass the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting
Rights Advancement Act to restore and expand voting protections and to
prevent voter suppression. 

     But there is still more work to do.  Protecting our civil rights is
the duty of each and every American.  In the wake of the Supreme Court’s
decision to eliminate a woman’s right to choose — a constitutional right
that it had recognized for nearly 50 years — my Administration took
action to protect access to reproductive care, and we are continuing to
call on the Congress to restore the protections of *Roe v. Wade. * As
some seek to erase our history and ban books, we are making it clear
that we cannot just choose to learn what we want to know and not what we
should know.  We must learn everything — the good, the bad, and the
truth of who we are as a Nation.  That is what great nations do.  And we
are a great Nation.  The diversity that defines America is a strength,
not a weakness, and we will continue to fight for the full inclusion of
all Americans in the promise of America.

     As we celebrate our Constitution, we also celebrate the rights and
responsibilities of citizenship.  We honor everyday Americans who always
do extraordinary things.  And we welcome our newest citizens and
immigrants — many of whom left the only home they have ever known with
hopes of pursuing the American Dream, bringing new energy and ideas that
move our Nation forward.  That is why, on day one of my Administration,
I sent the Congress my plan to reform the immigration system.  And until
the Congress acts, we will keep using every tool we have to make
immigration more orderly, safe, and humane.

     America is founded on an idea — one stronger than any army, bigger
than any ocean, and more powerful than any dictator or tyrant.  It is
the most powerful idea in the history of the world, and it beats in the
hearts of the people in this country.  It is the idea that America
guarantees that everyone be treated with dignity.  It gives hate no safe
harbor.  It instills in everyone the belief that, no matter where you
start in life, there is nothing you cannot achieve.  Whether your
ancestors were native to these shores or they were brought here forcibly
and enslaved — or whether they immigrated generations back, like my
family from Ireland, or they just arrived in search of a better life for
their families — the idea of America unites all of us.  Today and every
day, we celebrate this idea imagined in our Constitution and preserved
through the noble labors of Americans past and present.  And we reaffirm
our commitment to ensuring this idea lives on for generations to come.

     To honor the timeless principles enshrined in our Constitution, the
Congress has, by joint resolution of February 29, 1952 (36 U.S.C. 106),
designated September 17 as “Constitution Day and Citizenship Day” and
authorized the President to issue a proclamation calling on United
States officials to display the flag of the United States on all
Government buildings on that day.  By joint resolution of August 2, 1956
(36 U.S.C. 108), the Congress further requested that the President
proclaim the week beginning September 17 and ending September 23 of each
year as “Constitution Week.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 17, 2023, as Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, and
September 17 through September 23 as Constitution Week.  On this day and
during this week, we celebrate our Constitution and the rights of
citizenship that together we enjoy as the people of this proud Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                          JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
