---
date: '2023-09-29'
published_time: 2023-09-29 14:08:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/29/a-proclamation-on-national-clean-energy-action-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Clean Energy Action Month,\_2023"
---
 
America is once again leading the world in the fight against climate
change, and our Nation is in the midst of a clean energy revolution —
reducing pollution, lowering energy costs, creating good-paying jobs,
and making sure clean energy technologies are made in America.  During
National Clean Energy Action Month, we celebrate that historic progress
and commit to continue working to build a more sustainable and energy
secure Nation for future generations.

     Clean energy has never been more essential.  The climate crisis is
driving extreme heat, deeper droughts, deadlier storms, and stronger
wildfires, destroying lives and livelihoods ‑- last year alone, major
disasters caused over $177 billion in damages.  Climate change is the
existential threat of our time, and clean energy is key to tackling it.

     My Administration is focused on fueling America’s clean energy
future so we lead the world in industries like solar, wind, geothermal,
and advanced nuclear energy.  When I took office, we set ambitious goals
of reaching 100 percent clean electricity by 2035 and achieving
net-zero-emissions by 2050.  To get there, I signed the landmark
Inflation Reduction Act, which makes the biggest investment in fighting
climate change and advancing clean energy in the history of the world.
 It provides tax credits and rebates that can save families thousands of
dollars by installing solar panels, energy-saving appliances, and heat
pumps; weatherizing their homes to be more resilient against extreme
weather; and purchasing American-made electric cars.  The law is
expected to triple wind power generation, increase solar production
eightfold by 2030, and put tens of billions back in the pockets of
Americans.  Together with my Administration’s Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, these investments could help us reach 80 percent clean energy by
2030.  

     As I have often said, when I think of climate change, I think of
jobs — good-paying clean energy jobs.  Since the beginning of my
Administration, the private sector has announced more than $240 billion
in new clean energy manufacturing investments.  That includes more than
$70 billion in electric vehicle and battery investments since I signed
the Inflation Reduction Act.  The clean energy projects that have moved
forward in the past year are creating more than 170,000 clean energy
jobs.  My Administration is incentivizing companies to pay every one of
those workers a prevailing wage and to use registered apprenticeships
and made-in-America materials.  And we are leaving no community behind —
from the investments we are making to factories being built and jobs we
are creating, we are seeing new opportunities in rural America, in the
heartland, in energy communities, and all across our country.

     My Administration is also working to upgrade our Nation’s
infrastructure.  We have made the biggest investment in America’s power
grid ever, laying new transmission lines so clean energy can reach every
corner of the country.  We are installing more than 500,000 electric
vehicle charging stations on roads nationwide.  And we are speeding up
permitting for clean energy projects while proposing new emissions
standards to reduce pollution from oil and gas producers, power plants,
and vehicles.

     Today, the United States is deploying more solar and wind power
than ever.  Electric vehicle sales and clean energy manufacturing are
booming.  But we have much more to do.  The climate crisis will not
wait, nor will clean energy competitors in other nations.  Americans
must come together to win the clean energy future — the future of our
economy, our national security, and our children and grandchildren all
depend on it.

    NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2023 as National Clean Energy Action Month.  I call upon all
Americans to recognize this month with action by investing in clean
energy in their homes and businesses; using new tax credits to cut
emissions while saving money on their energy bills and electric
vehicles; talking to neighbors, friends, and coworkers about the
opportunities to address the climate crisis; and working together to
mitigate climate change and achieve a healthier environment for all.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
