---
date: '2023-09-08'
modified_time: 2023-09-08 12:26:14-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-08 12:26:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/08/a-proclamation-on-national-hispanic-serving-institutions-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Hispanic-Serving Institutions Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Education beyond high school should be a ticket to the middle class
— and across our Nation, more than 500 Hispanic-Serving Institutions
have helped to make that promise real, opening the doors of opportunity
a bit wider for generations of Hispanic college students.  During
National Hispanic-Serving Institutions Week, we celebrate their
important work.

     Today’s students are part of the most talented, resilient, and
diverse generation in our history.  But while creativity and work ethic
are abundant, not everyone has an equal shot yet.  That is why
Hispanic-Serving Institutions are so essential.  Two-thirds of all
Hispanic college students in America attend one; they provide a quality
education and empower underserved students — including Dreamers and
first-generation college students — to earn degrees and build better
lives for their families.  And with the Supreme Court’s recent decision
to effectively end affirmative action, their work is as critical as
ever.

     My Administration is committed to strengthening these vital
institutions and supporting their students through graduation and
beyond.  The American Rescue Plan invested $11 billion in
Hispanic-Serving Institutions — the largest investment in Hispanic
college students in our Nation’s history.  And through our White House
Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic
Opportunity for Hispanics, we are working together to support Hispanic
and Latino college students and invest in the future of Hispanic and
Latino communities.

     We have also increased Pell Grants for low-income families by the
largest amount in over a decade, easing the overwhelming cost of college
for about half of all Hispanic undergraduates.  We fixed the Public
Service Loan Forgiveness program so borrowers who become teachers,
police officers, social workers, military service members and other
public servants get the debt relief they are entitled to under the law.
 We are reducing the amount that student loan borrowers have to repay on
their undergraduate loans to 5 percent of their discretionary income
each month, down from 10 percent — the most generous repayment program
ever.  That is going to save the typical borrower around $1,000 a year. 
And last year, I introduced the most ambitious student debt relief plan
ever, which was on the verge of helping more than 40 million Americans.
 When the Supreme Court wrongly struck down that plan, we moved
immediately to open an alternative path to relief that could further
reduce costs for many Hispanic borrowers.  No administration has fought
harder for student debt relief than mine — and we are not done yet.

     This week, I am thinking about Julieta García, the first Hispanic
woman in history to serve as president of an American college.  Last
year, I had the honor of giving her the Presidential Medal of Freedom
for her work building a culture of excellence, affirmation, and
curiosity for generations of students.  Reflecting on her career, she
once said, “My job was always to thrust open the doors of opportunity.” 
That is what Hispanic-Serving Institutions do — and that is what America
is all about:  widening the aperture of opportunity for everyone.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 10 through September 16, 2023, as National Hispanic-Serving
Institutions Week.  I call on public officials, educators, and all the
people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities that acknowledge the many ways
these institutions and their graduates contribute to our country.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
