---
date: '2023-09-01'
modified_time: 2023-09-01 11:18:56-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-01 11:18:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/01/a-proclamation-on-labor-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Labor Day,\_2023"
---
 
  I have often said that the middle class built this country and that
unions built the middle class.  On Labor Day, we honor that essential
truth and the dedication and dignity of American workers, who power our
Nation’s prosperity. 

     They have built the railways, highways, and waterways that connect
us from coast to coast, have forged the look and feel of American
cities, and have protected our communities and families as first
responders.  Organized workers have fundamentally transformed how we
live and work in this country — from securing the 8-hour work day and
overtime pay to mandating standard safety practices in workplaces and
earning better health care, pensions, and other benefits for all
workers.

     American workers are the best in the world, but over the past few
decades, too many leaders embraced an economic theory that failed them
and our unions.  It is called trickle-down economics.  It is the belief
that we should cut taxes for the wealthy and big corporations and wait
for the benefits to trickle down to workers and American families.  It
is a belief that we should shrink public investment in infrastructure
and public education.  It is a tax policy that encourages corporations
to move operations and jobs overseas.  

     Trickle-down policies slashed investments in people and communities
and allowed big corporations to amass more power while limiting the
ability of workers to join unions.  It did not matter where companies
made things, as long as it helped their bottom line — even if it meant
losing the very workers who had helped them succeed.  Companies cut
staff, shipped good jobs overseas, prioritized cheap labor, and silenced
workers’ voices.  As a result, factories and businesses across the
country shut down, entire communities were hollowed out, and for many
working people, a path to better their circumstances would never be
within reach.  People working as hard as ever could not get ahead
because it was harder to buy a home, pay for a college education, start
a business, and retire with dignity.  The moment we embraced
trickle-down economics, we walked away from who we are and from the way
our Nation was built.

     I knew our Nation could not continue with those same failed
policies, so I came into office determined to build an economy that
grows from the middle out and bottom up, not the top down.  And it is
working.  We have added over 13 million jobs, including 800,000
manufacturing jobs.  We added more jobs in my first two years than any
President in a single 4-year term because we are investing in America
and Americans again.

     The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law I signed is a
once-in-a-generation investment that puts Americans to work rebuilding
our Nation’s infrastructure using American-made materials.  We have
announced nearly 37,000 new projects since we passed the bill.  For me,
it was a top priority that the overwhelming majority of these
investments be covered by Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements to
make sure the hundreds of thousands of jobs we create are good-paying
jobs. 

     We passed the CHIPS and Science Act to bring semiconductor
manufacturing back to American shores and ensure that the United States
leads the world in innovation.  It has attracted over $166 billion in
investment and ignited a semiconductor manufacturing boom.  Our
Inflation Reduction Act helps build the clean energy industries of the
future here at home while incentivizing companies to adopt strong labor
standards.  Our American Rescue Plan includes funding to protect over
two million union workers, retirees, and their families from benefit
cuts to the pensions they have earned.  All of these investments mean
good-paying jobs that American workers can raise their families on, many
of which do not require a 4-year college degree.

     By investing more in Registered Apprenticeships and in career and
technical education programs than any previous administration, we are
ensuring that every American — from every region and background — can
access the training and education needed to participate in our Nation’s
economic prosperity.  My Administration is working to crack down on
non-compete agreements that keep 30 million Americans from taking new
jobs with higher wages in their field.  We are taking action to protect
workers’ health and safety from hazards they may be exposed to on the
job, such as silica dust and other toxic materials.  And my
Administration is empowering American workers and giving working
families some breathing room by bringing the cost of prescription drugs
and health care down for millions of Americans. 

     I promised to be the most pro-union President in history, and I
firmly believe that every worker in America should have the free and
fair choice to join a union or organize and bargain collectively with
their employer without coercion or intimidation.  That is because when
organized labor wins, our Nation wins.  My Administration will continue
to support and encourage labor unions so that workers have a seat at the
decision-making table, an opportunity to speak truth to power, and the
support to fight for the dignity and respect they deserve.  

     On Labor Day, we stand in solidarity with all the workers who lift
our Nation to new heights and all the labor unions who give all workers
power and voice.  May we continue working to restore the American Dream
for every person willing to work hard in our Nation by embracing what
has always been the foundation of our country’s success:  investing in
America and American workers. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 4, 2023, as Labor Day.  I call upon all public officials and
people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities that honor the energy and
innovation of working Americans.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
