---
date: '2023-09-29'
published_time: 2023-09-29 14:14:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/29/a-proclamation-on-national-disability-employment-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Disability Employment Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
     People with disabilities have long strengthened our economy and
expanded our Nation’s possibilities.  During National Disability
Employment Awareness Month, we recognize the immense contributions of
disabled Americans, and we recommit to delivering America’s full promise
of equal dignity, respect, and opportunity for every American.  

     I had the honor of helping to pass the Rehabilitation Act in my
first year in the United States Senate.  Then, in 1990, with the help of
activists and bipartisan legislators and under the leadership of Senator
Tom Harkin, we passed the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) — a
groundbreaking civil rights law that banned discrimination against
people with disabilities in most areas of public life, including in
workplaces, schools, and public transit.  I was proud to co-sponsor that
law back then and to build on its lasting legacy in the Obama-Biden
Administration, including by setting hiring goals for people with
disabilities in Federal contracts.

     While the Rehabilitation Act and the ADA made significant strides
toward equal opportunity for people with disabilities, there is more
work to do.  People with disabilities are three times less likely to
have a job, and when they do, they are often paid less money for doing
the same work.  

     Since the start of the my Administration, we have been working hard
to promote job opportunities for Americans with disabilities.  I truly
believe that a workforce that includes people with disabilities is one
that is stronger and more effective.  And as the Nation’s largest
employer, the Federal Government has a responsibility to set the
standard for fair and decent practices in the workplace.  That is why,
in my first year in office, I issued an Executive Order to prioritize
diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility in the Federal
Government.  That Executive Order directs agencies to identify and
remove barriers to hiring and promotion for job applicants and employees
with disabilities as well as maximize the accessibility of workplaces.

     My Administration has also ended the use of unfair sub‑minimum
wages in Federal contracts, which previously allowed employers to pay
workers with disabilities less than the minimum wage for federally
contracted workers.  Meanwhile, the Department of Labor is working
around the clock to protect the rights of disabled workers on Federal
contracts and to promote their competitive integrated employment
alongside other similarly situated workers without disabilities.  The
Office of Disability Employment Policy launched several national online
dialogues to solicit broad stakeholder input on the effectiveness of
employment programs and services for people from underrepresented groups
within the disability community.  In addition, we are coordinating with
our partners at all levels of government, in the private sector, and in
civil society to use Federal funding to provide new employment
opportunities to people with disabilities.

     My Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is also funding projects that are
lowering transportation barriers that prevent disabled Americans from
finding employment.  This once-in-a-generation investment in our
Nation’s infrastructure is making transit and public services more
accessible.  It includes $1.75 billion to repair and improve
accessibility in transit stations across America and $65 billion to
expand access to high-speed internet so more disabled Americans can
work, study, and stay connected from home.  In August, the Department of
Justice issued a notice of proposed rulemaking under Title II of the ADA
that aims to improve web and mobile applications access for people with
disabilities and clarify how public entities — primarily State and local
governments — can meet their existing ADA obligations as many of their
activities shift online, further breaking down barriers to employment.

     America is the only country in the world founded on an idea:  that
we are all created equal and deserve to be treated equally throughout
our lives.  This National Disability Employment Awareness Month, we
celebrate all the people with disabilities who have moved our Nation
closer to realizing that ideal and, in the process, have made America
more prosperous, inclusive, and humane.  As we celebrate the progress we
have made, may we continue to open the doors of opportunity even wider
for people with disabilities by advancing access and equity.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2023 as National Disability Employment Awareness Month.  I urge
all Americans to embrace the talents and skills of workers with
disabilities and to promote the right to equal employment opportunity
for all.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
