---
date: '2023-09-08'
modified_time: 2023-09-08 12:20:42-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-08 12:20:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/08/a-proclamation-on-world-suicide-prevention-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Suicide Prevention Day,\_2023"
---
 
   On World Suicide Prevention Day, we hold all those affected by
suicide close in our hearts — the Americans we have lost to this public
health problem, the loved ones who mourn their heart-wrenching losses,
and all the families and professionals working to support those in
crisis.  Though we recognize there is no single cause or single solution
to suicide, we know that access to support and treatment can save lives.
 My Administration remains committed to expanding suicide prevention
programs to reach every community in our Nation and ensuring all
Americans can receive the care and support they deserve.

     My Administration is working to tackle the mental health crisis,
including by addressing the many risk factors associated with suicide —
it is a core pillar of my Unity Agenda and one of the big challenges we
as a society can overcome together.  We have laid out a strategy to
transform how mental health is understood, accessed, treated, and
integrated in and out of health care settings.  Our goals are to
strengthen the mental health system’s capacity, connect more Americans
to care, and create healthy environments that strengthen mental health. 

     In 2021, more than 48,000 Americans were lost to suicide, over 12.3
million adults seriously considered suicide, and 1.7 million people
attempted suicide.  Suicide is the second leading cause of death among
youth and young adults between the ages of 10 and 24 years old.  And the
suicide rate for veterans was more than 50 percent greater than for
non-veteran adults.  Yet despite the fact that so many Americans
struggle with their mental health, treatment is often too expensive or
inaccessible.

     In 2021, less than half of all adults with mental illness received
care for it.  For children, the numbers are even worse.  Nearly 70
percent of our kids who seek care for mental health or substance use
cannot get it.  Parents, teachers, school nurses, and counselors are
telling us there is a serious youth mental health crisis happening right
now in this country.  But insurers still make it far too difficult to
get mental health care.  With too few mental health providers in their
plan’s network, patients with private insurance are often forced to seek
out-of-network care at significantly higher costs, if they can find it. 

     Recently, my Administration proposed new steps to meaningfully
expand access to mental health care in America, including requiring
health insurance plans to identify gaps in the mental health care that
they provide and to fix them.  Under this plan, insurers would have to
measure how often they require prior authorization for mental health
care treatment and how often they deny those requests. 

     I have heard the despair from families everywhere, watching their
spouse’s, child’s, or loved one’s light dim, knowing they need help but
lacking the means to get it.  This sense of helplessness strips families
of their confidence and dignity.  Health insurers should cover mental
health crises the same way they would cover treatment for a broken bone
or any other physical health condition.  Since I took office,
my Administration has been fighting to make that a reality.

     Our American Rescue Plan delivered nearly $5 billion to expand
Federal and State mental health and substance use services.  Last year,
when we passed the Nation’s first major gun safety law in nearly three
decades, we added measures to further expand the number of school
psychologists and counselors available to our kids, make it easier for
schools to use Medicaid to deliver mental health services, and increase
the number of Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics that deliver
24/7 care. 

     We have also launched 988, the National Suicide and Crisis
Lifeline, which connects those experiencing a mental health crisis to a
trained crisis counselor right away.  And we established the National
Maternal Mental Health Hotline to help mothers navigate mental health
issues that can be reached by dialing 1-833-TLC-MAMA (1-833-852-6262).
 And to those experiencing emotional distress or thoughts of suicide: 
Please know that you are loved and that there is hope.  I encourage you
to call or text 988 for free, confidential support. 

     We are also investing in mental health care and suicide prevention
efforts for service members and veterans to better honor our sacred
obligation to the troops we send into harm’s way by caring for them and
their families when they return.  We are hiring more mental health
professionals and investing in programs that recruit veterans to help
others get the support they need.  We are working to expand rental
assistance and job placement programs for our veterans to help reduce
financial strain.  And to help our first responders heal from any trauma
they faced on the job, I have also signed laws that extend counseling,
benefits, and other mental health resources.

     As the world joins together to honor the memories of those we lost
to suicide and their loved ones, may we recommit to ensuring that help
and support are accessible and affordable to every American. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 10, 2023, as World Suicide Prevention Day.  I call upon all
Americans, communities, organizations, and levels of government to join
me in creating hope through action and committing to preventing suicide
across America.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

    JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
