---
date: '2023-09-05'
published_time: 2023-09-05 16:23:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/05/nominations-sent-to-the-senate-118/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Nominations Sent to the\_Senate"
---
 
Leslie N. Bluhm, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Directors
of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term
expiring October 6, 2028.  (Reappointment)

     William Brodsky, of Illinois, to be a Director of the Securities
Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2026.
(Reappointment)

     Janice Miriam Hellreich, of Hawaii, to be a Member of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring
January 31, 2030.  (Reappointment)

     Paul Herdman, of Delaware, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees
of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education
Foundation for a term expiring August 11, 2026, vice Gwendolyn E. Boyd,
term expired.

     French Hill, of Arkansas, to be a Representative of the United
States of America to the Seventy-eighth Session of the General Assembly
of the United Nations.

     David Huitema, of Maryland, to be Director of the Office of
Government Ethics for a term of five years, vice Emory A. Rounds III,
term expired.

     Janet Keller, of California, to be a Representative of the United
States of America to the Seventy-eighth Session of the General Assembly
of the United Nations.

     Barbara Lee, of California, to be a Representative of the United
States of America to the Seventy-eighth Session of the General Assembly
of the United Nations.

     Courtney Diesel O’Donnell, of California, to be United States
Permanent Representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific,
and Cultural Organization, with the rank of Ambassador.

     Calvin Smyre, of Georgia, to be a Representative of the United
States of America to the Seventy-eighth Session of the General Assembly
of the United Nations.

     Alvin Harlyn Warren, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a
term expiring October 6, 2028.  (Reappointment)

     Erik John Woodhouse, of Virginia, to be Head of the Office of
Sanctions Coordination, with the rank of Ambassador.

     Jeffrey Worthe, of California, to be a Representative of the United
States of America to the Seventy-eighth Session of the General Assembly
of the United Nations.

\# \# \#
