---
date: '2023-09-15'
published_time: 2023-09-15 12:52:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/15/a-proclamation-on-national-farm-safety-and-health-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Farm Safety and Health Week,\_2023"
---
 
     America’s farmers, farmworkers, and ranchers are the backbone of
our Nation.  They feed our families, power much of our economy, and help
America lead the world.  We owe them the dignity and certainty of
knowing they are safe on the job.  During National Farm Safety and
Health Week, we renew our Nation’s commitment to protecting the
well-being of everyone who works in agriculture.

     The prosperity that American farms provide our Nation can come with
great personal risk.  Agriculture has long been one of our most
dangerous industries, with nearly six times as many fatalities as other
industries, often due to tractor rollovers and road accidents while
moving equipment from farm to field.  Heavy labor, unsafe pesticides,
extreme heat and weather, volatile markets, and other uncertainties can
cause stress and injury.  At the same time, nearly 200 rural hospitals
have closed since 2005, making it harder to find emergency treatment and
health care in agricultural areas.

     When I ran for office, I promised to be the most pro-worker
President in history and to get rural communities the resources they
need to keep everyone healthy and safe.  My Administration has fought to
keep workers safe on the job — including issuing the first-ever Heat
Hazard Alert, ramping up enforcement of heat-safety violations,
increasing inspections in high-risk industries like agriculture, and
working toward a national standard for workplace heat-safety rules.  The
Department of Agriculture is investing $500 million in American Rescue
Plan funds in rural health care services so more Americans can get
needed care closer to home.  The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is
investing $65 billion in broadband, boosting access to remote telehealth
services.  The Inflation Reduction Act is slashing health care coverage
premiums and prescription drug prices for seniors.  At the same time, we
have proposed new rules to require health insurers to cover mental
health care the way they would anything else, moving toward real mental
health parity.  We have opened 140 new Certified Community Behavioral
Health Clinics and launched the nationwide Suicide and Crisis
Lifeline (9-8-8) connecting those in crisis to trained counselors by
phone, text, or chat.

     Meanwhile, my Administration is also focused on growing the rural
economy more broadly.  We are getting States the funds they need to
expand access to small and midsized meat and poultry processing so
producers have a better shot at fair prices.  We are harnessing the
bioeconomy and creating new revenue streams for farmers by supporting
new and innovative products, like plant-based packing materials and
sustainable aviation fuels.  Throughout, we are making sure small and
midsized farmers and ranchers have a chance to succeed right where they
are from so the wealth they generate stays in their communities and
their children can keep farming, building a stronger rural economy
long-term.

     America’s farms, farmworkers, and ranchers represent the best of
our Nation.  Working together, we can make sure they have all they need
to live healthy and safe lives.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 17 through September 23, 2023, as National Farm Safety and
Health Week.  I call upon the people of the United States — including
America’s farmers; ranchers; and agriculture-related institutions,
organizations, and businesses — to reaffirm a dedication to farm safety
and health.  I also urge all Americans to express appreciation
and gratitude to our farmers, farmworkers, and ranchers for their
tireless service to our Nation.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
