---
date: '2023-09-29'
published_time: 2023-09-29 17:59:47-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/29/memorandum-on-presidential-determination-with-respect-to-the-efforts-of-foreign-governments-regarding-trafficking-in-persons-2/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Presidential Determination with Respect to the Efforts of Foreign\
  \ Governments Regarding Trafficking in\_Persons"
---
 
Presidential Determination  
No.        2023-14        

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE  
  
SUBJECT:       Presidential Determination with Respect to the  
               Efforts of Foreign Governments Regarding  
               Trafficking in Persons  
  
  
Consistent with section 110 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of
2000 (22 U.S.C. 7107) (the “Act”), as amended, I hereby determine as
follows:  
  
As provided for in section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act, that the United
States will not provide nonhumanitarian, nontrade-related assistance to
the Governments of Afghanistan, Burma, Chad, Equatorial Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Iran, the People’s Republic of China (PRC), and South
Sudan for Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 until such governments comply with the
Act’s minimum standards or make significant efforts to bring themselves
into compliance with the minimum standards;  
  
As provided for in section 110(d)(1)(A)(ii) of the Act, that the United
States will not provide nonhumanitarian, nontrade-related assistance to,
or allow funding for participation in educational and cultural exchange
programs by officials or employees of, the Governments of Belarus, Cuba,
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), Eritrea, Macau
(Special Administrative Region of the PRC), Nicaragua, Russia, and Syria
for FY 2024 until such governments comply with the Act’s minimum
standards or make significant efforts to bring themselves into
compliance with the minimum standards;  
  
As provided for in section 110(d)(1)(B) of the Act, I hereby instruct
the United States Executive Director of each multilateral development
bank, as defined in the Act, and of the International Monetary Fund to
vote against and use best efforts to deny any loan or other utilization
of the funds of the respective institution (other than for humanitarian
assistance; for trade-related assistance; or for development assistance
that directly addresses basic human needs, is not administered by the
government of such country, and confers no benefit to that government)
for the Governments of Belarus, Burma, Cuba, the DPRK, Eritrea, Iran,
Macau (Special Administrative Region of the PRC), Nicaragua, the PRC,
Russia, South Sudan, and Syria for FY 2024 until such governments comply
with the Act’s minimum standards or make significant efforts to bring
themselves into compliance with the minimum standards;  
  
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, I determine that the
provision of all programs, projects, activities, and funding for
educational and cultural exchange programs described in sections
110(d)(1)(A) and 110(d)(1)(B) of the Act to Algeria, Cambodia, Djibouti,
Papua New Guinea, Turkmenistan, and Venezuela would promote the purposes
of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest of the United
States;  
  
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, I determine that providing
the assistance described in section 110(d)(1)(B) of the Act to
Afghanistan, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, and Guinea-Bissau would promote
the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest of the
United States;  
  
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, I determine that a partial
waiver with respect to Belarus, Eritrea, Macau (Special Administrative
Region of the PRC), and Russia to allow funding for educational and
cultural exchange programs described in section 110(d)(1)(A)(ii) of the
Act would promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the
national interest of the United States;  
  
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to
Afghanistan, I determine that a partial waiver of the restriction
described in section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for Economic
Support Fund (ESF) and Global Health Programs (GHP) assistance would
promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest
of the United States;  
  
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to Chad, I
determine that a partial waiver of the restriction described in section
110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for Development Assistance (DA),
ESF, and GHP assistance would promote the purposes of the Act or is
otherwise in the national interest of the United States;  
  
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to Equatorial
Guinea, I determine that a partial waiver of the restriction described
in section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for International
Military Education and Training (IMET), Peacekeeping Operations (PKO),
DA, ESF, and GHP assistance would promote the purposes of the Act or is
otherwise in the national interest of the United States;  
  
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to
Guinea-Bissau, I determine that a partial waiver of the restriction
described in section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for IMET, PKO,
DA, ESF, and GHP assistance would promote the purposes of the Act or is
otherwise in the national interest of the United States; and  
  
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to South
Sudan, I determine that a partial waiver of the restriction described in
section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for GHP assistance would
promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest
of the United States.  
  
In addition, with respect to the Governments of Curacao and Sint
Maarten, consistent with the United States Government’s firm stand
against human trafficking, and until such governments take steps
consistent with compliance with the minimum standards of the Act or make
significant efforts to do so, I hereby:  (i) direct that executive
departments and agencies shall not provide nonhumanitarian,
nontrade-related foreign assistance, as described in section
110(d)(1)(A) of the Act, to the Governments of Curacao and Sint Maarten;
(ii) instruct the United States Executive Director of each multilateral
development bank, as defined in the Act, and of the International
Monetary Fund to vote against and use best efforts to deny any loan or
other utilization of the funds of the respective institution (other than
for humanitarian assistance, for trade-related assistance, or for
development assistance that directly addresses basic human needs, is not
administered by such government, and confers no benefit to that
government) to Curacao and Sint Maarten, as described in section
110(d)(1)(B) of the Act; and (iii) direct that funding for participation
by officials or employees of the Governments of Curacao and Sint Maarten
in educational and cultural exchange programs shall continue to be
permitted in FY 2024, consistent with the foreign policy and all
applicable laws of the United States.  
  
You are authorized and directed to submit this determination, the
certification required by section 110(e) of the Act, and the Memorandum
of Justification, on which I have relied, to the Congress, and to
publish this determination in the *Federal Register*.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
