---
date: '2023-09-27'
modified_time: 2023-09-27 11:37:35-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-27 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/27/memorandum-on-restoring-healthy-and-abundant-salmon-steelhead-and-other-native-fish-populations-in-the-columbia-river-basin/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Restoring Healthy and Abundant Salmon, Steelhead, and Other\
  \ Native Fish Populations in the Columbia River\_Basin"
---
 
The Columbia River and its tributaries, wetlands, and estuaries are the
lifeblood of the Pacific Northwest, providing abundant water, power,
recreation, agriculture, transportation, and natural resources that have
supported livelihoods, cultural and spiritual practices, commerce, and
economic growth.  The salmon, steelhead, and other native fish
populations in the Columbia River Basin (Basin) are essential to the
culture, economy, and way of life of Tribal Nations in the region and
Indigenous peoples in Canada, and also provide an important food source
for endangered orca, which are sacred to many Tribal Nations in the
region.  In 1855, the United States and four of the Tribal Nations of
the Basin entered into treaties specifying that these Tribal Nations
reserved the right to harvest fish on their reservations and at all
usual and accustomed places.  At that time, an estimated 7.5 to 16
million adult salmon and steelhead returned to the Basin each year.   
  
Actions since 1855, including the Federal Government’s construction and
operation of dams in the Basin, have severely depleted fish populations.
 Thirteen salmon and steelhead populations are listed as threatened or
endangered, other populations of those fish have been extirpated, and
other native fish populations have also declined, causing substantial
harm to Tribal Nations and other communities reliant on salmon and
steelhead.  Despite decades of hard work, ingenuity, expense, and
commitment across Federal, Tribal, State, and local governments and a
wide range of stakeholders, the populations of salmon, steelhead, and
other native fish populations in the Basin continue to decline or have
not recovered to the level that would warrant removing any population
from the list of threatened and endangered species.   
  
It is time for a sustained national effort to restore healthy and
abundant native fish populations in the Basin.  For these reasons, and
by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
Section1.  Policy.  It is a priority of my Administration to honor
Federal trust and treaty responsibilities to Tribal Nations — including
to those Tribal Nations harmed by the construction and operation of
Federal dams that are part of the Columbia River System (CRS) — and to
carry out the requirement of the Pacific Northwest Electric Power
Planning and Conservation Act (Public Law 96-501) to operate, manage,
and regulate the CRS to adequately protect, mitigate, and enhance fish
and wildlife affected by the Federal dams in the Basin in a manner that
provides equitable treatment for fish and wildlife with the other
purposes for which the Federal dams are managed and operated.  
  
In recognition of these priorities, it is the policy of my
Administration to work with the Congress and with Tribal Nations,
States, local governments, and stakeholders to pursue effective,
creative, and durable solutions, informed by Indigenous Knowledge, to
restore healthy and abundant salmon, steelhead, and other native fish
populations in the Basin; to secure a clean and resilient energy future
for the region; to support local agriculture and its role in food
security domestically and globally; and to invest in the communities
that depend on the services provided by the Basin’s Federal dams to
enhance resilience to changes to the operation of the CRS, including
those necessary to address changing hydrological conditions due to
climate change.  
  
Sec. 2.  Federal Implementation.  (a)  All executive departments and
agencies (agencies) with applicable authorities and responsibilities,
including the Department of the Interior, including the Bureau of Indian
Affairs, the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of Reclamation, the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and the United States
Geological Survey; the Department of Agriculture, including the United
States Forest Service and the Natural Resources Conservation Service;
the Department of Commerce, including the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration; the Department of Energy, including the
Bonneville Power Administration; the Department of the Army, including
the United States Army Corps of Engineers; and the Environmental
Protection Agency, are directed to utilize their authorities and
available resources to advance the policy established in section 1 of
this memorandum.  
  
(b)  Within 120 days of the date of this memorandum, all agencies with
applicable authorities and responsibilities, including those agencies
identified in subsection (a) of this section, shall review their
programs affecting salmon, steelhead, and other native fish populations
in the Basin, including any program with authority or responsibility
with respect to the CRS, for consistency with the policy established in
section 1 of this memorandum.  As soon as practicable following such
review, agencies shall, consistent with applicable law, identify and
initiate any steps necessary to advance that policy.  
  
(c)  Within 220 days of the date of this memorandum, all agencies with
applicable authorities and responsibilities, including those agencies
identified in subsection (a) of this section, shall provide the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget (Director) an assessment of the
agency’s programs that can advance the policy established in section 1
of this memorandum and the resources such programs need for this
purpose.  Based on the assessment, each agency shall prioritize these
activities to the extent feasible in their program and budget
planning.  
  
Sec. 3.  Intergovernmental Partnership.  The Chair of the Council on
Environmental Quality (Chair) and the Director shall explore
opportunities and mechanisms to develop an intergovernmental
partnership, including through a memorandum of understanding, to advance
the policy established in section 1 of this memorandum within the United
States; the States of Oregon, Washington, Montana, and Idaho; the Tribal
Nations of the Basin, including the Columbia Basin Treaty Tribes (the
Nez Perce Tribe, the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Indian
Nation, the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation of
Oregon, and the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation);
the Upper Columbia United Tribes (the Confederated Tribes of the
Colville Reservation, the Coeur d’Alene Tribe of Indians, the Spokane
Tribe of Indians, the Kalispel Tribe of Indians, and the Kootenai Tribe
of Idaho); the Upper Snake River Tribes (the Burns Paiute Tribe, the
Fort McDermitt Paiute‑Shoshone Tribe, the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes of the
Fort Hall Reservation, and the Shoshone-Paiute Tribes of the Duck Valley
Reservation); and other Tribal Nations, as appropriate.  Within 120 days
of the date of this memorandum, the Chair and the Director shall submit
a report to the President with an update on progress in developing this
intergovernmental partnership.  
  
Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect the ability of heads of agencies
to meet the requirements of sections 2 and 3 of this memorandum before
the deadlines in those sections or to produce additional materials not
specifically requested in this memorandum.  
  
(b)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:  
  
(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or  
  
(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  
  
(c)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
(d)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
(e)  Independent agencies are strongly encouraged to comply with the
provisions of this memorandum.   
  
Sec. 5.  Publication.  The Chair is hereby authorized and directed to
publish this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
