---
date: '2023-09-08'
modified_time: 2023-09-08 12:28:49-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-08 12:28:48-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/08/a-proclamation-on-national-grandparents-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Grandparents Day,\_2023"
---
 
On National Grandparents Day, we give thanks to grandparents, who are
the heart and soul of so many families.  
   
     Offering wisdom, sharing their own stories of courage and
resilience, or leading us forward by the power of their example,
grandparents define who we are and shape who we become.  The First Lady
and I were blessed with loving grandparents, and our grandchildren are
the love of our lives and the life of our love.

     For many families, grandparents are the glue holding everyone
together.  They drive their grandchildren to school and babysit when
parents are busy.  Sometimes, they become primary caregivers, giving
children a stable home and loving role model.  Grandparents give advice
to young parents, pass on timeless family stories to younger
generations, and open their hearts and homes for the people they love.
 I will never forget when my own grandpop took my family in when my
father lost his job.  My grandpop was a true example of what makes
grandparents so special.  

     My Administration is working to respect the dignity of our
grandparents and seniors.  Through our Inflation Reduction Act, Medicare
now has the authority to negotiate for lower prescription drug prices.
 Seniors on Medicare who used to pay as much as $400 a month for insulin
are now paying $35 a month.  In 2025, we are capping out-of-pocket
spending on prescription drugs at the pharmacy at $2,000 annually for
those on Medicare, making it easier to afford medication.  My proposed
budget will extend the Medicare trust fund for at least 25 years,
preserving essential programs that Americans have counted on for
generations.  And as I have promised, I will continue fighting to
protect Social Security and Medicare and will not agree to any cuts to
either program.

     On this occasion, my Administration reaffirms our commitment to
looking after our Nation’s grandparents, especially those who care for
children.  Last year, the Department of Health and Human Services
released the first National Strategy to Support Family Caregivers.  This
plan outlines nearly 350 actions the Federal Government can take to
support the health, well-being, and financial security of family
caregivers, including the 2.7 million grandparents who serve as
caregivers for children each year.  Additionally, I signed an Executive
Order directing Federal agencies to increase support of family
caregivers and provide more care options for people with disabilities
and their families. The American Rescue Plan provided $145 million to
deliver counseling, training, and short-term relief to grandparents and
other care providers.  And for grandparents looking to share their love,
the AmeriCorps Seniors Foster Grandparent program provides seniors with
the opportunity to mentor young people in their communities.

     Whether your grandparents called this country home from the moment
they were born or came from distant shores, they have worked hard to
give their children and their grandchildren a more prosperous future.
 In our hearts, we carry the lessons our grandparents instilled in us.
 And in ways big and small, we strive to build a future worthy of their
highest hopes.  On National Grandparents Day, we give thanks to our
grandparents for their unconditional love and unmatched inspiration.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 10, 2023, as National Grandparents Day.  I call upon all
Americans to celebrate the important role that grandparents play in the
lives of their families and the children and grandchildren they love.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

     JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
