---
date: '2023-09-07'
modified_time: 2023-09-07 11:34:15-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-07 11:34:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/07/a-proclamation-on-national-days-of-prayer-and-remembrance-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Days of Prayer and Remembrance,\_2023"
---
 
Twenty-two years ago — on September 11, 2001 — 2,977 precious lives were
stolen from us in attacks of deliberate evil on our Nation.  On the
National Days of Prayer and Remembrance, we come together to renew our
sacred vow:  Never forget.  Never forget the parents, children, spouses,
friends, and loved ones we lost that day.  Never forget the heroes who
stepped up to rescue their fellow Americans and help our communities
rebuild in the hours — and years — thereafter.  And never forget our
obligation to honor their memories and service by building a safer and
more secure future for all.

     To all the families of the victims who have had to endure the
absence of a loved one over the last two decades, I know that 22 years
is both a lifetime and no time at all.  The very memories that help us
heal can also open up the hurt and take us back to the moment the grief
was raw — to the moment when a loved one and their dreams were stolen
from us in an instant.  Today, when that grief feels especially great,
the First Lady and I hold you close to our hearts.

     We also join all those who are mourning the loss of patriots who
stepped up when their country needed them most.  My mom believed the
greatest virtue of all was courage and that someday the bravery that
exists in every heart will be summoned.  For many, that day was
September 11, 2001.  Patriotic citizens and first responders ran into
the searing flames and crumbling buildings to save their fellow
Americans.  And in the years that followed, thousands more served and
sacrificed to prevent another attack on the United States.

     These brave heroes remind us that — through all that has changed
over these last two decades — the enduring resolve of the American
people has never wavered.  What was destroyed in the attacks, we have
repaired.  What was threatened, we have fortified.  We have never ceased
in our mission to defend ourselves against those who seek to do us harm
and to deliver justice to those responsible for attacks against our
people.  And during our darkest hour, we regained our light by finding
something all too rare — unity.

     Today, the charge left for all of us is to find renewal and resolve
in remembrance.  For it is not enough to only reflect on the souls we
lost on September 11th; we must also continue to build a Nation worthy
of their highest aspirations — one that remembers, for all our flaws and
disagreements, there is nothing we cannot accomplish when we stand
together and defend with all our hearts that which makes us unique in
the world:  our democracy.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 8, 2023, through September 10, 2023, as National Days of
Prayer and Remembrance.  I ask that the people of the United States
honor the victims of September 11, 2001, and their loved ones with
prayer, contemplation, memorial services and visits, bells, candlelight
vigils, and other activities.  I invite people around the world to
join.  I call on the citizens of our Nation to give thanks for our many
freedoms and blessings, and I invite all people of faith to join me in
asking for God’s continued guidance, mercy, and protection.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
seventh day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
