---
date: '2023-09-29'
modified_time: 2023-09-29 14:55:47-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-29 14:55:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/29/a-proclamation-on-child-health-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Child Health Day,\_2023"
---
 
To build a future worthy of our children’s highest aspirations, we must
ensure they have the resources and support they need to thrive.  This
Child Health Day, we recommit to helping our children live healthy lives
so they can reach their highest potential.

     Our most fundamental obligation to our children is to keep them
safe.  The devastating truth is that firearms are the leading cause of
death for children in America.  That is unacceptable.  Kids and parents
should not live in fear of everyday places turning into warzones.  That
is why I signed the most significant gun safety law in nearly 30 years
to keep guns out of dangerous hands.  I have also taken more meaningful
executive action than any President in history to keep communities
safe.  And I recently established the first-ever White House Office of
Gun Violence Prevention to build upon these measures.

     My Administration has invested billions of dollars to improve
mental health services for young people, including hiring and training
more school mental health counselors so young people can get the care
they need.  I have heard from parents, teachers, nurses, and kids across
the country about the mental health crisis among youth in their
communities.  Tackling the mental health crisis and the many ways it
affects our communities is a part of my Unity Agenda — one of the big
things we can come together as a society to solve.  Our American Rescue
Plan made our Nation’s biggest-ever investment in mental health and
substance use programs — recruiting, training, and supporting more
providers at the State and local levels, including in our schools.  Our
gun safety law also expands the number of Certified Community Behavioral
Health Clinics that deliver 24/7 care.

     My Administration is also taking steps to make it easier for
schools to use Medicaid to deliver mental health care.  And we launched
988, the Nation’s new Suicide and Crisis Lifeline, so anyone in the
midst of a crisis can receive free life-saving, confidential help right
away.  My Administration is working to fulfill our promise of full
mental health parity for all Americans.  This includes a new proposed
rule that would require insurers to identify gaps in the mental health
care they provide and address any differences between the way they cover
mental health care and physical health care, as a way to reach any
American who may need help.  Further, we must do more to make the
Internet a safe place for children.  I have called on the Congress to
limit the personal data that tech companies collect, ban targeted
advertising directed at minors, and require social media platforms to
put health and safety first, especially for kids.  And to protect our
children’s physical health, my Administration has taken steps to remove
thousands of flavored e-cigarettes from the market, which are known to
be particularly addictive to children. 

     No parent or caregiver should have to lie awake at night wondering
how they will find the means to care for a child’s most basic needs —
whether it is paying for a trip to the emergency room or putting a
healthy meal on their table.  Our Inflation Reduction Act is lowering
costs for Americans, saving millions of families $800 a year on health
care premiums.  My Administration also modernized the Thrifty Food Plan
for the first time since 1975, helping millions of families afford a
nutritious, practical, cost-effective diet.  And we are working toward
our goal of expanding free school meals to 9 million more children by
2032 — a first major step toward free healthy school meals for all.

     In 2021, we slashed child poverty rates by nearly half for all
children in this Nation — driven by our expansion of the Child Tax
Credit, which helped millions of families afford basic necessities.  We
reauthorized and reinvested in the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood
Home Visiting Program, which has been shown to improve maternal and
child health and advance child development and readiness to participate
in school.  We know that investments like these can improve children’s
health outcomes throughout their lifetimes, which is why I am continuing
to fight to restore the expanded Child Tax Credit.

     We also recognize that addressing the climate crisis is critical to
protecting our children’s futures.  Parents across the Nation have told
me unforgettable stories of environmental injustice — living near
factories and seeing the paint on their cars peel off because the air
was so corrosive, drinking water contaminated by nitrates and arsenic,
and feeling fear when their children play outside in toxic air and
rain.  The peril these families face opposes everything we stand for as
a Nation ‑- and it is a big reason why my Administration has taken on
the most ambitious climate and environmental justice agenda in American
history.  

     Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, I am working to replace
every single lead pipe in America because everyone should be able to
turn on a faucet at home or at school and drink clean and safe water.
 My Inflation Reduction Act makes the most significant investment in
climate ever, which includes investing in air quality sensors near
factories so nearby communities can know how safe their air is.  And we
made a commitment to conserve 30 percent of all our Nation’s lands and
waters by 2030 so that we can protect our natural wonders for the ages.

     Children are the kite strings that keep our national ambitions
aloft — they are the dreamers and doers that will one day lead our
Nation forward.  It is up to all of us to make sure they grow up happy
and healthy, they are treated with the dignity and respect they deserve,
and their futures are full of endless possibilities.  May we continue to
care for children’s health and, in turn, create a better future for our
Nation.  
  
     The Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 18, 1928, as
amended (36 U.S.C. 105), has called for the designation of the first
Monday in October as Child Health Day and has requested that the
President issue a proclamation in observance of this day.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim Monday, October 2, 2023, as Child
Health Day.  I call upon families, child health professionals,
faith-based and community organizations, and governments to help ensure
that America’s children stay safe and healthy.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
