---
date: '2023-09-15'
modified_time: 2023-09-15 16:04:14-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-15 16:04:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/15/memorandum-on-presidential-determination-on-major-drug-transit-or-major-illicit-drug-producing-countries-for-fiscal-year-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Presidential Determination on Major Drug Transit or Major Illicit\
  \ Drug Producing Countries for Fiscal Year\_2024"
---
 
Presidential Determination  
No.        2023-12        

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE

SUBJECT:      Presidential Determination on Major Drug Transit  
              or Major Illicit Drug Producing Countries for  
              Fiscal Year 2024

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States, including section 706(1) of the Foreign
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-228)
(FRAA), I hereby identify the following countries as major drug transit
or major illicit drug producing countries:  Afghanistan, The Bahamas,
Belize, Bolivia, Burma, the People’s Republic of China (PRC), Colombia,
Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Haiti, Honduras, India, Jamaica, Laos, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan,
Panama, Peru, and Venezuela.  
  
A country’s presence on the foregoing list is not necessarily a
reflection of its government’s counterdrug efforts or level of
cooperation with the United States.  Consistent with the statutory
definition of a major drug transit or major illicit drug producing
country set forth in sections 481(e)(2) and 481(e)(5) of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (Public Law 87-195) (FAA), the reason
countries are placed on the list is the combination of geographic,
commercial, and economic factors that allow drugs to be transited or
produced, even if a government has engaged in robust and diligent
narcotics control and law enforcement measures.  
  
The James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2023 (Public Law 117-263) amended the definition of major drug source
countries to include source countries of precursor chemicals used to
produce illicit drugs significantly affecting the United States.  For
countries with large chemical and pharmaceutical industries, preventing
precursor chemicals from being diverted to the production of illicit
drugs is a particularly difficult challenge, including for the
United States and other countries with strict regulatory regimes to
prevent diversion.  The PRC has been identified as a major source
country due to this change in legislation, and the United States
strongly urges the PRC and other chemical source countries to tighten
chemical supply chains and prevent diversion.  
  
Pursuant to section 706(2)(A) of the FRAA, I hereby designate Bolivia,
Burma, and Venezuela as having failed demonstrably during the previous
12 months to both adhere to their obligations under the international
counternarcotics agreements and to take the measures required by section
489(a)(1) of the FAA.  Included with this determination are
justifications for the designations of Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela, as
required by section 706(2)(B) of the FRAA.  I have also determined, in
accordance with provisions of section 706(3)(A) of the FRAA, that United
States programs that support Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela are vital to
the national interests of the United States.  
  
Although the rate of drug overdose deaths in the United States is
flattening after years of sharp increases, more than 109,000 lives were
lost to drug overdoses in 2022, according to preliminary data from the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  This remains unacceptably
high, and my Administration is deploying unprecedented resources and
building new partnerships to confront this public health and security
crisis.  Domestically, in the last fiscal year alone, the United States
allocated more than $24 billion to expand evidence-based prevention and
treatment, including harm reduction and recovery support services, with
targeted investments to meet the needs of populations at greatest
risk for overdose and substance use disorder.  Beyond these additional
resources, my Administration expanded access to Naloxone, which can
reverse opioid-related overdoses, and made this life-saving medicine
available over-the-counter.  My Administration has also removed barriers
to treatment, including by working with the Congress on bipartisan
legislation.  My Fiscal Year 2024 Budget calls for an even greater
historic investment of $46.1 billion for National Drug Control Program
agencies, a more than $2 billion increase from what was enacted during
the previous year.  This request also includes significant investments
in reducing the supply of illicit drugs originating from beyond our
borders.  
  
The vast majority of illicit drugs causing the most damage in the United
States originate from beyond our borders, and our most effective means
of reducing the availability of these drugs is to expand and improve our
cooperation with international partners.  Most drug overdose deaths
within the United States involve illicit synthetic drugs and
particularly synthetic opioids such as fentanyl.  These synthetic drugs
can be produced anywhere using precursor chemicals widely available for
legitimate purposes, at a fraction of the cost and time it takes
criminal organizations to produce dangerous drugs from plants.  
  
Every country and region of the globe faces its own challenges from
synthetic drugs.  In Africa, the synthetic opioid tramadol is driving
increasing numbers of injuries and fatalities, especially when mixed
with other drugs.  In the Middle East, synthetic stimulants are
trafficked and sold as counterfeit captagon in large quantities. 
Ketamine — a synthetic anesthetic with hallucinogenic effects — is
increasingly encountered throughout Asia, and it is being found mixed
with methamphetamine, which appears to be growing more prevalent and
more potent all over the world.  And the categories of synthetic drugs
are constantly shifting, as drug traffickers adjust formulas to avoid
international controls and domestic regulations to create new demand. 
More than 1,100 new psychoactive substances and designer drugs have been
detected and reported to the United Nations over the past decade
alone.  
  
To confront this common challenge, the United States launched this past
summer a new Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats.  This
diverse coalition of countries and international organizations will
share best practices and expand cooperation to prevent the illicit
manufacture and trafficking of synthetic drugs, detect emerging drug
threats and use patterns, and promote public health interventions to
prevent and reduce drug use and promote recovery.  The United States
welcomes all like-minded governments to participate in the work of this
coalition and join efforts against these rapidly evolving global
threats.  
  
The political commitment of our international partners remains critical
to achieving success against illicit drug threats, and no country is
more important than Mexico.  Under the Bicentennial Framework for
Security, Public Health, and Safe Communities, our two countries have
cooperated to seize greater volumes of fentanyl and other drugs.  We
have worked successfully during the last year to improve law enforcement
collaboration, prevent the diversion of precursor chemicals, and arrest
key organized crime figures involved in drugs and firearms trafficking,
migrant smuggling, and other criminal activity.  Sadly, some of these
arrests resulted in the loss of lives of Mexican officials, and their
sacrifices underscore the shared commitment from both countries to do
what is necessary to fight these criminal organizations.  To that end
and to build on the increased cooperation of the past year, both
countries should continue strengthening law enforcement information
sharing and collaboration; build capacity to detect and counter drug
production and trafficking and diversion of chemicals and drug-related
equipment; and improve mechanisms to monitor, prevent, and treat drug
substance use disorders.  
  
With our key partners in South America, the United States will continue
to support ongoing efforts to reduce coca cultivation and cocaine
production, expand access to justice, and promote alternative
livelihoods.  Colombia has historically been a strong partner in the
fight against the drug trade.  Nevertheless, illicit coca cultivation
and cocaine production remain at historically high levels, and I urge
the Government of Colombia to prioritize efforts to expand its presence
in coca-producing regions and achieve sustainable progress against
criminal organizations.  In Bolivia, I encourage additional steps by the
government to safeguard the country’s licit coca markets from criminal
exploitation, reduce illicit coca cultivation that continues to exceed
legal limits under Bolivia’s domestic laws for medical and traditional
use, and continue to expand cooperation with international partners to
disrupt transnational criminal networks.  
  
Afghanistan has been removed from the list of countries determined to
have “failed demonstrably” due to progress made within that country over
the past year in reducing the cultivation of opium poppy and production
of illicit narcotics.  However, I remain concerned by the continuation
of the illicit drug trade within and originating from Afghanistan,
including methamphetamine.  The country’s drug control efforts must be
sustained and expanded to include meaningful steps against drug
trafficking and the drug supply chain, including by eliminating illicit
drug stockpiles and curbing methamphetamine production.  I will
reconsider Afghanistan’s status during the next annual review based on
whether these additional steps are taken, in keeping with Afghanistan’s
international drug control commitments and in full respect for the human
rights of its people.  
  
You are authorized and directed to submit this designation, with the
Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela memoranda of justification, under section
706 of the FRAA, to the Congress, and to publish this determination in
the *Federal Register*.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
