---
date: '2023-09-29'
published_time: 2023-09-29 14:04:07-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/29/a-proclamation-on-national-youth-substance-use-prevention-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month, we rededicate
ourselves to building a better future for America’s children.  No one
should have to struggle with substance use alone.  Every young person
deserves to live a full and healthy life and have every opportunity to
reach their highest potential.

     Last year, our Nation lost nearly 111,000 Americans to fatal
overdoses — 1,000 of those lost to overdose were children and
adolescents less than 18 years old.  No family should have to know the
pain of losing a child to the opioid and overdose epidemic.  Losing a
child is like losing a piece of your soul.  We owe it to all those who
are struggling with substance use or who have lost a loved one to
overdose to finally put an end to this crisis.

     That is why beating the opioid epidemic is a key pillar of my Unity
Agenda.  It is one of the most pressing issues facing our Nation that we
must all tackle together.  My Administration has invested over $169
billion in total for drug control policies and programs, including
programs to expand evidence-based prevention programs for our youth.  In
schools, we are working to hire and train more mental health counselors,
social workers, and other health professionals supporting students.  We
are providing educators and school-based medical professionals with
resources to prevent substance use and fatal overdoses.  And we are
making it easier for schools to bill Medicaid to deliver health
services, including mental health and substance use care. 

     Beyond the classroom, my Administration is supporting Drug-Free
Communities coalitions in all 50 States so that local communities can
acquire the tools and resources they need to prevent youth substance
use.  But prevention also means increasing awareness about the dangers
of illicit fentanyl, which fuels the vast majority of overdoses in
youth.  So, my Administration launched a social media campaign to
educate youth on the dangers of this deadly drug and the lifesaving
effects of opioid-reversal medications like Naloxone.  

     To support Americans of all ages who need access to substance use
disorder treatment, my Administration has announced new actions that
would improve and strengthen coverage for mental health and substance
use and ensure that more than 150 million Americans with private health
insurance can better access substance use treatment under their
insurance plan.  My Administration proposed a rule this summer that
reinforces the fundamental goal of the 2008 Mental Health Parity and
Addiction Equity Act, ensuring families have the same access to mental
health and substance use benefits as they do to physical health
benefits.  The rule proposes making it easier to get in-network mental
health care and eliminating administrative barriers to access that keep
people from getting the care they need, when they need it.

     Over the past 2 years, we have seen immense progress, but there is
still work to do.  That means we are investing in what works —
prevention, treatment, and recovery support.  My Fiscal Year 2024 budget
called for $3.5 billion for prevention programming for youth — an
increase of more than $800 million from last year — so we can keep
America’s children safe from the harms of substance use and fentanyl
poisoning. 

     Today’s young people represent the most gifted, talented, and
tolerant generation in American history.  It is our national
responsibility to protect them.  During National Youth Substance Use
Prevention Month, we recommit to providing families, educators, and
communities with access to lifesaving resources.  Together, we will
ensure that young people have the tools they need to thrive.  Our
children deserve nothing less.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2023 as National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month.  Let us
all take action to implement practice- and evidence-based prevention
strategies and improve the health of our Nation.  
  
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
