---
date: '2023-09-14'
published_time: 2023-09-14 12:13:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/14/a-proclamation-on-national-pow-mia-recognition-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National POW/MIA Recognition Day,\_2023"
---
 
Unbreaking and unbending in their devotion to duty, our service members
have sacrificed everything to keep our people and our democracy safe. 
While more than 81,000 of these brave service members still remain
missing and unaccounted for, they are not — and will never be —
forgotten.  On National POW/MIA Recognition Day, we honor the devotion
and courage of all those missing and unaccounted for, renew our
commitments to their families, and promise to never cease in our efforts
to bring them home.

     Above the White House and the United States Capitol — and at
military bases, memorials, cemeteries, and homes across America — we fly
the POW/MIA flag, and we remember what it represents:  the thousands of
spouses, parents, sons, daughters, and loved ones who served and
sacrificed for our freedom and future; loved ones who mourn with
unanswered questions still in their hearts; and the debt of gratitude we
owe them that we can never fully repay.  We cannot and must not forget
our obligation to our unreturned heroes — no matter how long it takes.

     Earlier this year, I had the honor of announcing that after over
seven decades of being unaccounted for, United States Army Corporal
Luther H. Story — a Medal of Honor recipient who gave his life fighting
in the Korean War — was no longer missing.  His remains were identified,
returned to his family, and laid to rest near his Georgia hometown with
the highest honor he deserves.  His story is just one powerful reminder
that, just as our service members have kept ultimate faith to our
country, we must do everything we can to keep faith for them. 

      On this day, may we recommit to our search efforts for all those
missing and unaccounted for, as well as our support for their families.
 May we honor the remarkable bravery, sacrifice, and commitment to
service of former prisoners of war.  And may we continue to keep the
flame of liberty burning bright and continue working toward a more
perfect Union for which our service members sacrifice so much.

      NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September
15, 2023, as National POW/MIA Recognition Day.  Let all who read this
know that America remains grateful to our heroes held in the worst
imaginable conditions as prisoners of war.  Additionally, I encourage my
fellow citizens across the Nation to reflect on today and let us not
forget those heroes who never returned home from the battlefields around
the world or their families who are still waiting for answers.  I call
upon Federal, State, and local government officials and private
organizations to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
fourteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

     JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
