---
date: '2023-09-29'
modified_time: 2023-09-29 14:31:25-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-29 14:31:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/29/a-proclamation-on-national-domestic-violence-awareness-and-prevention-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention Month,\_\
  2023"
---
 
     Domestic violence touches every community in this Nation.
 Americans of every race, religion, and background are affected; its
consequences transcend generations, impacting children and reshaping
whole families.  During National Domestic Violence Awareness and
Prevention Month, we stand with the tens of millions of people who have
experienced intimate partner violence, and we thank the first
responders, service providers, and community members who work to make
sure that every American can live in safety, with dignity and respect.

     I was always taught there is no worse sin than the abuse of power,
especially when that abuse is directed toward a partner.  But just
decades ago, much of our Nation wanted to keep the issue of domestic
violence in the shadows.  Survivors sat in shame, and society often
looked away from what people too often dismissed as a “family affair.” 

     I have spent more than 30 years of my life working to change that —
to end gender-based violence in the United States and around the world. 
I wrote the original Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) in 1990, which
made strides toward shifting the legal and social burdens away from
survivors, holding offenders accountable, and addressing gendered
violence as a shared priority with a determined and coordinated
response.  That law introduced our Nation to countless brave survivors,
whose stories changed the way America saw this issue.  It created the
National Domestic Violence Hotline to provide confidential support
nationwide.  It supported shelters, rape crisis centers, housing, and
legal assistance, creating life-saving options for survivors and their
children.  And it helped to train police, advocates, prosecutors, and
judges to make our justice system more responsive to survivors.  It
saved lives and helped survivors rebuild.

     Since then, every time we have reauthorized VAWA, we have improved
it — broadening its scope to include stalking and sexual assault in
2000, expanding access to services for immigrants and communities of
color in 2005, and recognizing criminal jurisdiction of Tribal courts
over non-Indian perpetrators and protections for LGBTQI+ individuals in
2013.  And last year, we reauthorized VAWA again and strengthened access
to services for survivors from underserved and marginalized communities,
expanded special Tribal criminal jurisdiction with support for Native
communities, and recognized the need to combat cybercrimes and address
online harassment and abuse.  We brought the Federal Government’s
investment in life-saving gender-based violence programs to $700 million
this year alone — the highest funding level in history — and to
$1 billion in next year’s budget.  

     Last year, I also signed the most significant gun safety law we
have had in nearly 30 years, which keeps firearms out of the hands of
convicted domestic abusers.  Another law I signed ensures we continue to
sustain the Crime Victims Fund to help domestic violence survivors cover
abuse-related costs like medical bills, lost wages, and temporary
housing.  And further, I signed a law empowering survivors of workplace
sexual assault and sexual harassment to take their cases to court.  We
fundamentally transformed how the military prosecutes sexual assault and
domestic violence within its ranks, shifting to specialized prosecutors
independent from commanders.  We have established a civil cause of
action for anyone who has had their intimate photos shared without their
consent, and we are working to prevent the spread of deepfake
non-consensual images too.  And last May, we released the first-ever
National Plan to End Gender-Based Violence, laying out a Government-wide
plan to prevent and address sexual violence, intimate partner violence,
stalking, and other forms of gender-based violence.

     Despite all this progress, we have more to do.  Four in 10 American
women and nearly 3 in 10 American men are still impacted by sexual
abuse, physical violence, or stalking by an intimate partner at some
point in their lifetimes.  If you or someone you know needs help today,
immediate and confidential support is available 24/7 through the
National Domestic Violence Hotline by visiting thehotline.org, call
1-800-799-7233 (TTY 1-800-787-3224), or text “START” to 88788. 

     Every survivor should know that they are not alone and they deserve
better.  Together, we will keep spreading awareness, changing culture,
supporting survivors, and moving toward a world free of gender-based
violence.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2023 as National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention
Month.  I call upon each of us to change the social norms that permit
domestic violence, provide meaningful support to survivors, and express
gratitude to those working diligently on prevention and response
efforts.  Together, we can transform the country and build a Nation
where all people live free from violence. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
