---
date: '2023-09-22'
published_time: 2023-09-22 17:03:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/22/a-proclamation-on-asian-american-and-native-american-pacific-islander-serving-institutions-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving\
  \ Institutions Week,\_2023"
---
 
     During National Asian American and Native American Pacific
Islander-Serving Institutions (AANAPISIs) Week, we celebrate all the
possibilities that these institutions unlock for Asian American, Native
Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AA and NHPI) students, particularly
those from low-income, first-generation, and underrepresented
backgrounds.  Every generation of Americans has benefited by opening the
doors of opportunity to include those who have been left behind.  By
putting higher education within reach of AA and NHPI students, our
Nation’s nearly 200 AANAPISIs embody my belief that diversity is our
strength as a Nation.  
  
     For so many, higher education is a ticket to a better life.  But
while talent, creativity, and determination are found in people all
across this country, not everyone has an equal shot at higher
education.  AA and NHPI communities encompass more than 50 ethnicities
with a variety of identities, cultures, histories, and backgrounds —
many come from lower-income backgrounds, or are the first in their
family to graduate college, indigenous, or recent immigrants, or have
faced a legacy of discrimination in our Nation.  That is why the work of
our AANAPISIs is so critical for broadening the opportunity of higher
education to more Americans and realizing the full potential of AA and
NHPI communities.  

     AANAPISIs enroll nearly half of all AA and NHPI undergraduates, and
they confer almost 50 percent of associate degrees and nearly 30 percent
of baccalaureate degrees of all AA and NHPI students.  These vital
institutions empower students to earn degrees and reach their full
potential while providing culturally responsive services and culturally
sustaining programs that include tutoring, advising, career development
and counseling, and more.  With the Supreme Court’s recent decision to
effectively end affirmative action in college admissions, the work to
make higher education accessible to all is as essential as ever.  We
need to keep open the doors of opportunities and ensure that the promise
of America is big enough for everyone to succeed.

     My Administration is committed to strengthening these critical
institutions and supporting our Nation’s AA and NHPI communities. 
Through the American Rescue Plan, we have invested $5 billion in
AANAPISIs.  Further, I re-established the White House Initiative on
Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders, and I released
a National Strategy to Advance Equity, Justice, and Opportunity for AA
and NHPI Communities — addressing everything from combating anti-Asian
hate to making Government services more accessible.

     We are also fighting to make higher education more affordable for
students across the country.  My Administration has increased Pell
Grants for low-income families by the largest amount in over a decade
and fixed the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program so borrowers who
become teachers, police officers, social workers, service members, and
other public servants get the debt relief they are entitled to under the
law.  When the Supreme Court wrongly struck down our most ambitious
student debt relief plan ever, we moved immediately to open an
alternative path to debt relief that could further reduce costs for many
AA and NHPI borrowers.  My Saving on a Valuable Education (SAVE) plan
will cut payments on undergraduate loans in half, bring many low-income
borrowers’ loan payments to $0 per month, and provide early forgiveness
for borrowers with low balances.   

     This generation of students is the most gifted, talented, and
tolerant in American history — and it is up to all of us to give them
the resources and opportunity they need to reach their full potential. 
During Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving
Institutions Week, may we recommit to supporting these institutions as
they raise the next generation of AA and NHPI dreamers and doers.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 25 through October 1, 2023, as Asian American and Native
American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions Week.  I call on public
officials, educators, and all the people of the United States to observe
this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities that
acknowledge the many ways these institutions and their graduates
contribute to our country.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-second day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
