---
date: '2023-09-22'
modified_time: 2023-09-22 17:05:49-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-22 17:05:45-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/22/a-proclamation-on-national-public-lands-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Public Lands Day,\_2023"
---
 
     Our public lands — including our national parks, monuments,
forests, and wildlife preserves — are irreplaceable and home to so many
of the natural wonders that represent the heart and soul of our Nation. 
They unite and inspire us, and from generation to generation, they have
sustained us.  On National Public Lands Day, we welcome every American
to celebrate our Nation’s lands and waters in all their splendor.

     As we honor the power and promise of our Nation’s natural majesty,
we also recommit to conserving our lands and waters for generations to
come.  When we conserve our public lands, we are doing more than
protecting their beauty.  We protect the places where history was made. 
We safeguard the air we breathe and the water we drink.  We defend the
livelihoods of people who depend on these lands and waters as a way of
life, like our ranchers, outfitters, guides, and rural and Indigenous
communities.  We honor the sacred lands that Tribal Nations have
stewarded since time immemorial.  We make our Nation more resilient to
the impacts of climate change.

     That is why my Administration has developed the most ambitious land
and water conservation agenda in American history.  During my first week
in office, I issued an Executive Order establishing the country’s
first-ever National Conservation Goal to protect at least 30 percent of
our lands and waters by 2030.  That means supporting locally led,
voluntary conservation and restoration efforts across the country — the
very cornerstone of my “America the Beautiful” initiative.  I also
signed an Executive Order to protect America’s forests, harness the
power of nature in the fight against climate change, and initiate the
first National Nature Assessment to evaluate the state of our lands,
waters, and wildlife.

     Together, we have made strong progress toward those goals.  My
Inflation Reduction Act represents the largest investment in our history
dedicated to confronting the climate crisis.  Along with investments
from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, these investments will also help
fuel environmental justice and conservation efforts, including more than
$50 billion dedicated to strengthening the resilience of our communities
and ecosystems to the impacts of climate change.  To address the
wildfire crisis, many Americans who care for our Nation’s forests are
using these investments to implement critical conservation and
stewardship practices, working toward our goal of reducing the wildfire
risk on up to 50 million acres of public and private land through
science-based fuels and forest health treatments — a land size equal to
that of South Dakota.

     I have designated five new national monuments and restored
protections for lands and waters across the country.  In Alaska, we
protected the Tongass National Forest and the salmon of Bristol Bay and
took significant steps to protect the fragile coastal plain of the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and special areas in the Western Arctic.
 We restored the protections and status that the previous administration
rolled back in the Bears Ears National Monument, the Grand
Staircase-Escalante National Monument, and the North East Canyons and
Seamounts Marine National Monument.  I had the honor of visiting Camp
Hale Continental Divide in Colorado last year and adding it to the list
of national monuments, for the first time in our history.  I established
the Avi Kwa Ame National Monument in Nevada, considered one of the most
sacred places on Earth by several Tribal Nations.  Most recently, I
protected almost one million acres of public land around the Grand
Canyon National Park as the new Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni National
Monument.  I declared the entire United States Arctic Ocean off-limits
to new oil and gas development, and my budget for next year requests new
funding to ensure that public lands are accessible to every American.

     In celebration of our public lands, several Federal agencies have
announced that all of our country’s national parks, forests, refuges,
and grasslands will have a “Fee-Free Day” on September 23rd so everyone
can access some of our Nation’s most iconic places and all their wonder,
free of charge.  There are also several fee-free days throughout the
year, and the last for 2023 will occur on Veterans Day, November 11th. 
Whether it is visiting the rolling hills of the Appalachians, the
majestic Grand Canyon, or the towering peaks of Mt. Rainier in
Washington State, I encourage all Americans to take some time to explore
the beauty our country has to offer. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September
23, 2023, as National Public Lands Day.  I invite all Americans to join
me in a day of service for our public lands.  I also encourage
volunteers from across the Nation to celebrate and care for our lands
and waters by reforesting the land, maintaining trails, building
bridges, nurturing native ecosystems, removing invasive species, and
doing other conservation work to serve the lands and waters that support
and sustain us. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-second day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                          JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
