---
date: '2023-09-20'
modified_time: 2023-09-20 17:50:53-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-20 18:03:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/20/executive-order-on-ensuring-the-people-of-east-palestine-are-protected-now-and-in-the-future/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Ensuring the People of East Palestine Are Protected Now\
  \ and in the\_Future"
---
 
    

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
     Section 1.  Purpose.  On the evening of February 3, 2023, a Norfolk
Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern) train carrying hazardous
materials derailed in the Village of East Palestine, located in
Columbiana County in the State of Ohio.  At least 11 rail cars contained
hazardous materials, including vinyl chloride, ethylene glycol monobutyl
ether, ethyl-hexyl acrylate, butyl acrylates, benzene residue, and
isobutylene.  Some cars caught fire, and some spilled their loads onto
the ground.  These substances traveled into local waterways, including
Sulphur Run and Leslie Run, and flowed miles downstream.  The Village’s
fire department and several other fire departments responded.  On the
evening of February 5, 2023, responders observed a dramatic temperature
increase in a derailed tanker rail car.  Norfolk Southern expressed
serious concern that the temperature change could lead to a catastrophic
tanker rail car failure, which could cause an explosion with the
potential of deadly shrapnel traveling up to 1 mile.  The incident
commander on the scene determined that the safest course of action was
to conduct a controlled release of the chemicals.

     It is critical that Norfolk Southern continue to be held fully
accountable under the law for this disaster, and continue to provide
resources to address the effects in East Palestine and surrounding
communities.   
  
     My Administration has mobilized a robust, multi-agency effort to
support the people of East Palestine, Ohio, and surrounding
communities.  Within hours of the Norfolk Southern train derailment, the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) deployed a team to East Palestine
to support State and local emergency and environmental response efforts.
 On February 21, 2023, EPA issued a Unilateral Administrative Order
(UAO) for Removal Actions pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), as amended, 42
U.S.C. 9606(a).  Pursuant to the UAO, EPA is directing and supervising
the cleanup to protect the health, safety, and future of the East
Palestine community and other affected communities.  Norfolk Southern
and its contractors are performing the cleanup under the UAO.  Since
February 21, 2023, working closely with Federal, State, and local
partners, EPA has led and continues to lead cleanup efforts, air quality
monitoring, soil sampling, and water sampling to ensure the protection
of human health and the environment, keep residents of East Palestine
and nearby areas of Ohio and Pennsylvania updated on these and other
ongoing efforts, and, importantly, hold Norfolk Southern fully
accountable under CERCLA for the cleanup operation.  More than 115,000
tons of contaminated soil and more than 33 million gallons of
contaminated liquid have been shipped offsite for disposal.  The EPA has
built and manages an extensive air monitoring and sampling network that
uses several different technologies and approaches to provide separate
and redundant sources of data on air quality at the derailment site and
throughout the area.  In addition to monitoring, EPA’s network continues
to conduct analytical air sampling at many locations in the affected
areas.  Together, these efforts are designed to ensure that
contamination from the site does not enter nearby communities.  To date,
EPA has collected more than 18,000 air samples and more than 3,000 soil
samples.  The EPA’s State and local partners have collected more than
425 monitoring-well samples and more than 3,200 surface water samples,
and have conducted 31 rounds of drinking water sampling.  Available data
show that no contaminants of concern have been detected at levels of
concern in the air in the affected communities at sustained levels since
the evacuation order was lifted.  Almost no contaminants of concern have
been detected at levels of concern in water in surface streams since
early May of 2023.  Treated municipal drinking water shows no detection
of contaminants associated with the derailment.  To date, sampling
indicates that residential groundwater wells have not been affected by
chemicals associated with the derailment.

     The Department of Transportation (DOT) has been coordinating with
and supporting the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) to
investigate the derailment.  Officials from two DOT agencies, the
Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and the Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), also arrived on the scene
within hours of the incident to investigate the causes of the
derailment.  The FRA is also assessing Norfolk Southern’s compliance
with rail safety regulations and scrutinizing Norfolk Southern’s overall
safety culture.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) provided
incident management and outreach support on the ground in East Palestine
and has been closely coordinating with the Ohio Emergency Management
Agency in furtherance of the multi-agency response and recovery effort. 
The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), including through the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Agency for
Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, have also responded, including by
deploying a team to conduct public health testing and assessments in the
affected areas.  The team has supported Federal, State, and local
officials already on the ground to evaluate individuals who were exposed
or potentially exposed to chemicals and help ensure timely
communications to the public.

      My Administration is committed to supporting the people of East
Palestine and all those affected in surrounding areas of Ohio and
Pennsylvania every step of the way, and continuing to hold Norfolk
Southern fully accountable under the law.

      Sec. 2.  Policy.  It is a continuing priority of my Administration
to hold Norfolk Southern fully accountable under the law for this
disaster and any of its long-term effects and to provide additional
Federal assistance that the affected States, the people of East
Palestine, and all those affected in surrounding communities may need.

      Sec. 3.  Federal Implementation.  (a)  The Department of Homeland
Security, EPA, DOT, FEMA, FRA, PHMSA, and HHS are directed to use their
authorities and available resources as appropriate to advance the policy
established in section 2 of this order.

     (b)  Within 5 days of the date of this order, pursuant to section
503(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as amended (6 U.S.C.
313(b)), the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Administrator
of FEMA, shall designate a Federal Disaster Recovery Coordinator
(Coordinator) to oversee long-term recovery efforts in the affected
communities and conduct a comprehensive assessment of unmet needs of the
affected communities in recovering from the derailment beyond the
cleanup work directed by EPA.  The Coordinator shall identify, in
partnership with the State and East Palestine community, any unmet needs
that are not addressed by Norfolk Southern and would qualify for Federal
assistance, and shall immediately notify the relevant executive
department or agency.  The Coordinator shall repeat this assessment
should Norfolk Southern stop meeting needs that it is currently
addressing.

     (c)  The State of Ohio’s request for a major disaster declaration
pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 5121 *et seq.* (Stafford Act),
shall be held in abeyance to allow the State time to submit information
on needs that may arise in the future and cannot be addressed by Norfolk
Southern, State, and local governments and therefore require Federal
assistance under the Stafford Act.  If the Administrator of FEMA
receives such information from the State, including with respect to a
change in the nature of assistance provided by Norfolk Southern, the
Administrator shall immediately assess and submit a recommendation on
whether a major disaster declaration is warranted.

     (d)  The EPA shall continue to direct removal of contaminated soils
and wastewater from the site.  The EPA shall also ensure that any
remaining contamination in surface stream sediments is addressed and
that air and water monitoring continue.  Within 30 days of the date of
this order, EPA shall submit a report to the President on the cleanup
efforts and whether Norfolk Southern continues to comply with EPA’s UAO
to address the imminent and substantial endangerment its derailment
caused.  The report shall also explain the status of air, soil, surface
water, groundwater, and drinking water sampling and monitoring.  The EPA
shall submit an updated report to the President every 60 days thereafter
until all cleanup, assessment, and monitoring work required by EPA’s UAO
has been completed. 

     (e)  Within 60 days of the date of this order, HHS shall submit a
report to the President that summarizes key conclusions from the public
health testing and assessments that have been conducted to date and the
resources HHS and the CDC have provided to address any health conditions
related to the derailment. 

     (f)  In coordination with the affected States, HHS shall continue
to monitor the public health consequences of the derailment, including
any long-term health issues in the affected communities.  Based on that
monitoring, and based on the development of any acute medical conditions
related to the derailment, the Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall consider whether the circumstances warrant a declaration of a
public health emergency under 42 U.S.C. 247d and, if the Secretary makes
such a declaration, the Secretary shall exercise all appropriate
authorities made available by such a declaration.  The Administrator of
EPA shall also consider, in consultation with HHS, whether the
circumstances constitute a public health emergency under 42 U.S.C.
9604(a). 

     (g)  The HHS shall provide technical assistance to the States of
Ohio and Pennsylvania in the event that either State considers
submitting a proposal for services through the Medicaid program for
individuals affected by the derailment, such as an experimental, pilot,
or demonstration project under 42 U.S.C. 1315.   

     (h)  Within 60 days of the date of this order, DOT shall submit a
report to the President on the actions that DOT is taking in light of
the East Palestine train derailment.  This report shall be updated
within 120 days of the final NTSB investigation; the updated report
shall include DOT’s preliminary set of follow-on actions, which could
include rulemakings, inspection activities, or other actions to ensure
accountability.  Should the Congress provide DOT with broader
authorities than now exist, such new authorities shall be identified and
timelines established for action.

     Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

             (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive         
       department or agency, or the head thereof; or

             (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of       
       Management and Budget relating to budgetary,                     
 administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with  applicable
law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR

   THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    August 20, 2023.
