---
date: '2023-09-25'
published_time: 2023-09-25 20:44:36-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/25/a-proclamation-on-gold-star-mothers-and-familys-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Gold Star Mother\u2019s and Family\u2019s Day,\_2023"
---
 
     On this day of solemn remembrance, my heart is with all our
Nation’s Gold Star mothers and fathers, wives and husbands, and
daughters and sons — all the families who are grieving a loved one, a
patriot, who died fighting to defend our country and preserve our
freedom.  Today, we keep the faith with all those who kept faith with us
by recommitting to our sacred obligation as a Nation to always care for
the families of those who gave their last full measure of devotion to
our Nation.

     From the fields of Yorktown and the shores of Normandy to the rice
paddies of Busan and Saigon, the valleys of Kandahar, and the mountains
of Sinjar, generations of brave men and women have laid down their lives
— not for a person or place but for an idea unlike any other in human
history:  the idea of the United States of America.  And together, they
helped deliver a Nation grounded in freedom, democracy, equality,
tolerance, opportunity, and justice.  All of us live by the light of the
flame of liberty that our fallen heroes kept burning.  Their legacies —
guarded and strengthened by each generation — will always live on in our
Nation.  

     I know that days of remembrance can bring grieving families right
back to the first terrible moments when the hurt was so raw.  The pain
of remembering those we have lost and the pride in who they were and how
they lived can be inseparable.  As we honor the courage and sacrifice of
all those who died in uniform, the First Lady and I are keeping all our
Gold Star families in our prayers.  And my Administration has made it
a top priority to fulfill our Nation’s promise to care for military and
veteran families, caregivers, and survivors — the loved ones who provide
strength through countless deployments and serve our Nation in so many
ways, all while enduring their loved one’s absence.  Over the past two
and a half years, I have signed into law more than 25 bipartisan laws to
support our service members and veterans as well as their families,
caregivers, and survivors, and we will always stand with our Gold Star
families to ensure they have support and resources to help them heal.

     On Gold Star Mother’s and Family’s Day, we grieve for those who
paid the ultimate price to keep our Nation safe and secure and for the
families who will always feel their absence.  May we continue to honor
their sacrifice by working toward that more perfect union, for which so
many patriots lived and died, and may we always keep faith with our Gold
Star families who carry their light forward each day.

     The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115 of June 23, 1936 (49
Stat. 1895 as amended), has designated the last Sunday in September as
“Gold Star Mother’s Day.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
Sunday, September 24, 2023, as Gold Star Mother’s and Family’s Day.  I
call upon all Government officials to display the flag of the United
States over Government buildings on this special day.  I also encourage
the American people to display the flag and hold appropriate ceremonies
as a public expression of our Nation’s gratitude and respect for our
Gold Star Mothers and Families.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
