---
date: '2023-09-29'
published_time: 2023-09-29 14:58:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/29/a-proclamation-on-national-arts-and-humanities-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Arts and Humanities Month,\_2023"
---
 
During the throes of the American Revolution, General George Washington
wrote a letter to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences saying, “The
arts and sciences \[are\] essential to the prosperity of the State and…
the ornament and happiness of human life.”  His words are a reminder
that, since our founding days, America’s arts and humanities have helped
tell the story of our Nation.  They represent the freedom of expression
that empowers Americans to speak and think independently and
creatively.  They build bridges of understanding by chronicling the
shared experiences of hope, heartbreak, joy, and pain that help us see
ourselves in one another.  And they record and wrestle with the truth of
our history while envisioning all the possibilities our future holds.
 During National Arts and Humanities Month, we celebrate all the artists
and scholars whose works depict the rich, enduring soul of our Nation.

     My Administration is committed to ensuring that appreciation of and
access to the arts and humanities are within the reach of every
American.  My American Rescue Plan invested over $1 billion to help
libraries, theaters, concert halls, and other venues, and we have
invested hundreds of millions more into strengthening the National
Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and the National Endowment for the
Humanities (NEH).  I also signed an Executive Order to make art more
accessible to people from underserved communities, elevate new voices
through the arts and humanities, and expand opportunities for artists
and scholars. 

    In coordination with the White House United We Stand Summit, the NEH
launched a new initiative titled “United We Stand:  Connecting Through
Culture” that leverages the arts and humanities to combat hate-motivated
violence — utilizing the power of art to promote civic engagement and
cultural understanding.  This project helps reaffirm our Nation’s
central promise that hate will have no safe harbor in America.  And we
recently announced the top five awardees of *Art x Climate* — the
first-ever call for visual art that will be featured in the fifth
National Climate Assessment.

     One of the greatest joys The First Lady and I have is the
opportunity to celebrate the arts through performances and screenings
here at the White House. Over the past two and a half years, we have
held screenings of films, welcomed dancers to the state floor, and
hosted musicians and poets whose performances captured our hearts and
souls in a way that only artists can.  And I have honored the indelible
impact of incredible artists and scholars — from a poet and a painter to
musicians and actors — by awarding National Humanities Medals and
National Medals of Arts and by hosting Kennedy Center honorees here at
the White House.  Each of these artists are a testament to a larger
truth:  that we are a great Nation in large part because of the power of
the arts and humanities, which is forever stamped into America’s DNA. 

     During National Arts and Humanities Month, may we celebrate all the
artists and scholars who have dared to reveal the good, bad, and truth
of our Nation, and, in the process, have strengthened the covenant that
is our democracy.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2023 as National Arts and Humanities Month.  I call on the
people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and celebrations.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
