---
date: '2024-08-01'
modified_time: 2024-08-01 14:36:02-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-01 14:36:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/08/01/background-press-call-on-todays-multilateral-prisoner-exchange/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on Today\u2019s Multilateral Prisoner\_Exchange"
---
 
Via Teleconference

8:05 A.M. EDT

MS. WATERS:  Morning, everybody.  I’m just going to give folks another
minute to join.

All right, let’s get started. 

I just want to take a quick minute at the top here to discuss the ground
rules.  This call and its content are going to be held under a strict
embargo until we notify the participants of the call that the
individuals that we’re going to discuss are in U.S. custody, are safe,
and on the way back to the United States. 

I anticipate, for planning purposes, that that will come no earlier than
11:00 a.m. this morning.  We’re still hours away from something taking
place here. 

One other note on the ground rules.  I know that the invitation that
went out said that this call is on background.  The topper of this call,
which will be delivered by National Security Advisor Sullivan, is
quotable, it is on the record.  And then the contents of the Q&A are
going to be on background.

For awareness but not for reporting, the senior administration official
who will do the Q&A is \[senior administration official\].

And with that, I will waste no time and I will hand it over to Jake. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Good morning, everyone.  This morning, the President is
gathering the families of Paul Whelan, Evan Gershkovich, Alsu
Kurmasheva, and Vladimir Kara-Murza at the White House to share with
them the news that an exchange is underway to secure the release of
their loved ones from Russia. 

As Kate just said, we expect that exchange will take place in the next
few hours.  And if successful — and I underscore “if” because nothing is
done until it’s done — Paul, Evan, Alsu, and Vladimir will at long last
be reunited with their loved ones and be home safe. 

All told, if successful, the exchange will result in the release of 16
individuals currently detained in Russia in exchange for 8 individuals
held in the United States, Germany, Norway, Slovenia, and Poland. 

Paul, Evan, and Alsu are American citizens.  Vladimir is a green card
holder, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, as many of you know.

Five wrongfully detained German citizens and seven other Russian
citizens, all political prisoners in their own country, will also be
released and will leave Russia. 

Today’s exchange will be historic.  Not since the Cold War has there
been a similar number of individuals exchanged in this way.  And there
has never, so far as we know, been an exchange involving so many
countries, so many close U.S. partners and allies working together. 
It’s the culmination of many rounds of complex, painstaking negotiations
over many, many months. 

There are a few critical moments that led to today that I’d like to walk
you all through. 

To take a step back: Throughout this administration, President Biden has
prioritized the safe return of all Americans held hostage and wrongfully
detained abroad.  Since 2021, the President has brought home more than
70 such Americans from countries all around the world, including
Afghanistan, Burma, Gaza, Haiti, Iran, Russia, Venezuela, West Africa,
and from other parts of the world in cases that we have quite
deliberately kept discreet for particular reasons. 

In the context of the war against Ukraine and the overall degradation of
our relations with Russia, securing the release of Americans detained in
Russia has been uniquely challenging.  We’ve been working to secure Paul
Whelan’s release since we came into office.  He was detained before we
came into office.  These efforts were obviously made more complicated
and new challenges were presented to us with the arrest of Evan
Gershkovich in March of 2023 and Alsu Kurmasheva in June of 2023. 

It became clear that the Russians would not agree to the release of
these individuals without an exchange that included Vadim Krasikov, a
Russian criminal who was in German custody, not someone we could offer
ourselves.  That required extensive diplomatic engagement with our
German counterparts, starting at the top with the President himself, who
worked this issue directly with Chancellor Scholz.  We are deeply
grateful to Germany for their partnership. 

Other nations were also critical to securing this deal.  Norway,
Slovenia, and Poland all had custody of additional Russians included in
this exchange.  President Biden and his team, including a lot of
dedicated people at the NSC, the CIA, the State Department, engaged with
all of these countries to get to the result we achieved today.  We are
deeply grateful for the partnership of Norway, Slovenia, and Poland.  We
also are deeply grateful to Turkey for providing the critical logistic
support that has made this deal possible. 

Ultimately, these allies, these partners, and the continued engagement
that we had with them, and then the direct engagement we had with
Russian officials, allowed us to piece together a package of 8
individuals of interest to Russia for the 16 individuals, including
German nationals, Russian political prisoners, and U.S. citizens we hope
and expect to see coming out of Russia today. 

Over the course of the administration, there have also been countless
engagements between U.S. government officials and these detained
Americans directly, and their families, to check in on their wellbeing,
to keep them updated on the status of their cases.  And that started at
the very top with the President, but also includes the efforts of many
throughout the White House and at the State Department.

We’re working hard to make today a very good day and one we can build on
for all the others who are held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad,
or any American who finds themselves in this kind of distress anywhere. 
We have no higher priority. 

And I will leave it at that and turn it over, as Kate said, to \[senior
administration official\] to answer your questions.  And in the
meantime, I will be keeping my fingers crossed.  Thanks, everybody.

MS. WATERS:  Thanks.  And with that, we’ll open it up to questions.  Our
first question is going to go to Jenny Hansler with CNN.

Q    Thanks so much for doing the call, guys.  I have a number of
questions.  What was the impact of Navalny’s death on these
negotiations?  How much did things slow down after that?

And can you describe a little bit what the linchpin was for Germany to
finally agree to release Krasikov?

And then, if possible, can you just tell us the names of the people that
Russia is getting back and getting released beyond the Americans?  Thank
you.

MS. WATERS:  Jenny, on the full list of names, I’ll disseminate that to
everybody who’s joining this call on background just so that I don’t
have to make \[senior administration official\] struggle through
pronouncing a long list of names and save everybody a little time.  So
we’ll send the full list of names around, of the 24.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Jenny, in terms of Navalny’s death, as
you know, just like you all, we learned about that when it happened, in
mid-February of this year. 

Later, the same day we learned, the 16th of February, Jake held a
previously scheduled meeting he already had with Ella Milman and Mikhail
Gershkovich in his office.  Jake has made it a priority, since even
before the administration took office, to focus the national security
team on the cases of all Americans that are being wrongfully detained or
held hostage around the world and to put forward a strategy to get them
home.  And then part of that was constantly meetings with the families. 
And on this day — on that day, he actually did have, again, a previously
scheduled meeting with two of the family members in his office there. 

At the time, on that day — honestly, to be frank with you — the team
felt like the wind had been taken out of our sails in terms of efforts
to get Paul and Evan back home.  And Jake, however, felt differently. 
And he stressed to both Ella and Mikhail that he still saw a path
forward.  He thought it was going to be a little bit more of a rocky
path and it might take us a little bit longer than we thought, but he
gathered the team together and he told them to not let Navalny’s death
totally torpedo our opportunities to get these folks out.  And he
instructed them to come up with some additional options to make it
politically viable, particularly politically viable to the Germans. 

And then, if I could just fast-forward, this kind of gets — it actually
is a great segue to your second question.  A couple of months later — so
now we’re talking April 24 — Jake drafted a letter that the President
sent to Chancellor Scholz, basically with the outlines of a proposal
that reflected over a year of Jake’s work and the team’s work.  And Jake
really led those efforts with the U.S. and with our counterparts to
start to flesh out the actual details. 

But it all culminated, really, in a call by President Biden to
Chancellor Scholz and then a follow-on visit by Chancellor Scholz in
February, where, basically, Chancellor Scholz responded to the
President, saying, “For you, I will do this.”  The President then turned
to Jake and said, “Get it done.” 

So there was concern about Navalny’s death slowing things down.  Jake
still felt optimistic, kept the families informed, instructed the team
to move forward, and also worked closely with the President. 

But it really — you know, internally, a lot of leadership by Jake and
the team.  Certainly externally, a lot of leadership by President Biden
and building on the relationships that he has, particularly a really
good relationship with Chancellor Scholz, again, to the point where
Chancellor Scholz told the President, “For you, I will do this.”  And
then here we are.

MS. WATERS:  Next, we’ll go to Nick Schifrin with PBS.

Q    Hey, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks so much.  And
shout-out to Kate.  Thank you so much for taking us through this, not
only this morning, but ahead of today. 

I know this will be a little sensitive, but as best you can, can you
lift the veil a little bit on the negotiations about the names,
especially of the Russians?  You know, Europe has picked up — the U.S.
has quite a few Russian intelligence agents.  The act of figuring out
which ones of those Russia was most interested beyond Krasikov, can you
talk at all about how that was done — whether the mechanics or working
with allies or the intelligence negotiations that happened with Russia
and figure out which ones of these people detained they actually wanted
and how much they were worth? 

And number two, you know, everyone, of course, can celebrate the number
16 for 8, but at the same time, you know, the 16 are guilty of
journalism; they’re fighting for democracy.  You know, the Russians are
criminals.  They’re intelligence agents.  You know, Krasikov murdered
two people in a children’s playground.  Why do you think this is a good
deal?  Thanks.

Hello?  Hello?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Was I muted?

MS. WATERS:  Oh, it looks like we were muted that entire time. 
Apologies.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That’s really a shame because —

Q    Sorry.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  — what I had just delivered was so
eloquent, and now I’m not going to be able to repeat it. 

What I was trying to say was: I wouldn’t be at liberty to get into the
specific discussions over each individual, Nick.  First of all, we want
to preserve the sanctity of diplomatic conversations.  But it was a lot
of intense diplomacy by Jake, by our State Department colleagues, and
certainly by the intelligence community to work with our international
allies and partners from, you know, four different countries, as well as
with our Russian interlocutors, to get the right mix here. 

And we believe that this is an appropriate deal that gets, again, 16
individuals out of Russian custody.  And that’s important. 

You mentioned Krasikov.  He was certainly the biggest fish that the
Russians wanted back.  And we are tur- — nobody is turning a blind eye
to his crimes and to his connection to Russian intelligence services. 

But, look, in order to secure the release of innocent people overseas
and innocent Americans, you have to make some tough decisions; you have
to make some tough calls. 

And this deal is no different than any other one that the President has
presided over or led our administration through.  This one required some
tough decisions too. 

But in the end, Paul and Evan and Alsu and Vladimir will come home and
be back with their families.  And that’s not insignificant.  If any of
these individuals that are returning to Russia decide to pick up their
old ways and take up their old efforts, we’re going to be monitoring,
we’re going to be vigilant.  And if and when an opportunity presents
itself, we’ll continue to, as we have in the past, work with our
partners to hold them accountable for that.

MS. REPOSA:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Peter Baker.  You
should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Yeah, thank you.  Thanks for doing it.  Appreciate it.  Can you
talk about Marc Fogel, the American teacher who is in custody in
Moscow?  He’s not part of this deal, I take it.  Is that right?  And if
so, is there a reason why?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That is correct, Peter.  I would tell
you that with each of these exchanges, it’s our goal to secure the
release of as many Americans as we can.

At every step in this particular process, starting way back when we
sought the release of Paul and Brittney together, as you might recall,
we also — and we said at the time — we also sought the release of Mr.
Fogel.  Same was the case in this particular deal.  We absolutely wanted
Marc to be included, but it just wasn’t going to happen.  You do the
best you can and you get what you can.  Just like when we got Brittney
out, we tried very hard for both Paul and Marc, and we just couldn’t get
the Russians there.  In this case, we could get Paul; we couldn’t get
Marc. 

So what that tells us is we got to keep redoubling our efforts, and we
are.  Even as you and I are speaking today, Peter, I can assure you that
there are ongoing conversations and dialogue about Marc and about trying
to get him — trying to get him released. 

The other thing I think is important to mention is that every time you
do one of these deals, you learn, you gain insight, you get perspective
on what matters to the Russian side, what doesn’t matter to the Russian
side, and what they’re willing to negotiate, what they’re not willing to
negotiate.  And we have learned through this one as well.  And we
absolutely anticipate being able to learn — I’m sorry — to use the
knowledge that we have gained from this particular deal to continue to
work on Marc’s release. 

We understand that today will be a tough day for the Fogel family.  We
just want to make sure that they understand we have not forgotten Marc,
and we’re going to continue to work for his release.

MS. REPOSA:  Thank you.

Q    Do you have any sense of why —

MS. REPOSA:  Go ahead.

Q    Do you have any sense of why the Russians are so reluctant to him? 
And are there other Americans that we’re still looking to get out of
Russia, in addition to him?  Or is he the last one?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I think in order to preserve the
discussions and the negotiations that we’re having about Marc, I think
I’d be better if I don’t get into laying out publicly what the issue is
or issues are.  We’re trying to close those loops, and I just don’t know
that a public airing of it is necessarily going to help us get Marc
out. 

But you’re right — I mean, there’s a couple of other U.S. citizens who
are being held abroad in other places as well.  And all I would tell you
is that we’re continuing to work on getting them released as well. 
There’s nothing more important to President Biden than making sure that
we’re looking after the safety and security of Americans overseas and,
when they are wrongfully detained or held hostage, getting them home. 

And as I said, more than sev- — or as Jake said, more than 70 now we’ve
been able to secure the release of.  And, of course, today is a big day
as well.  We’re going to — we just have to keep at it, and we will.

MS. REPOSA:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Andrea Mitchell. 
Andrea, you should be able to unmute yourself

Okay, we will come back to you.  We’ll go to Patsy right now.

Q    Thank you, Sam.  Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks
for doing this.  I have two questions.  The first one on the logistics. 
Can you speak about the flight path of the plane that will be carrying
these Americans?  We are hearing they’re flying through Ankara.  Can you
confirm that?

My second question: Can you provide more details on the process in
releasing our colleague, Alsu Kurmasheva?  She was (inaudible) by the
public; she was not even designated unlawfully detained (inaudible). 
When did she become part of the negotiation for this package?  And any
other details you can add.  Thanks. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  She became part of the package of
negotiations very shortly after she’d been detained.  I couldn’t give
you the date on the calendar.  I don’t have that level of specificity. 
But as you know, she was detained back in October of last year, the
fall.  And shortly after that, we started including her in our
discussions and our negotiating posture.  And we’re really glad that
we’re going to be able to get her home today as well. 

I am not going to confirm flight paths or schedules.  I think you can
understand that.

One thing I wanted to — I didn’t stress earlier to you all, and I want
to do that now, it’s — and I understand the call is under embargo, but I
sure do ask you all to understand that all these individuals we’re
talking about, certainly these four Americans, are still in Russian
custody as you and I speak right now.  And so, we’re going to be
scrupulous about what kind of detail we put out there. 

And I think, right now, I’m going to demur on talking about the actual
flight path or waystations or anything like that.  I’d point you back to
what Jake said in his topper, thanking Turkey for some logistical
support.  I think I just need to leave it at that. 

Bottom line is: This exchange has not occurred yet.  And only after it
occurs and we have confidence that our people are wheels up and on the
way home, back to their families, we’ll be able to talk in a little bit
more detail about the actual physical process. 

MS. REPOSA:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Trevor Hunnicutt. 
You should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing this.  Two questions.  One

was just on the logistics of the Krasikov release from Germany to
Russia, if there was any — how that release is being done, if that’s
like a pardon or what the legal mechanism is there. 

And then, two, just if there’s any analysis on what this means in terms
of U.S.-Russia relations.  Is this a sign that the two countries can do
deals and can get things done?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Trevor, I think I’m going to refer you
to the Germans to talk about whatever legal administrative process has
been observed in terms of Krasikov, (inaudible) since he was being — he
was arrested and held inside their system, their legal system.  I think
I’d refer you to them on that. 

He was — again, as I said, he was the big fish that the Russians really
wanted.  And we’re extremely grateful for the chance to work with Scholz
and the German government for being able to participate and to include
him in this exchange. 

And again, I want to point to the strength of President Biden’s
relationships and leadership on the world stage in terms of pulling this
together — I mean, not just Germany, but, you know, Norway, Slovenia,
Poland. 

One of the things that you all may not know is that the Sunday that the
President announced he was no longer going to pursue reelection, the —
and I’m not making this up — the hour before he released that statement
— literally an hour before he released that statement, he was on the
phone with his Slovenian counterpart, urging them to make the final
arrangements and to get this deal over the finish line.  That’s what
happens today.  This exchange is not by accident.  It really is the
result of a heck of a lot of leadership by President Biden and by the
strength of relationships. 

It’s also — and I know you didn’t ask this, but I don’t care; I’m going
to go forward on this one other point: It shows the power of alliances
and partnerships and why investing in alliances and partnerships really
does matter and can pay what we would consider, no kidding, tangible and
concrete dividends, like what we have today. 

But anyway, that’s — that’s not what you asked.  I would refer you to
the German government for the administrative stuff on Krasikov.

On U.S.-Russia relations — not a bad segue then — I think what we have
proven willing to do with Russia is hold them accountable for their
aggression on the world stage, particularly in Ukraine, while at the
same time compartmentalizing out working on securing the release of
Americans that they are wrongfully detaining. 

I would be cautious, and I would counsel anyone to be cautious, in
surmising from this that it’s some sort of breakthrough in the
relationship or that it portends some détente with Russia or an easing
of the tensions in our relationships — our relationship.  That’s not
going to be the case given what Mr. Putin continues to do inside Ukraine
and the threats that he continues to levy against our NATO Allies and
our partners across Europe, the burgeoning defense relationship that
he’s forming with the PRC and with North Korea, with Iran.  All these
things are of significant concern to us, and you will not see a policy
change from President Biden or the administration when it comes to
standing up to Putin’s aggression as a result of this.

MS. REPOSA:  Thank you.  We will try to go back to Andrea, if you want
to try unmuting yourself again.

Okay, we will move forward. 

Our next question will go to the line of Eric Tucker.

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for doing this.  I really appreciate it. 
Just a quick logistical question for you, \[senior administration
official\].  And I am mindful of the sensitivities here, but there are
now a couple of media reports this morning, first Bloomberg and now CNN,
that are reporting that a massive deal is underway.  And so, it feels
sort of increasingly untenable to be able to keep everything under
wraps. 

So, to the extent there’s a way to renegotiate some of the terms of the
embargo to enable this piece of the story to move forward, we’d be very
grateful.  So I just wanted to ask that, first of all. 

And then the second piece is to Krasikov, whether there was a way that
you can describe why it is that the Russians were so determined to get
this particular person back throughout the course of all these
negotiations, what it was that you were able to glean about his
significance to the Kremlin.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Eric.  I understand some of
your colleagues decided to move forward, regrettably, and to break the
embargo, which we find wholly unacceptable.  We also find unacceptable —
we would find unacceptable any effort by us to lift the embargo given
the fact, as I said earlier, I think to Trevor’s question, that these
folks are still in Russian custody.  And we beseech you all to continue
to abide by the agreement.  And just because there’s some stories out
there, it doesn’t make it right that they’re there, and it certainly
doesn’t lift our obligation to do everything we can to get this exchange
to actually happen. 

I can’t stress enough: These folks are still in Russian custody.  They
have not been handed over to us.  And while we don’t have any indication
at this time that this exchange is not going to occur, the last thing
that we would want is any reason for the Russians to renege.  And I
think you can understand why we’re taking that so seriously and why we
can’t take anything for granted or at face value when it comes from the
Russian side.  So we’ve got to be careful here. 

Again, I implore you all to please try to hold the line.  I know it’s
hard.  I know you’re in a competitive business.  But by golly, there’s a
whole lot of lives on the line right now and families that are literally
chewing their fingernails off, and we just — we want to make sure we get
this done right. 

On Krasikov, I really can’t get inside the Russian thinking, and I
wouldn’t pretend to be able to do that for you, frankly.  And it’s not
just me; I don’t think anybody here on the U.S. side has a full,
complete contextual picture of why Krasikov was treated with the
priority that he was by the Russian side.

I mean, look, you know, FSB connection, paid assassin, ordered by the
Russian government to conduct the assassinations that he did, the
murders that he did in Germany.  And this is a bad dude and a member of
the Russian intelligence service.  So, I mean, they obviously considered
him a key asset and wanted him back.  And it was no small thing for the
German government to agree to let him go, which is, again, why we are so
extraordinarily grateful to Chancellor Scholz and his leadership here. 

When I talked earlier about tough calls, you know, you look at the whole
exchange here, it’s a big one — and as Jake alluded to, probably the
biggest one since the Cold War.  Actually, it is the biggest one since
the Cold War.  Lots of tough calls throughout this whole exchange.  And,
certainly, Krasikov is one of the toughest calls that leaders had to
make. 

But I really — it would be difficult for me to say with great
granularity why the Russians put the emphasis they did on him, but they
did.  And, again, thanks to some good leadership and some terrific
negotiations, it worked out.

MS. REPOSA:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to the line of Arden
Farhi.  You should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hey, guys.  Can you hear me?

MS. REPOSA:  Yep, we can.

Q    Can you give us any insight into what the President is doing today
related to this?  How he’ll be monitoring it, how he’ll be recognizing
it once it does happen?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  He’s monitoring it in near
real-time by updates from his national security team, and he will stay
plugged into the process throughout the day. 

As Jake mentioned in his opening statement, the President will be
meeting the families today at the White House and having them in the
Oval Office today, this morning.  Obviously, he’ll keep close tabs on
the flight trajectory once they get on board and are making their way
back home.  He will have an opportunity to speak on this today, after
being with the families and after the exchanges occur.

You can expect to see a statement from the President, a paper statement,
once we know everybody is wheels up and safe and sound.  We’ll obviously
document the meeting with the families.  We hope to be able to have the
families at that time at least connect with their loved ones by phone
once they’re on the airplane.  And then the President will speak to the
nation shortly after that.  So, stay tuned for that.  Our White House
comms folks can give you the details on that.  But he will make remarks
around midday today. 

And then, I think there’ll be other opportunities that the President
will take advantage of in the coming hours.  But I think for right now,
I need to preserve a little flexibility on that as these folks make
their way home.  But you will absolutely hear and see from the President
by midday today on this.

Q    And if I can ask one more.  Jake mentioned Turkey; he thanked
Turkey.  Can you give us any more insight into their role here?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I really can’t.  The farthest I can go
today is to reiterate what Jake said about logistical support, important
logistical support.  But out of respect to our partners, I think that’s
really as much detail as I can go into. 

MS. REPOSA:  Thank you.  Before we wrap, we’re going to try Andrea
Mitchell one more time.  There’s three of you on the call, so we’re
going to let you all in and see if one of you can unmute.

Okay, seeing none.  I will turn it over to Kate to close the call.

MS. WATERS:  Thank you all for joining us.  We will have an update here,
as soon as we have an update to share, vis-à-vis the safety and security
of these Americans.  Thanks.

8:40 A.M. EDT
