---
date: '2024-08-12'
modified_time: 2024-08-12 21:11:56-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-12 21:11:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/08/12/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-21/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

1:02 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for joining.  Kirby has a few words
here at the top, and then we’ll get into questions. 

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, everybody.  Just real quick — nothing like Friday’s
opening statement.  I just want to reiterate that we continue to watch
very closely the situation in the Middle East and, of course, the rising
tensions there. 

I believe you’ve probably seen statements made by our Israeli
counterparts about their expectations, the fact that they believe that
it’s increasingly likely that — increasingly likely that there will be
an attack by Iran and/or its proxies, and perhaps in the coming days.  I
would tell you that we share those concerns, and that is why we have
been continually speaking to our Israeli counterparts and other
counterparts in the region. 

It is why Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin made a few force posture
adjustments, which I know you’re all aware of, in the region.  And it is
why President Biden spent a little bit of time this morning speaking to
his counterparts from the UK, from France, from Germany and Italy.  That
call took place mid-morning, largely to discuss these tensions in the
Middle East, largely for all the leaders to repeat what they have said
before in terms of reaffirming Israel’s defense and the need to get a
ceasefire in place, to get the hostages home, and to send a strong
message that we don’t want to see any rise in violence, any attacks by
Iran or its proxies, and to make that clear. 

We’ll have a readout of that conversation coming to you here fairly
shortly, but that conversation did take place mid-morning.

So with that, we can take some questions. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Zeke with the AP.

Q    Thanks, John.  You mentioned you share the Israeli expectation for
an attack.  Do you have any sense of is this going to — what that might
look like?  Is there any U.S. assessment of what Iran is likely to do? 
Will it be Iran proper or its proxies?

And then, on a scale similar to what we saw a couple of months ago,
larger or smaller — what is the current state of thinking?

And then, separately, the news out over the weekend regarding the Trump
campaign saying that its emails were hacked by Iran.  I was wondering if
you might be able to provide any U.S. government-determined attribution
of that alleged hack.  And then, is it contained to the Trump campaign
or potentially something much larger?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Zeke.  An awful lot there.  I would tell you, with
the caveat that I always start about being careful not to get into
intelligence assessments, I would repeat what I said earlier: that we
share the same concerns and expectations that our Israeli counterparts
have.  With respect to potential timing here, it could be this week. 

We’re continuing to watch it very, very closely, and it is difficult to
ascertain at this particular time, if there is an attack by Iran and/or
its proxies, what that could look like.  But we have to be prepared for
what could be a significant set of attacks, which is why, again, we have
increased our force posture and capabilities in the region even in just
the last few days.  I think I probably should leave it at that for right
now.

On the reports of an Iranian hack into the Trump campaign:  First and
foremost, I’m going to have to refer you to the Justice Department and
the FBI on something like that.  I would just repeat what we said many,
many times: We strongly condemn any foreign government or entity who
attempts to interfere in our electoral process or in any way tries to
undermine confidence in our democratic institutions.  And any kind of
report like that, any activity, we’re going to take it very, very
seriously. 

But I think, again, I’d refer you to FBI and DOJ on that.  There’s not a
whole lot more I can say on it.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Trevor with
Reuters.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing this.  Is there any sort of expectation of
joint military action involving U.S. and Europe?  And was that part of
the coordination that needed to take place on that call today with
Biden?

And then, just a follow-up.  You said last week that you needed more
time to consult with Ukraine on what it’s doing in Russia with American
weapons.  Do you have any update on what that is from your perspective? 
Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  No updates for you on Ukraine.  We’re continuing to speak to
our Ukrainian counterparts about these operations.  I’ll let them speak
to their operations.

On your first question, Trevor, I won’t speak for other nations and what
they will or won’t do militarily.  The last time, as you might recall,
that Israel was attacked by Iran in a significant way, back in April,
there were some of our European allies and partners who participated. 
But as in all cases, they get to decide if they’re going to do something
like that and what it’s going to look like. 

All I can do is repeat what I said to Zeke’s question: We’ve got
significant force capabilities in the region.  We’ve changed some of
that posture in just the last few days.  The President is confident that
we have the capability available to us to help defend Israel should it
come to that.  Nobody wants to see it come to that, which is why we
continue to have these diplomatic conversations in earnest over the last
few days to see what can be done to de-escalate this situation.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Josh with
Bloomberg.

Q    Hey there.  Thank you.  John, can you give us an update on how the
U.S. sees the status of negotiations towards some sort of pause in
hostilities in Gaza, and in particular whether there will be these talks
this week in Doha and whether Hamas is participating in those or not? 
Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, Josh.  Thanks.  The meeting is still scheduled for
Thursday the 15th.  We fully expect that those talks are going to move
forward, and they need to move forward.  All negotiators should return
to the table and bring this deal to a close.  It’s time to do that.  The
details are of such a nature that we think they can be hashed out. 

More critically, it’s time for Hamas to release the hostages — which, of
course, include American citizens — and help us all bring some relief to
the people of Gaza.  They say they care about the people of Gaza; they
say they care about the Palestinian people.  One way to prove that is to
sign up to this deal, show up, close it, and let’s get it done.

Q    Do you have information as to — have you been told directly that
they won’t show up?  Or has it kind of been relying on public statements
and reporting at this point?

MR. KIRBY:  We’ve seen the public statements that they put out there. 
We believe everybody needs to show up on Thursday and see if we can’t
wrap this thing up. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nick with PBS.

Nick, you —

Q    Oh, sorry about that.  Yeah.  Hey, John.  Thanks so much.  Thanks,
Sam.

John, can I just go back to the top?  You probably won’t expand, but if
I could just ask explicitly: When you say, quote, “We share those
concerns,” are you talking about a U.S. assessment of Iranian movements
or Iranian proxy movements or anything else, or are you talking about
the Israeli assessment and looking at that and just, you know, sharing
the concerns that Israel has, of essentially agreeing with the Israeli
assessment?

And then, on the ceasefire talks, just a slightly different question. 
Can you talk about the interaction of an Iranian attack with those —
with the Thursday ceasefire date?  Do you believe an Iranian attack, and
perhaps an Israeli response, would imperil even the existence of that
date on the calendar to resume ceasefire talks?  Thanks. 

MR. KIRBY:  I reckon that depends on what exactly happens here, Nick. 
And if something does happen this week, the timing of it can certainly
well have an impact on these talks we want to do on Thursday. 

But as you and I are sitting here right now, with nothing flying through
the air in a significant way, we still believe these talks are
important.  We want to see them happen on Thursday.  We’re going to be
there, and we want all the players to be there.  And we’ll just have to
kind of see where we are come Thursday.  But there’s no reason why Hamas
or anybody else should avoid trying to come to a closure on this deal. 

On your first question: It is our assessment.  Our assessment is
consistent with the assessment that the Israelis put out over the
weekend in terms of what they’re potentially expecting to see.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Franco with NPR.

Q    Thanks for doing this, John.  Regarding the assessment, I wanted to
ask: Are there any indications that the Iranians have readied their
ballistic missiles as it appeared they did before the April attack? 
Also hoping you can speak to — on anything about the increase in the
threat assessment for U.S. forces in Iraq and Syria.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, you’re not going to like this answer because I’m not
going to talk about specific threat assessments, certainly not to our
troops and our facilities, as you might imagine.  And this is something
for DOD really to speak to.  But we’re constantly reevaluating that
based on the intelligence that we have and the threat that — and the
constantly evolving threat. 

DOD takes the action that it needs to help protect our troops and
facilities against what is on any given day an increased level of
concern.  And then, certainly given the tensions that we’re seeing in
the region right now, you have to imagine — you have to understand that
they, likewise, are taking all that into consideration.  But I think
I’ll let them talk to it.

And as for ballistic missile readiness — again, completely unsatisfying
answer, but I’m also unapologetic about it — I’m not going to talk about
the specifics of our intelligence and what we’re seeing or what our
Israeli counterparts are seeing.  But as I said in my previous couple of
answers, we do share the assessment made by our Israeli counterparts
that something could happen as soon as this week by Iran and its
proxies. 

And just to be crystal clear, in case anybody is going back on my
language here: That is a U.S. assessment as well as an Israeli
assessment.  Our assessment matches the Israeli assessment.

Q    John, can I ask again about Trump’s allege, saying that Iranians
hacked his campaign?  I mean, can you — I know you refer to the Justice
Department, but can you — is there anything that you can say whether
this actually happened?  Have you seen Iranians attacking — hacking,
pardon me — any involvement in the campaign?

MR. KIRBY:  I can’t comment on the veracity of those claims that Iran
was involved.  I would point you, if I may, to the report last month by
the intelligence community that we know Iran is working to influence the
presidential election here in the United States.  So we are certainly
mindful that they have this intent. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Alex with the Wall
Street Journal.

Q    Thanks, John.  Just very briefly, do you have any sort of — we’ve
been hearing a lot about this bridging proposal that will be offered in
case, you know, the sides don’t necessarily come to an agreement on
Thursday.  Can you give us any sense of what that actually looks like? 
You know, I’m not necessarily asking you to start doing diplomacy here
out in the open, but just trying to get a sense of what you’re willing
to offer or what’s, sort of, on the table in agreement here that you
guys all seem to be pushing forward. 

MR. KIRBY:  Well, to answer that question honestly, I do have to
actually get into public diplomacy, and I don’t think I want to do
that.  I mean, it’s — what we’re focused on now is getting everybody
together on the 15th and moving this process forward. 

A bridging proposal, just in broad sweeps, means just that: a proposal
that can help us get from where we are right now to eventually where we
want to be.  The details of it, the specifics of it, what it would look
like, I think we want to preserve that discussion to our negotiators,
and obviously it would be something that all the teams involved would
have to agree to. 

What we’re trying to do is be creative and assertive in trying to get
this over the finish line.  And if that means a given set of initiatives
and commitments by both sides to move us closer to phase one, then we’re
willing to have those conversations.  But I really think the details are
best left out of the public eye. 

Q    And if Iran were to attack before Thursday, would the U.S. not want
to participate in those conversations this week?

MR. KIRBY:  That’s a hypothetical I’m not going to engage.  We want
everybody to show up on Thursday and roll up their sleeves and get down
to work.  And at the same time, we’re watching very, very closely what
Iran and its proxies might do this week, and we got to make sure we’re
ready for that as well.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Anita with VOA.

Q    Thank you so much, John.  Just questions on Ukraine today.  First
of all, both President Putin and his defense minister have characterized
this incursion in Kursk as the West being at war with Russia.  Your
response to that?

And then, just secondly, on the strike in Kyiv and whether North Korean
missiles were involved: What’s the White House’s reaction to Pyongyang
supplying missiles to Russia?  And how are you working to stop this?

MR. KIRBY:  I can’t confirm the reports that DPRK missiles were
involved.  However, we have seen in recent weeks and months the Russians
use North Korean ballistic missiles in their strikes on Ukraine.  So, I
can’t confirm those individual reports.  Certainly they wouldn’t be — if
true, wouldn’t be inconsistent with what Mr. Putin has been willing to
do with North Korean military capabilities. 

Look, we’ve been talking about this for quite some time.  Putin is
desperate.  He’s desperate for assistance and military capability,
because the export controls and the sanctions have basically turned
whatever economy he had before this war into pretty much a wartime
economy.  And he’s reaching out in desperation to countries like Iran
and North Korea for help. 

It’s dangerous, obviously, for the people of Ukraine, as these missiles
continue to rain down on them and their energy infrastructure.  But it’s
also dangerous for the Indo-Pacific region.  Any notion of a burgeoning
defense relationship between North Korea and Russia will have
ramifications for our collective security and our national security
requirements in the Indo-Pacific.  And obviously, we have to, and we
will, take steps to mitigate that as best we can, not just by ourselves
but with our allies and partners. 

And your first question — you know, this is a funny bit of Putin
propaganda here, and he’s been clinging to it since the beginning of the
war: that he had to go into Ukraine, NATO is surrounding him, and that
NATO support and U.S. support for Ukraine just proves it’s the West
versus Russia; it’s NATO versus Russia; it’s the U.S. versus Russia. 
And it’s all a bunch of horse-hockey.  There’s nothing to it. 

The only people at war in Ukraine are the Russians; they’re the ones
that invaded Ukraine.  And Ukraine is defending itself against that
aggression.  This is Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, pure
and simple.  Always has been since the beginning. 

I’m not going to talk about Ukrainian military operations, as I said
earlier.  I’ll let them speak to what they’re doing.  We’re in close
touch with them, as you might expect we would be, and that will continue
those conversations. 

But make no mistake about it: This is Putin’s war against Russia.  And
if he doesn’t like it, if it’s making him a little uncomfortable, then
there’s an easy solution: He can just get the hell out of Ukraine and
call it a day. 

I’ll leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Cristobal with
France 24.  You should be able to unmute yourself. 

Q    Yes, thank you.  Tasnim, the Iranian news agency, is informing that
the U.S. is going to withdraw the military forces next year, that the
announcement will be made next month in a visit the Foreign Affairs
Minister of Iraq will be doing to Washington.  Is that true?  Can you
confirm or talk about this?

MR. KIRBY:  I cannot, in terms of the reports of specific timing and
what, in fact, the final arrangement might be.  We have been engaged
appropriately with bilateral talks with Iraq on what the future of the
counter-ISIS mission is going to look like there in Iraq, how successful
we’ve been with the Iraqi Security Forces, and what’s on the table for
continued success in this vital mission. 

I’m not going to get ahead of those discussions, and I’m certainly not
going to preview any kind of decision one way or another at this time.

Q    But is he going to be traveling to Washington next month?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything to report on that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nadia.

Q    Thank you, Sam.  Hi, John.  Hamas just said that they are not
sending a delegation for this new (inaudible) on Thursday.  They blame
the Israeli government.  They said they won’t accept any alternation to
the President’s proposal.  So do you still believe that these talks will
go along, even without Hamas participating?  Or do you hope between now
and Thursday that they will change their mind? 

And I have another question.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, they — I’ll let them speak to their public comments. 
We’re planning on getting together on Thursday, and we believe Hamas
ought to be there.

Q    Well, I mean, you cannot negotiate if they’re not there.  Is that
true?

MR. KIRBY:  They need to be there.

Q    Okay.  My second question is: You issued a statement showing your
concern about the attack on the school in Gaza, the Tabaeen school.  CNN
is reporting that the weapon that’s been used is a U.S. weapon.  Most of
the civilians who have been killed, up to 80, I think, they could not
find one body to bury; they were all in pieces — which indicates that
the use was, in fact, a U.S. bomb that shattered all these civilians or
their bodies.  So do you still believe that the U.S. weapons used by
Israel is according to international law?

MR. KIRBY:  I can’t confirm reports about what weapon was used in this
strike.  You’re right, we put a comment — I’m sorry, a statement — out
about that.  In that statement, I hope you saw, we made very clear our
concerns about civilian casualties, about the need for Israel to be as
discriminate and precise as possible and to limit those civilian
casualties in their targeting of Hamas leadership.  Every single death
is a tragedy of a civilian and innocent life, and we take that
seriously.

Q    Do you have any confirmation that a few of the names that Israel
have released as Hamas operative that were killed in that school
actually were killed elsewhere and they were not even killed on that
day?

MR. KIRBY:  I do not.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Chase Winter.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for doing this.  I have two questions, if I can.  The
first one is regarding Ukraine’s incursion into Russia.  Is the U.S.
ready to help the EU with additional, like, LNG energy supplies if the
Russian shipments stop?  Because the area — the battlefield is, you
know, around a major transshipment point for natural gas. 

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll tell you what — I’m going to take that question because
I wasn’t ready to talk about natural gas shipments.  So why don’t we
take a look at that for you and see if we can get you a better answer.

Q    Okay, that’s fine.

The second question is: I mean, are you — there’s a lot of talk here
about (inaudible).  I mean, is there anything that you’re telling the
Israelis about a possible response, just as reported in April, when
Biden allegedly told, you know, Netanyahu to take the win?  Because a
lot of people I speak to are concerned not only about the Hezbollah and
Iranian attack, but the Israeli response that really kicks off a major
regional war.

MR. KIRBY:  We are concerned about escalation, period.  And we obviously
don’t want to see Israel have to defend itself against another onslaught
like they did in April.  But if that’s what comes at them, we will
continue to help them defend themselves. 

As for what could happen next, that is a terrific hypothetical that it
would be ill-advised for me to try to even speculate about right now in
terms of, you know, should there be an attack, what Israel might do.  I
suspect that if there would — Israel’s decisions would be based on what
was thrown at them and what effect those attacks had on the Israeli
population and Israeli infrastructure.  And there’s no way I could
possibly anticipate that now or speculate what that might look like. 

So, right now, everybody is focused on making sure that, number one,
Israel can defend itself and that we, the United States, have in place
the proper force to help them defend themselves; number two, that we,
the United States, and our allies and partners continue to message our
counterparts in the region against escalation; and that we, the United
States, and our allies, and some of our allies and partners, continue to
send that message to Iran through the appropriate vehicles: that we
don’t want to see escalation, we don’t want to see another attack on
Israel from Iran or its proxies. 

That’s where we are right now, and I just simply can’t jump ahead of
where we are in the timeline.

MODERATOR:  We have time for one more question.  It will go to Halley
Toosi with Politico.

Q    Hi, yeah, thank you for doing this.  I was wondering if the NSC has
begun transition planning, and if so, what that looks like.  Either way,
there’s going to be a transition of some sort.  And if I remember
correctly, President Obama — like, his people started like a year in
advance.  And so, I was curious if you could tell me what sort of
planning is going into that; if you’re planning for planning for the
transition, or what that’s looking like.  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I think we’re all mindful of the calendar, of course,
but I’m not aware of any specific planning or coordinated team efforts
at this stage, where we are right now.  But, I mean, obviously everybody
knows that one way or another, come the new year, there’s going to have
to — there will be a transition of some sort, and we take seriously our
responsibilities to make sure we’re ready and to prepare and to comply
with the needs of any transition. 

But as for a formalized effort, I’m not aware of one at this time.

Q    Is it possible that there is one but you’re just not aware of it? 
I just want to know if it’s a yes or a no, or if you want to take the
question and get back to me.

MR. KIRBY:  It’s entirely possible, but I’m not aware of it.  So I’ll
tell you what — I’ll take the question, and we’ll get back to you.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  That’s all the time we have for today.  As
always, if we weren’t able to get to you, please reach out to the NSC
Press Distro, and we’ll try to get back as soon as we can.  Thanks.

1:29 P.M. EDT
