---
date: '2024-08-23'
published_time: 2024-08-23 12:42:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/08/23/background-press-call-on-administration-travel-to-china/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on Administration Travel to\_China"
---
 
8:33 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  All right, we’ll get started here.  Thank you all for
joining us early this morning for this background call on administration
travel to China. 

So everyone understands the terms of the call, we’re going to hold this
call on background, attributable to a senior administration official. 
For awareness, but not for reporting, that senior administration
official is \[senior administration official\].

And the call will be held under embargo until 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time, at
which time I anticipate the formal announcement of the anticipated
travel will go out. 

So with that, I’ll hand it over to \[senior administration official\]
for some opening remarks, and then we’ll take some questions.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much, Kate.  And thanks to
everyone for joining us early on a Friday morning.  Quite a way to start
the end of the week. 

I wanted to take this opportunity just to brief you on the upcoming
travel.  National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will travel to Beijing
for meetings with PRC Foreign Minister, Communist Party Politburo
Member, and Director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission,
Wang Yi, August 27th through 29th. 

This is the fifth meeting between Wang and Sullivan.  This strategic
channel of communication between the two has played an important role in
responsibly managing competition and tensions. 

First, a bit of background on this channel before I get into any details
on the trip itself. 

Mr. Sullivan and Director Wang met four times over the last year and a
half.  The first meeting was in Vienna in May of 2023, where they
reestablished channels of communication and laid the groundwork for the
diplomacy that then followed, including Secretary Blinken’s trip to the
PRC in June of last year. 

They also met in Malta in September of 2023 and in Washington in October
of 2023 to prepare for the Woodside summit in San Francisco in November
of that year. 

Their last meeting was in January this year, in Bangkok, where they
worked to advance outcomes from the Woodside summit, including
resumption of mil-mil channels, counternarcotics cooperation, and the AI
talks on risk and safety that were then held subsequently in Geneva a
few months later.

They also discussed at that time areas of difference, as we always do,
and set up a call between the two leaders that took place on April 2nd. 

Each time the two have met, they have typically spent about 10 to 12
hours over two days covering bilateral issues, global regional issues,
and cross-Strait issues.  We expect to follow the same format in Beijing
next week. 

This channel between the National Security Advisor and the Director has
been an important channel throughout this administration.  Mr. Sullivan
also met four times with Director Wang’s predecessor, Yang Jiechi.

We’ve said this before but it bears repeating that U.S. diplomacy and
channels of communication do not indicate a change in approach to the
PRC.  This is an intensely competitive relationship.  We are committed
to making the investments, strengthening our alliances, and taking the
common steps — commonsense steps on tech and national security that we
need to take.  We are committed to managing this competition
responsibly, however, and prevent it from veering into conflict. 

Mr. Sullivan’s trip to China next week was discussed by the two leaders
at the Woodside summit last November.  It is the first trip to China in
this administration by a national security advisor.  The last national
security advisor trip to China was by Susan Rice in 2016.  It is also a
reciprocal trip.  Director Wang visited Washington in October of last
year.

As I mentioned earlier, I expect these meetings will cover roughly the
same format as we have in previous rounds, discussing key issues in the
U.S.-China bilateral relationship and advancing counternarcotics
cooperation, military-to-military communication, and AI safety and risk
discussions — all outcomes of the Woodside summit.

I expect we will also spend some time on areas of difference, as we
always do.  Mr. Sullivan will raise U.S. concerns about China’s support
for Russia’s defense industrial base, the South China Sea, and various
other issues.  I expect the two will also exchange views on other global
issues, like DPRK, Middle East, and Burma.  And I expect they will also
discuss cross-Strait issues. 

Let me pause there and turn back to Kate for any questions.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Our first question will go to Kayla Tausche with
CNN.  Kayla, you should be able to unmute.

Q    Can you hear me?

MODERATOR:  Yes, we can.

Q    Great.  Thank you both for doing this.  Maintaining the
relationship has been a goal since the outset of the administration. 
I’m wondering what President Biden has conveyed that he sees as
unfinished business with China between now and January, and whether he’s
communicated that he would see value in another bilateral meeting with
President Xi.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much for that question. 
Look, I think I would phrase it less as unfinished business and more
about the intensity of the competition.  The challenges in the bilateral
relationship mean that is a constant effort to manage those tensions and
manage that competition. 

So I think we’ll continue to use these high-level engagements, first, to
push forward for actual, concrete outcomes on the three areas the two
leaders agreed to at the last summit.

Mil-mil communications: We’ve run through the list of the ones the two
agreed to, with the exception of the theater command; we’ll continue to
press on that one.  There are other things we can do in that mil-mil
space that we think would be helpful in terms of communications and
ensuring the resilience of those communications.

I think, on counternarcotics, as we all know, the fight against illicit
precursor chemicals and fentanyl is also a constantly evolving trade,
and so there are always things we need to push forward and work with the
Chinese to try to get additional scheduling, additional law enforcement
actions.  We’ve seen some good action in that space over the last couple
of months, including the scheduling for the first time in quite some
time of three fentanyl precursors.  But there’s always more we can do. 

And of course, AI safety and risk is also a rapidly evolving topic that
I expect the two leaders would also want to continue to discuss. 

And then, aside from that, you know, Russia, Ukraine, Middle East — all
of these issues require some levels of discussion between the two sides.

We’ve been clear, and I think both sides have been clear, the value in
those leader-level touch points to ensure that we’re talking at the very
highest levels.  I would expect that to continue, and we look for
opportunities to continue that through the end of the year.

MODERATOR:  Okay, next we’ll go to Aamer with the AP.  Aamer, you should
be able to unmute. 

Q    Hey, thank you both.  I just was hoping to get your sense of how
much Jake and others who will be on this trip will be conveying to their
counterparts about what or what may not be the impact of the elections
here.

And to what extent can some of the things, and how high of a priority, I
guess, is to solidify just some of what was

sort of pushed forward at Woodside?  And how much of it can the
President really solidify at this point that can’t eventually just be
undone by whoever is the next president?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks for the question.  Look, I
wouldn’t tie this trip or associate it too closely with the election. 
That’s not the point.  We’ve tried to do these Wang Yi/Jake Sullivan
touch points about once a quarter.  The last one was in January.  We had
actually tried to schedule this trip a little bit earlier, and just with
the two schedules, it was hard — it was not — we were unable to land it
before next week. 

So, again, I would not associate it too closely with the election.  I
think that is always in the background in any engagement we have with
foreign officials concerned about what comes next or what the transition
will be like.  But this meeting will be focused on the topics and the
issues that we are dealing with now.  There is a lot we can get done
before the end of the year in terms of just managing the relationship. 
I think that will be the focus.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Trevor Hunnicutt with Reuters.

Q    Hey, good morning.  Could you talk a little bit about where China
is on some of these key Mideast issues, especially Gaza war and the
situation with Iran?  How effective have they been in pressing towards a
positive resolution there?  And will you be pressing them for more on
that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the question.  Middle East
and, of course, Iran has been a topic that has come up, I would say,
pretty much every time we’ve met, even before October 7th, of course,
raising concerns about Iran as well.

I think — I don’t want to characterize the Chinese position here or get
into the conversations that happen behind closed doors.  I think there
are some shared concerns about instability, but I think it’s fair to say
the two sides, U.S. and China, approach the issue very differently.

We’ll be looking to hear from them, of course, their assessment of
what’s going on, the role they have been playing, or some of the talks
that have happened in China on this issue set. 

But again, I think we’re approaching it fundamentally from some
different directions.  And I think you’ve seen that play out in the
press as well, with the position or their lack of condemnation on the
October 7th attack.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Alex Ward with the Wall Street Journal.

Q    Thanks.  Will you guys be going to China with some proposal of a
prisoner swap perhaps?  I mean, obviously, we know there’s, if my memory
is correct, around 200 or so Americans, some more known than others. 
Are you — will you be discussing some sort of proposal for a swap and
hoping to bring Americans home on this trip?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, we raise the Americans that are
detained in China in every single senior-level engagement.  But, no, I
have no expectation of that on this trip.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Patsy with VOA.

Q    Hi.  Thank you both for taking my call.  And sorry if I missed
this, but was there a specific deliverable for the visit beyond pushing
what was achieved in Woodside?

And if I may: Throughout the administration and the various meetings
between Jake and Wang Yi and the leaders, how would you characterize the
current trajectory of U.S.-China ties?  Have things improved at all
since President Biden came into office?  And what is the expectation or
the groundwork that you expect to lay for the next administration? 
Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Thanks for the question.  Look,
I think we’re in a different point in the relationship than we were 10,
15 years ago, where we’re talking outcomes and deliverables for
engagements like this.

The purpose of this strategic level of communication is really to get
into details on how, on intent of poli- — our strategic intent, intent
of policy, how we see different situations.  It really is about clearing
up misperceptions and avoiding this competition from veering into
conflict more than anything else.

We have identified some areas where we think it is important and we have
shown we can work together.  We think this is important not just to show
that, even amidst competition, that we can find constructive ways to
work with each other, but it’s also important because there are some
challenges that we just can’t adequately tackle without the PRC, and one
of those would be the fentanyl crisis, right?  China is the source of
the bulk of precursor chemicals flowing towards the United States and
Mexico.  And so, being able to have those law enforcement-to-law
enforcement conversations, disrupt through law enforcement action, work
on scheduling, do information exchanges — that is critical as part of an
approach to a transnational issue. 

So I would frame it more in that way — that we’re diving into these
difficult, tough topics, making sure no misperception, pushing forward
some of the work that we have been able to get done together.

In terms of how we set up for the next administration:  Look, I think
we’re clear-eyed about the threat that the PRC proposes — or poses to
the international order, and we expect that to be the case for the
foreseeable future.  Our strategy is designed to meet that challenge. 

And I think what has been so successful in this administration is our
China policy is not about changing China at its core, right?  It’s about
positioning the United States to make the investments, build the
alliances we need to succeed and grow stronger.  And that really is the
focus here.  Part of that, then, is also ensuring we’ve got open
channels of communication and high-level diplomacy to manage the risks
of competition.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Nick Schifrin with PBS.

Q    Hey there.  Thank you.  I want to go back to Aamer’s question and
ask just a specific thing.  You’re saying that the focus is not the
election, nor is the timing about the election, but the Chinese will ask
about the election.  So, when asked if Harris would represent
continuity, or when asked about Harris’s policies, will Jake engage with
the Vice President’s future policies should she become president?

And while we have you, I just wanted to get your sense of Lai Ching-te
so far.  You know, we got an announcement this week of increased defense
spending, over 7.5 percent.  William Lai is in Kinmen Island today. 
Just wanted you, if you’re willing, to give an assessment of Lai
Ching-te’s presidency so far.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much for that question.  On
the first one, look, I — sorry.  Hold on just a moment.  I got another
call come in.  Sorry about that.  I had another phone ringing. 

Look, on the continuity question, I think this is, as I said, a subtext
or a question, regardless of who you are meeting with, that this tends
to come up right as they try to figure out our own system.

I will say — and I think you’ve seen this in the MFA briefings on the
Chinese side, in some of their public comments:  They are not engaging
on this in any sort of meaningful way.  Essentially, their line has
been: This is a U.S. domestic issue; we’re not going to get involved;
we’re not asking questions. 

I think we won’t aim to speak for whatever administration comes next. 
That will be up to the next administration to determine China policy and
how they intend to use some of these channels of communication.  What we
can speak to is how we intend to manage the balance of this
administration, how we intend to manage the transition.  And I think we
can focus on that piece in some of the conversations. 

But again, it’ll be up to the next administration and those that are
national security advisor and other key foreign policy roles to decide
how they carry it forward from here.  We can, of course, give
recommendations, but it’ll be up to them. 

MODERATOR:  And our last question is going to go to Lili Pike with —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m sorry, I think he also asked a
question on Taiwan, which I neglected to answer. 

Let me just, on that point — and thanks for the question.  We’ve been
pretty consistent, I think as you know, that the U.S. remains committed
to the One China policy guided by the Taiwan Relations Act, Three
Communiqués, and Six Assurances.  Been clear we oppose unilateral
changes to the status quo from either side.  Do not support Taiwan
independence.  And we expect cross-Strait differences to be resolved
peacefully. 

I expect in these conversations next week we’re going to raise concern
about the PRC’s increased military, diplomatic, and economic pressure
against Taiwan.  These activities are destabilizing and risk
escalation.  And we’re going to continue to urge Beijing to engage in
meaningful dialogue with Taipei. 

I think, look, everything that we have seen come out of Taipei indicates
that the current leadership remains committed to maintaining status quo
and peace and stability.  They’ve emphasized that in their public
statements.  So I will leave it at that and refer you to Taipei for any
additional questions on travel, et cetera.

MODERATOR:  Now we’ll go to Lili Pike.

Q    Thank you.  Just following up on Taiwan.  In recent months, we’ve
seen rising tensions in the Taiwan Strait, in the South China Sea.  Is
this strategy of increased high-level diplomacy between the U.S. and
China actually working to achieve that goal of managing tensions?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, you know, by its definition, I
think it’s a constant process.  There is no end point or achievement of
the goal.  It requires constant conversations on both sides.  Again, our
view is still that direct and meaningful dialogue between Taipei and
Beijing is the only way to address these issues head on.  But we, of
course, as I mentioned before, expect to raise this with China. 

And, look, I think you have seen in recent multilateral statements —
whether it’s G7, whether it’s Quad, the trilat — the issue of
cross-Strait peace and stability is one that’s increasingly being
watched closely by the rest of the world.  The economic impact of
instability in the region would be overwhelming.  And so, I think it’s
clear at this point that there is a global stake in continued peace and
stability and status quo.

MODERATOR:  That concludes our call.  Again, this call is held under an
embargo until 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time, and is attributable to a senior
administration official.  Thank you all.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much.  Have a great
weekend.  

8:52 A.M. EDT
