---
date: '2024-08-26'
modified_time: 2024-08-26 18:04:06-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-26 18:04:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/08/26/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-24/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

1:32 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey.  Good afternoon, everyone.  Thanks for joining.  I’ll
turn it over to John Kirby here at the top for some words, and then
we’ll take your questions.

MR. KIRBY:  Good morning, everybody.  I’ve got quite a few things to get
through, so just hang on for me, if you will. 

As you know, today marks three years since the devastating terrorist
attack at Abbey Gate outside of Kabul International Airport, an attack
that killed 13 American service members and more than 100 innocent
Afghans.  Of course, it wounded many more. 

In statements released this morning, the President and the Vice
President honored the 13 American heroes who were taken from us on that
day.  Their prayers and all of our prayers have been and will continue
to be with the members’ families and their loved ones and their
colleagues in the military.  And those prayers will stay with them every
day and have stayed with them every day since that terrible attack.

As our statements said this morning, these 13 Americans and those who
were wounded were patriots in every sense, in the highest sense.  They
embodied the very best of who we are as a country: brave, committed,
selfless.  And we owe them and their families a sacred debt that we’ll
never really be able to fully repay but that we can never stop trying to
do so.

Today, our longest war is over, but our commitment to preventing attacks
on the homeland and our people will never be.  We’ll continue to disrupt
terrorist activity wherever we find it, continue to deliver justice to
terrorists who plot against America, just as we have over the last three
years with leaders from al Qaeda and ISIS.  And we’ll also be able to do
all that without having to deploy thousands of American troops to ground
wars overseas. 

So, again, as we mark this solemn day, we also honor all those who
served and sacrificed and for the families who likewise served and
sacrificed.

Moving to Ukraine: Earlier today, Russia launched a massive aerial
assault against Ukrainian cities and energy infrastructure.  Ukrainian
officials report that this outrageous attack included more than 100
missiles and 100 Iranian-provided drones and that it resulted in the
deaths of Ukrainian civilians and targeted more than two dozen critical
energy sites. 

We condemn in the strongest possible terms Russia’s continued war
against Ukraine and its efforts to plunge the Ukrainian people into
darkness as the fall here sits upon us and as winter approaches.

As the President has said, Russia will never succeed in Ukraine, and the
spirit of the Ukrainian people will never be broken. 

We’re going to continue to lead that coalition of more than 50 countries
in providing much-needed military equipment for Ukraine.  That certainly
includes air defense systems and interceptors, which proved so critical
in helping defend Ukraine against these attacks.  And they need them
every day. 

We’re also surging energy equipment to Ukraine to repair what Russia has
damaged and to strengthen the resilience of Ukraine’s energy grid. 

As President Biden told President Zelenskyy on Friday when they spoke,
our support for Ukraine is unshakable, and the United States will
continue to stand with the people of Ukraine as they defend their
homeland against Russian aggression. 

Finally, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan is on his way to
Beijing as we speak — he’s literally in transit — for meetings which
will include meetings with the PRC Foreign Minister, Communist Party
Politburo member, and Director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs
Commission, Wang Yi.  Those meetings will take place over the course of
two days, the 27th through the 29th.

This trip marks the fifth meeting between Wang and Mr.  Sullivan.  The
channel between the National Security Advisor and the Director has
played an important role in responsibly managing the competition and the
tension between our two countries. 

Mr. Sullivan’s trip to China was discussed by the two leaders, President
Biden and President Xi, at the Woodside Summit last November.  And a lot
of planning and scheduling went in since then, and they’re now executing
it.

In Beijing, Mr. Sullivan will discuss key issues in the U.S.-China
bilateral relationship, including advancing counternarcotics
cooperation, military-to-military communication, and AI safety and risk
discussions — all outcomes of the Woodside Summit. 

You can expect that he will also take the opportunity to talk to Mr.
Wang about our concerns, from a security perspective, all throughout the
Indo-Pacific — tensions rising in the South China Sea, tensions across
the Taiwan Strait, and a range of other issues including unfair economic
practices.  All of that will be on the table.

And now we can start taking some questions. 

MODERATOR:  First up we’ll go to the line of Aamer Madhani.

Q    Hey.  Thank you both.  John, I just wanted to ask just about the
ongoing talks in Cairo, just how they’re working.  Who’s leading these
working-level talks?  How long are they expected to last?  And can you
offer any detail on the broad areas these technical talks will be
focused on?

And then secondly, just with — over the weekend, with this fighting
between Israel and Hezbollah, has that had any impact on the talks?  And
is there broadly a concern that the window for completing these
negotiations will eventually — or will soon close?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Aamer.  So, the working groups are meeting now in
Cairo.  Brett McGurk stayed in Cairo an extra day to get them kicked
off, and he’s there now, but he’ll probably depart relatively soon and
leave the discussion and the work to the working group members.  I don’t
have a list of names of all the people that are going to be represented
there, but all parties will be represented, including Hamas, in those
working group discussions. 

And as for how long they’ll take, I think that remains to be seen.  We
expect that these working group discussions will at least take place
over the next few days.  But whether it goes longer or, you know, could
end sooner, I think really is going to be up to those in the room and
what they’re able to accomplish. 

And then that gets to your other question about, well, what are they
working on.  I think it’s safe to say that the issues they’re going to
be talking about are of a much more detailed, specific nature than we’ve
typically been able to talk about. 

For instance — and I want to be careful, obviously — but for instance,
one issue that will be for the working groups to flesh out is the
exchange of hostages and prisoners that Israel is holding.  What that
exchange looks like, how many, you know, some of the details of exactly
who will be released on either side and at what pace, those kinds of
things, that’s a good example of some of the things that they’re trying
to flesh out now.  I think it’s best if I don’t go into more detail than
that, though, right now.

And on the attacks over the weekend: No, there was not an impact on the
talks in Cairo, and we’re certainly glad to see that.  Obviously, as I
said earlier, the working groups are now meeting and talking, and so
there continues to be progress, and our team on the ground continues to
describe the talks as constructive. 

So, despite the rocket and drone attack by Hezbollah over the course of
the weekend, which Israel did a terrific job defending against, it has
not affected the actual work on the ground by the teams trying to get
this ceasefire deal in place. 

And then, so to your other question about whether the window is closing
or not: Look, we’ve had a sense of urgency about this since the get-go. 
And the President announced this proposal way back in late May, and here
we are, you and me, talking in late August.  We would have obviously
preferred to see this ceasefire in place months ago, right after the
President laid forward that proposal that originated in Israel.  And so,
here we are, still having these talks. 

I mean, we’ve never let go of that sense of urgency.  We want to get it
done as soon as possible.  And I think we’re all watching what’s going
on in the region writ large.  Very, very closely monitoring the
situation.  Don’t want to see an all-out war, and we’re doing everything
we can to try to prevent that. 

As you probably heard from the Pentagon, you know, we’re maintaining a
pretty robust force posture there to be able to defend ourselves and
defend Israel should it come to that.  Hopefully it won’t. 

But we want to get this ceasefire deal as soon as possible, so we
haven’t let our — we haven’t let our interest in doing that wane.  We
haven’t taken our foot off the gas.  The same sense of urgency exists
now as it did months ago. 

MODERATOR:  Next up we’ll go to Jeff Mason.

Q    Hi.  Thanks very much.  John, following up on Ukraine: Ukraine is
calling now for the West, including the United States, to lift
restrictions on its use of missiles.  What, after the recent events,
what response does the White House have to that?  And is that something
that President Biden is giving consideration to?

MR. KIRBY:  Our response to what happened over the weekend is, as I said
earlier, certainly condemning these attacks.  This is a classic play out
of the playbook for Vladimir Putin to go after energy infrastructure,
particularly as he knows the weather is about to turn and people are
going to need heat and power a lot more as things get colder in
Ukraine.  It’s — again, it’s been a classic move by Putin. 

And what we’re focused on, as I said in my opening statement, Jeff, is
making sure that they have as robust an air defense capability as
possible.  Now, their air defense performed really well during these
attacks.  They didn’t knock everything out of the sky — clearly, some
things got through — but they knocked the majority out of the sky.  And
we got to make sure they can continue to do that. 

So we’re focused on looking at interceptors and air defense systems, not
just from the United States, but from allies and partners.  And I think,
you know, as you probably saw back in the NATO Summit, we announced
another five Patriot air defense systems. 

And I also would point out, again, what I said in my opening statement
about working with Ukraine to make sure they’ve got energy
infrastructure that’s more resilient.  It can’t just be about defending
those sites, although that’s a big part of it.  You got to make sure
that they’ve got resilience, they’ve got backup, they’ve got a supply
chain to help keep their energy infrastructure operating, even as it may
fall prey to attacks. 

And as for our policies with respect to how U.S. weapons are used in
Ukraine, I have no changes to those guidelines to speak to today.

Q    Can you just respond, though, to President Zelenskyy’s call for
that?

MR. KIRBY:  This is not a new desire by President Zelenskyy by any
stretch.  He’s made his concerns known to us privately, and he certainly
has made his concerns known to everybody publicly.  And we understand
why he’s doing that; his country is under attack. 

But as I’ve said many, many times, we’ll keep the conversations with the
Ukrainians going, but we’re going to keep them private.  And I have no
changes to our policies with respect to U.S. weapons to speak to today
or no guidelines to talk to.

MODERATOR:  Next up we’ll go to Arlette Saenz.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for doing this.  If I could start with the talks —
the ceasefire and hostage talks.  With the Hamas negotiating team
leaving Cairo yesterday, does the U.S. have any sense yet if Sinwar has
received a copy of the latest proposal?

And then, as it relates to the back-and-forth strikes between Israel and
Hezbollah over the weekend, were you surprised that this did not
escalate into a broader regional conflict immediately?  And has the U.S.
engaged with Iran in any back-channel communications in recent days to
try to prevent this?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any back-channel communications with Iran to
speak to.  As you know, we have many ways of delivering messages to
Tehran, and we use them all appropriately.  And throughout this entire
process here, we’ve had that ability to do it.  But I don’t have
anything more to add on that. 

I would just say we’re — we obviously monitored these attacks in real
time.  The President was kept informed by his national security team in
real time.  And they did not — to my answer to Aamer earlier, they did
not have an impact on the ceasefire talks, which is a good thing, and we
were glad to see that.  Also very glad to see that there was minimal
damage and effect on Israel, both in terms of casualties and
infrastructure damage.  That’s important.  And we’re going to make sure
that, going forward, Israel can continue to defend itself.  We’re
prepared to help defend them if we have to. 

And as for your first question on Hamas, what I would just tell you is
that Hamas continues to be represented as these working group meetings
are going on as we speak here and over the next few days.

MODERATOR:  Next up we’ll go to Aurelia End.

Q    Hi.  Thanks so much for doing this and taking my questions.  Do you
expect other attacks by Hezbollah or other Iran proxies in the coming
days or weeks against Israel?

MR. KIRBY:  Don’t know.  All I can tell you is that we’re ready.  We
don’t want to see that, but I can’t be perfectly predictive.  We’re
watching it as closely as we can.

MODERATOR:  Next up we’ll go to Yuna.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for this.  So, also following up on the last
question regarding the possibility of an Iranian direct attack on
Israel, so what is the current assessment regarding the option that this
might happen in the near future?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get into intelligence assessments one way
or the other.  I can tell you that we have to assume that Iran remains
postured and prepared should that be a decision that they make, which is
why we continue to maintain a very robust force posture in the region. 
I think you saw from my colleagues at the Pentagon talking about
maintaining that two-carrier presence in the region.  We got to make
sure we’re postured and prepared, and we are.  It’s not something we
take lightly.  We look at it every day.  If we have to make changes, we
will.  I’m not here to announce any of those changes, but it’s a dynamic
situation, and we have to treat it like that.

MODERATOR:  Next up we’ll go to Alex Ward.

Q    Yeah, thanks, John.  Briefly, the attack that Hezbollah was
preparing that, you know, was preemptively struck by the Israelis, was
that the one you were warning about that could come in, you know, days
at one point?  Is that that specific one? 

And I’m wondering, how much time did the Israelis — how much time was
between when the Israelis gave you the heads-up that they were planning
the preemptive attack to when they did it?  Thanks. 

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll just tell you we’re in constant touch with our Israeli
counterparts and we were throughout the weekend.  And that muscle and
sinew was in place.  And I’d leave it at that.

On the attack itself, we long ago said — I mean, a couple weeks ago; I
guess that’s long ago — that we could see something at any time, not
just from Iran, but from Iran’s proxies.  What Hezbollah launched, you
know, into the early morning hours Sunday was certainly a sizable
attack, different in scope than what we tend to see on a daily basis
between Israel and Hezbollah.  This was a sizable attack.  You know,
several hundred drones and rockets. 

And again, without getting into the specific intelligence assessment,
it’s safe to say that that kind of an attack, that scope, that size, was
the kind of thing that I was talking about when I said we could see an
attack at any time. 

MODERATOR:  Next up we’ll go to Akayla Gardner.

Q    Hey, guys.  India put out a statement today saying that Modi spoke
with Biden.  Is there anything you can say about what they talked
about?  And also, does the U.S. sort of welcome India’s sort of
(inaudible) position here, backing Ukraine sovereignty?

MR. KIRBY:  Yes, it’s true, the President did speak with Prime Minister
Modi today, and we’ll have a readout for you.  As you know, there’s
usually a good time lag between the call finishing and us getting you a
readout, but that’s on its way to you all.

I think it’s safe to say they certainly talked about Ukraine and the
Prime Minister’s trip to Kyiv and the prospects for moving forward in
accordance with President Zelenskyy’s plan for a just peace. 

And as I said, I think it was Friday when somebody asked me about this. 
We welcome any other country that wants to help President Zelenskyy work
towards this just peace.

And any country that’s willing to come at that discussion by starting
with President Zelenskyy’s perspective, by hearing him out, by signing
on to that proposal — and I won’t speak for India and what they’re
signing on to or not; that’s for the Prime Minister and his team to talk
to — but we certainly welcome any nation that is willing to be helpful
and to start that conversation by ascribing to President Zelenskyy’s
just peace proposal and getting his perspectives.

And we’ll — again, we’ll have a readout a little bit later that may
provide some additional context. 

MODERATOR:  Next up we’ll go to Marek.

Q    Thank you so much.  Hey, John.  The government of Poland said that
the Russian drone entered Polish airspace during the latest Russian
attack on Ukraine and probably landed or crashed on Polish territory. 
I’m wondering if you’re aware of that and what’s your response. 

And also, is the U.S. still against shooting down Russian missiles or
drones over Ukraine’s territory?

MR. KIRBY:  As I said before when you’ve asked this question, we’ll
leave it to Polish authorities to speak to how they’re going to act in
their self-defense, which they certainly have — they certainly have the
right to make those decisions. 

I’m not tracking the report of a drone landing on Polish soil.  So,
Marek, what I can do is ask the team to go take a look at that and see
if we have anything on it.  But this is the first I’m hearing about it.

MODERATOR:  Next up we’ll go to James Rosen.  James, you should be able
to unmute yourself.

Q    All right.  The great unmuting has occurred.  Can you all hear me?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I got you, James. 

Q    Thank you both.  I wanted to ask two questions: one about the
Middle East and then one on a broader foreign policy subject. 

The first question: Is it the view of the National Security Council that
the conduct of large-scale military operations in Gaza by the Israeli
Defense Forces has reached a point of diminishing returns?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, we’ve kind of talked about this a little bit ago, with
the caveat, of course, James, that I’m not going to speak for the
Israeli Defense Forces or what their daily objectives and targets are. 
That’s for them to speak to. 

They still face a viable threat by a terrorist organization that has not
changed its views about the existence of Israel.  At the same time,
there’s no question that they have destroyed an incredible amount of
Hamas’s war-making ability.  They’ve killed a high number of both
senior, at the strategic level and operational and tactical, leaders
from Hamas.  No question they have diminished Hamas’s ability to
resource itself and to man its ranks. 

But as I said, they can speak to what they’re doing every day, but
clearly, even as we are pursuing these ceasefire talks, I mean, they are
still facing an enemy in Gaza that continues to want to destroy the
State of Israel.

Q    My second question, if you can still hear me —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I gotcha.

Q    Thank you.

The President’s public comportment and the paucity of events on his
public schedule, as on this very day, have fostered a public perception
that Mr. Biden is increasingly disengaged from the presidency.  Time and
again, the question I am hearing from members of the general public, and
which I put to you here, Admiral, is: Who is running the country?

MR. KIRBY:  President Joe Biden.

Q    Is he a ceremonial figure in some sense at this point?

MR. KIRBY:  James, now you know better than that.  I mean, my goodness,
he talked to Prime Minister Modi today.  He had calls with leaders in
the region and in Europe, President Zelenskyy, last week.  He monitored
in real time what was going on over the weekend.  I mean, come on.  The
President is on vacation, but you can never unplug from a job like that,
nor does he try to.  He’s very much in command of making sure we can
continue to protect our national security interests here at home and
certainly overseas.

MODERATOR:  Next up we’ll go to Francesca Chambers.

Q    Thanks, Kirby.  Appreciate it.  Two questions.  First one on what’s
going on with Hezbollah in the Middle East.  The President sent the
Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman there over the weekend on a surprise
visit.  What does he hope to accomplish with that visit?  What does he
hope to learn?

And then, secondarily, going back to your opening remarks on
Afghanistan, why did the President and Vice President release separate
statements today?  And why did the White House feel that they did not
need to host or attend public events in the way that former President
Donald Trump did today?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, a couple of things here. 

I mean, first, on the Chairman’s trip, it’s always useful when the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs has an opportunity to visit with and meet
with and learn from his counterparts overseas.  And obviously, with
everything going on in the Middle East and the added force posture that
we have contributed to the region, it makes a lot of sense at this
particular time for the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs to go over there
and have those conversations. 

And I’m sure that — I won’t speak for Chairman Brown, of course, but I’m
sure he’s learning a lot, and he’s getting an opportunity to see
firsthand what our military readiness looks like and getting a chance to
thank the men and women that are deployed over there or serving over
there.  So, lots of good reasons at this particular time for the most
senior military officer to go for a visit. 

And then, on your second question, I would say there are many ways that
we as a nation and our leaders can observe the third anniversary of
Abbey Gate.  And Mr. Trump was invited by at least one, I think maybe
several, of the families to lay a wreath at Arlington, and that is
certainly a way to recognize the sacrifice and the loss.  But it was a
personal invitation by families, and certainly I’ll let him speak to
that and his willingness to do it.  But that was a way. 

Another way is to continue to work, maybe not with a lot of fanfare,
maybe not with a lot of public attention, maybe not with TV cameras, but
to work with might and main every single day to make sure that the
families of those — of the fallen and of those who were injured and
wounded, not just at Abbey Gate but over the course of the 20-some-odd
years that we were in Afghanistan, have the support that they need. 

And you don’t have to look very far at the President and the First
Lady’s track record and the Vice President’s track record over the last
three and a half years to see how deeply devoted they are to the men and
women of our military and to our veterans and to their families,
everything from Joining Forces to the PACT Act and any number of other
steps that this administration has taken to make sure that we are
meeting, as the President describes, our one true, sacred obligation as
a country.  There’s an awful lot that goes into that. 

And the President, the Vice President, the First Lady, Second Gentleman,
they take those responsibilities seriously.  You may not see them every
day.  You may not get a headline on it every day.  There may not be a
press release.  But it doesn’t mean that that work isn’t ongoing, and
that the respect and the admiration that they have for everyone who is
now or ever has served a uniform remains a paramount priority for them. 

MODERATOR:  We have time for one more question.  We’ll go to Mark Stone.

Q    Thank you, Sean.  Thank you, Admiral.  I wonder if I could go back
to Israel, if I can, and just try and get a clear understanding, to the
extent that you can talk about it, about what went wrong, why the talks
didn’t progress and broke down yesterday, given that at the beginning of
the week the President said that he didn’t want to jinx it but he was
optimistic.  And then, Secretary Blinken said that he believed the
Israelis and Netanyahu were completely on board. 

So I just — as I say, to the extent that you’re able to articulate it,
just give us a sense of why it didn’t progress.

MR. KIRBY:  Mark, I got to tell you, bud, I kind of disagree with the
question itself.  There was no breakdown, buddy. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  There was no breakdown, buddy.  They made enough progress
that they were willing to or needed to transition to a working group
level.  So you didn’t need the mediators all there and the leadership
there.  The talks actually progressed to a point where they felt like
the next logical step was to have working groups at lower levels sit
down to hammer out these finer details.  And I mentioned a couple of
them here in an earlier question.

But there’s no truth at all to the fact that they broke down — quite the
contrary — as I said in my — I think I said in my opening statement. 
But the team on the ground, they reported to us this morning, even, that
the talks are continuing and that they have been constructive. 

Now, I can’t be perfectly predictive, Mark.  I can’t tell you that, you
know, tomorrow we’re going to have a deal; that’s certainly the desire. 
But they have been moving forward in such a way that it was now time to
turn over the work to these working groups. 

MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone.  That’s all the time we have for today. 
If we didn’t get to your question, reach out to the team, and we’ll get
back to you.  Thanks again. 

2:03 P.M. EDT
