---
date: '2024-08-07'
published_time: 2024-08-07 12:50:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/08/07/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-19/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
10:33 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks for joining.  We don’t have anything
for the top here, so we’ll just go straight into questions.  That being
said, our first question will go to Patsy with VOA.

Q    Hi, Sam.  Thank you so much.  I have two questions.  The first one
on Venezuela.  We asked this to Karine yesterday, but wondered if you
can clarify a little bit more the U.S. position on Venezuelan leader
Edmundo González Urrutia.  It seems that it went from Secretary Blinken
last week recognizing his victory to, kind of, now just supporting
diplomatic efforts to return democracy to Venezuela. 

If you can just clarify: Is the U.S. still calling him
“president-elect”?  Or have you ever called him “president-elect”?  Just
your latest position on that.

And then I have another question on Sinwar.

MR. KIRBY:  We have not changed our formal recognition of the government
of Venezuela since 2015, Patsy, and that is that we recognize the 2015
National Assembly.

Again, as has been said time and time again, based on all the evidence
presented by the opposition but also civil society, other observers,
polling, Mr. González won the most votes, and now Mr. Maduro needs to
release the full, detailed voting data without delay to represent the
aspirations of the, what, 12 million Venezuelans who turned out to
vote. 

But no change in our policy on recognizing the 2015 National Assembly. 

Q    Are you calling him “president-elect”?

MR. KIRBY:  I have nothing more to add. 

Q    Okay.  And just on Sinwar.  Can you give your assessment on his
selection as the new leader and what you think that might do in terms of
ceasefire prospects?

MR. KIRBY:  The man is a terrorist.  He has an awful lot of blood on his
hands.  This guy was the architect of the 7th of October attacks in
Israel.  And some of that blood on his hands is American blood.  He has
always been the chief decision-maker when it comes to negotiations over
the course of these now nine months.  So, in effect, nothing really
changes in that regard. 

And as the chief decision-maker, he needs to decide now to take this
deal, to get a ceasefire in place, to get some of those hostages home,
and to get us all an opportunity to get more humanitarian assistance
in.  He needs to accept the deal.

Q    Can you just comment: If Israel continues their strategy, it
appears, of just targeting Hamas leaders, is that helpful or not helpful
to ceasefire prospects?  I mean, is the goal here to just not have
anybody to negotiate with?

MR. KIRBY:  The goal here needs to be getting a ceasefire.  The goal
needs to be getting hostages out.  The goal needs to be getting more
humanitarian assistance in.  And obviously, throughout this entire
campaign, Israel has been putting pressure on Hamas, and specifically
their leadership, at various levels — low, medium, and high.  And they
continue to do that.

I’ll let the Israelis speak to their operations. 

But what we’re focused on, what we want to see, the progress we want to
make is towards a ceasefire deal tied to hostages being released. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to — sorry, my
computer just blacked out for a second.  Our next question will go to
Morgan with Semafor. 

Q    Hey, John.  Thanks so much for doing this.  Just two questions. 
One, I’m wondering if you can give the latest assessment on when an
attack by Iran will happen or, you know, what it might look like, kind
of what’s the latest thinking there.

And then also, the White House and Secretary Blinken described the
ceasefire negotiations as in a “final stage” yesterday.  I’m just
wondering if you can elaborate on that.  Has something changed in the
last few days that has caused you to start describing them as such?  Or
do you have a timeline on when they might be — you know, there might be
a breakthrough there? 

MR. KIRBY:  We’ve always been talking about these ceasefire negotiations
as “as close as we’ve ever been”; the gaps are narrow enough that they
can be closed.

What we’re talking about here is recognizing the fact that we’ve come an
awful long way.  There is a good proposal before both sides, and they
need to both accept that proposal so we can get this in place.  We are
as close as we think we have ever been, and that’s why — that’s why we
talk about it in these terms.

And again, absolutely zero has changed about the sense of urgency with
which we’re trying to get it in place.

On your first question, I’ll just say a couple of things.  We don’t want
to see this conflict escalate.  We certainly don’t want to see any sort
of all-out regional war.  And there’s not a whole lot of indications
that other parties here want to see the same thing, which is why we’re
working really, really hard, with intense diplomacy, to try to avoid an
escalation. 

Can’t predict that we’re going to be 100 percent successful in that,
which is why the President ordered additional military resources to the
region to make sure that, should Israel be attacked, that the United
States can ably come to her defense.  I’ll leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Liz with Scripps.

Q    Hi.  Thank you, Admiral Kirby.  I just had a question about the
attack on U.S. personnel at that Al Asad base.  I was just wondering if
there’s any more update and information.  Yesterday, Karine had said
that nobody had been killed.  I was just wondering if there’s any update
on their status. 

And also, has President Biden spoken with them or their families since
the attack happened? 

MR. KIRBY:  My understanding is that some of the individuals who were
wounded have returned to duty and that some

are undergoing additional medical care outside of the region.  But I
would refer you to DOD to get any more detail on that.

There’s been no communication from the President or the White House to
these members or their families.  I think we can all understand that,
right now, particularly those that are still seeking medical care, that
that needs to be the focus — is getting better.  And we want to, of
course, give them the time and space to do that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Alex Ward with the
Wall Street Journal.

Q    Yeah, thanks.  Just wondering, John: Have you seen any movement by
Iran or its proxies in preparations for attacks on Israel or U.S. troops
in the region?

MR. KIRBY:  We’re watching things real closely, Alex.  And as we said,
we’re engaged in some pretty intense diplomacy here to prevent an
escalation in the region.  At the same time, as we do that, we also have
to make preps of our own to be able to help Israel defend itself should
it come under attack. 

I’m not going to talk about intelligence assessments one way or the
other.  We’re obviously watching events extremely closely, as you would
expect that we would.  And for us, it’s really about trying to forestall
any escalation, and, short of that, making sure that we’re ready to meet
our national security commitments there in the Middle East, and that
includes, I would add, protecting and defending our own people and our
own facilities. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Seung Min with AP.

Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks for holding this call.  I wanted to ask about
Russia and Ukraine.  Putin earlier today said there was a Ukrainian
incursion of the country’s southwestern region and called it a, quote,
“large-scale provocation.”  Ukraine hasn’t commented about the scope of
the operation.  What does the White House know about what happened
there?  Can you comment on that?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let the Ukrainians speak to their operations one way or
the other.  That’s most appropriate.  So I would refer you to the
Ukrainian Armed Forces to speak to what they’re doing. 

We’re going to stay focused on making sure they have what they need to
defend themselves, of course.  And I would also just add that nothing
has changed about our policy with respect to enabling or encouraging
strikes or attacks inside Russia, outside the bounds, of course, of what
we have permitted them to do with U.S.-supplied weapons in the past,
which is to

target imminent threats just across the border. 

The last thing I would add is that we are, as you would expect we would
be, reaching out to our Ukrainian counterparts to get a little bit
better understanding.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nadia.  Nadia, you
should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Yes.  Hi, Sam.  Thanks.  A couple of questions.  Just to follow up
of the previous question to John: So you’re saying that Hamas has to
accept the deal or Sinwar has to accept the deal.  So is this your
understanding that the deal has not concluded until now is because of
Hamas refusal, and it’s had nothing to do with Prime Minister Netanyahu?

And second —

MR. KIRBY:  The deal hasn’t been accepted because neither side has
signed up to it.  We believe that both sides need to do

the final bit of work here to come to a conclusion on this thing.

Q    Okay.  So, Prime Minister Netanyahu also is — you’d consider him an
obstacle to signing this deal?  It’s not just Hamas? 

MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry, can you repeat that?

Q    Yeah, I said: Equally, you’re saying that it’s both sides.  It’s
not just Hamas who refusal; also Prime Minister Netanyahu refused to
sign this deal? 

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll say it again: There’s a proposal that is on the table. 
It’s a good proposal.  It’ll get us a six-week ceasefire, or get us the
most at — the most vulnerable hostages out.

We believe the gaps are narrow enough that they can be closed.  There’s
some implementation details that need to be hashed out.  We want both
sides to hash them out and get this deal in place.

We have a sense of urgency about this, and we believe all parties ought
to have the same sense of urgency.

Q    Okay.  Regarding the Iranian attack, do you believe that the U.S.
allies will come to your help this time like they did in April?  There’s
some kind of talks in certain capitals that Israel has provoked this
attack by assassinating Haniyeh, and, therefore, they’re not willing
every time to come up and bail Israel on acts like this. 

So do you have any assurance that the U.S. allies will do exactly what
they did before?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, first of all, we don’t want to see an attack, and
we’re going to keep working through diplomatic channels to see what we
can do to deescalate the tensions there. 

If there is an attack, what I can tell you for sure is the United States
is and will remain postured to help defend Israel with a wide range of
military capabilities.  What other nations decide to do or don’t do is
up to them to speak to.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Barak with Axios.

Q    Hi, John.  Thank you.  Thank you, Sam.  You just said to Nadia that
both sides, Israel and Hamas, need to accept the

deal.  And I’m a bit confused because I’m pretty sure I heard both
President Biden and National Security Advisor Sullivan, and you, say
that the proposal is an Israeli proposal.  So if it is an Israeli
proposal, there’s one of two things: Either Israel accepted and it’s
only Hamas, or Prime Minister Netanyahu withdrew the proposal and now
does not accept his own proposal.  Which one is it?

MR. KIRBY:  Barak, I’m going to leave my answer the way I gave it to
Nadia, and I’m going to just leave it right there.

Q    You didn’t answer.

MR. KIRBY:  I did answer your question by telling you I’m referring back
to my answer to Nadia.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Patrick with
Defense One.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing this.  Can you speak a little bit to why a
squadron of F-22s is in the region, if that reporting is accurate? 
That’s not generally thought of as a defensive platform.  It’s really
for going in through, as you know, advanced air defenses.  So what is
the value of deploying that platform at this time?

MR. KIRBY:  The great thing about the F-22 and, well, a lot of advanced
fighter aircraft that we put in the air is that they can do a whole heck
of a lot of things, and that includes defensive missions.

As we made clear last week, the military posture changes that Secretary
Austin directed at the President’s order are meant for defensive
purposes only, to help defend Israel and to help defend our troops and
our facilities and our own interests in the region.

But make no mistake: The F-22 is a superior aircraft at a whole heck of
a lot of things.  The purpose of putting it there, putting that squadron
— adding that squadron in the region is for those larger defensive
purposes that I talked about.

Q    Is there any concern that that might be viewed as provocative or
escalatory, given how it’s particularly useful for, again, like,
breaching air defenses that normally guard capitals or pieces of
critical strategic infrastructure? 

MR. KIRBY:  No. 

Q    (Laughs.)  Okay, thanks.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  I think we have time for a couple more
questions.  Our next question will go to Sam with CNN.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing this.  So, is there any sense that Iran’s
calculus in retaliating for the killing of Haniyeh has changed?  What’s
your view on that and why?

And then a quick other question: What is the current U.S. understanding
of the nature of the coordination between Hezbollah and Tehran right
now?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to talk about intelligence assessments, as I
said earlier.  And I’m sure as hell not capable of getting inside the
Supreme Leader’s thinking. 

I would just tell you that we don’t want to see an escalation, as I said
before.  And if there is one, my goodness, we’re going to be ready to
defend Israel and defend ourselves as appropriate.

Iran supports Hezbollah; has for many years.  They support the Houthis. 
They support Hamas.  Back in April, when Iran decided to throw a bunch
of metal into the air, they also — there were also concurrent attempts
by the Houthis and by Hezbollah to assist.

We can’t assume that, should there be another attack by Israel, that
Iran’s proxy forces won’t be involved.  It would be foolhardy for us to
assume that they wouldn’t be.  We got to prepare for all contingencies,
and we are.

But I don’t think anybody should fool themselves about the strong
connections, the muscle and sinew that exists between Hezbollah and
Tehran.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We have time for one more question.  We’ll go to
Ryan with Fox.  Ryan, you should be able to unmute yourself. 

Okay, seems like that’s not working, so we will go to Tom O’Connor. 

Q    Hey, can you hear me?

MODERATOR:  We can hear you now.  Yep. 

Q    Thank you very much.  Appreciate it. 

First of all, you mentioned before that the U.S. is engaged in diplomacy
to avoid an escalation in the region, of course amid these looming
threats from Iran.  I’m wondering that besides, of course, the U.S.
warning Iran not to retaliate, if there’s been any sort of proposals or,
sort of, agreements that the U.S. has put forth that could perhaps
address the grievances of both sides to avoid this escalation. 

Secondly, on defending Israel from such an attack, if it does occur,
does this include supporting Israel’s potential retaliation for that
attack?  Thank you very much.

MR. KIRBY:  As I said earlier, we’re involved in some pretty intense
diplomacy here across the region, and it’s not just us.  Many of our
allies and partners are likewise involved.  Let’s see where that takes
us. 

And I think the less said about the diplomacy and the efforts, the
better.  But let’s see where it takes us. 

And as I said earlier: If Iran moves forward, as they have repeatedly
said that they’re going to, we’re going to make sure we’re ready to
defend Israel on our own interests.  And we believe that the force
posture adjustments ordered by the President and directed by the
Secretary of Defense put us in a good position to do that.

Q    Thank you very much. 

MR. KIRBY:  I can’t begin to speculate about what might happen in the
wake of an Iranian attack, because we haven’t seen it.  We don’t know if
it’s going to happen, and we don’t know exactly what that would look
like.  And I certainly wouldn’t speak today inside Israeli
decision-making.  That would be up to Israeli leaders to weigh the
impact of any strikes by Iran and what that might require from them. 
Those are sovereign decisions that they alone can make and they alone
should have to answer for.

President Biden has been extraordinarily consistent with Prime Minister
Netanyahu in reaffirming our support for the defense of Israel.  We
throw around that word “ironclad,” but we mean it.  And we will continue
to do what we have to do to help Israel defend itself.  I’ll leave it at
that. 

Q    Appreciate it.  Thank you very much. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Kirby has a few words he’d like to —

MR. KIRBY:  The only thing that I wanted to come back to do — I got a
question about the injured troops.  And again, I would refer you to DOD
for more detail.  But it’s our understanding that those that are still
receiving medical care are in stable condition, which is good.  But for
any more context, you’d have to go to DOD. 

I just wanted to reiterate that the reports are that they’re in stable
condition.  That’s it. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And a quick housekeeping flag from us.  It
appears when we started the gaggle, we learned that there was a cap on
attendees, which we apologize about.  We have worked this out for future
gaggles.  But for today, if your colleagues reach out, they can contact
DL NSC Press, and we will share the gaggle Otter with them and then get
our transcript out as soon as possible. 

So, apologize for any inconvenience to your colleagues.  But if we
weren’t able to get to you, you know how to reach us.  Thanks.

10:55 A.M. EDT
