---
date: '2024-08-14'
modified_time: 2024-08-15 09:54:56-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-14 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/08/14/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-chair-of-the-council-of-economics-advisers-jared-bernstein/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Chair of the Council\
  \ of Economics Advisers Jared\_Bernstein"
---
 
2:01 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  That’s very sweet. 

Hi, everybody.  Good afternoon.  It’s good to see everyone.

Okay.  I have a couple things at the top.  So, we have, as you can see,
CA- — CEA Chair Jared Bernstein, which I’m really excited about, with us
today to talk about some great news for our economy.

Today, we learned inflation fell 3 percent and wages have risen faster
than prices for 17 months now.  We’ve also seen a record 19 million new
business applications under the Biden-Harris administration, with a
record number of businesses opened by Black, Latino, and women
entrepreneurs.  And we’ve more than doubled SBA loans to underserved
businesses.

We will continue our fight to lower costs, from negotiating lower
prescription drug prices to building more homes by cutting red tape.

There’s more to do, and the president and the vice president will keep
fighting for the future and the middle class.

I’ll turn it over to Jared to discuss that data in more detail.

And I’ll do that right now.

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Well, thank you so much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Okay.

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  A pleasure to be here with you and with you as well,
Karine, of course.

Today’s CPI report is a story of twos.  First, we have monthly inflation
for July that came in right at expectations at 0.2 percent for both
headline and core.  And, by the way, if you want to get nerdy with me,
which I’m sure you do, those were soft — we call those soft 0.2s,
meaning 0.15 and 0.17 respectively.  So, they round up to two, but
that’s — sometimes we call that a soft 0.2.

Second, we have, for the first time in over three years, a two-handle,
as we call it, on yearly inflation, which is up 2.9 percent over the
past year.  We haven’t seen a rate that low since March of 2021, and
that’s slightly below what was expected. 

And third, I think there are two important messages from today’s CPI
report.  First, we’re moving in the right direction on inflation and
doing so with some momentum. 

I say that because when we look at some of the more near-term indicators
of inflation’s growth rate, we see a six-month annualized rate of 2.5
percent and a three-month annualized rate of 0.4 percent, so those more
near-term rates give a bet- — us a better sense of where inflation is
headed. 

The second message from today’s report is that while the trend is our
friend, our work is far from done.  Our cost-cutting agenda on behalf of
American households is as urgent and important as ever. 

We will continue to aggressively push to lower the cost of prescription
drugs and health coverage; housing; childcare; energy — I’d note that
the price of gas at the pump is down 2.2 percent over the past year,
that’s in this morning’s report; junk fees; groceries; and any other
areas where we can help family budgets. 

Finally, we take great care at CEA to look at what these inflation
reports mean for workers’ paychecks.  In July, nominal wages went up 3.8
percent for lower- and middle-wage workers.  And as I’ve said, inflation
rose 2.9 percent.

That’s the 17th month in a row — 17th month in a row that wages beat
prices for this group, which is 80 percent of — of employment.

This is important for both the buying power of working families as well
as the overall economy.  Consumer spending is just — just under 70
percent of GDP, and it continues to help generate steady growth, as
shown in this slide — which I don’t have because we weren’t able to do
slides. 

But I will put this — I will put this on the CEA blog later — or on my
Twitter account, EconJared46.  (Laughter.)

With that — with that, I’ll take your questions.  (Laughter.) 

Q    Go ahead, Selina.  (Laughter.)

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  It’s like a —  
  
Q    It’s not “GetNerdyWithMe.gov”?  (Laughter.)  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  No slides — it’s like kryptonite for me.  But, you
know.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  “It’s not ‘GetNerdyWithMe.’”  That’s funny.  
  
Q    Mr. Bernstein, (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  No.  No, wait.  
  
Q    — (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no, sir.  Sir.  Sir.

Darlene, go ahead.

Q    Tha- — thank you.  Does the White House, at this point, think that
the inflation problem is solved, or — 

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  The momentum is certainly in the right direction. 
Inflation is reliably coming down.  We have a record of disinflation,
meaning slower inflation, that is now, you know, 60 percent or a little
bit more than that off of its peak. 

And so, this is a consistent trend that’s moving in the right
direction.  No victory laps.  As I tried to assert in my comments, our
work is not done, because even as we get inflation back down to
pre-pandemic levels, we still have to be mindful that too many families
are facing too many high costs. 

And in the area of health care, childcare, housing, junk fees, drug —
prescription drugs, health care coverage — in every one of those areas,
the president and vice president are taking aggressive action not just
to keep inflation on this lower path but also to ensure that we’re
cutting costs wherever we can. 

At the same time, we’re very mindful of the fact that as inflation has
come down as far as it has — over six percentage points on the CPI —
that the job market remains solid and that real wages are growing not
just this — this month but on a year-over-year basis for 17 months in a
row for middle- and lower-wage workers.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahea- —

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh —  
  
Q    Oh, g- — (inaudible)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Weijia, sorry.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Thank you.  It was raised, just not —  
  
Thank you very much for being here.  So, is that how you would explain
why when I talk to voters in the field, when my colleagues talk to
people, they still don’t think the economy is in a better shape than it
was when President Biden first took office?

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Well, I don’t know about that in terms of the broader
economic, you know, assessment of — of where the — you know, the economy
is, because, you know, I think people do know that the job market has
been strong.  Sixteen million jobs.  That’s record job growth.  The
unemployment rate has been historically low.  GDP growth has been
strong. 

But I think your question is — it’s a valid one, which is: Okay, people,
I think, are aware of many of those — many of the elements of that
progress, but they’re still discomforted by the high prices.

Now, you know, I hate to give you a reading assignment, but I gave a
speech about a week ago where I really dove into this deeply.  It’s —
again, it’s on the CEA website.  And one of the things I talked about is
the important difference between inflation and price levels. 

Inflation is coming down, as I just said to the first questioner.  We
think it’s on a reliable track to get back to where it needs to be, but
there are too many prices that are still too high, and I think that’s
one of the reasons for the disconnect that you described, for some of
the negative vibes that you described. 

And the — you know, I have three words for people who feel the way you
just said, which is: We hear you.  The president hears you.  The vice
president hears you.  We will never stand here and say, “Oh, no, you’re
wrong.  Look at the GDP statistics.”  You know, that’s not the way it
works.  That’s not President Biden’s orientation. 

We believe that people are the best arbiters of how they experience this
economy, and that’s why we’re working so aggressively on agenda — on an
agenda to help them cut costs in all the areas I ticked through before,
to make investments in key areas, particularly in places that have long
been left behind and hollowed out by irresponsible trade policy, and you
see this president working very hard to reverse that.

So, we hear you.  We’re working hard to address those issues.  And we’re
having some success, particularly in some of the areas that we’ve
legislated — if you look at prescription drugs; if you look at health
coverage, obviously, the junk fee agenda; even on groceries, where the
president has leaned hard into nudging companies who have achieved some
savings on their input costs to pass those savings forward to consumers
in the form of lower costs. 

And, you know, if we were here talking a year and a half ago, we would
have had grocery inflation that was double digits.  This morning, it was
about 1 percent year over year.  And there are a number of items within
there where we actually have deflation, falling prices of some
groceries. 

So, more work to do there.  But I think that’s the essence of the
disconnect.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Selina.

Q    Thank you so much.  How worried are you right now about the
slowdown in the jobs market?

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  So, I am the chair of the CEA.  Any question that
starts “How worried are you right now,” the answer is probably yes — you
know, worried — because I’m charged to watch every banana peel that
could be slipped on.

The job market remains solid, and I think that’s the important
observation.  Yes, we saw a cooler-than-expected report in July.  We
were very upfront about that.  But the other thing we did — and, again,
CEA has been absolutely firm on this.  We never over-torque on one month
report, because we know that one month’s data is noisy.  It’s what we
call “high frequency” data.  It comes in a lot, so it has a wide sort of
margin of error around. 

So, what we do is we average over a few months.  And over the past three
months, payroll employment is up 170,000

per month.  Okay?  So, that’s really the underlying trend.  And that’s a
solid number.  That’s a good number.  That’s a number that’s strong
enough to support consumer spending, ongoing growth, and a steady — and
a steady transition to — to continued growth in the overall economy.

At the same time — and I said this a minute ago — this job market is
generating wage gains that are beating prices — not just in July but for
the past 17 months — for the 80 percent of the workforce that’s blue
collar and manufacturing or non-managers and services.  That’s a really
important number.  It helps keep the economy moving forward. 

So, yes, we’re aware of the cooling.  Certainly, some of that was
expected.  But one month does not a new trend make.  And I think, you
know, what — one thing you will see very — I can assure you that you
will see very, you know, extensive analysis of the next jobs report to
see where that fits in this picture.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    This is kind of following up — up on that, Jared.  Last week, there
was some — a little bit of market turmoil, but markets have come back up
again since then.  But connected to that, there was discussion of a
recession and other economic, sort of, doomsday scenarios coming. 
What’s your take on that?

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Specifically on the recession question?

Q    Yes, sir.

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Well, I think the most helpful thing we can do at CEA
and here the White House economics team is to look at where we are and
the conditions that define the current economy. 

So, we most recently saw a GDP growth rate that was 2.8 percent.  Of
course, that’s very strongly non-recessionary.  If you believe the trend
GDP growth is something in the 2 percent neighborhood, that’s actually
the forecast of what GDP growth will be in the current quarter, in Q3. 
If you look at the shops that try to back that out, they’re right around
2 percent.  Some are higher; some are a little lower.  That’s about
trend GDP growth. 

We have ongoing wage growth supporting ongoing consumer spending.  Now,
we’ll look at retail sales tomorrow to see where that is.  But all of
these numbers are clearly non recessionary. 

So, the idea that we’re in a recession now, I think, is very, I think,
thoroughly dis- — disproved by any set of indicators you want to look
at. 

But, of course, you know, that asks us to look forward, look around a
corner.  And, you know, that’s particularly hard to do right now.  And
from this — at this podium, you know, I’m not going to make probability
suggestions about — about that.  There are lots of market shops you can
turn to for that. 

What I will say is that, so far, in this economy, the fact that the
strong job market, which has maintained job gains — 170,000 jobs on
average over the past three months — and real wage gains in an — in an
economy that’s 70 percent consumer spending has been doing a great job
of keeping the economy moving forward. 

As long as we’re seeing easing inflation, steady wage growth — it’s
beating prices — by the way, lower gas prices seem, to me, important in
that regard.  They’re down something like 30, 35 cents relative to a
year ago.  That also helps on the consumer side. 

I think all of those help in terms of forward motion.  And so, I — I
would say that, you know, current conditions, non-recessionary, looking
around a corner, you know, we’ll — we’ll watch very closely where we’re
going, but these indicators have been consistently positive. 

Q    Just briefly, to follow up, I don’t think people were saying we’re
in recessionary conditions right now.  I think they were talking about
that around-the-corner piece, saying that it’s coming. 

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Yeah.  Well, you know, I think that the — the point I
was just trying to make is that if you look at the factors that have
gotten us to where we are right now, those factors continue to propel
the economy forward. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, M.J.

Q    Thank you.  Thanks, Jared.  So, just to confirm, when the president
says, as he just did, “We’re going to have a soft landing.  My policies
are working,” do you share in that confidence on a soft landing,
particularly given what you just said about the jobs market?

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Well, I think what I just said is very much consistent
with the president’s comment.  That is, the president was essentially
underscoring the baseline forecast.  And the baseline forecast is very
much what I just described. 

You can hear, you know, the Fed talk about — Chair Powell talk about
similar kinds of numbers.  If you look at some of the market shops we
follow, similar kinds of dynamics, similar probabilities. 

The president was saying that, you know — in my language, what the
president was saying is that the baseline forecast is that we will most
likely continue on a steady, stable path based on easing inflation,
rising real wages, a job market that remains solid. 

Q    And just to follow up, one other thing he also just said was, “My
policies are working.  There’s going to be a soft landing.  Start
writing that way.”  Do you know if he feels that the economic coverage
has generally been off or wrong?

Well, what do you think he meant by “Start writing that way”?

Q    I’m asking you (inaudible).

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  I mean, I — I — that’s the first I’ve heard that he
said that.  I can only interpret it, you know, to mean that he thinks
that that’s not being done. 

Q    Do — do you think that?

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Do I think what specifically?

Q    That coverage about the economy has —

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Yeah, so —

Q    — generally been off or wrong?

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  You know, I don’t know one way or the other.  I read a
lot of your work, and I see stuff I like and stuff that doesn’t resonate
with me as much. 

There’s been some nice research on this over at the Brookings
Institute.  My former colleague Ben Harris and others have looked at the
extent to which reporting has been increasingly negative on the
economy.  And they find — and they’re crunching some real numbers — that
that’s been the case. 

There was another study that I found — pretty well looked to me that it
was pretty rigorous — that suggested that the media tends to write about
the gas price when it goes north of $3.50 and not when it goes south of
$3.50. 

So, the gas price, as I looked this morning, was, I think, $3.45.  And
if you haven’t written about it, you know, maybe you want to. 
(Laughter.) 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  He’s actually been called by the president, so
I’m going to do this real quick.  Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you.  What are your thoughts on the stubbornness —

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  He’s probably saying, “Stop talking about me.” 
(Laughter). 

Q    What are your thoughts on the stubbornness of shelter inflation in
the wake of today’s report — 

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Yeah —  
  
Q    — specifically (inaudible).  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  — important question.  So, shelter inflation was, I
believe, 0.2 percent in June and 0.4 percent in July. 

Again, on the CPI tweet thread this morning, we go into this in greater
detail.  And we show that, again, there the trend is moving in the right
direction, but it’s been, you know, more stubborn than many of us would
like.

Look, here at the White House — I’m sure you know if you’ve been
following the work that we’ve done in this space — that we are very much
concerned and activated around the 10-year-in-the-making shortage of
affordable housing. 

We have a deep set of plans.  The president and the vice president are
all in on building millions of units of affordable housing to chip away
at this — at this decade-long shortfall that is so crucial if people are
going to achieve, you know, the — the American Dream. 

And that’s something, again, that the president and vice president are
deeply committed to.  But we can’t — and Congress needs to work with us
on that.  Okay?  That is not a blue, red, or purple issue.  The housing
shortage exists in every state.  So, that’s something there should be
bipartisan cooperation on. 

If you think about a policy like LIHTC, Low Income Housing Tax Credit,
this is a policy that’s admired by bankers, by builders, and by
low-income housing advocates for multifamily housing that should —
that’s a rare triumvirate.  That should be a — kind of a no-brainer in
this cli- — in this context. 

But we’re not waiting for Congress to get on board.  We’re doing all we
can, including an announcement earlier this week on ways we think we can
help increase the supply of affordable housing, which I probably don’t
have time to go into right now —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You don’t.  (Laughs.)

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  But there was a factsheet yesterday that was, I
thought, very good. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  We got to go really quick.  Go ahead, Asma.

Q    Yeah.  Thanks for doing this.  Hey.  I — I wanted to know, given
that the year-over-year inflation rate fell down below 3 percent,
according to the data we got, for the first time since the spring of
2021.  We’re talking about three years.  With the benefit of hindsight,
do you feel like there’s anything the administration could have done
differently over the course of the last three years?

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  You know, I think the most important thing we did,
when I see a trend like the one I would show you if I had a slide behind
me is — is get to work in 2021 on the clear factor that was so causally
linked to the uptick in inflation, and that was the snarling of global
supply chains.

In 2021, this president started something called the Supply Chains
Disruption Task Force.  Now, you may wonder why are we talking about
this nerdy little group that got to work lo these many years ago.  Well,
because that group, we’re sending our port envoy out to Long Beach and
LA to deal with the snarl-ups there, working hand in hand — we never
could have done this ourselves — hand in hand with the private sector to
unsnarl supply chains. 

And as our work has shown, if you look at the contribution of supply
snarl-up and non-snarl-up, and especially if you interacted with the
strong demand that was in place over that period, that explains over 80
percent of the run-up in inflation and 80 percent of the disinflation
we’ve experienced. 

So, you know, you could always look back and say things, you know, maybe
you could have done differently.  But one thing I’m very proud of — and
I give the president a lot of credit for — was recognizing early on that
by working to un- — working with the private sector to unsnarl supply
chains, we were going to make a big difference in pulling forward the
disinflation that we’re seeing even as of this morning. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Ed, we got to wrap it up.  (Inaudible.)

Q    Thanks.  Thanks, Jared.  Thanks, Karine.  So, you said, “We hear
you.”  But, you know, we’ve been hearing that message s- — in some form
over the past three years.  And the fact is that prices are not coming
down; they’re going up.  Debt is also rising.  That’s going up.  So, why
should Americans believe the president and vice president?

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Well, there’s some prices that are definitely coming
down.  So, there are pri- — airfares.  Airfares —

Q    (Inaudible) President Biden —

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Hold on.  Airfares —

Q    — came into office — 

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Hold on.  Hold on.  Yes, airfares are lower now than
when President Biden took office.  So, airfares are lower now than they
were pre-pandemic.  And airfares have been falling for about 15 months
in a row, year over year. 

But — and, of course, prescription —

Q    Food —

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  — prescription drugs — if you look at prescription
drugs, that’s an area where we’ve taken firm action to lower prices. 

I would also say the following: We have more work to do.  Prices are
still too high.  You have a point.  Prices are still too high, and
that’s why you will hear the president and the vice president continue
every — al- — I — I feel like we make announcements every week on this,
including this week with housing supply and forthcoming announcements
I’m not allowed to talk about that are coming on — Friday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  To- — tomorrow. 

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Tomorrow.  Tomorrow.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  (Laughter.) 

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  But I wish I could say something about them.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You can’t.  (Laughs.)  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  That are very much in this spirit. 

So, you know, I think the question is — to me, the question is, are you
— I mean, your question is — is — you think — you’re thinking about it
sort of the way I’m thinking about it, which is: Okay, we hear you.  Are
we taking action?  Yes.  I think the answer there is a strong yes. 

We are taking action to cut costs.  Housing, which you saw this week. 
Other things which I can’t talk about, which you’ll see tomorrow.  Of
course, prescription drugs.  Of course, health care, junk fees,
airlines, airfares. 

Now, groceries is something the president has used the bully pulpit to
nudge grocers, saying — or food producers: If your input costs are
coming down, which they are, then instead of padding your profit
margins, how about passing some of those savings forward to consumers? 

We’ve seen a lot of grocers who have gone into the newspapers and said,
“Yeah, we’re doing that.”  Now you can say, you know, that’s because the
president said so or for other reasons, but that’s, you know, a good
coincidence. 

Q    But still, the energy prices, too.  I mean, it went from — when the
date President Biden came into office to today, the stuff that people
need is up.  The multi- —

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  So, the — you know, the price of gas is down.  Over
the past year, is the price of gas, you know, higher than when the
president took office?  Sure.  That’s going to be the case over many
presidents, because, you know, that’s a — that’s a price — it’s a global
price.  It tends to go up over time. 

I think the question — again, the question you always have to ask
yourself in this is twofold.  One, are we taking action to help lower
costs?  I think, on energy, the president has a great record.  He
oversaw the great- — the — the largest release of barrels of oil from
the Strategic Reserve — not just ours, but he coordinated — something
you can do if you have a responsible foreign policy — he coordinated
with other countries to release their own barrels of oil from their
strategic reserves.  So, he did something on this. 

That’s point one.  Are you taking action?  Unequivocal yes. 

Part two, don’t just look at the price side of the equation.  You asked
— somebody was asking me about newspaper articles that are negative. 
So, one of the things that I will say gets under my skin is when
reporters say this price is up 10 percent, this price is up 20 percent,
and they end the piece there.  You also have to look at the income side
of the equation.  How much have wages gone up?  How much has income gone
up?

You know, I think it’s the Joint Committee — the Joint — Joint Economics
Committee — De- — Democrats on the Joint Economics Committee did a study
of this, and they found that for the average household, you know, their
— their income is up, you know, $3,000 pre-pandemic, because you have to
factor in both job gains and wage gains.  And when you do that, you get
a much more complete picture. 

So, please look at both sides of the ledger — not just the price side of
the ledger but the wage side of the ledger. 

Wages have been beating prices for 17 months in a row.  That has to mean
something.

Q    But the president has been in office 42 months.  And I know this a
— the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s literally — the president is calling him.

Q    — has been in office 42 months —

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Speaking of the president.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)

Q    — and — and wages are down 1.3 percent from the month President
Biden got into office.

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  So, I — I have to — I — I think that if you look at
the wages of production on supervisory workers, I’ll have to check that
out on a — at least pre-pandemic, yes.  So, pre-pandemic, I know that
those wages are up. 

Now, when the president took office — hold on a second, sorry. 
(Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not me.  (Laughs.)

CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  When the president took office, there was a real spike
in wages — around the time the president took office, a real spike in
wages.  This had nothing to do with the president, okay?  And you never
heard him take credit for it.  The reason why it happened is because, in
the pandemic, a large group of low-wage workers dropped out of the labor
force, and that mechanically pushes up that number. 

So, what you have to do — and we have tables and graphs, and they’re in
my speech that I gave at EPI a couple of weeks ago, so I’ll make sure
you have them — you have to control for that.  And when you do that, you
see that — that compensation is up.  You see that disposable personal
income — real, controlling for inflation — is up. 

So, do me a favor, whenever you’re writing about prices, look at the
other side of the ledger and write about wages and incomes as well and
the pace at which, in many cases — you know that’s — this does depend on
your starting point.  In many cases, they’re going to be beating prices,
and that’s — that’s a good development.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  I would love for you to stay here much
longer, but the president is actually asking for you.  (Laughter.) 

Thank you so much, Jared. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We appreciate you.  Thank you.  Come back. 

Okay, I have a couple things at the top, and then we’ll — we’ll get
going.

So, today, President Biden dropped by the first-ever White House Creator
Economy Conference — a convening of 100 digital creators and industry
professionals to discuss the most pressing challenges and opportu- —
opportunities facing the creator economy. 

Participating creators work, produce, and publish content across the
digital media landscape.  The Biden-Harris administration has taken
historic steps to engage digital creators and works hard to meet
Americans where they are.

Officials at the highest level of this White House have engaged creators
extensively, hosting regular virtual and in-person briefings with
digital creators on policy issues, hosting State of the Union watch
events for creators at the White House, and, last year, hosting the
first-ever White House holiday party for digital creators.  This
engagement will continue.

On Friday, President Biden will be joined by civil rights leaders,
community members, and elected officials in the Oval Office to sign a
proclamation to designate the Springfield <s>1909</s> \[1908\] Race Riot
National Monument.

This week, we mark the 116th anniversary of the Springfield 1908 Race
Riot, a horr- — a horrific attack by a white mob on a Black community
that civil rights leaders highlighted to spark national action on civil
rights.  We will share additional information soon regarding this
particular designation.

Now, when the president and the vice president took office, they
inherited the biggest increase in the murder rate on record.  They went
to work immediately, passing the biggest investment in public safety,
including historic law enforcement funding through the American Rescue
Plan, which every Republican in Congress voted against.

President Biden and Vice President Harris also passed the most
significant gun reform law in almost 30 years.  And now, we’re seeing
the results of that action.  Violent crime has plunged to its lowest
ever in almost 50 years.

And today, Axios reported, “Ne- — new preliminary data from major U.S.
cities shows that homicides were down during the first full six months
of President Biden’s last year in office — more than 70 percent in some
places — compared to the same time of President Trump’s — Trump’s last
year.”

The historic declines in crime mean that America is safer, and we remain
focused on building on this progress.

Finally, more than two weeks after the elections in Venezuela, Nicolás
Maduro has yet to come clean about the July 28 presidential election
results.

Yesterday, the U.N. panel of experts that was in Venezuela recently
published their interim results.  And I encourage you all to — to take a
look at the report online when you have a moment, but I wanted to take
this time to read one of their conclusions:

“The results management process of the CNE fell short of the basic
transparency and integrity measures that are essential to holding
credible elections.  It did not follow national legal and regulatory
provisions, and all stipulated —  and all stipulated deadlines were
missed.  In the experience of the panel, the announcement of an election
outcome without the publication of its details or the release of
tabulated results to candidates has no precedent in contemporary
democratic — democratic elections.”

It is abundantly clear to the majority of the Venezuelan people, the
United States, and a growing number of countries that the CNE has not
provided full, detailed tallied votes because they would show that Emun-
— Edmundo González Urrutia won the most votes.  Maduro must recognize it
and engage in a constructive, inclusive dialogue in good faith with the
opposition to restore democratic norms peacefully in accordance with
Venezuelan electoral law and the wishes of the people.

With that, Darlene.

Q    Thank you.  Two questions.  A top Hamas official told AP in an
interview today that the group is losing faith with the ability of the
United States to broker a ceasefire in Gaza. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    How do you restore that faith?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we expect — just to give an update on what
we expect to see tomorrow — obviously, this week.  We expect these talks
to move forward as planned.  Director Burns and Brett McGurk will both
travel to Qatar for these discussions. 

There is always a lot of public posturing in advance.  We’ve seen that
before.  It’s not — it’s not new of these talks.  And I’m not going to
certainly weigh in on any of that, just like I’m not going to discuss
the details of the negotiation from this podium.  That’s not — we do not
negotiate in public, so I’m not going to do that. 

Our view continues to be that it is critical that we reach a deal.  It
is important that we do so.  The resumption of talks on Thursday is an
important step.  It is an important step to continue that. 

We need to release the hostages.  We — as you all know, some of those
hostages are American hostages.  We need to make sure that lasting
relief delivered to Palestinian civilians in G- — in Gaza and lower the
tension in the region.  And we’ve said this many times before: This
hostage deal, this ceasefire deal, this end of war will help lower
tensions in the region. 

And so, that’s — that’s what the deal is going to do, and that’s what we
want to see.  The United States is going to be there tomorrow, and we
are ready.  We are ready to continue these — these discussions. 

And as you — as I’ve said before, and as have my colleagues from NSC
have said many times before, we are working 24/7 around the clock to get
this done — to get this deal done.

Q    And on the Springfield monument that you just mentioned the
president will designate on Friday.  Did the death of — by police of
Sonya Massey have any role in that?  Was that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah —

Q    Was that a factor?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And so, look, we appreciate that question, obviously. 
And so, we’ve been eyeing this for some time now.  This week’s
anniversary has been on our rado- — radar for a very long time.  And so,
members of the community have been working — working toward this
monument designation for years. 

And this is something that the Biden-Harris administration is — thinks
it’s critically important.  We released statements on Sonya Massey’s
tragic murder.  You also heard from me speak about that just in this
room — about her murder just a few weeks ago when it occurred. 

And, look, as the president has said, we have made great strides to — to
march toward full equality, but America has — has never lived up to it —
it in its entirety. 

And so, we’re committed — this administration is committed to both
telling the full story of — of America and ensuring that justice system
certainly works for all.  And — and we will continue to work on the
future, on both of those goals.  And you could be sure that this is
something that the Biden-Harris administration is going to be steadfast
about. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Selina.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  The New York Times is reporting that Hunter Biden
sought help from a U.S. ambassador on behalf of Burisma while he was on
the company’s board and while Biden was vice president.  So, what’s
Biden’s reaction to this?  And is he concerned about what this looks
like to the American public? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll just report what I’ve said before is that the
president has never — has never done business with his son, and he was
not aware of this.  And — and for anything further, I would have to
refer you to Hunter Biden’s representative — personal representatives. 
I can’t speak beyond that. 

But, again, I’ve said this before: The president was not in business
with his son, and this is the first time — as I — the first time he’s —
he was not awor- — aware of this.  And for anything further, you would
have to reach out to Biden —

Q    And you’ve —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — Hunter Biden. 

Q    You’ve said for the podium that President Biden would not pardon
his son.  If Vice President Harris is elected, would he tell her also to
not pardon his son?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean, that’s a hypothetical that I — look, the
president — I can speak for the president, and he said he would not
pardon his son.  And I’m just going to leave it there. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Two days ago, John Kirby said that it was the
U.S.’s assessment that it was increasingly likely that an attack by Iran
and/or its proxies could unfold perhaps in the coming days.  Since then,
has the assessment changed at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would say the assessment has not changed.  What my
colleague said — what the admiral said is — still stands. 

But, look — and I’ve said this many times before, he has said this, NSC
has said this: We have — we are working pretty diligently on the
diplomatic efforts here.  You heard me talk about my colleagues who will
be in — in the region — right? — to — to continue to have those
diplomatic conversations. 

And this is why tomorrow, we believe, is important.  We believe getting
to a ceasefire deal, ending this war will lead to bringing down the
tensions in the Middle East. 

And diplomacy is critical.  Diplomacy is important.  This is something
that the president, as you know, when it comes to foreign policy,
believes at his core.  And it is not for me to speak to what Iran and
its proxies are going to do.  I can’t speak to that.  And I don’t have
anything to say beyond what the admiral shared with all of you a couple
days ago. 

Q    Okay.  So, is that why Secretary Blinken postponed his trip because
of this assessment? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you would have to reach out to the
secretary’s office to get the reasoning behind it.  I just laid out the
CIA director is going to be there.  Brett McGurk from NSC is going to be
there.  And so, that travel — obviously, travel continues. 

And I talked about Amos Hochstein who was — who was also in the region. 
I mentioned that yesterday during the gaggle. 

So, you see many of our — of my colleagues are in the region.  And
diplomacy, diplomacy, diplomacy is what we see as the way forward here. 

And you — also, we’ve given you readouts of the president talking to
heads of state — whether Egypt, Qatar, and Jordan — over the past week
or so to continue those conver- — and his — and European counterparts as
well, very recently this week, because we — we — he believes in having
those diplomatic conversation is important.

And let’s not forget, there was the military as well — working with the
military to deter the escalations as well.  You’ve — you’ve seen the
statements from the Department of Defense and what they’re doing to
bolster forces in the region as well to be — to be ready. 

Q    On another topic, just now, the president in contrasting content
creators with the press, he said, “The biggest thing you’ve got going
for you, and I hope you keep it, is you’re trusted.  You’re trusted. 
And it makes a difference.”  Does the President believe everything
influencers and content creators post is accurate and nonpartisan?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I — I don’t have the full context.  I
haven’t — didn’t see the back-and-forth of what exactly the president
was saying there. 

I think what he is saying — they are influencers, right?  And — and —
and I would say, even as you all — right? — you all are important —
critic- — critically important, providing information to the American
people.  And we certainly respect the platforms that creators have and
the pra- — the platforms you all have, and it plays an important role in
informing the American people.

And that’s what — that’s as far as I can go is the platform that you
have and how important it is — the platform that they have specifically,
as you’re asking me about creators, and making sure that that
information gets to the American people. 

I can’t speak to specifically of what the president meant.  I have to
talk to him and get more info of what he was thinking about and — at
that moment.  And I haven’t — just I haven’t had a chance to do that. 

Q    Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Happy belated birthday. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  I appreciate that.  (Laughter.)  I don’t
know if — there’s always — I appreciate that.  Thank you.  Thank you,
Peter.

Q    When did you guys learn that Vice President Harris wants to
distance herself from Bidenomics?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Why do you think that?

Q    Axios is now reporting that she is hoping to distance herself from
President Biden’s unpopularity on the economy.  Can you blame her?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Do you know this is the Biden-Harris administration? 
Are you aware that this is the Biden-Harris administration?  And she is
indeed the vice president. 

Q    But if the president’s policies on the economy were working or if
they were popular —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, you just —

Q    — wouldn’t he still be the candidate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You literally just had this — the chair of the CEA
here, who laid out a pretty, pretty robust point-by-point about the
economy and what has happened under the Biden-Harris administration. 
And I thought it was pretty convincing. 

Look, as far as anything that the vice president wants to do or as she’s
talking about her policy, that’s campaign related.  You would have to
speak to her. 

One thing that I can — that I know for sure — that I know for sure is
that this president, this vice president are fighting very hard to make
sure that the middle class is stronger.  They wanted to make sure that
we’re working to cut taxes for the middle class, for working people,
slashing costs for working families, as you have seen them do over and
over again.  This is something that we believe in. 

You heard — you heard Jared talk about announcements this week about
lowering costs, and that is something that they believe in. 

And the contrast could not be more stark between — if anything, the
contrast is between what Republicans want to do — MAGAnomics — you’re
talking about Bidenomics — MAGAnomics supercharge inflation.  That’s
what they want to do: raise taxes on the middle class by thousands of
dollars, send tax cuts through the roof, protect corporate price
gouging, cut Social Security, cost millions their health care, and heap
tax giveaways on billionaires and big corporations. 

That’s the division there.  That’s where there’s really night and day —
night and day. 

Q    But would you admit at least that if Bidenomics was more popular,
President Biden would still be the candidate? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into polling.  What I will tell
you is Bidenomics has been something that both the president and the
vice president has worked on. 

You guys come up — you guys have called it Bidenomics.  We talk about
how the president is trying to put forward an economic policy, building
the economy from the bottom up, middle out that does not leave behind
the middle class and make sure it has equity at the center of it. 

MAGAnomics, which is very different, which is something that neir- —
neither of them believe in, wants to do the opposite of what we’re
trying to do on behalf of the American people. 

Q    And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s the difference. 

Q    — something that we’ve noticed over the last few days. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, you’re noticing a lot over the last few days.

Q    The vice president’s team is not holding any press briefings.  You
are left to answer everything for her, even though you are not the vice
president’s press secretary. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t think so.

Q    Is that getting old?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  Let me tell you something.  I’m the White House
Press Secretary, as you all know, obviously, for the president, for this
administration, for the Biden-Harris administration.  It is an honor and
a privilege — you hear me say this all the time — honor and privilege to
stand before you to be able to do that job.  And I will do it as long —
as long as I can, right to the end of this term. 

And as — you know, as it relates to the vice president, she certainly
has been on the road.  She has taken questions from some of you in doing
her gaggles.  You have seen her. 

That is something as — anything specific about interview, you certainly
would have to reach out to her campaign.  But I am proud to be standing
here at this podium, behind this lectern, on — on behalf of the
Biden-Harris administration. 

Go ahead, Kelly O.

Q    The Hunter Biden document seeking State Department help came out
after the president was no longer a candidate.  Is the president
bothered by that at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I can say is what I’ve said before.  He’s
not — he was not in business with his son.  He’s certainly not aware of
— of — aware of this.  And this is something that Hunter Biden has to
speak to.  He’s a private citizen.  It is something for him to focus on,
and I’m just going to have to leave it — leave it there. 

Q    Now that he is aware, is he satisfied with how his son conducted
himself in seeking help from the State Department?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean, look, I — I can’t speak to this.  This is
something that is an ongoing process.  I got to let Biden, who’s a
private citizen, b- — Hunter Biden, who’s a private citizen, speak to
this. 

What I can say is the president has never been in business with his son,
he was not aware of this, and this is something for Hunter Biden to
speak to. 

Q    Should the documents have come out more quickly, though, given that
it’s been years of litigation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I really can’t speak to timeline, the process
here.  It’s not something that I can speak to from

the podium. 

Go ahead.

Q    M- — me?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, go ahead.  (Laughter.)

Q    Thank you so much. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Or not.  Whatever —

Q    Happy birthday, too, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much.  I appreciate you guys.  It’s very
kind.

Q    Karine, about the World Health Organization — just declare a global
health emergency as a new form of mpox is spreading fast in Africa.  Is
the White House concerned or implementing any measures?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, that is something I have to talk to our team.  I
have to be honest with you, I’ve not had that conversation. 

And so, obviously, we always keep close track of these things.  There’s
always concerns. 

But I don’t have anything specific to share with you all at this time. 
Happy to talk to our team here.  We have a, obviously, you know,
pandemic office here.  I’m happy to talk to them about that.

Q    Thank you.  And on Venezuela, couple of questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Brazil is weighing this idea of suggesting another election in
Venezuela to solve this crisis.  How does the White House see this
suggestion?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as — as you know, look, we respect our partners
here.  Our partners are sovereign countries, and so we have a huge
amount of respect for them.  And so, we would have to defer to them, let
them speak for themselves on whatever next steps that they’re proposing.

That said, we have been in close touch and — and coordinating.  This —
this is our shared hemisphere and is a critical moment for democracy in
it.  And we are monitoring all of this very, very closely. 

It is important to note that the vast majority of us — including Brazil,
Mexico, Colombia — have asked for transparency and release of the
details by tally that — the tally votes, to be more specific.  And so,
we are — we are ready to support an inclusive Venezuelan-led process to
restore democratic norms in coordination with our international
partners. 

But as it relates to what Brazil and — and Mexico and Colombia are s- —
are saying, that is something for them to speak to.  We respect our
partners in — in this process. 

Q    And does the White House recognize Edmundo González as the
president-elect of Venezuela?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, as you know, this is something that we — we
don’t — we’re not going to put terms on this or — or do anything like
that.  What we know is what the tally shows us, and we’ve been very,
very clear about that.  I’m not going to get into specifics on — on
that.

Q    And then, just a quick one on the Middle East.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    Is Netanyahu also to blame for the blockage of the ceasefire deal
or not helping (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I — I was asked this question, I think, in the
gaggle yesterday.  I’m not going to get into negotiations from here.  I
know there’s been some reporting out there.  Just not going to get into
negotiations. 

Tomorrow is going to be an important day.  We want to see a ceasefire. 
We want to see an end to this war.  We want to see hostages come home,
including American hostages.  We want to see in- — increase of
humanitarian aid going into Gaza.  And we believe the way to de-escalate
the tensions that we’re seeing in the Middle East is to get to this
deal.

I’m not going to negotiate from here.  That is just not something I’m
going to do.

Go ahead, Danny.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the ceasefire talks.  How — how can you have
proper ceasefire talks if one of the parties, Hamas, is probably not
going to be there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look — and I said this when I was answering the
questions — the question earlier — there’s always political posturing. 
We see this all the time and — in advance of talks.  That’s not new. 
I’m just not going to weigh in on that. 

And what I will say: the importance of getting this done.  We want to
see the ceasefire deal.  We want to see an end of the w- — end of this
war. 

We are ready tomorrow.  We will be there.  The U.S. will be there, and
we will be ready to continue these discussions.

But there’s always public posturing.  I’m not going to get into it from
here.

Q    And if I may, on Ukraine.  There’s been reports that Russia is
redirecting some troops from Eastern Ukraine to reinforce the Kursk
area, where Ukraine is currently carrying out an incursion.  Have you
got any confirmation of that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s what I will say.  And I know this question has
come up a lot about what’s happening in that region.  I will say this. 
This war can end today — it could — if Russia would stop the war, the
war that they started.  Mr.  Putin could move on out — right? — and end
this war today.  He started this war.  And so, I’ll — I’ll leave it
there for now. 

Go ahead, M.J.

Q    Just to follow up on Weijia’s question.  Does the administration
have a theory on why there has not been retaliation yet against Israel
by Iran or Iran-backed groups?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t s- — I can’t speak to the reasoning behind
Iran and its prox- — I c- — that’s not something that I can — can do
from here. 

What we can say is continue — we want to continue to de-escalate the
tensions.  We want to continue to have diplomatic conversations. 

You see what we have done militarily to prepare.  We are ready to defend
Israel, as we had — as we did back in April.  And that is our
commitment.  And you see — not just us.  Our partners in the region have
— have also been very involved and engaged in these diplomatic
conversations. 

And so, I cannot get in the heads of — in the head of Iran or its
proxies.  That is not something for me to do from here.  I can only
speak to our efforts and what we’re trying to do.  And the ceasefire
deal, which is part of the conversations — obviously, a conversation
we’re having tomorrow in — in Doha is really incredibly important, and
we will be there.  We will be there to continue those conversations. 

Q    And just as we get closer to next week, how is the president’s
convention speech coming along?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ve been asked this question a lot as well. 

Look, the president certainly looks forward to addressing the Democratic
National Committee — Convention.  This is something that he certainly is
— is going to be focused on in the upcoming days. 

Since this is a campaign event, I — I would refer you to them on the
specifics of the speech and, obviously, the schedule for next week. 

But what I can say more broadly is the president is looking forward to
it.  He sees it as an important moment to talk directly — not just to
the party — the Democratic Party and delegates — but also, obviously, to
the American people.  And so, you’ll hear from him.  Stay tuned.

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just to follow up on Ukraine.  And you may have
addressed this broadly before, but does the United States have any
lingering or ongoing concerns about Ukraine using U.S. weapons as it
does this incursion into Russia?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, I’ve seen the reportings.  We’ve all
seen the reportings.  There’s nothing here that I — I can’t confirm any
of that. 

What I will say is, obviously, the — this is an administration that has
been very focused on making sure that Ukrainians continue to have what
they need to beat back against Russia’s aggression.  That is something
that we’ve been focused on for more than two years, and that’s going to
be continuing –our — certainly, our commitment — not just us, the more
than 50 countries that the president was able to come together to — to
make sure that Ukraine is able to fight for their democracy.  That
includes making sure that NATO is stronger than it’s ever been before. 
That is a commitment that this administration, this — that United States
has had. 

I’m not going to speak to — to speak to that.  What I can say: Our
policy has not changed.  And I’m going to leave it to the Ukrainians to
speak to their military operations. 

But, again, as I said to Danny, it is up to — this could end.  This
could literally end today if Russia would stop the war that they
started.

Q    I guess the question is just if — if you have any distinction
between U.S. support for Ukraine defending itself or going on the
offense?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything more beyond what I just stated. 
We are, obviously, going to continue to talk to our Ukrainian partners
here to speak about their — to speak — continue to have those
conversations, as we normally do.  But I just don’t have anything beyond
that.

Q    Just one follow-up on Venezuela.  You mentioned the tallies.  Just
to clarify, is it the United States’ position that the opposition
candidate won or is that not the position?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Our — our position is that, obviously, Edmundo has
gotten majority of the tallies, and it is clear.  It is clear.  And so,
what we have said over and over again and will continue to say is that
Maduro needs to acknowledge that.  He needs to acknowledge that.

Q    Just wondering: Why not call him the president-elect, then?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s just not something that we’re going to do from
here.  What I can say is that we’re going to continue to — to certainly
consider a range of options to incentify — incentivize and pressure
Maduro to recognize the election results, and we’ll continue to do so. 

But the — the responsibility is Maduro and the Venezuelans’ electoral
authorities to come clean on the election results, and that’s what we’re
going to continue to call for.

I certainly laid out at the top the U.N. report, which we think is
incredibly important.  But besides that, it’s clear — it’s clear that
Edmundo has — has obviously for — with the election results, has the
most tallied.  And so, Maduro needs to recognize that. 

Go ahead.

No.  No, go ahead.  Right in front.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  There’s been a report that an American citizen
was detained in Moscow.  And I’m curious if the president has been
briefed on this matter and if there’s anything more that you could
share. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything at this time about that.  I
would have to talk to the team and talk to the president.  I just don’t
have anything beyond — beyond the report.

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  German authorities have issued arrest warrants for
the Ukrainian national suspected of being involved in blowing up the
Nord Stream pipeline in the fall of 2022.  Curious just if the U.S. was
working with the Germans on this, sharing intelligence, aware of the
warrants going out, and if there’s any, you know, sense or confidence
that this is the — the correct person. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, no, we were — we did not know about it or — or in
support of it.  It’s not something that we were — we were aware of.  I
would have to refer you to the German authority to speak to their own
investigation. 

But we do condemn this apparent act of sabotage at the time — we did
condemn it at the time.  I don’t have anything beyond what the German
authority is sharing, and I would have to refer you back to them.

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Other than the statement that went out this morning on Austin Tice,
has there been any movement at all?  Has there been any discussion
negotiations on his release?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  I can’t go be- — I’m not
going to go beyond the statement.  We’ve always been very mindful on not
negotiating at — from the podium or in public.  As you know, these are
incredibly sensitive matters.

And you’ve seen from this president more — very, very recently on when
he was able to bring home hos- — American hostages home, his commitment
— his commitment to making sure wrongfully detained American hostages
come home — they come back to their loved ones and their families, and
that is something that is a commitment from this president. 

I’m going to be very, very careful here.  I do not want to negotiate in
public, because these matters are incredibly sensitive.  We understand
how important it is for their families — not just for us — to have their
family member come home.

Q    As a follow-up, is there any — has there been any discussion on
added value on the part of Syria to holding Tice because he’s a former
U.S. Marine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Just not going to get into it from here.  I’m just
not.  I’m just going to be super mindful. 

Go ahead.

Q    Hi, Karine.  Thank you.  I just wanted to join Peter and Raquel in
wishing you a happy belated birthday as well. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, thank you so much.  Appreciate it.

Q    Can I ask about Ukraine as well?  I just wanted to know whether the
U.S. is — whether the U.S. supports Ukraine’s incursion into the Kursk
region. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to share.  I — I don’t. 
What I will say is that we’re certainly not engaged in any aspect of the
planning or preparation of this operation. 

But generally speaking, we’re going to continue to support Ukraine as
they — as they defend themselves against Russia’s aggression, Russia’s
attacks.  Don’t have anything else to — to share beyond that. 

We’re not going to speak to Ukrainians’ military operation.  That’s
something that they should do for themselves. 

Q    And yesterday, POTUS said that the incursion represents a, quote,
“real dilemma for Putin.”  What does he mean by that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think that’s very clear.  (Laughs.)  I don’t think I
need to el- — elaborate from what the president said.

Go ahead.  Go ahead, in the back.  Go ahead, sir.

Q    Thank you.  On Venez- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, no, no.  Go ahead.

Q    Oh, behi- —

Q    Thanks.  The administration has asked the Supreme Court to lift a
block on its student loan cancelation plans.  How confident are you of a
favorable ruling, given that the court previously ruled against a
similar plan last year? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’ve said this before.  When we put policies
bef- — out, we believe on the legal merit of those policies.  So, we’re
always confident on — on that ground. 

But I’ll say this as well.  Look, when it comes to the student loan,
making sure that we give borrowers a little bit of breathing room, this
is something that the president has been committed in doing in — since
2022 — 2020, obviously, throughout his administration.  He wants to make
sure that we give Americans an opportunity to start their families —
right? — to buy a home.

And we put forth a robust plan, and Republicans got in the way.  They
blocked it.  They continue to block it.  And the president continues to
move forward in trying to make sure that we can do something that helps
Americans — American families.  $168 billion — we were able to give a —
again, give a little breathing room to Americans and American families
across the country.  And that has helped millions — millions of
Americans. 

So, we’re going to be — we’re committed to that.  We’re committed to
moving forward. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.

Q    Republicans got in the way, but the court also got in the way,
ruling against that plan last year. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Is he usurping the separation of powers by pressing forward —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Q    — after that ruling?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, absolutely not.  Absolutely not.  He made a
commitment.  Republicans continue to get in the way.  We’re trying to
make sure that Americans are able to have a little bit of a breathing
room and are not crushed — are not crushed by some of these costs that
they have to deal with. 

And this is our commitment.  We want to build an economy from the bottom
up, middle out, making sure that middle class has an opportunity, has a
chance — working families — hardworking families.  And that’s a
commitment that this president is going to continue to make.

Tomorrow, you’re going to hear from the president and the vice president
as they continue their efforts to make sure that we’re lowering costs
for Americans.  You’ll have — you’ll hear more in a couple of hours
about what that’s going to look like, what that announcement is going to
be. 

But it is — it is our commitment — the president and the vice president
commitment to do just that. 

All right.  Thanks, everybody. 

2:27 P.M. EDT
