---
date: '2024-08-13'
modified_time: 2024-08-13 18:56:33-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-13 19:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/08/13/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-advanced-research-projects-agency-for-health-director-dr-renee-wegrzyn-en-route-new-orleans-la/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Advanced Research Projects\
  \ Agency for Health Director Dr. Renee Wegrzyn En Route New Orleans,\_LA"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route New Orleans, Louisiana

1:58 P.M. EDT

AIDE: I just want to make sure everyone knows it’s Karine’s birthday, so
make sure you wish her happy birthday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) Aw.

Q Happy birthday!

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh! Who told you guys? What! (Laughter.)

All right. Thank you. Thanks, everybody. All right. Here we go.

So, as you guys know, we’re on our way to New Orleans, where President
Biden and the first lady will participate in a tour and deliver remarks
on how the President’s Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health —
ARPA-H — program is fast-tracking progress in how we prevent, treat, and
detect cancer.

The president worked with Democrats and Republicans in Congress to
establish ARPA-H to drive breakthroughs in cancer and other diseases. In
the first two years, ARPA-H has invested more than $400 million.

During the event, the president and the first lady will announce up to
$150 million in ARPA-H funding that will go to some of our nation’s
cutting-edge cancer research institutions, including Tulane University.

The president and the first lady’s leadership on the Cancer Moonshot has
delivered significant results to achieve the ambitious, achievable goals
they set to reduce the cancer death rate by at least half in the U.S. by
2047, which would save more than 4 million lives and to improve the
experience of Americans touched by cancer.

They’re very proud of this initiative, it is a deeply personal one, and
it’s one they will remain focused on advancing.

With that, I will turn it over to Dr. Renee We- — Wegrzyn — Wegrzyn —

DR. WEGRZYN: Wegrzyn.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — oh, thank goodness — director of ARPA-H. Thank you so
much for (inaudible), Doc. Go ahead.

DR. WEGRZYN: Thank you. Happy to be here. Thanks, Karine.

Surgical procedures are often the first treatment option for some 2
million Americans diagnosed with cancer every year, but a lack of
precision in those surgeries can lead to repeat surgeries, harder
recoveries, cancer recurrence, and higher health care costs.

Our hope is to advance cancer surgery so that we remove cancer the first
time and every time. This is why President Biden established ARPA-H two
years ago to drive these types of innovation and fast-track that
progress.

Today, ARPA-H is announcing up to $150 million to develop novel
technologies to remove cancerous tumors with higher accuracy. Tulane is
one of the teams selected by our Precision Surgical Interventions — or
PSI — program.

The innovations sought are in two technical areas. The first, which
President Biden and the first lady will firsthand see at Tulane, is
focused on visualizing the surface of tumors, both excised and still in
the body, at cellular resolution and identifying any cancer cells left.
If there are, the surgeon will remove more tissue prior to closing up
the patient.

Funded teams will develop different microscopy techniques to do this
work, and the images will be read and classified automatically using AI
and machine learning and assisted capabilities without a pathologist in
the OR.

In addition to Tulane, other funded teams include Rice University, the
University of Washington, the University of California at San Francisco,
the University of Illinois Champai- — Urbana-Champaign, and Johns
Hopkins University.

The second focus area is on making critical anatomy more visible to
surgeons, reducing unintentional injuries to structures like nerves,
blood vessels, or lymph ducts. Funded teams include Johns Hopkins,
Dartmouth College, and Cision Vision.

PSI is just one of ARPA-H’s programs driving progress in President Biden
and First Lady Jill Biden’s Cancer Moonshot. In ARPA-H’s short two-year
history, we’ve already invested over $400 million in cancer-focused
efforts.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. With that, Will, do you want to kick us off?

Q Perfect. Thanks. Happy birthday again.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks. I appreciate it.

Q I’ve got two — two questions. On —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Do you have any questions for the doc first?

Q I do not.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Who has questions for the doc? And then, we’ll
let her go. If any — no questions?

Q I guess I just have one about just the prospect of sort of ending
cancer. And, you know, it’s something that President Biden has worked on
for a long time and has been very concerned about.

I mean, how realistic is it that we’re going to see significant drops
and changes in cancer rates and deaths?

DR. WEGRZYN: You want to me to take this one?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, you take this one. Yeah.

DR. WEGRZYN: So, I’ll — I’ll start off. So, I think that is part of the
— the vision of ARPA-H is to go after some of those really bold
breakthrough technologies. The $400 million we’re investing — right? —
just from cancer surgery, like you’ll hear about today, all the way to
tuning your immune system and to even screening and making sure we catch
cancers earlier with our new Poseidon program.

And so, I do think it’s that — that accumulation of those multiple ex- —
experiments, really — those projects to attack those different angles of
cancer over time will start to really minimize those risks.

Q I mean, it’s called a “moonshot.”

DR. WEGRZYN: Right.

Q Is it sort of pie in the sky?

DR. WEGRZYN: Yeah, right. Absolutely.

Q Is it like — you know, is it — how — how realistic is it?

DR. WEGRZYN: Well, I think that’s what ARPAs do really well is we — we
look at those moonshots and we break down those challenges into those
bite-sized projects and programs that really allow us to deliverable —
deliver measurable progress forward.

And so, I do think it is achievable and we have to make these
investments in order to close that gap. It’s the only way to do it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Inaudible.)

Q (Inaudible) continue after the president is no — no longer the
president? Like, are — you know, do you expect the same level of
investment and focus on this issue?

DR. WEGRZYN: So, an ARPA-H investment is agnostic to the disease or
technology. We look for those areas where our investment will have that
asymmetrical advancement to the state-of-the-art.

And so, in the case of the PSI program, you’re here on the week that
we’re kicking it off. And so, that project will take place over the
course of four or five years. And those teams — excuse me — will have
milestones that we’ll be monitoring over time.

So, this will absolutely extend well into the future and we’ll be
launching new projects as new programs and program managers are added to
the agency.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. All right. Thanks, doc. Appreciate it.

DR. WEGRZYN: Thank you very much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you so much.

Q Just to be clear, the 150 is part of the 400?

DR. WEGRZYN: Yes. Correct.

Q Is it the first money being dispersed?

DR. WEGRZYN: No, it’s not. So, the current effort that I had the
pleasure of traveling with Dr. Biden last year at Emory University was
the — the initial first investments in Cancer Moonshot.

And so, around the corner, we’re making these awards for PSI. But in a
few months, we’ll be making awards on our Poseidon program that we just
— that we just launched last week, which is a cancer screening program
to really push into — have low-cost solutions so that everybody will
have that equal access to that cancer screening.

Q Would you say that’s in a few months — the —

DR. WEGRZYN: It launched last week, and that’s that call for proposals,
call for solicitation. We’re looking for those teams of solvers that —
that will be making those awards. And those awards will come several
months after we’ve received those proposals and do those reviews.

Q Will that happen before the electi- — before the election?

DR. WEGRZYN: No, it — no, it will not. So, the Proposers’ Day happens
September 4th. This is where you hear the vision of the program
managers. Proposals will be due about a month after that. And then, the
program manager needs several months to review those — those
applications. So, it’ll be winter next year.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, and it’s al- — it’s also not about politics,
right? This is something that the — that is incredibly personal to the
president and the first lady. This is, you know — this is a new
approach, a new agency to find breakthroughs in dealing with something
that affects millions of Americans — and not just millions of Americans
but, obviously, their families as well — Americans that are going
through — going to have to deal with cancer but also their families.

So, this is — as you know, this is — and I said at the top — this is
very personal to them. This is not about politics. This is really, truly
about saving lives.

DR. WEGRZYN: Excellent.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right.

DR. WEGRZYN: Yep. Great.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you so much.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks, Doc.

Will.

Q Terrific. Okay. So, two things. So, on the Ukraine incursion into
Russia. Did the U.S. have a heads-up at all that that was coming
beforehand? Is the U.S. playing any kind of leadership role or helping
to guide that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Absolutely not.

Q — is there any prohibition against the use of U.S. weapons as part of
it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I will say: No, we had nothing to do with
this. This is something for the Ukrainians to speak to their military
operations. Our policy — right? — has not changed on this.

What we are going continue to do, as we have been for the past two y- —
two — more than two-plus years, is to continue to, you know, provide
Ukraine with the assistance that they need to stop the aggression or to
beat back the aggression of Russia.

Obviously, they are — they are attacking — Russia is attacking their
sovereignty, their freedom. And Ukrainian people have been incredibly
brave in what they’ve been able to do.

But we have no involvement. We’ll continue to have conversations with
the Ukrainians about their approach. But it is really for them to speak
to. I don’t have anything else to add.

Q Might this escalate the war, you think?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I just — I’m not going to speculate from here. I’m
not going to speculate.

Remember, this is Russia’s war. This is their invasion. This is their
aggression into a — a sovereign country. And the Ukrainians have been
incredibly brave in beating back that aggression.

Q Okay. I got a — one more topic. On the hack. When was the FBI
informed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So —

Q And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q And — and the other part of that is: Is there any indication that any
other political entity has been infected, like Senate race campaigns or,
I don’t know, super PACs, something like that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, with that, the investigation, what’s being looked
into, that’s for — something for the Department of Justice and the FBI
to speak to. I can’t speak to that from here.

As we have said many times, it’s — more broadly — right? — the
Biden-Harris administration surely condemns any foreign government or
entity who attempt to interfere in our el- — electoral process or seek
to undermine confidence in our democratic institutions.

So, we take any reports of this type of activity incredibly seriously.
But as far as detail, specifics, that’s something for the Department of
Justice —

Q Can you say when the FBI was notified, at least?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Say that one more time.

Q When was the FBI notified that this occurred?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, that — I mean, that really is something for DOJ and
the FBI to speak to. I can’t speak to that from here.

Q Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Thank you.

Q — just on — a follow-up on the question on Kursk. You said that, you
know, we had nothing to do with it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q But were you given a heads-up —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No. No.

Q No — no advance notice?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q Has the president spoken to anyone, you know, in the Ukrainian
government? Is he — is he going to talk to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I don’t —

Q — Volodymyr Zelenskyy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — have anything — I don’t have anything to share on — I
don’t have anything to share on any conversations.

As you know, there was a conversation that he’s had with allies and
partners yesterday. One of the topic was our continued support for
Ukraine. I just don’t have anything to share beyond that.

As it relates to their military operations, that’s something Ukraine
should speak to. And so, I’ll just leave it at that.

Q Okay. And then on the Middle East. The — you know, the hope had been
that there would be a ceasefire deal reached long before now. There —
you know, do you see any opportunity to proceed if Hamas is refusing to
come back to the table?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, obviously, we’re aware of the comments. What we
expect is that we fully expect to — to move forward, as they should. As
you know, August 15th is when folks are going to come back to the table.
All negotiators should return to that table and bring this deal to
conclusion.

It is time for Hamas to release the hostages, which include American
citizens, and bring relief to the people of Gaza under the deal that is
now on the table. And that’s what the president ha- — and his team has
been working on around the clock, and that’s what we want to — want to
see.

Q How exasperated is the president with Benjamin Netanyahu? There was,
you know — I mean, he’s been pushing him, been giving him the backing to
say, “We’ll support you. We defend y- — support your right to defend
yourself.” But there have been continued attacks. You’ve been asked
about that. You know, is there some level of frustration that’s rising?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, our — our c- — our commitment to Israel to be
able to defend itself is ironclad. That will stand. That will be — that
will continue.

As you know — you’ve heard me say, and you’ve heard my NSC colleagues
say it — the president and the prime minister have had decades-long
relationship. It is a honest relationship. Because of that long-term
relationship, they’re — the president is able to be very direct with the
prime minister.

And — so, you know, I will say that nothing has changed.

Look, we want to continue to do everything that we can to get a
ceasefire. That’s how we believe the de-escalation will happen in the
region. That’s how we believe to get hostages home, to get more — to
more — more of the humanitarian aid in, and to end this war.

That’s what this president wants to see. So, diploma- — we want to see
that done in a diplomatic way.

And I do h- — I want to share that, as I’ve said, we’ve worked
diplomatically and militarily to deter any further escalation by Iran
and its proxy terrorist — terrorist groups against Israel and to support
border de-escalation in the region.

As part of those effort, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan has
directed Coordinator for the Middle East Brett McGurk and Senior Advisor
Amas — Amos Hochstein — Hochstein to travel to the region. Brett will
travel to Cairo and then onwards to Doha. Als- — Amos will travel to
Beirut.

And so — and as — as it relates to the State Department, I know there’s
been conversation about the secretary of state and also Director Burns.
I would refer you to their respective agencies.

But, again, this — what we believe the best way to move forward is to —
to do this in a diplomatic way. That’s what you’ve seen the president
do, certainly, the last couple of weeks. Now you see his team is going
to be on the ground in the region to continue that dip- — those
diplomatic efforts. And we’re going to continue to work on that hostage
deal, that ceasefire deal. We believe it is the best way to move forward
when we talk about de-escalating the tension in the Middle East.

Q Last night, President Trump, in conversation with Elon Musk, suggested
that a second country had an Iron Done — Dome system. President — former
President Trump’s suggestion of the Iron Dome, is that accurate? And is
there any concern that he potentially revealed classified information or
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look — so, there’s a lot to unpack with that
conversation last night. That is more — I think it’s something that the
campaign can speak to since  
Donald Trump is certainly a — a presidential candidate. So, I’m just not
going to — I’m not going to g- — dive into — dive into that at this
time.

Q Okay. And then, next, the president had previously said that he, you
know, had planned to visit Africa after winning reelection. Now that he
is no longer running, is there — is he still, I guess, planning to make
that trip to Africa? Do you have any plans —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So —

Q — or guidance you can share there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Once we have anything to share on travel, whether
domestically or foreign — foreign travel, we certainly will share that
with you. Obviously, the next five months are incredibly important to
the — to the president on delivering for the American people, whether it
is domestic issues or foreign policy, national security issues.

Everything that the president does, obviously, is focused on the
American people. Don’t have anything to share with you on travel. But as
soon as we lock anything in and we’re ready to announce it, obviously,
you all will — will know.

Q Just as a follow-up about the Elon Musk X conversation. Did the
president tune in to that at all? And was there any more broad response
to — I mean, there was a lot of criticism to the president’s record, for
example, on the border.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, you know, I certainly didn’t watch it. I
didn’t speak to the president about it. It’s not our focus. I mean,
really — it really isn’t.

Our focus right now is today. We’re going to be in New Orleans. We’re
going to talk about an — an incredibly important issue to both the
president and the first lady and the vice president — our
administration, more broadly — which is Cancer Moonshot, this important
min- — announcement — $150 million announcement that you’ll see the
president speak to. Not going to get ahead of he and the — and the first
lady.

And so, this is important. This is truly an important day. That’s our
focus.

As it relates to the border, you’ve heard me talk about how the
president worked for a couple of months to get that really all-important
bipartisan border deal to get — to make sure there are more Border
Patrol agents, to make sure that we’re dealing with the challenges at
the border.

And Republicans who came forward, sat at the table with us, and
negotiated, they walked away from it. They voted twice against their own
deal because the former president told them not to move forward with it
because it would be good politics for Joe Biden and bad politics for
him.

And so, that is where we are. Instead of being with the American people
— majority of American people, Republicans didn’t — that voted against
the interests of Americans.

And so, we want to move forward. As it relates to the border, we want to
move forward and really deliver a real way — path forward to dealing
with the immigration — a broken immigration system that’s been broken
for decades. That’s what the president wants to see. That’s what the
vice president wants to see.

And those are the facts. Like, those are the facts. And that’s the only
thing that I can speak to.

Q Okay. And the second follow-up about the border. Numbers have been
down for the last five or six months quite substantially compared to the
end of last year. Is the — is the expectation that that will continue
over the coming months or if it will — will the numbers start to trickle
up again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean — I mean, look, so, we believe the best way to
move forward is legislation. We believe the best way to do that is to do
it in a bipartisan way. That’s why the president worked for a couple of
months to get that done.

And we had something on the table that would have been the toughest, the
taire- — the fairest border legislation — border deal legislation —
immigration legislation that we had seen in some time.

Republicans walked away from their own negotiating process. And they
also walked away from the American people.

So, the president took action. Right? And he put forth some processes,
and we have seen a drop at — at the border, which is good, which is
something that, obviously, we wanted to see.

I can’t speak to — right? — there’s an influx — you hear talk about,
like, every month that they’re — depending on the season, it — influx,
what’s happening at the border. So, don’t — I can’t — I can’t predict
what it’s going to look like.

What I can say is this president, this vice president, and this
administration is going to do everything that we can to deal with the
challenges that we’re seeing at the border. And right now, we’re doing
it on our own — right? — because Republicans in Congress don’t — they
don’t want it.

Q On that point, the president had previously suggested maybe returning
to legislation — immigration legislation. Is — is that being seen and
done in earnest at all? Or are you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, we want to see that. Again, that
bipartisan border legislation that was going to — that was the deal that
was going to come out of the Senate — or that came out of the Senate —
would have been the toughest and the fairest. We want to see that moving
forward.

We’re not getting in the way of that. We’re ready. We’re ready to move
forward. Republicans in Congress are getting in the way of that. So,
they got to get out of their own way in order to deal with an issue that
matters, again, to a majority of Americans.

We are ready. We are ready anytime to move forward with that — with that
negotiation that was put forth in the Senate. They’re — but we can’t do
it by oursel- —

Q Karine, there —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — by ourselves, right? It’s a bipartisan way to — path
to move forward.

Go ahead.

Q There was a — a lot of sort of pushback yesterday to the Time is Money
initiative where, you know, the Chamber of Commerce and others say it’s
going to add unnecessary layers of bureaucracy and regulation. What do
you say to that?

And is the president planning further actions? We’ve seen the junk fees.
We’ve seen —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — greedflation initiatives.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Are we expecting more in coming months?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, this administration is going to continue to stand
up for consumers and hold corporate — corporations accountable when they
take actions that harm people, period. At the same time, we’ll continue
to work with companies from a variety of industries to lower costs and
create good-paying jobs.

If your business — this is for example — if your business needs to trap
and trick customers into keeping services they no longer need, then
there is something wrong with your business model. There just is.

With stronger rules of the road in place, companies can compete on the
basis of price and quality of service and stop engaging in a race of —
to the bottom by hitting consumers with supir- — surprise fees; hidden
contact — hidden contract terms; or unnecessary hurdles that waste their
time and money.

That’s what our Time as — is Money initiative is all about. And that’s
what you’ve seen. Whether it’s junk fees — right? — we are going to do
everything that we can. This is part of that lowering costs that we
talked about and also just getting rid of cost that is unnecessary.

On Thursday, you’re going to hear from both the president and the vice
president. We’re going to make an announcement on what — the next steps
that we’re doing to lower costs. I’m not going to get ahead of them.
Obviously, we’ll share a little bit more as we get closer to Thursday.

But that has always been our focus — right? — lowering costs for
Americans, protecting — having their backs — having workers’ backs as
they’re being taken advantage of by corporations. And that’s not okay.
That’s not okay for this president or this vice president.

Q So, the pre- — that Thursday event that you’re talking about is the
culmination of the negotiations on prescription drug prices?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to get ahead of the announcement, but it
will be a lower cost announcement. And I think this is about the
American people. This is about the right thing to do, how to protect
consumers, how to protect American families, and so — and how to
continue to lower costs for them.

And that’s what you’re going to hear from — from both the president and
vice president.

Q Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Yeah.

Q Yesterday, John Kirby told reporters that a impact — Iran’s attack on
Israel could impact this ceasefire negotiation deal coming to the table.
Is the administration still confident in this ability to move forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We are very much going to do everything that we can to
move forward. Right? We believe negotiators should come to the table. We
believe getting to a ceasefire deal is the best way to de-escalate the
tensions that we’re seeing.

But not only that ceasefire — stopping the war — the president wants to
end the war. He wants to see hostages, including American hostages, come
home. He wants to make sure the people of Gaza get in — get more
humanitarian aid. I mean, this is — we believe the best way to move
forward is having these diplomatic talks.

We’re going to see the continuation of the conversation for the
ceasefire deal happening in Doha on August 15th, which is just in two
days, on — on Thursday.

And so, we encourage everyone — we want to see everybody come back to
the table. And that is — we believe getting that ceasefire deal — the
president believes this — is the best way to go here. And so, we’re
going to continue to work around the clock to get that done.

Q Can I ask you a quick one? Piggybacking off of that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q You know, Israel expanded some of its demands for a ceasefire past
what the U.S. had originally. Does the U.S. agree with the — with those
expansions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to negotiate in public. I’m just not. I’m
going to let folks who are the experts on this sit around the
negotiating table and talk this through. I’m just not going to — I’m not
going to negotiate in public.

All right?

Q Just one other thing on student loans.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q We’re waiting to see if the Supreme Court might step in to the
challenges on the SAVE Plan that have been pending for a while. Does the
president have a message to the 8 million Americans that have enrolled
up to this point and could be in jeopardy of losing that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, this president has been acting since day one
— obviously, I’m not going to talk to leti- — litigation. He’s acting
since day one to make sure that he gives American families a little bit
of breathing room. And — and one of those ways is dealing with student
loans.

And you’ve seen him act — even when Republicans have gotten in the way,
you’ve seen him act and take action with that.

You have 168 — he has been able to cancel more than $168 billion in debt
for nearly 5 million. So, he’s taken action. He’s going to continue to
do that. The SAVE Plan obviously is — is one — is one way of doing that
— continuing on that.

And so, that’s his message. His message to millions of Americans across
the country is that he has their backs and he’s going to continue to
take action. I’m not going to speak to the SAVE Plan, as it’s in the
litigation.

Q Kar- — Karine, how is the president feeling with the DNC right around
the corner now? I mean, what’s kind of his — his energy, his mood, his
vibe? How’s he —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, yeah, you’ll see a little bit of his vibe later —
(laughter) — later today.

So, look, it’s — it’s a political event, so going to be mindful on not
talking about too much going into that — to — to details. But what I
will say is that, as you heard the president underline in his CBS
interview, he is proud that we have built the strongest record of any
modern administration, and we’re fighting hard to deliver more results
for middle-class families.

President Biden and Vice President Harris inherited a country that was
paralyzed because of COVID. It was a once-in-a-century pandemic. And
what they were able to do by passing the American Rescue Plan — that
only Democrats voted on — very early in the first four months into his
administration was get shots in arms, money in pockets, open up schools,
open up businesses. And so, that is something that this president is
very much proud of; this vice president is very much proud of.

We acted and turned out — turned all of — of that around, obviously:
ending the pandemic, delivering the strongest job and economic growth in
the world, and the lowest violent cri- — and the lowest violent crime
rate in nearly 50 years.

And so, now we’re — we’re fighting to give tax relief to middle-class
families, have the wealth\[y\] pay their fair share, to restore the
protections of Roe, and pass tough bipartisan border security deal.

And on the other side — MAGA economics — what they want to do is give
tax cuts to billionaires and corporations. They want to gu- — gut Social
Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. I mean, that’s what they want to put
forward, and what that’s going to do is hurt working families.

And so, what this president and this vice president is going to do is
continue to fight for working families. And so, that’s what I can speak
to. That’s what you can expect the president to continue to speak to and
the vice president, certainly not just next week but beyond next week.

Q Former President Trump a couple days ago suggested, I think for the
second time, that it would make sense to cut taxes on Social Security
benefits for seniors on Medicare. What is the position on that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, we’ve been very clear.

Q — (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Again, got to be mindful because he’s a candidate. But
the president has always said he’s going to protect Social Security,
he’s going to protect Medicare, he’s going to prote- — protect Medicaid.
We’ve — we’ve heard him —

Q But this one — this isn’t about cutting So- — Social Security. It’s
about cutting, you know, or reducing the taxes or eliminating the taxes
that people are — have to pay on their Social Security payments,
benefits.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, yeah, I hear you. And so, look, I’m going to be
really mindful. I’m not speaking to that directly because it’s a — it’s
a campaign issue, so the campaign can speak to that.

We’ve always said that we’re going to protect — protect Americans,
especially as it deals with Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid. That
has always been our commitment.

Republicans have always said the opposite — always said the opposite. We
saw that during the State of the Union, not just this past one but the
one before. But they’ve been pretty consistent on how they see moving
forward with Social Security and Medicare and Medicaid, which is gutting
it, cutting it, and making it more harmful to Americans.

So, we’re going to f- — we’re going to protect them. We’re going to
protect those really important programs that matter to millions of
Americans across the country. And so, that’s what I can speak to. I’m
just not going to speak to — to specific policies at this moment.

All right?

Q So, the president, he’s obviously d- — in New — New Orleans for the
Moonshot event today, and then he’s thinking about the DNC next week. Is
he starting to think about his post-presidency? Is there — is there
anything you can share about what he —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, you’re going to hear directly from the president
in the next — you know, next week and the next couple of weeks. I think
his CBS interview and also his Oval address that he gave right after he
decided to step aside gave you a little bit of insight of his thinking
process of how proud he was to have — to be doing this job.

And so, I’m going to not get ahead of him. He’ll lay that out for all of
you. But this is a president that has taken his presidency very
seriously. And you see that with the unprecedented, you know, actions
that he’s taken — historic presidency that he’s had. And so, you’ll hear
fr- — more from him, so I don’t want to get ahead of this president.

All right. Thanks, everybody.

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: My ears —

Q Happy birthday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you so much. My ears are popping.

Q Happy birthday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you so much.

2:27 P.M. EDT
