---
date: '2024-08-12'
published_time: 2024-08-12 18:02:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/08/12/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-67/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:07 P.M. EDT  
  
Q    Hello!  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.  
  
Q    Hello.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Happy Monday.  Hi, everyone.   
  
Q    Hi.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A lot of empty seats back there, I see.  It’s
August.   
  
Okay.  A couple of things for you at the top — what you all can expect
this week.  President Biden spoke today with France, Germany, Italy, and
the United Kingdom to discuss the situation in the Middle East and
ongoing efforts to de-escalate tensions and reach a ceasefire and
hostage deal in Gaza.   
  
And as I was walking out, I believe that readout — the joint readout
should be in your inbox.  So, obviously, you’ll have that for all of —
to review.   
  
Tomorrow, the president and the first lady will travel to New Orleans,
where they will deliver remarks at a Biden Cancer Moonshot event.   
  
On Thursday, the president and the vice president will travel to Prince
George’s County, Maryland, to deliver remarks on the progress they are
making to lower costs for the American people.  
  
And on Friday, the president will head to Camp David for the weekend.   
  
We will definitely have more to share on this week’s schedule in the
days ahead.  And one — one thing that I wanted to say, because we’ve all
been watching these last two weeks: Today we want to send a heartfelt
congratulations to all the American athletes who made us “so damn
proud,” as the president said, at this year’s Olympics, bringing home an
impressive 126 medals, including 40 gold medals.  
  
From the president on down, we have all been cheering you on here at the
White House.  And the first lady and the second gentleman were proud to
represent the United States and root for our athletes in Paris.  
  
The president also personally called Olympians last week to congratulate
them and thank them for representing our nation on the world stage.  As
the first lady said, and I quote, “Our athletes carry more than just our
flag.  They carry our nation’s heart and our hopes with them too.”  
  
From basketball and soccer to gymnastics and swimming, our nation’s
greatest athletes gave us their all and showed us that truly nothing is
beyond our capacity when we do it together.   
  
Sports help us unite.  And the Olympics remind us that despite our
differences, we come — we can come together to achieve greatness.   
  
While we are sad that the Olympics Games — they’re over, and we’re very
sad about that — it’s come to an end, we are very excited to host them
here in the United States in 2028.   
  
And we have the Paralympic Games to look forward to later this month,
and you can bet we will be cheering just as hard for Team USA.  
  
Today, President Biden and Vice President Harris launched Time is Money,
a new government-wide effort to crack down on all the ways that
<s>cooperations and</s> \[corporations add\] unnecessary headaches and
hassles to our lives, wasting precious time and money, from excessive
paperwork and unreasonable hold times to the endless hurdles some
companies make you jump through to cancel subscriptions.  We — we’ve all
been there and know how aggravating these unnecessary delays can be.  
  
Today, in the coming months — and in the coming months, the pre- — the
Biden-Harris administration will take wide-ranging action to crack down
on these unfair practices and save Americans time and money, including
making it easier to cancel sub- — subscriptions and memberships,
ensuring that consumers calling customer service can talk to a real
person by pressing a single button, and allowing Americans to submit
health claims online.   
  
And this is just the beginning.  We are calling for Americans to share
their ideas through an online portal on the White House website and to
tell us directly how federal action can give them their time back.   
  
Americans are tired of being played for suckers, and President Biden and
Vice President Harris will continue to use every tool available to
protect Americans from corporate greed and practices that hit people in
their pocketbooks.  
  
With that, Zeke, what you got?  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Over the weekend, the vice president said she
would — she followed former president Donald Trump in saying she would
support proposals that would not tax tipped wages.  If such a similar
bill made its way to the president of the United States, President
Biden, would he sign that?  That’s something — not something he’s — he
would — he’s embraced before.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, absolutely.  Look, this is something that the
president supports.  He supports eliminating taxes on tips for service
and hospitality workers while also raising minimum wage and preventing
the wealthy from — from gaming the system.   
  
And if you think about what the president has talked about the last
three and a half years — making sure that we have an economy that works
for all, not leaving anybody behind, an economy that’s built from the
bottom up, middle out — the president has been fighting — and the vice
president has been fighting to do just that.   
  
Think about raising the minimum wage, which — which the Trump
administration, they blocked; cut taxes for workers and families after
Trump gave a $2 trillion tax cut skewed to billionaires and big
corporations; defend overtime protections for millionaires — millions of
workers whom the Trump administration left behind; ensure workers have
the freedom to join a union, which the Trump administration
undermined.   
  
You hear talk — talk about MAGAnomics and what the GOP is for.  They’re
for giving tax breaks from billionaires and corporation.  They want
price gouging.  That’s what they want to see.   
  
They wa- — they don’t want to protect — protect American workers.  They
give, again, more tax to billionaires and corporations.  That’s what
they’ve been talking about over and over and over, raising taxing —
taxes for working people.   
  
That’s not what we’re about, and we’re going to continue to do just that
in the next five months.   
  
Q    And then on a similar topic, the VP’s team has also said she’s
going to be rolling out some additional policy this week.  Given the
president’s endorsement of her, is it safe to say that anything that she
would put forward along these lines, that also would have the backing of
the president?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You can — you can sa- — you can — you can certainly
say — or I can say that they are partners in this.  So, they believe and
— certainly on the same page when we think about the economy, when we
think about health care.  
  
They’re — her — they have to work through what their policies, ideas
are.  But the last three and a half years, they’ve been in sync.  They
have been certainly on the same page.  And I — I presume that that will
continue from here.   
  
Q    And then just on a scheduling note.  A week from today, the
Democratic Convention gets going in Chicago.  That was supposed to be
where — where the president was going to, you know, be the star of the
show there, accepting the– the renomination of his party.  That’s not
the case anymore.   
  
What is his involvement going to be in that convention?  How much time
does he plan to spend in Chicago?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    When does he plan to speak?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I — I’m not going to get o- — get ahead of
the Democratic National Convention to make their announcements on
speakers next week.  I think — I think Americans will be very excited. 
I think he will have his moment as well.  They will be very excited to
see him.  And so, we’re — he’s certainly looking forward to that.   
  
I’ll let the DNC convention, obviously, make — make the announcement.   
  
The president will indeed speak next week.  Again, he’s looking forward
to it.  He’s looking forward to — as he — as he tends to do, speak
directly to the American people, talk about the moment that we’re —
we’re at, the stakes — what’s at stake and — and continue to talk about
an issue that is incredibly important to him, which is unity: making
sure that we’re unified and we continue to do the work that the
president has been successful in doing in the past three and a half
years.  
  
Q    And will he be there when the vice president accepts the
nomination?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to — to share about — about
his schedule next week.  He will certainly speak at the DNC convention,
and I think there’ll be a lot of excitement and a lot of — I think folks
are going to be, again, excited to see the president next week.   
  
Go ahead, Selina.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just to bounce off on the previous question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Trump was the first to endorse eliminating taxes on tips.  He’s
accusing Vice President Harris of stealing his idea.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    So, did she get this idea from Trump?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — I’m not going to respond to a presidential
candidate.  I think their campaign can speak to that directly.   
  
What I can say is this president, this vice president have always had
the backs of the working people — always — and you see that in the
policies that they put forward. 

Everything that we have put forward — historic pieces of legislation
that are obviously now laws — are helping middle-class workers, are
helping people — just people in different communities that are normally,
again, left behind — if you think about tax cuts for workers and
middle-class families instead of billionaires and big corporations
getting that tax break; raising minimum wage is something that we have
talked about and done; ensuring workers can join a union.   
  
This is something that Republican officials themselves, they oppose —
they have opposed.   
  
So, I think the question really is: If Republican officials — you know,
why didn’t they?  Why didn’t they join — join the president and the vice
president to support working families?  They didn’t.  They didn’t.   
  
And so, I think our record shows that.  What we’ve done under this term,
under this administration — the Biden-Harris administration — we have
put working people at the center of every policy that we’ve moved
forward with as it relates to the economy, health care, even climate
change.  And so, that is something that we’re going to continue to do.  
  
Q    This is one of the first specific policy endorsements that we’ve
heard from the vice president.  Is there anything you can explain about
kind of how she came to this endorsement and how she will address the
criticism from economists?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, that is — I mean, that is — that was said in a
campaign context, so I would have to refer you to the campaign.  I’m
sure they can speak more to that.   
  
It is not unusual — right? — when a campaign goes — moves forward that
they have their — they put forth their policy agenda for the American
people to see for themselves.   
  
What I can speak to is what this president and this vice president have
been aligned on and what they’ve done together — working together in
delivering for the American people.  That will not stop.  And,
obviously, as — as it was stated in a question to me by Zeke, the pres-
— the president certainly supports the vice president as she moves
forward.  
  
Q    And what’s the White House’s reaction to the former president
pushing this false conspiracy theory that the vice president had used
artificial intelligence to create images of the crowd?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m going to be mindful in speaking about a
campaign comment.   
  
What I will say is that this president and this vice president — I think
what you see from both of them is optimism in a belief in this country,
the future of this country.  They believe that there’s a lot at stake. 

And what I will say is it’s clear — it’s clear that that message has
broken through and majority of Americans see and feel that optimism and
certainly support what we’ve been working on, the agenda that we’ve been
working on the last three and a half years.   
  
So, I’ll leave it there.   
  
Go ahead.  Hey, Kelly O.  I haven’t seen you in a while.  
  
Q    Hi there.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  
  
Q    I’ve been around, just maybe not in this chair.  Is there a
interagency-policy-review-type approach to the Harris portfolio with
President Biden’s portfolio?  So, is he in touch with — is there a
process where there is a checking of what she’s going to put out and how
it matches or may change, or ways in which she can build on what he’s
done?  Is there a coordination of that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can’t speak to an interagency kind of process in
doing just that — trying to measure up or line up where they both
are.   
  
What I can speak to is the last three and a half years — right? — we
have less than six months now of this administration — and how much the
vice president was a critical partner in getting a lot of the big
pieces, historic pieces done. 

The heavy lifting, she was part of that — whether it’s the Inflation
Reduction Act; the first piece of policy, which is the American Rescue
Plan, which helped lower crime, for example.  We’ve seen the lowest in
crime in more than 50 years.  The last administration — we saw the
highest numbers of murder in the Trump administration.   
  
There’s been a lot of ways that we’ve been able to do historic — move in
a historic way.  And so, she’s been part of that.  She’s been part of
that.   
  
Obviously, again, as I was — just stated, she’s going to lay out her
vision.  But, again, they’ve been aligned.  You know?  They’ve been
aligned for the last three and a half years.  There’s not been any
daylight.   
  
Q    Does the president expect that she might want to move in some new
directions as vice — sitting vice presidents have always had this issue,
but does he expect that she might move in some new directions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I expect — again, being super careful here
because she’s going to — her campaign are going to make their own
announcement — is she’s going to build — going to build on the successes
that they’ve had, going to build on the unprecedented successes, the
historic successes that they’ve had.   
  
That’s another reason why the president passed the torch, if you will —
right? — understanding that they worked together very closely in the
last three and a half years and that was going to continue.  And she was
the best person to move forward. 

This is someone who’s been a vice president for almost four years, a
senator, attorney general.  She is incredibly qualified and understands
where the majority of the American people are.  And that’s what we can
expect.   
  
Go ahead, Lucey.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I wanted to clarify something the president said
in the CBS interview over the weekend.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    When he was asked about his decision to — to step aside from the
campaign, he — one of the things he said was that he — when he ran the
first time, he thought of himself as a “transition president.”  But then
he said, “But things got moving so quickly it didn’t happen.”  I was j-
— did he initially plan to serve one term and at some point change his
mind?  I — I didn’t — I don’t know what to make of this.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I — I honestly don’t have much to — much to
say.  I think his speech to the nation that he gave in the Oval Office
laid that out — right? — talked about being a transition president,
talked about passing the torch.  You heard directly from him, where his
heart was, how he was thinking through this process and his reasoning. 
And I would say his — his answer certainly speak for itself.  
  
For me — and I think I can speak for — for many of my colleagues who
have — who — who work with me day in and day out on behalf of this
country, on behalf of this administration, is that we are so proud of
this president and what he’s been able to accomplish on behalf of the
American people.   
  
You think about the economy: the strongest economy leading the world. 
You think how we’ve been able to beat Big Pharma.  That’s nothing —
nothing to laugh at. That’s been something that many presidents had
tried to do, were not able to get that done.  
  
You think about what he’s been able to do with our allies and partners
around the world and build — rebuild that relationship.   
  
Climate change: passing one of the most important, largest, biggest,
historic pieces of cl- — pieces of legislation that’s going to deal with
one — one of our major crises right now that we face in this country, in
the world.   
  
The Inflation Reduction Act.  
  
So, we could be no- — we could not be prouder of this president and, of
course, this vice president as they work together on this.  But I think
the — his Oval address lays out very clearly how he saw his
presidency.  
  
Q    Any update on when we’ll see him do a campaign event for Harris?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have no update for you from here.  Certainly, the
campaign will have more to share on — on that.  
  
Hey, Weijia.  
  
Q    Hey, Karine.  How are you?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m doing great.  How are you?  
  
Q    Good, thanks.  So, following up on eliminating taxes on tips.  Is
that an idea that the Biden administration considered at any point in
the past three and a half years?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is the president supports it.  And what
I can say is, obviously, the president and the vice president very much
what I just — how I answered the earlier question, is that we have
always put at front and center making it easier, giving American
families a little bit more breathing room — something the president says
very often.  
  
And so — and we’ve shown that.  We’ve shown that in the policies that
we’ve laid out.  And, you know, not going to go into what the former
president said, but, you know, if — if Republicans truly cared about
that, truly cared about hardworking Americans, they would have joined us
on a lot of these proposals that we put forward.   
  
The American Rescue Plan turned to — turned the economy around, put
shots in arms, checks in pockets.  They didn’t support that.   
  
The Inflation Reduction Act bi- — beat Big Pharma.  It’s going to help
lower cost — lower health care costs for Americans, lower energy costs
for Americans.  They didn’t support that.  
  
And so, this is a president that — and a vice president that is always
going to have the backs of working people.  He supports what she put
forward recently, obviously, and — when she spoke recently at a campaign
rally, and we’re going to continue to do the work to raise minimum wage
and make sure that we put working-class people at the front and
center.  
  
Q    So, it’s a new idea?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a — obviously, it’s a new idea.  I’m just saying
that we support it.  But we have been doing the work — right? — for
hardworking Americans to lower costs, and that is something — you’re
going to see that on Thursday with both the president and the vice
president when they make an announcement on other ways — on other
additional ways to lower costs.  
  
Q    And — and then speaking of Click to Cancel —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — can you talk about how it will be enforced and whether there’s
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — an existing mechanism that would force businesses to comply?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — I’ll be able to get more information for you
from that from our policy folks.  Don’t have anything to lay out on how
the specifics the — that — that will work out.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  
  
Q    I have a legacy-related question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Biden is talking about the Cancer Moonshot tomorrow.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, yeah.  
  
Q    He’s talking about lowering costs on Thursday.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    This morning there were, you know, talks on the Middle East.  Has
the president communicated what — you know, in the next five months,
what his priorities will be when it — when it comes to things that he
can accomplish over the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — remainder of his presidency?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I would say a few — obviously, you guys have
reported and paid close attention over the last two weeks.  You’ve hear-
— you’ve seen some — kind of some ways that the president wants to move
forward in the next five months.  When you think about the SCOTUS reform
— right?  He went to Austin, Texas, at LBJ Library and talked about
that, laid out his plan.   
  
You think about the announcement today as — as you just — as you just —
as you just stated.  That was a very important announcement, and I think
it’s going to have a huge effect and be really important to Americans,
and that’s what they — that’s certainly what they want to see.  Time is
Money, obviously, is a — is — is an important — majority of Americans
want to see.  
  
You’ll hear from this president about lowering costs — and the vice
president — on Thursday, other ways to lower costs.  I won’t get ahead
of that.   
  
And then, tomorrow, the Cancer Moonshot.  
  
I mean, those are initiatives that have been a key part —  keep them —
made up key parts of his platform and how he wants to deliver for the
American people.  That hasn’t changed.  The economy, health care, as you
just stated, foreign — foreign policy into — to (inaudible).  
  
And so, you’ll hear more from this president as time goes by.  And — and
the American people, that’s what’s — that’s what at — at the center of
everything that he does, making sure we deliver for them, give them a
little bit breathing room, and deal with issues that matter to them. 
And that’s what we have been doing.  
  
All of the things that I have talked about — not just today, many times
behind this lectern — are issues that are incredibly — majority of
Americans care about it.  Majority of Americans care about it.  And so,
that’s where we’re going to be, where majority of Americans are.  
  
Go ahead, Jared.  
  
Q    I have —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m so sorry.   
  
Q    You’re fine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m so sorry.  I’m sorry.  
  
Q    You’re fine.  I have one more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, go ahead.  
  
Q    Elon Musk is slated to interview Donald Trump tomor- — tonight on —
on X.  I don’t know if the president is going to tune in.  Feel free to
say if he is or not.  (Laughter.)  
  
But I — I think that misinformation on Twitter is not just a campaign
issue.  It’s a — you know, it’s an America issue.  What role does the
White House or the president have in sort of stopping that or stopping
the spread of that or sort of inter- — intervening in that?   
  
Some of that was about campaign misinformation, but, you know, it’s a
wider thing, right?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, no, and you’ve heard us talk about this many
times from here, about the responsibilities that social media platforms
have when it comes to misinformation, disinformation.  Don’t have
anything to read out from here about specific ways that we’re working on
it.  But we believe that — that they have the responsibility.  These are
private companies, so we — we’re also mindful of that too.  
  
But, look, it is — I think it — it is incredibly important to — to call
that out, as you are — you’re doing.  I just don’t have any specifics on
— on what we have been doing internally.   
  
As re- — as it relates to the interview, it’s not something that I’m
tracking, and I’m sure the president is not tracking it either.  
  
Go ahead, Jared.  
  
Q    Just curious about the Thursday event with the vice president —
that the president and vice president are doing.  Can we expect —
because that’s an official event; that’s a policy event.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Can we expect to see more of those kind of joint administration
events between the president and vice president?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Stay tuned.  Stay tuned.  
  
But I think Thursday’s announcement is going to be really important.
 You’re right.  It’s about lowering costs for the American people.  It’s
— it — it really builds on what this president and the vice president
has been trying to do over the last three and a half years as it relates
to the American people.  
  
Stay tuned.  We certainly will have more to share about his schedule,
their schedule together in the upcoming days and weeks.  
  
Q    I only ask because we —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — haven’t seen a lot of those sort of joint events.  Usually, they
— they kind of branch out, flank out, and do those events separately. 
So, what is the thinking behind them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think there’s been a couple of times over the three
and a half years that — that the president and the vice president have
had joint events.  And I think very early on, the first several months,
I remember them going to Georgia together.  Obviously, they went there
for an — an awful event that happened on the ground — a shooting.  
  
But they have — they have appeared together many times.  I — I know when
it comes to Roe v. Wade, for example, they’ve appeared together for
that.  And there’s been other times as well.  
  
I would expect that that will be continuing in the last several months
of this administration.  And remember, yes, they — they — they do their
own events and they crisscross the country, but they’re partners in
this, and they’ll continue to do just that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  We know a president’s most valuable commodity is
his time.  And I wonder: How is the White House, how is the president
thinking about how he spends that time now that he’s no longer running
for reelection?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, SCOTUS — he went to — he went to — he —
he went to Texas and talked about SCOTUS reform.  That was an important
way to spend his time.   
  
Tomorrow, Cancer Moonshot.  This is an issue both the president and the
first lady care about deeply, obviously for — for important personal
reasons to them.  And so, they’re going to be together in New Orleans.  
  
You’re going to see them continue to talk about — him talk about lower
cost.   
  
And so, there — there is a map out there, I think, if you guys take a
look at how he has been moving in the past couple of weeks.  
  
And let’s not forget, he’s had several calls with heads of states in the
Middle East region.  And I talked about — at the top of my briefing
about to reach a ceasefire deal in — in the Middle East and also a hos-
— a ceasefire and hostage release deal, obviously, but also
de-escalating the tensions.  
  
He spent his time doing that over the past two weeks and having those
very important dip- — diplomatic conversations with those heads of
states.  
  
So, I think if you just look at what he’s been doing, it’s very clear
what this president cares about, is focusing on.  And it’s all — at the
center of that, as I answered in my answer to one of your colleagues, is
certainly the American people.  Whether it’s national security,
domestic, the center of it is the American people.  
  
Q    And on the DNC.  How is he viewing his role next week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, it’s going to be — going to be mindful because
it’s a political event.  But it’s an event that he views as — as very
important.  It’s an opportunity to talk about the issues that he cares
about.  It’s an opportunity to talk about unity.  It’s an opportunity to
be in front of millions of Americans to talk about what we’ve done in
the last three and a half years.  
  
I’m going to be mindful because it is a political event.  But the
president is looking forward to it.  He sees this as an important
moment, and especially as we — as we move forward to the last several
months.  
  
Go ahead, Michael.  Michael.  Oh —  
  
Q    Oh, yeah.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.   
  
Q    I’m sorry.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh —  
  
Q    I — actually, I was going to ask some — a very similar question. 
I’m just curious if you could talk a little bit about what it’s going to
be like for the president to be giving this speech, knowing that if
things have gone a little bit differently, he would be giving an
acceptance speech for a second term.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I’m just going to go back to the Oval
Office address, because I think that address really laid out in a very
thoughtful, even personal way of how this president saw this moment. 
And, you know, it was a selfless act.  It wasn’t about him.  It was
about the country.  He said this.  And he thought it was an important
moment.  
  
But this is a president that is proud of what he’s been able to build. 
I’ve talked about the strongest economy leading the world in the modern
administration.  And we’re going to continue to fight to deliver results
for the American people.  
  
That doesn’t end.  That doesn’t end.  That is something that he is
certainly very focused on: the middle class, middle-class families.  
  
Let’s not forget where this president came from, right?  He ca- — he
grew up in Scranton, Pennsylvania.  He understands what it’s like to sit
around that kitchen table and make really difficult decisions for your
family, whether it’s student loans, whether it’s paying rent, mortgage. 
Whatever it is, he understands how hard that is.  
  
And let’s not forget, when the pre- — the c- — when he stepped in as
president, this country was paralyzed because the economy was falling
bi- — and because of COVID.  And he turned that around.  He turned that
around because of the American Rescue Plan, because of policies that
he’s put forth.  And so, I think that’s important to note.  
  
And so, he sees his — a lot more work to be done in next several
months.  And his think- — thought process and how he sees his decision
certainly is in the Oval Office address that he made.  And I think it’s
telling.  I think it — it gives you a little bit insight of — of what he
thought personally.  
  
Go ahead, Molly.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Has the president started preparing for these
remarks?  Does he know how — what he wants his message to focus on?  Is
he going to work on them at Camp David?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think you could expect this president to — to focus
on these remarks in — in the next several days, leading up to Monday.  I
think you can expect this president to take this moment — he — he
understands this is an incredibly important moment that he will have
next week at the Democratic National Convention.  
  
He’s still very much the leader of the party, right?  And he takes that
very seriously.  And he’s also very proud of his vice president.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  How mad is President Biden at Nancy Pelosi?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You guys keep asking me this question.  I think I’ve
answered this question multiple times.  
  
Q    Well, he has —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not —  
  
Q    — admitted now —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — (inaudible).  
  
Q    — for the first time in this interview that Pelosi is one of the
Democrats who squeezed him out of the race.  She thought he was going to
sink the whole ticket.  So, how mad is he at her for that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The president respects his good friend, former Speaker
of the House Nancy Pelosi.  And I think it’s mutual.   
  
And in — she also gave interviews — and I know you follow closely, as
well — over the weekend.  She made statements like “preeminent
president,” “among the top few” to have served in this office.  And I
think that says a lot coming from the former speaker.  
  
Q    So, no hard feelings?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He respects his good friend Speaker Pelosi.   
  
Q    I asked if there were any hard feelings.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  No hard feelings.  He respects her.  And I
think th- —  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I think it’s mutual, but I will let the president
speak for himself, obviously.   
  
Q    And how long have you guys known that Vice President Harris does
not think President Biden is doing a good job at the border?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait, say that one more time.   
  
Q    Well, she’s now promising to hire thousands more border agents than
there are now under President Biden.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait — but start your question again.   
  
Q    I — how long have you guys known that Vice President Harris does
not think that President Biden is effective with his border policy?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, that — you’re — you’re making a huge jump. 
Wh- — wh- — she did not say this. 

Q    If —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This is something that you are assuming.   
  
Q    Well, her —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t understand why you would assume that.  It’s
not true.  
  
Q    She has a campaign ad where she is saying they need more Border
Patrol agents.  If President Biden is doing such —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re —  
  
Q    — a good job —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — but we —  
  
Q    — why do they need any more border agents?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We both believe that.  The president does want more
Border Patrol agents.  You know who’s getting in the way?  You know
who’s getting in the way?  Republicans in Congress.  They’re getting in
the way.  You know who else is getting in the way?  The former
president, Donald Trump.  He’s getting in the way.   
  
I mean, I don’t un- — there’s no daylight here.  I’m not understanding
the question because there’s no daylight.   
  
The president believes that as well, and he’s worked towards doing
that.  There’s a bipartisan — I know you guys probably get — get sick of
me saying this, but there was — there was a bipartisan agreement that
was on the table that the president worked through for a couple of
months with Republicans in the Senate and Democrats.  They were told not
to move forward, because it would help Joe Biden, by the former
president.  That’s their decision.   
  
Q    And there’s one more thing that came out over the weekend.  There’s
this new Las Vegas police radio traffic that’s published by The Daily
Beast where officers were racing to secure a hospital emergency room on
July 17th.  They were under the impression that President Biden was
having a medical emergency.  What was it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was not.  As you know, the president, when we were
in Vegas, tested positive for COVID. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We let you all know.  And then we flew back here. 
Outside of that, there was no medical emergency. 

People are still testing positive for COVID.  But because of this
president, he was able to put forth a comprehensive — a comprehensive
way to move forward with this pandemic.  And now we have vaccines.  And
now we ha- — we are in a different place with this pandemic.  It is
behind us.  And that’s because of this president and what he was able to
do.  
  
Go ahead.  W- — I haven’t seen you in a while.  Hey, how are you?  
  
Q    Oh — thank you, ma’am.  Sorry.  I wasn’t sure if you were —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  Oh, gosh, no.  (Laughter.)  Sir.  (Laughter.) 
I’m just teasing.  I’m just teasing.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But it’s good to see you.  I was just saying I hadn’t
seen you in a while.  It’s good to see you.  
  
Q    Okay.  This is a bit of a throwback, but the — the vice president
has said that she was the last person in the room with President Biden
ahead of his decision to order U.S. troops to pull out of Afghanistan. 
Was the vice president in full support of his decision to order that
withdrawal and in full support of the way that it was implemented?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, she answered that question herself.  I don’t
have anything else to add.  It sounds like she answered the question
herself, right?  
  
Q    She said that she was in the room, previously.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But you — didn’t you also said she was in support?  
  
Q    No, I’m asking you if the president believes that the vice
president was in full support of his decision to pull out.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I believe — and as you have seen them in the past
three and a half years, they’ve been partners — critical partners.  It
doesn’t matter if it’s domestic issues; also, foreign policy issues. 
And that has been the case from day one and continues to be the case.  I
don’t have anything else to add.  
  
Q    Great.  And a second one —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    — quickly.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    You’ve noted how the vice president has been a partner in all of
the — the heavy lifts over these last three and a half years. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Given that they’ve worked so closely together in that time, what
does the president see as the vice president’s biggest achievement
during their time in office together?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, because they’ve been partners, those
achievements have been done — certainly, those historic, unprecedented
achievement have been done together.   
  
I’ll say this, the president believes in the vice president leadership,
her temperament, her experience.  And he is — and he has said this
himself: One of the proudest decisions that he made in 2020 was
selecting her as vice president because he believed that she can — can
go on day one.  And you’ve seen that — you’ve seen them do that together
on day one of this administration.  That doesn’t change.   
  
I’m — I’m not going to parse out anything from here.  They have been
partners.  She’s been a critical partner for this president, for — for —
during this term and will continue to do so.   
  
You will see them together on Thursday in Maryland where they will talk
about their next announcement on lowering costs for the American
people.  
  
Q    So, there’s not a specific policy achievement?  It’s a
comprehensive whole?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would say it’s a comprehensive whole.  Her — our
accomplishments here — the Biden-Harris accomplishments are the
Biden-Harris accomplishments.  She’s played a role, whether it is being
on the floor of the Senate — right? — getting really important
legislations to — to come –to — to pass through — right? — or being in
the room with the president on trying to figure out how to move forward
strategically with a policy or how to make tough decisions on behalf of
the American people.  She’s been there.  She has been there.   
  
And these have been — and we’ve had, as you know, important moments,
historic moments, and she’s been a critical  
partner.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Lalit.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Two questions.  One on Bangladesh.  The other one on
India.   
  
On Bangladesh.  The former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has reported to
allies that she was thrown out — or forced to be out of power because
U.S. wanted to have one of the islands given to them — one of the
Bangladeshi islands given to the United States of America.  And since —
because they didn’t agree to it, she was asked — she was forced to
resign (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the — I’m sorry.  What’s the question?  
  
Q    The question is, do you — what’s the reaction to the — her
allegations?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we have had no involvement at all.  Any — any
reports or rumors that the United States government was involved in
these — in these events is simply, simply false.  That is not true.   
  
This is a choice for and by the Bangladeshi people.  We believe that the
Bangladeshi people should determine the future of the Bangladeshi
government, and that’s where we stand.   
  
Any allegations, certainly, we will continue to say, and I have said
here, is simply not true.   
  
Q    Secondly, over the weekend, several Hindu American groups held a
protest march in front of the White House urging the president that he
should be taking some steps to stop the atrocities against Hindu
Americans — Hindus in the Bangladesh.  And, also, two of the Hindu
lawmakers, Raja Krishnamoorthi and Shri Thanedar — who both are from the
Democratic Party — they have also written letters to the administration
seeking their help in stopping atrocities against Hindus in Bangladesh
and other minority groups.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re going to continue, certainly, to
monitor the situation.  I — I don’t have anything else to — to add — to
say beyond that.  But when it comes to any type of human rights issues
here, the president is always — has been very consistent in speaking
loud and clear in public and also privately.  Don’t have anything — and
he’ll continue to do that, but don’t have any specific engagement to
speak to at this time.  
  
Q    One question on India.  As president plans to — for the next six
months, what are the unfinished agenda on India — the India-U.S.
relationship and also on Quad?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the president views our relationship — the
United States’ relationship with India as one of the most consequential
in the world.  And so, we work closely with India on our — our most
vital priorities, including through the Quad and the U.S.-India
initiative on th- — Critical and Emerging Technology.   
  
And so, we look forward to continuing to expand our critical and
critically important partnership and how it’s going to benefit the
American people.  And we want to create more prosperous and secure
Indo-Pacific and — and the world.  And so, that is going to continue to
be our focus as we move forward.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  You mentioned earlier the president’s push to reform
the Supreme Court — term limits and ethics requirements.  Can you talk
about what the plan is to achieve that once Congress comes back?  I
mean, are you laying the groundwork in any way at this point or
otherwise trying to get that across the finish line?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the president laid out three ways that he
wants to see that moving forward.  And he did that in his Washington
Post op-ed and certainly when he was in — in Austin, Texas, about three
weeks ago.  And so, we’ve laid out our ideas and our thoughts.  Some of
them, if you think about term limits, you’ve seen conservative experts
also agree with us on that, how there should be term limits.   
  
And so, what we’re going to do is have a conversation with Congress when
they get back and figure out ways how we can actually get this done,
because it is important.  The president believes no one is above — is —
is above the law, and — and that is something that he has continued to
talk about and will do so.  And that includes the highest court in the
land.  
  
And what we have seen — what we have seen from the highest court in the
land is not normal.  You heard the president say that.  It is not
normal.  
  
And so, we’re going to work with Congress, come up with some ways to —
to deal with this, to — to really address SCOTUS reform.  And he wants
to see it done in a bipartisan way.  We think it’s possible.  
  
Q    Are you — is he at all doing anything to lay the groundwork now
before Congress comes back, looking for allies in Congress or otherwise
taking any concrete steps?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, nothing to read out.  Obviously, we try to — we do
keep our — any conversations private.  But what we want to do is
certainly see legislation to deal with what we’ve been seeing, what I —
which — which — what I just said, which is it’s not normal from — from
SCOTUS.  
  
And so, we certainly will have — his team will have conversations with
congressional members on how to best move forward.  I don’t have any
meetings or anything to read out at that — at this time.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  In the back.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Me?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  
  
Q    Thanks.  The Trump campaign said over the weekend that it’s been
hacked.  Is the White House concerned about election integrity?  And do
you have any response to reports that Iran was the source of that — of
that hack?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I would have to refer you to the Department
of — of Justice and the FBI on that particular questions.  We’ve said
many times that this administration strongly condemns any foreign
government or entity who attempts to interfere in our electoral process
or seeks to undermine confidence in our democratic institution.  And so,
we take this type of reports of such activity extremely seriously.   
  
And so, again, we do not tolerate — we do not tolerate this type —
anything like this, influence or interference efforts.  And so — and we
have made that very clear with foreign actors, that such influence or
interference is unacceptable.  And our efforts to protect our elections
have grown significantly over the years, even as the threat landscape
has become increasingly complicated.  
  
But for this particular question, I — I would have to refer you to the
Department of Justice and FBI.  I cannot comment on the veracity of the
claims that Iran was involved.  
  
Q    Okay, thanks.  And one more.  As — as a member of the
administration, can we expect the vice president to come out here and
speak to the American people in the briefing room at some point?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The president and the vice president speaks to the
American people regularly, and that’s where I’ll leave that.  
  
Go ahead, sir.  Right there.  
  
Q    Thank you.  What is the U.S. — the administration is doing in
regards to Iran planning to deliver hundreds of ballistic missiles to
Russia?  I mean, what mechanism are you using to stop that?   
  
And then I have another question on Venezuela.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the — the White House has repeatedly warned
of the deep- — deepening security partnership between Russia and Iran
since the outset of Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine.  We’ve also
warned both parties about further strengthening this partnership.  This
partnership threatens European security and illustrate how Iran’s
destabilizing influence reaches beyond the Middle East but also around
the world.  
  
As we are — as we and our partners have made clear to the world both at
the G7 and NATO summits this summer, together, we are prepared to
deliver a swift and severe response if Iran were to move forward with
such transfers, which would represent a dramatic escalation in Iran’s
support for Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine.   
  
During his campaign, the Iranian president claimed he wanted to moderate
Iran’s policies and engage with the world. <s>Destabaling</s>
\[Destabilizing\]actions like this fly in the face, certainly, of that
rhetoric.  
  
Q    On Venezuela.  There’s a report by Wall Street Journal that the
U.S. has offered Maduro and his close allies an amnesty in ca- — in
exchange for them leaving power.  Is that something you would confirm?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, since the July 28 elections, we have not made any
specific offers of amnesty to Maduro or others, so —  
  
Q    Can — can I follow up, Karine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    How about before the election?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say —  
  
Q    Because there are information that this offer was made — started
last year, this discussion of amnesty.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is — what I can speak to is, since the
election, we have just not made that type of offer.   
  
Q    And another one on Venezuela.  And then I have one on the Middle
East — very quick one.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    What is the view of the — the two statements from Brazil, Colombia,
and Mexico asking Maduro regime to release the voting data?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah —  
  
Q    Is this enough, or you would like to see these three countries
doing more?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, two — it’s been two weeks after the
elections in Venezuela.  It is abundantly clear — right? — to the
majority of Venezuelan people, the United States, and growing number of
countries, as you just listed, that Edmundo i- — won the most votes in
the 20 — in the July 28th election — presidential election.  And Maduro
must recognize it.  We’ve said that, and we’ll continue to say that.   
  
More than 80 percent of the voting tally sheets published by civil
society and opposition, corroborate — corroborated by independent
observers.  And so, we think Maduro must recognize it.  
  
Q    Is a statement helpful?  Is it a good step?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we certainly are going to be — continue
to be very clear here that Maduro must recognize it.  Countries are
going to do what they feel is the right way to move forward.  So, we’ll
let them speak to that.   
  
But we’ve been very clear.  Maduro must acc- — recognize it.  
  
Q    Another one.  A last one about the Middle East.  Because earlier,
John Kirby said that Iran could attack Israel this week.  Does the White
House believe an attack is inevitable?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into our intelligence from here
or what another country is going to do.  That is not something that I’m
going to do from this podium.  You heard from NSC, so I will leave it to
them to speak — to speak to that and what my colleague said — John Kirby
said.  I just don’t have anything else to add.  
  
Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I want to follow up first on what you told Phil. 
So, you said the vice president owns the successes of this president
over the past three and a half years.  Does she also own the struggles
that this president has seen, like the prices up 19 percent since the
month they came into office?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They’re partners in how they’ve been able to turn
around the economy.  This economy was in — was in a downfall when the
president took office.  The former administration did not have a plan to
deal with the pandemic — a comprehensive plan.  This president put that
forward with the help of the vice president, and we were able to deliver
on that.  
  
The American Rescue Plan made a difference in bringing our economy back
on its feet — made a difference on opening small businesses, on opening
schools.  Republicans didn’t vote for it.  
  
The — when the — we have to remember what the president inherited from
the last administration when he took — when he took it over with the
vice president.  And when you think about — when you think about
inflation, inflation is down by 2.5 percent and wages have risen.  We
have more than 16 million jobs created in the last almost four years.   
  
I know that you’re laying out the negative parts of — of what you
foresee — right? — what you see in the economy, but there is some data
here that has shown because of the work that this president has done,
it’s mattered.   
  
Unemployment is still low, 4.3 percent.  You think about manufacturing
jobs that have come back to this country.  You think about how the GDP
grew by 2.8 percent last quarter.  Those are that data.  
  
And we understand — we understand that American people are still feeling
it, and we’re — that’s why we’re going to make more announcements about
how we’re going to continue to lower costs.   
  
Q    And one more — I want to try one more time on the taxes —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — on tips.  So, why, then, have the president and vice president
not talked about this over the past three and a half years?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, the president supports eliminating taxes on
tips for service and hospitality workers.  And at the same time, what
this president and this vice president has been able to do is help —
help raising minimum wage.   
  
There are things that the president and this vice president has done
over the three and a half years that has helped hard-working people that
Republicans in Congress have opposed — have opposed.  I didn’t even talk
about them wanting to cu- — cut Social Security and Medicare and Medi- —
I mean, these are things that they have said that will hurt hard-working
people.   
  
So, the president supports it.  This is part of the vice president’s
policy.  This is something that we — we want to see happen.  But we have
done the work to make sure that hard-working people are not forgotten. 
Where were the Republicans on this?   
  
Q    But (inaudible) —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But where were Republicans on this?   
  
And if they were so interested — right? — if Republicans are now talking
about this — Republican elected officials are so interested in getting
it done, why didn’t they pass it during the last administration?  Why? 
Why not?   
  
Q    So, the IRS last month released their report saying, “Hey, this —
this is how, if you have an extension for taxes, you can file taxes on
your tips.”  The bu- — president’s budget relies on the taxes from
tips.  So, when did this idea come about?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a timeline for you.  What I can say is
the president supports this.  What I can say, even if you put this to
the side — right? — which is — again, the president supports this; the
vice president supports this.  The president, the vice president has
done the work to try to make sure that we put — we put working people
first.   
  
They have had the backs of the working people: tax cuts for workers —
right? — making sure that middle-class families are put first, not
billionaires and corporations.  That is something that they’ve been very
clear about.  Ensuring workers join a union, something that Republican
officials oppose — oppose.  
  
And we’ve been very clear here.  And why haven’t Republicans joined us? 
They just haven’t.  They have not.  Matter of fact, they opposed a lot
of the policies that we put forth that would do just this.  They opposed
it.  American Rescue Plan, Inflation Reduction Act, they opposed it.  
  
All right.  Everybody, thank you so much.  I’ll see you tomorrow.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, not tomorrow.  We’re traveling.  I’ll see you on
the road tomorrow.  
  
2:54 P.M. EDT
