---
date: '2024-08-10'
modified_time: 2024-08-10 09:22:37-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-10 09:22:36-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/08/10/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-20/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

1:38 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks for joining.  Sorry, there’s a little
backlash on our end. 

Kirby has a few words here at the top, and then we’ll get into
questions.  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, everybody.  Hope you’re having a good Friday, even
though it’s wet. 

I actually have more than a few comments, so it’s going to take me a
little bit to get through all these things.  So if I were you, I’d grab
a comfortable chair or something to drink, maybe a snack or two, and
buckle up here. 

So, look, at the top I want to start with the joint statement that was
issued last night by President Biden, President Sisi of Egypt, and the
Amir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim.

The President, throughout the week of course, has been continuously
engaged on the situation in the Middle East. 

On Monday, he spoke with King Abdullah of Jordan and convened his
national security team to discuss military preparations for a potential
attack from Iran or Lebanese Hezbollah against Israel.  He has directed
that we do everything possible to defend Israel, and that’s what we’re
doing.  He met again yesterday in the Oval Office with Secretary Austin
and his team to address ongoing military preparations. 

On Tuesday, the President spoke with Sisi and Tamim on the hostage deal
and a way forward to close remaining gaps and to see if we can get this
deal concluded.  That’s what led to the joint statement yesterday,
which, as I know we briefed yesterday on, makes very clear that now is
the time to close this deal. 

We are already in preparatory discussions for the senior meeting that
will take place on Thursday in Doha or Cairo.  The Prime Minister of
Israel immediately welcomed this initiative and confirmed that his team
will be there and that they’ll be prepared to finalize the details for
implementing the deal.  Qatar and Egypt are working on the Hamas side to
bring them to the table as well. 

The statement last night has also been endorsed by partners and allies
around the world.  Already today, you’ve seen statements from heads of
state like those from France and Australia. 

We’ve seen some statements from some quarters in Israel, over recent
days, attacking the deal.  I just want to underscore how wrong this is,
not only in substance, but also jeopardizing the lives of the hostages
and running counter to Israel’s own national security interests. 

Some critics, like Mr. Smotrich, for example, have claimed that the
hostage deal is a surrender to Hamas or that hostages should not be
exchanged for prisoners.  Mr. Smotrich essentially suggests that the war
ought to go on indefinitely, without pause, and with the lives of the
hostages of no real concern at all.  His arguments are dead wrong. 
They’re misleading the Israeli public.  And I want to take just a
moment, if I could, to address some of those claims. 

This deal, as negotiated over months, fully protects Israel’s national
security interests.  In fact, on the 3rd of July, over one month ago,
Hamas accepted the key terms that had been demanded by Israel: Israeli
forces do not withdraw entirely from Gaza during the first phase of the
deal, even as the lives of the hostages — all the hostages in the
category of women, older men, those who are wounded and sick — are saved
and returned to their families. 

On suggestions that prisoners should never be traded for hostages and
that doing so at this stage is somehow a surrender, let me remind you
that most of Hamas’s top leaders are now dead.  Hamas’s organized
military structure and capacity has been destroyed.  Israel has now
completed nearly all of its major military objectives, other than the
explicit war aim of bringing the hostages home. 

And, yes, sometimes prisoners are traded for hostages.  We just returned
home to their families 16 innocent people, including four Americans, in
exchange for a number of Russian criminals.  It does not mean that
they’re equivalent.  Evan Gershkovich is not equivalent to Vadim
Krasikov.  But sometimes, countries that value the lives of their
citizens, as we do in the United States and as Israel does, make these
kinds of trades to save lives — innocent lives.  There’s no surrender in
that.  It speaks incredibly well of our principles and our values, what
we stand for. 

I even saw one claim today — again, by Mr. Smotrich — suggesting that
the mediators of this deal, which includes the United States, would
impose, quote, “a surrender agreement” on Israel.  Now, think about that
for a minute.  He’s saying this as President Biden is actually directing
the United States military to the Middle East to directly defend Israel
against a potential attack from Iran or other Iranian-backed terrorist
groups.  President Biden is fully prepared to defend Israel yet again,
with the United States military.  And again, this is the second time
that he will have done this in four months. 

The idea that he would support a deal that leaves Israel’s security at
risk is just factually wrong.  It’s outrageous.  It’s absurd.  And
anybody who knows President Biden and how staunchly he’s been a defender
for Israel, for the entirety of his public service, ought to be ashamed
for thinking anything different. 

Simply put, the views being taken against this agreement, the views
expressed by Mr. Smotrich specifically, would, in fact, sacrifice the
lives of Israeli hostages, his own countrymen, and American hostages as
well, and flies in the face of the national security interests of Israel
at this critical stage of the war. 

Importantly, countries not only around the world but across the region,
including those with peace agreements with Israel, have endorsed the
statement last night and called for this deal to be concluded without
delay.  The UAE, just a few hours ago, says, quote, “The UAE hopes that
the parties will not delay this any further.”  End quote.

So, look, President Biden is going to continue to do what’s right.  He
has Israel’s back against Iran and its proxy groups.  He has Israel’s
back on this deal.  He won’t allow extremists to blow things off course,
including extremists in Israel making these ridiculous charges against
the deal.  It’s the right deal at the right time.  It will save lives. 
And you know what?  It’s going to also advance Israel’s security.  It
brings relief as well to civilians in Gaza.  And so, we’re going to do
everything we can to get it done. 

Now I’d like to switch to Africa, if I could. 

On Africa: The United States continues to push for peace, increase
humanitarian assistance and support for communities in dire need
throughout Sub-Saharan Africa.  That’s why, this week, we announced
nearly a billion dollars in lifesaving humanitarian assistance for the
crises in the Horn of Africa, the Sahel, Sudan, and eastern Democratic
Republic of the Congo. 

This announcement brings the total U.S. humanitarian assistance in
Sub-Saharan Africa to nearly $3.7 billion so far in fiscal year 2024.

On Wednesday, the U.S. Ambassador to the DRC, Lucy Tamlyn, and the U.S.
Representative to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture,
Jeff Prescott, announced nearly $424 million in new humanitarian and
health assistance that will provide urgent food assistance, healthcare,
nutrition support, shelter materials, water sanitation and hygiene
services to crisis-affected communities in the DRC.  This assistance
includes 50,000 mpox vaccines and funding which will help respond to the
current mpox outbreak in the DRC and other affected countries in the
region.  And, of course, it also reaffirms the U.S. commitment to the
people of eastern DRC, where warring parties recently agreed to a
ceasefire to be effective on the 4th of August. 

And yesterday, the Under Secretary of State for Civilian Security,
Democracy, and Human Rights, Uzra Zeya, announced nearly $536 million in
lifesaving humanitarian assistance.  This includes $516 million through
the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Population Refugees and
Migration, and nearly $20 million to USAID’s Bureau of Humanitarian
Assistance — responding to needs among the nearly 38 million refugees,
asylum seekers, internally displaced people, stateless people, and
conflict-affected people across the Sub-Saharan part of Africa.

As these significant announcements in the span of a single week make
clear, the United States remains firmly committed to the people of
Africa as they continue to face conflict, health risks, and other crises
in protracted situations in the Horn of Africa, the Sahel, eastern DRC,
Sudan, and, of course, elsewhere.

All these events undermine regional and global security and require
urgent attention from likeminded allies, partners, and donors around the
world.  And we’re going to continue to do our part, pressing for peace
and prosperity to prevail, and we’re going to keep working with those
allies and partners and other likeminded nations to see that they do the
same thing. 

Now, if I can switch to Ukraine. 

Today, the United States is announcing another new security assistance
package for Ukraine, underscoring our unwavering commitment to them as
they continue to battle back against Russian aggression.  This would be
our 63rd tranche of equipment since August of 2021 and the 10th since
the President signed the national security supplemental in April. 

Included in this package are Stinger missiles; more 155- and
105-millimeter artillery ammunition, which has been instrumental; and
anti-armor systems as well. 

Today’s announcement comes on the heels of yet another Russian attack
that has killed Ukrainian civilians, this time on a supermarket in
eastern Ukraine, which killed 12 people and wounded more than 40, doing
nothing but buying groceries. 

The Biden-Harris administration will continue to support Ukraine’s
critical security and defense needs, working with more than 50 allies
and partners to help Ukraine prevail.

And with that, we can open it up to questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Steve with
Reuters.

Q    Hey, John.  Do you have dollar figure on that new assistance to
Ukraine?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, it’s $125 million.

Q    Okay.  And, John, is there anything new you can say about whether
the United States provided intelligence to Austria regarding the Taylor
Swift concerts?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, Steve, I think hopefully it doesn’t surprise anybody
that the United States, of course, has an enduring focus on our
counterterrorism mission.  We work closely with partners all over the
world to monitor and disrupt threats.  And so, as part of that work, the
United States did share information with Austrian partners to enable the
disruption of a threat to Taylor Swift’s concerts there in Vienna.

Q    And lastly, if you could indulge me one more, we’re hearing this:
that an Iranian Revolutionary Guard deputy commander is being quoted as
saying that Iran is set to carry out an order by Supreme Leader Khamenei
to “harshly punish” Israel over the strike against the Hamas leader in
Tehran.  Do you have reaction to this?  Does this suggest that something
is imminent?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I won’t get into the intelligence assessments one way
or the other, Steve.  I think you all understand that.

We’ve heard, you know, some pretty bellicose rhetoric as well out of the
Supreme Leader.  All I can tell you is that, as I said in my opening
statement, the President is 100 percent committed to helping defend
Israel, and we have put military capabilities in the region of a
sufficient quantity and quality to do just that. 

But we’re also working, at the same time, in the diplomatic space to try
to de-escalate the tensions and to prevent any major escalation of the
conflict there in the region and certainly to prevent any all-out war. 
That’s still our goal here. 

I can’t speak to those particular comments, but when we hear rhetoric
like that, we’ve got to take it seriously, and we do.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Alex Ward with the
Wall Street Journal.

Q    Yeah, thanks for taking this.  So, John, moving to Ukraine very
quickly.  It sounds like, from reports, Ukrainian troops have taken
about 100 square miles of Kursk.  I mean, is this — the administration
has always allowed — or not always, but recently allowed these, you
know, counterfire strikes over the border, but is this going beyond sort
of what the U.S. has openly said it will allow Ukraine to do?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I think I’m still going to be in the space today of
letting Ukraine speak to their military operations one way or another. 
We’re in touch with our Ukrainian counterparts, and we are working to
gain a better understanding of what they’re doing, what their goals are,
what their strategy is.  And I’m going to leave a little bit of space
for us to have those conversations before I try to characterize what’s
going on.

Q    But just — I mean, it’s been four days.  So, I mean, this does seem
beyond already what the normal, like, you know, fire, counterfire.  Is
that fair?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I think I’m just going to leave my response the way I
left it.  We’re in touch with our Ukrainian counterparts, and I’m going
to refrain from characterizing what’s going on on the ground here until
those conversations are complete and we feel like we have a better idea
of what they’re doing. 

Q    Gotcha.  And then, very briefly, on the ceasefire negotiations.  I
mean, is the expectation — I mean, you guys have said, you know, there’s
not going to be a deal that Thursday, but is the expectation that all
parties will leave those meetings with something done?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, my goodness, that’s what we want to have done.  We
keep having these discussions and these negotiations with the goal of
being able to walk out the door with a deal.  And we certainly hope that
we can get there soon and that the meeting on Thursday is fruitful and
productive.  But we’ll have to see where it goes. 

We’re glad that Israel has made it very clear and very public that they
will send a negotiating team, and they’ll do it in good faith.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Karen with the
Washington Post.

Q    Thank you.  On the ceasefire statement, much of what’s in the
statement seems to repeat what’s been said at various times before:
“Time for excuses is over.”  “We need to move on this.  It’s urgent.”  I
wonder if what has — if anything has changed that has made you more
optimistic about this.  Has Israel indicated it is prepared to accept
conditions that it was not prepared to accept two weeks ago? 

And where the statement says, “If necessary, the mediators will present
a final bridging proposal,” could you tell us a little bit more about
what that means when you say a “final proposal”?  Is that a “take it or
leave it” proposal?  And if they leave it, then what happens?

And separately, I wanted to ask a question about Venezuela — whether the
United States has again approached Qatar to try and negotiate with the
Maduro government.

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything on that last part there, Karen.  I’ll
take that back and run it by some folks and see.  I don’t think I have
anything on that.  But I can tell you that we are in touch with, as I
think we’ve indicated, quite a few partners and likeminded nations on
this, but I don’t have anything specifically on Qatar. 

Look, on the statement: You’re right.  You know, there’s a lot of
familiar language in there because nothing has changed about the
President’s desire to see the ceasefire deal in place, see the hostages
come home, see more humanitarian assistance get in.  So it shouldn’t
surprise anybody that the language is very similar to what we’ve been
saying before.  But it was an outgrowth specifically of the
conversations that the President had with both the Amir and with
President Sisi in Egypt, and that’s sort of what generated the idea for
a statement.

Every passing day is one more day that these hostages are in increasing
danger and running the risk of additional lives — of their lives being
lost.  There’s a sense of urgency here, and that’s really what’s driving
it.  And obviously, there’s the larger context of the increased tensions
in the region as well. 

So, all of that kind of fed into the phone calls that the President was
having over the course of this week and the joint statement itself.

I’m not going to get into negotiating here on Zoom, so I’m not going to
go into any great detail about what we mean by a “bridging proposal.” 
We want to get a deal.  We believe it’s possible to do that and that the
implementing details can be fleshed out — should be fleshed out, but
it’s going to require some leadership on all sides here and some
compromises. 

And what we’re hoping to get done next week in whether it’s Doha or
Cairo — and that hasn’t been decided — is a plan forward for just that:
for leadership, compromise, and to get this deal.

But I think I’d better leave it at that in terms of details.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Barak with Axios.

Q    Hi.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  John, without expressing an
opinion about your comment on Smotrich, I have to say that — I mean, I’m
covering this thing for 20 years.  I’ve never heard such a statement
from an official spokesperson of the U.S. government about a senior
Israeli minister.  And what I’m trying to understand is what made you
decide to go out like this, at the current timing, against Smotrich. 
Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  I think a better question, Barak, is: What made Mr. Smotrich
decide, in the wake of the joint statement put out and the support that
it’s been given not only by other leaders, but by Israel itself — what
made him decide to put that statement, that outrageous and absurd
statement, out?  I think that’s a better question, my friend.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Felicia with the
Financial Times.

Q    Hi, John.  Thanks.  Just to follow up on Alex’s question, there are
all kinds of videos on social media suggesting that American HIMARS are
being used in the Kursk region.  Is using American weapons in this way,
given that it’s been four days or whatever, does it generally square
with the policy that you’ve set with the Ukrainians?  Do the Ukrainians
understand what the rules are?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll just tell you that, as I said the other day, there’s no
change in our policies with respect to U.S. weapons and how they’re
used.  And I’ll just repeat what I said to Alex: that we’re in touch
with our Ukrainian counterparts, and I’m going to reserve judgment or
characterization until those conversations are complete.

Q    But if I could, is the policy then that they can use the weapons
and limited crossfire?

MR. KIRBY:  As I said, you know, there’s been no changes in our policy
approaches.  They are — I would add that they’re using it in an area
where we had said before that they could use U.S. weapons for
cross-border strikes.  The end goal here is to help Ukraine defend
itself, and we’re just going to see what Ukraine says about it. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Peter Baker with
the New York Times.

Q    Hey, John.  Thanks very much for doing this.  Two quick
ceasefire-related questions.  You mentioned that the Israelis have
committed to sending a delegation to either Cairo or Doha next
Thursday.  Do you have any indication or commitment, either through
intermediaries or what have you, that Hamas is ready to participate in
that?

And secondly, in following up on Karen’s question on this final bridging
proposal, the statement says “if necessary.”  How will you decide if
it’s necessary?  Is that something you decide on Thursday?  Is there a
point at which you all say, “Okay, here it is”?  You have such a
bridging proposal prepared, and the question is whether you put it on
the table?  Or is it something that you and the Qataris and the
Egyptians are prepared to create at some point in the future?

MR. KIRBY:  I think to the second question, it’s really going to depend
on how the discussions go, what that looks like.  And again, I want to
be very careful here not to get into too many of the details and
negotiate in public. 

But I think the short answer is: We will be willing to work to that
outcome if, in fact, that’s what we feel is going to be needed.  But
let’s see how the discussions go.

And on the first question, Qatar has assured us that they will work to
get Hamas represented there in Cairo and — or Doha, whatever one it is. 
And we’re kind of referring to them now in terms of what that
representation looks like and who it is. 

But they’re working their way through that as we speak.  We still have a
few days to figure it all out.  But Qatar has assured us that they will
work to have Hamas appropriately represented there.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Patsy with VOA.

Q    Thank you, Sam.  Hi, John.  I have a ceasefire follow-up.  But real
quick, can you confirm reporting that Iran is set to deliver hundreds of
ballistic missiles to Russia soon?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything to confirm any such

reporting. 

Q    Okay.  And on the timing of August 15 talks, either in Doha or
Cairo, how did the leaders arrive on this date?  I mean, obviously, this
was — this is a few days before the DNC.  Did that play a factor at all
in terms of scheduling?

And if I may, just a quick follow-up on the Hamas side of it, to follow
up Peter’s question: Are you hearing on whether Hamas has received the
latest invite, if they have not responded to it?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  I’d have to refer you to Qatar on that.  They’re the
interlocutors with Hamas.  And for communications directly with them,
they’d be the one to speak to that.

The date was scheduled, as a result of the conversations we’ve had with
our partners in the region, as the best opportunity and the date most
available.  And it’s based on that and nothing but that.  Let me dispel
any notion in anybody’s mind that it had anything to do with the DNC
coming up.  It had nothing to do with that and everything to do with
what our partners and our friends in the region felt was a reasonable
amount of time to schedule it and set it up. 

And again, we’re still — you know, we don’t have a location right now. 
So, I mean, some of that logistics is still being fleshed out.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nadia.

Q    Thank you, Sam.  I actually want to follow on Barak’s question.  Do
you believe that Mr. Smotrich can derail this deal?  I’m just intrigued
just like Barak as well.  Because Mr.  Smotrich has been espousing these
extreme ideas ever since the war started.  Two days ago, he said that
Israel should starve 2 million Palestinians.  And we haven’t heard, kind
of, condemnation from the White House.  So why now?  Do you believe that
he can sabotage this deal?

And second, if you allow me, the Jordanians said today that they’re not
going to allow their land to be used by anybody for any reason.  And
that’s obviously in reference to a potential attack from Iran.  So do
you see this a change in the Jordanian position?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let the Jordanians speak for themselves on this. 
That’s not for me to talk to.  We’re in touch with all our friends,
partners, and allies in the region about the tensions right now.  As I
said in my opening statement, the President did talk to King Abdullah. 
I’ll let them speak to what they will or won’t permit or do.  All I can
is reiterate what we will do.  And what we will do is help Israel defend
itself if it comes to that.  What we’d really like to see, however, is a
de-escalation of all these tensions.  We don’t want to see any
additional conflict, but we got to be ready for if it comes. 

And as for, you know, whether or not Mr. Smotrich can sabotage the deal
or not, we’re moving forward.  This deal needs to happen.  The President
said it.  Now President Sisi has said it.  The Amir of Qatar has said
it.  Heck, even the Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Netanyahu, has said
that he supports the deal. 

And let’s not forget the proposal that was put forward, the basic
framework of this thing was an Israeli proposal.  So they’ve said
they’re behind it.  We just need to get it done. 

And, you know, I’ve said my piece on what Mr. Smotrich had to say, and
I’ll leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Gabby with Jewish
Insider.

Q    Hey, thank you so much for doing this.  One follow-up, I guess
related to the Smotrich thread.  Since President Biden has been speaking
about this deal since the end of May, there’s been numerous occasions
where he and others in this administration have said that the onus is on
Hamas to get the deal done.  And it seems like, certainly, things have
changed from then, from when we saw Secretary Blinken talk about this
being on the 10-yard line.  So how would you describe that change?  

And when talking about Smotrich, would you say now that the onus is on
Israel, more than Hamas, to be the one that needs to agree to this deal,
and that is perhaps holding out at this stage?

MR. KIRBY:  The onus is on both sides. 

And to your question of what’s changed, I mean, there’s been a — think
of it like a river, you know?  And as it’s moved along, factors
involving the negotiation have changed over time, and both sides have
amended or added or detracted certain bits of detail, none of which I’m
prepared to speak to, of course.  But that’s happened; that happens in a
negotiation. 

And so, where we are now in the river, where we are now in the stream is
that we’re extremely close.  We believe that there are basically
implementing details that need to be fleshed out.  That’s — that the
muscle movements are fairly small and achievable in terms of closing the
gaps.  And that’s where we are, and it’s going to take, as I said
earlier, compromise and leadership on both sides to get it across the
finish line. 

We’re grateful that Israel, very shortly after that statement was issued
yesterday, announced that they would be sending a team to the table on
Thursday.  That was a very positive sign.  We’re grateful for that.  We
need to see now Hamas come through and also agree that they’ll be
there.  As I said, Qatar has assured us that they will be.  So we’re
looking forward to getting together Thursday of the next week and seeing
if we can’t get this thing closed out. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We have time for one more question, and we’ll go
to Hiba Nasr.

Q    Thank you, Sam.  Thank you, John.  John, I want to ask about
Lebanon.  Do you feel that there’s a daylight between Hezbollah and
Iran?  And do you feel that Hezbollah may do something or something can
happen out of miscalculation on the Lebanese front while you are waiting
for a response from the Iranian or from the Israeli, from Hamas
regarding Thursday’s negotiation?

MR. KIRBY:  Can you say your second question again?

Q    I mean, do you feel that something can happen on the Lebanese front
while you are waiting and you are trying to bring all parties on the
table for the negotiations next Thursday?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, sure, anything can happen.  I mean, it’s a volatile
situation over there, which is why we’ve been working so hard to get it
de-escalated. 

But we are committed to being represented ourselves on Thursday.  We’re
glad Israel is committed to it.  Qatar has committed that they’ll have
Hamas there.  So let’s see what we can get done. 

But I can’t be perfectly predictive here, as we sit on Friday afternoon,
as to what might happen elsewhere in the region between now and
Thursday.  We certainly don’t want to see anything happen that would
derail the plans to get these two sides back to the table together on
Thursday.  That’s what needs to happen. 

As for daylight between Iran and Hezbollah, you’d have to talk to those
folks about that.  We know that Hezbollah is supported by Iran.  We know
there’s a strong relationship between the two.  A lot of muscle and
sinew, a lot of support coming from Tehran.  But as for whether they
might have diverging views here on what’s going on, you’d have to talk
to the leaders there. 

All I would say is that we’ve been in constant conversations in the
region with counterparts, and we certainly had the ability to pass
messages, as we have in the past, to Tehran about what we’re trying to
achieve here, what’s important to see, and how much we want to get this
ceasefire deal in place and to get tensions de-escalated.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And I think that’s all the time we have for
today.  If we weren’t able to get to you, as always, reach out to the
press team and we’ll try to get back to you as soon as we can.  Have a
good weekend, everyone.

    2:10 P.M. EDT
