---
date: '2022-11-19'
modified_time: 2022-11-19 08:29:09-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-19 08:29:08-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/19/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-meeting-with-prime-minister-prayut-of-thailand/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Meeting with Prime Minister Prayut\
  \ of\_Thailand"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris today met with Prime Minister Prayut
Chan-o-cha of Thailand in Bangkok. The Vice President commended Thailand
on a successful Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Host Year and
noted that the United States will build on this strong foundation during
our 2023 APEC Host Year. 

The Vice President reaffirmed the enduring partnership between the
United States and Thailand, one that is rooted in common values, and
discussed efforts to strengthen our cooperation across a range of
bilateral and global issues. They discussed our security cooperation,
including our work to enhance cybersecurity, and the benefits our
alliance provides for our people as we promote a free and open
Indo-Pacific.

The Vice President welcomed the Prime Minister’s “Bio-Circular Green
Economy model,” as an important effort to accelerate action to tackle
the climate crisis and they discussed our shared efforts to raise
climate ambitions, reduce emissions, enhance climate adaptation and
resilience, and unlock economic opportunities associated with clean
energy and climate action—including partnering with the private sector
on clean energy and nuclear technology. The Vice President welcomed
Thailand’s leadership in the Mekong sub-region, and reinforced the U.S.
commitment to promoting peace, prosperity and sustainable development in
partnership with Mekong countries.

The Vice President underscored our shared interest in a prosperous and
resilient Southeast Asia and discussed enduring U.S. economic leadership
in the region. The Vice President and the Prime Minister
discussed global issues, including Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine
and its violation of the UN Charter. The Vice President emphasized the
importance of standing up for international rules and norms. The Vice
President addressed the worsening crisis in Burma and underscored the
international community’s support for the people of Burma as they seek
to restore their country’s democratic transition.  The Vice
President condemned the ongoing atrocities and human rights abuses by
Burma’s regime and reflected on Thailand’s long tradition of
humanitarian generosity. The Vice President made clear that the United
States stands with the people of Burma. 

\###  
