---
date: '2022-11-13'
modified_time: 2022-11-16 21:30:23-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-13 07:24:11-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/13/phnom-penh-statement-on-trilateral-partnership-for-the-indo-pacific/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Phnom Penh Statement on US \u2013 Japan \u2013 Republic of Korea Trilateral\
  \ Partnership for the\_Indo-Pacific"
---
 
Today in Phnom Penh, Cambodia at the East Asia Summit, Prime Minister
Kishida Fumio of Japan, President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea
(ROK), and President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. of the United
States reaffirmed our trilateral partnership guided by shared values,
driven by innovation, and committed to shared prosperity and
security. The Leaders commended the unprecedented level of trilateral
coordination. Together, in their second trilateral meeting this year,
the Leaders resolved to forge still-closer trilateral links, in the
security realm and beyond.

The Leaders recognize that challenges of the 21<sup>st</sup> century
require closer cooperation among Japan, the ROK and the United
States. The United States’ ironclad alliance commitments to the ROK and
Japan and our close, enduring friendships are critical to the security
and prosperity of our citizens, the region, and the world. Also, the
Leaders concurred to work in a trilateral format at all levels of
government to implement our approaches to the Indo-Pacific, a region of
vital importance to global peace, security, and prosperity. The leaders
will align our collective efforts in pursuit of a free and
open Indo-Pacific, that is inclusive, resilient, and secure. 

\*\*\*

I. **SECURE THE INDO-PACIFIC AND BEYOND**

The Leaders strongly condemn DPRK’s unprecedented number of
ballistic missile launches this year, including multiple ICBM launches,
as well as a flurry of conventional military action that pose a grave
threat to the peace and security on the Korean Peninsula and
beyond. They reaffirm their commitment to the complete denuclearization
of the Korean Peninsula in accordance with United Nations Security
Council (UNSC)resolutions. The Leaders urge the DPRK to abide by its
obligations under these resolutions as well as its previous commitments
and agreements and call on all UN Member States to fully implement
all UNSC resolutions. They reaffirm that a DPRK nuclear test would be
met with a strong and resolute response from the international
community. Japan, the ROK,and the United States will coordinate
sanctions and work together to close gaps in the international sanctions
regime to ensure all relevant sanctions are fully enforced. The path to
dialogue remains open toward peaceful and diplomatic resolution with the
DPRK, and the Leaders call on the DPRK to return to negotiations.  To
this end, President Biden and Prime Minister Kishida express support for
the goal of the ROK’s “Audacious Initiative.” The leaders reaffirm a
shared commitment to the immediate resolution of the abductions issue.
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden also express their support
for the immediate release of the ROK citizens detained in the DPRK.

At the same time, the three countries will work together to strengthen
deterrence. President Biden reiterated that the U.S. commitment to
defend Japan and the ROK is ironclad and backed by the full range of
capabilities, including nuclear. As the regional security environment
grows more challenging,President Biden reaffirms that the
U.S. commitment to reinforce extended deterrence to Japan and the ROK
will only strengthen. Our recent joint exercises demonstrate our resolve
to maintain peace and stability and defend the rules-based international
order.  The Leaders intend to share DPRK missile warning data in real
time to improve each country’s ability to detect and assess the threat
posed by incoming missiles, a major step for deterrence, peace and
stability.

The Leaders affirm their commitment to stand with Ukraine against
Russia’s unprovoked and brutal war of aggression against Ukraine that
has shaken the foundation of the international order. They recognize
that the Indo-Pacific cannot be stable and secure while aggression rages
anywhere; threats to territorial integrity and sovereignty undermine the
fabric of the entire international order. They share condemnation in the
strongest possible terms of Russia’s indiscriminate attacks against
civilians and civilian infrastructure and call for the immediate
restoration of Ukraine’s territorial integrity and sovereignty.
They condemn Russia’s nuclear threats to coerce and intimidate and state
unequivocally that any use of a nuclear weapon by Russia would be an act
of hostility against humanityand Russia shall never use it under any
circumstances. They share determination to ensure that no such acts are
ever perpetrated anywhere including in the Indo-Pacific. In this regard,
leaders also reject Russia’s false claims that Ukraine is preparing a
radiological “dirty bomb.”

The Leaders strongly oppose any unilateral attempts to change the status
quo in waters of the Indo-Pacific, including through unlawful maritime
claims, militarization of reclaimed features, and coercive
activities. The Leaders reiterated their firm commitment to the rule of
law, including the freedom of navigation and overflight, consistent with
the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). Prime Minister
Kishida, President Yoon, and President Biden emphasize that their basic
positions on Taiwan remain unchanged, and reiterate the importance
of maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait as
an indispensable element of security and prosperity in the international
community. 

II. ** GROWING REGIONAL PARTNERSHIP **

The Leaders wholeheartedly reaffirm ASEAN centrality and unity and their
support for the ASEAN-led regional architecture, including the East Asia
Summit. They pledge to work closely with ASEAN partners to support
robust implementation of the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific, as well
as to continue to align their own regional strategies
with it. They condemn the coup in Myanmar and the Myanmar military’s
brutal attacks on civilians, and commit to continue to support ASEAN’s
efforts and to take action to press for implementation of the ASEAN Five
Point Consensus, the immediate cessation of violence, the release of all
those who are wrongfully detained, unfettered countrywide humanitarian
access, and a swift return to democracy.

The Leaders emphasized their joint commitment to the prosperity,
security, sustainability, and resilience of the Mekong sub-region and
support for collaboration and coordination as development partners and
members of the Friends of the Mekong group. Japan, the ROK and the
United States, are working to support the Mekong sub-region’s economic
and sustainable energy development, as well as promoting a water-secure
and climate resilient Mekong River Basin. The Leaders reaffirm support
for the sub-regional cooperation frameworks, including the Mekong River
Commission (MRC) and Ayeyawady-Chao Phraya-Mekong Economic Cooperation
Strategy (ACMECS) to ensure sustainable development
and promote coordination among Mekong sub-region member countries and
development partners.  

The Leaders reaffirm their commitment to the Pacific Islandcountries,
and the importance of working in genuine partnership with the Pacific in
a transparent and effective manner, guided by the Pacific Island
Forum’s *2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent*. They commit to
addressing key issues of concern for the Pacific Islands, including
climate change; illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing; and
economic development.They will look for opportunities to do so
individually and together, including through the Partners in the Blue
Pacific, and President Biden and Prime Minister Kishida welcome
President Yoon’s intent to join the partnership. 

III. **ECONOMIC PROSPERITY, TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP, AND TACKLING THE
CLIMATE CRISIS**

The Leaders emphasize the importance of trilateral cooperation to
strengthen the rules-based economic order to enhance economic security
and prosperity throughout the Indo-Pacific and the world. Prime Minister
Kishida, President Yoon and President Biden are pleased
to launch a dialogue among the three governments on economic
security. Our countries will stand together to promote and protect our
technology leadership, for the benefit of the region and the world. They
will continue toensure secure and resilient supply
chains, promote Data Free Flow with Trust, enhance trilateral, regional
and like-minded cooperation on critical and emerging
technologies, protect critical infrastructure and strengthen resilient
and diverse supply chains of critical minerals to elevate environmental,
social, and governance standards in the sector. The three countries will
cooperate to advance innovation and deployment of emerging technologies
including Artificial Intelligence, quantum information science
and technology, biotechnology, and advanced communications,
including use of open-RAN technology. They will coordinate
implementation of their respective initiatives on semiconductor supply
chain diversification, research and development, and
workforce development. The three countries will stand as one against
economic coercion and in favor of sustainable and transparent lending
practices.

The Leaders commit to cooperate closely through the Indo-Pacific
Economic Framework (IPEF), based on the principles of openness,
transparency, and inclusiveness. They concur inworking together to
develop a comprehensive IPEF that will deepen economic engagement on
priority issues, including the digital economy, resilient supply chains,
clean energy, and other priorities geared toward promoting
sustainable and inclusiveeconomic growth. Prime Minister Kishida and
President Yoon look forward to President Biden’s hosting of APEC next
year. To spur economic growth, the Leaders will take measures to empower
women with equal opportunity and access to good jobs**.** The strength
of our democracies and our economies depends on the full
participation of women.

The three countries will also continue to help the Indo-Pacific region
recover from COVID-19, and strengthen health security to prevent,
prepare for, and respond to future pandemics. By aligning each
of their efforts towards pandemic preparedness, they will work to ensure
that the entire Indo-Pacific is better-equipped to confront
future health threats.

The Leaders underscore the urgency of tackling the climate crisis,
highlighted at the recent 27<sup>th</sup> Conference of the Parties to
the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27).  The three
countries will work domestically and with partners to enhance global
ambition to accelerate growth of the clean energy economy, avert the
most catastrophic impacts of climate change, and help lower- and middle-
income countries build resilience to climate impacts.  All three
countries joined the Net Zero Government Initiative at COP27,
committing to achieving net-zero emissions from national government
operations by no later than 2050. The leaders also highlight the
importance of innovation and deployment of clean energy, such as nuclear
power, next generation batteries, clean hydrogen and ammonia,and carbon
capture and storage as essential to lowering emissions. 

\*\*\*

Prime Minister Kishida, President Yoon and President
Biden affirm their commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific and
express their confidence that their trilateral partnership will continue
to benefit all its people. The leaders welcome their
respective approaches to the Indo-Pacific, and agreed to be in
solidarity in pursuit of a free and open Indo-Pacific, which is
inclusive, resilient and secure.  The leaders agreed to closely
cooperate in implementing their various Indo-Pacific Strategies.  

\###
