---
date: '2022-11-01'
modified_time: 2022-10-31 20:28:36-04:00
published_time: 2022-11-01 05:01:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/01/fact-sheet-by-the-numbers-millions-of-americans-would-lose-health-care-coverage-benefits-and-protections-under-congressional-republicans-plans/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:  By The Numbers: Millions of Americans Would Lose Health Care\
  \ Coverage, Benefits, and Protections Under Congressional Republicans\u2019\_Plans"
---
 
President Biden’s top priority is to lower costs for the American
people. He was proud to sign the Inflation Reduction Act into law,
taking on Big Pharma to allow Medicare to negotiate prescription drug
costs for the first time, capping seniors’ drug costs at the pharmacy
and the cost of insulin, and lowering health insurance premiums for
people who get coverage through the Affordable Care Act. President Biden
and Congressional Democrats are committed to protecting and
strengthening Social Security and Medicare.  
  
Congressional Republicans have a very different vision. They have
promised to strip Medicare of the right to negotiate drug prices and
remove the $2,000 cap on out-of-pocket pharmacy expenses. Florida’s
Republican Senator and Chair of the National Republican Senatorial
Committee Rick Scott has championed a plan to put Medicare, Medicaid,
and Social Security on the chopping block every five years. Further,
Congressional Republicans have repeatedly pledged to hold the American
economy hostage by refusing to raise the debt limit unless they can cut
Social Security and Medicare benefits that tens of millions of Americans
have *already* paid into.   
  
Here’s what Congressional Republicans’ plan would mean:

**<u>Part I: Putting Bedrock Programs like Social Security and Medicare
on the Chopping Block and Threatening the Global Economy Unless Those
Programs Are Cut</u>**

<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/425c17f7-19d3-22e8-4c0b-2b4203a89a96.png"
loading="lazy" width="300" height="275" />

All Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security beneficiaries would see
their benefits threatened under Sen. Rick Scott’s plan to put those
programs on the chopping block every five years. Sen. Ron Johnson’s
vision of putting them up for a vote every year would make that even
worse.   
  
Congressional Republican leaders have also repeatedly said they will use
the debt limit as leverage to cut these bedrock programs. Congressional
Republicans have supported Medicare and Social Security cuts including:

-   Gradually increasing the Medicare eligibility age to 67 and the
    Social Security eligibility age to 70. ([Republican Study Committee
    FY 2023
    Budget](https://banks.house.gov/uploadedfiles/rsc_2023_budget_final_version.pdf))
-   Transforming Medicare benefits into a voucher where seniors would
    get a fixed amount of money to purchase a private health plan
    ([Better Way
    Plan](https://www.vox.com/2016/12/6/13817850/republicans-medicare-premium-support))
    or offering beneficiaries the option to transition to a premium
    support system ([Republican Study Committee FY 2023
    Budget](https://banks.house.gov/uploadedfiles/rsc_2023_budget_final_version.pdf))
    – which [could
    lead](https://www.healthaffairs.org/do/10.1377/forefront.20170309.059109)
    to hundreds or thousands of dollars in additional out of pocket
    costs for seniors throughout the country.

**<u>Part II: Repealing the Prescription Drug and Health Care Provisions
in the Inflation Reduction Act</u>**

<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/fce1d09f-21ca-302d-21d1-c40753a0b7cf.png"
loading="lazy" width="200" height="160" />

President Biden has worked for decades to let Medicare negotiate drug
prices, and that is finally happening thanks to the Inflation Reduction
Act.  This will save billions of dollars for both Medicare
beneficiaries, who will see reduced premiums and out-of-pocket costs,
and the federal government. [Kaiser Family
Foundation](https://www.kff.org/medicare/issue-brief/simulating-the-impact-of-the-drug-price-negotiation-proposal-in-the-build-back-better-act/?utm_campaign=KFF-2022-Medicare&utm_medium=email&_hsmi=2&_hsenc=p2ANqtz--d-ShL4Z6deJFV28-1RP_t8qXBf4It07GyVYjYcJB-F3BW_ojaMD3IOt4_2909mP100yyTweTLGc20eDTb2dlqbg7TyQ&utm_content=2&utm_source=hs_email)
estimates suggest that some 5 to 7 million beneficiaries each year use
the types of high-cost drugs that could be subject to negotiation and
will directly face higher cost sharing if these provisions are repealed.

<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/4e98a91b-0d6b-3c3e-cde0-ae994a3b0dda.png"
loading="lazy" width="200" height="160" />

The Inflation Reduction Act also requires prescription drug companies to
pay rebates if they increase drug prices faster than inflation.
According to an
[analysis](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/09/30/new-hhs-reports-illustrate-potential-positive-impact-inflation-reduction-act-prescription-drug-prices.html)
by the Department of Health and Human Services, the cost of 1,200
prescription drugs rose faster than inflation in the last year alone –
some prescription drugs increasing by $1000 in just one year. If
Congressional Republicans repeal the Inflation Reduction Act, drug
companies will be able to continue raising prices without paying a
rebate, rather than putting that money back into Americans’ pockets.

<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/315e865f-ad88-fad0-c4bb-db5688161402.png"
loading="lazy" width="200" height="169" />

Before the Inflation Reduction Act, Medicare beneficiaries with
[conditions](https://www.kff.org/medicare/issue-brief/potential-savings-for-medicare-part-d-enrollees-under-proposals-to-add-a-hard-cap-on-out-of-pocket-spending/)
like cancer, multiple sclerosis, and lung disease could face thousands
of dollars in out-of-pocket prescription drug costs per year. Thanks to
President Biden and Congressional Democrats’ Inflation Reduction Act,
those costs will be capped at $2,000 per year, saving over 1 million
beneficiaries an average of [over
$1,300](https://www.kff.org/medicare/issue-brief/explaining-the-prescription-drug-provisions-in-the-inflation-reduction-act/#bullet03)
per year. If Congressional Republicans get their way and repeal the law,
[over 1.4
million](https://www.kff.org/medicare/issue-brief/how-would-the-prescription-drug-provisions-in-the-senate-reconciliation-proposal-affect-medicare-beneficiaries/)
Medicare beneficiaries will pay more each year – thousands of dollars
more in some cases – for drugs at the pharmacy.

<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/bbbd5255-82ed-5bb5-0e30-c87f97e2f110.png"
loading="lazy" width="200" height="129" />

Drug manufacturers have raised insulin prices [so
rapidly](https://www.finance.senate.gov/chairmans-news/grassley-wyden-release-insulin-investigation-uncovering-business-practices-between-drug-companies-and-pbms-that-keep-prices-high)
over the last few decades that some Medicare beneficiaries struggle to
afford this life-saving drug that costs [less than
$10](https://gh.bmj.com/content/3/5/e000850) a vial to manufacture.
Today, Medicare beneficiaries are enrolling in plans that must cap the
out-of-pocket cost of insulin at no more than $35 per month per
prescription, a protection they will lose if the law is repealed.

<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/8c445565-66d1-8ceb-ec8a-64858cd65e96.png"
loading="lazy" width="200" height="206" />

The Inflation Reduction Act saves [13 million
Americans](https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/1647ad29528ee85a48d6ffa9e7bfbc8f/arp-ptc-sunset-impacts-03-22-22%20Final.pdf)
an average of about [$800
per](https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/36e5e989516728adcc63e398b3e3d23d/aspe-marketplace-coverage-economic-benefits.pdf)
year on their health care premiums, by continuing the improvements to
Affordable Care Act (ACA) premium tax credits enacted in the American
Rescue Plan. By making health care more affordable, these improvements
have expanded coverage to millions of people, helping bring the
uninsured rate to an all-time low. Starting today, during Open
Enrollment season, Americans can choose health insurance plans that lock
in the Inflation Reduction Act’s cost savings for 2023. But
Congressional Republicans would repeal this assistance, drive premiums
higher, and jeopardize the progress the Biden Administration has made in
driving the uninsured rate to a historic low. Older Americans would see
especially large premium spikes; in most states, annual premiums for a
60-year old making $60,000 would more than double to over $10,000.

\###
