---
date: '2022-11-14'
modified_time: 2022-11-14 08:16:26-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-14 08:16:25-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/14/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-president-xi-jinping-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with President Xi Jinping of\
  \ the People\u2019s Republic of\_China"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met on November 14 with President Xi
Jinping of the People’s Republic of China (PRC), in Bali, Indonesia. The
two leaders spoke candidly about their respective priorities and
intentions across a range of issues. President Biden explained that the
United States will continue to compete vigorously with the PRC,
including by investing in sources of strength at home and aligning
efforts with allies and partners around the world. He reiterated that
this competition should not veer into conflict and underscored that the
United States and China must manage the competition responsibly
and maintain open lines of communication. The two leaders discussed
the importance of developing principles that would advance these
goals and tasked their teams to discuss them further. 

President Biden underscored that the United States and China must
work together to address transnational challenges – such as climate
change, global macroeconomic stability including debt relief, health
security, and global food security – because that
is what the international community expects. The two leaders agreed
to empower key senior officials to maintain communication
and deepen constructive efforts on these and
other issues. They welcomed ongoing efforts to address specific issues
in U.S.-China bilateral relations, and encouraged further progress in
these existing mechanisms, including through joint working groups. They
also noted the importance of ties between the people of the United
States and the PRC.

President Biden raised concerns about PRC practices in Xinjiang, Tibet,
and Hong Kong, and human rights more broadly. On Taiwan, he laid out in
detail that our one China policy has not changed, the United
States opposes any unilateral changes to the status quo by either side,
and the world has an interest in the maintenance of peace and stability
in the Taiwan Strait. He raised U.S. objections to the PRC’s coercive
and increasingly aggressive actions toward Taiwan, which undermine peace
and stability across the Taiwan Strait and in the broader region, and
jeopardize global prosperity. President Biden
also raised ongoing concerns about China’s non-market economic
practices, which harm American workers and families, and workers and
families around the world. He again underscored that it is a priority
for us to resolve the cases of American citizens who are wrongfully
detained or subject to exit bans in China

The two leaders exchanged views on key regional and global
challenges. President Biden raised Russia’s brutal war against Ukraine
and Russia’s irresponsible threats of nuclear use. President Biden and
President Xi reiterated their agreement that a nuclear war should never
be fought and can never be won and underscored their opposition to the
use or threat of use of nuclear weapons in Ukraine. President Biden also
raised concerns about the DPRK’s provocative behavior, noted all members
of the international community have an interest in encouraging the DPRK
to act responsibly, and underscored the United States’ ironclad
commitment to defending our Indo-Pacific Allies.

The two leaders agreed that Secretary of State Blinken will visit China
to follow up on their discussions.

\###
