---
date: '2022-11-15'
modified_time: 2022-11-15 06:19:03-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-15 06:19:02-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/15/united-states-indonesia-eu-joint-statement-on-partnership-for-global-infrastructure-and-investment/
tags: statements-releases
title: "United\_States-Indonesia-EU Joint Statement on Partnership for Global Infrastructure\
  \ and\_Investment"
---
 
*President of the United States of America Joseph R. Biden Jr.,
President of the Republic of Indonesia Joko Widodo, and President of the
European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, issued the following
statement on the side event on the Partnership for Global Infrastructure
and Investment (PGII) during the G20 Summit of Leaders.*  
  
Today, Indonesia, the United States, and the European Union co-hosted an
event on the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII)
on the margins of the G20 Leaders’ Summit, in which we reaffirmed our
shared commitment to strengthening global partnerships for high-standard
investments in sustainable, transparent, and quality infrastructure in
low- and middle-income countries. In line with the G20 theme for 2022,
“Recover Together, Recover Stronger,” the event highlighted ways in
which G20 nations are investing together and investing stronger to meet
the critical challenges that the world faces today.  
  
Quality infrastructure is critical to countries’ development outcomes,
global supply chains, economic and national security, and the health and
wellbeing of the planet and people around the world. That is why at the
June G7 Leaders’ Summit in Germany, Leaders launched PGII and announced
their intention to mobilize $600 billion for global infrastructure
investments by 2027.  
  
Today’s side event demonstrated the importance of partnerships in
pursuit of quality infrastructure among G20 members. The co-hosts and
participants— who included Argentina, Canada, France, Germany, India,
Japan, the Republic of Korea, Senegal, and the United Kingdom—announced
new projects and new forms of collaboration in investments in key
sectors such as climate and energy transition, digital connectivity,
health and health security, education and gender equality, and
transportation.  
  
During the event, we also launched the [ground-breaking new Just Energy
Transition Partnership
(JETP)](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/15/indonesia-and-international-partners-secure-groundbreaking-climate-targets-and-associated-financing/) with
President Joko Widodo of Indonesia co-led by the United States and Japan
on behalf of the G7 and the International Partnership Group (IPG),
including Canada, Denmark, the European Union, France, Germany, Italy,
Norway, and the United Kingdom. This long-term partnership will
accelerate Indonesia’s just power sector transition, consistent with
keeping the 1.5 °C global warming limit within reach, backed by $20
billion in support from public and private sources.  
  
President of the Republic of Indonesia Joko Widodo said:  
  
*Indonesia is proud to help mobilize the game changing global goal to
catalyse $600 billion in infrastructure investment by 2027. As the G20
Presidency, and Chairman of ASEAN next year, Indonesia will ensure
developing countries benefit from this transformational global
initiative, by working closely with partners, including in ASEAN and the
Indo-Pacific region, to deliver the Partnership Global for
Infrastructure and Investment vision to invest in infrastructure for the
future, and realize Indonesia’s G20 Presidency vision to ‘Recover
Together, Recover Strong’.*  
  
*To accelerate clean energy transitions across the archipelago,
Indonesia also benefits through a major $20 billion investment, the new
Just Energy Transition Partnership supported by the International
Partners Group.*  
  
President of the United States of America Joseph R. Biden said:  
  
*The Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment brings
together partners—from government<s>s</s>, the private sector, and
beyond—to deliver real results for people around the world, including
here in Indonesia. Today, G20 leaders highlighted the importance of
investing together and investing stronger to fill the enormous need for
better infrastructure in low- and middle-income countries around the
world, and we welcome all who share this vision to join our efforts.*  
  
President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen said:  
  
*The Partnership Global for Infrastructure and Investment is an
important geostrategic initiative in era of strategic competition.
Together with leading democracies we offer values-driven, high-standard,
and transparent infrastructure partnerships for low- and middle-income
countries. The launched Just Energy Transition Partnership with
Indonesia is a critical example.*  
  
Investments announced by the United States of America can be
found [here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/15/fact-sheet-presidents-biden-widodo-von-der-leyen-and-g20-announce-g20-partnership-for-global-infrastructure-and-investment-projects/).  
  
Investments announced by the European Commission can be
found [here](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/FS_22_6884).  
  

\###
