---
date: '2022-11-12'
modified_time: 2022-11-12 05:30:22-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-12 05:30:21-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-and-asean-leaders-launch-the-u-s-asean-comprehensive-strategic-partnership/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:\_President\_Biden and ASEAN Leaders\_Launch\_the U.S.-ASEAN\_\
  Comprehensive Strategic\_Partnership"
---
 
At the 10<sup>th</sup> annual U.S.-ASEAN Summit in Phnom Penh, Cambodia,
President Biden and the ASEAN leaders will elevate U.S.-ASEAN relations
to a *Comprehensive Strategic Partnership (CSP)*. President Biden will
also attend the annual East Asia Summit, further demonstrating the
United States’ prioritization of the Indo-Pacific and the ASEAN-led
regional architecture.  
  
At both summits, President Biden will reaffirm the United States’ strong
support for ASEAN centrality and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific,
building on the historic success of the first-ever U.S.-ASEAN Special
Summit in Washington, DC earlier this year. President Biden will review
implementation of the many new U.S.-ASEAN initiatives he has launched
with ASEAN leaders over the past year, and he will also announce
several new initiatives designed to supportthe four pillars of the ASEAN
Outlook: maritime cooperation, connectivity, the UN sustainable
development goals, and economic cooperation.   
  
OUR COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP  
  
Expanding our Diplomatic Architecture: President Biden has overseen an
unprecedented expansion in U.S.-ASEAN relations, marked by the launch of
five new high-level dialogue processes on health, transportation,
women’s empowerment, environment and climate, and energy, as well as
elevated engagement in existing dialogue tracks on foreign affairs,
economics, and defense, led on the U.S. side by Secretary Becerra,
Secretary Buttigieg, Administrator Power, Secretary Kerry, Secretary
Granholm, Secretary Blinken, Ambassador Tai, and Secretary Austin,
respectively. Under the framework of our newly established U.S.-ASEAN
Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, the United States and ASEAN will
institutionalize and expand cooperation in each of these important
areas, in order to support robust implementation of the ASEAN Outlook on
the Indo-Pacific and promote a free and open region that is connected,
prosperous, secure, and resilient.  

-   In May, Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra
    traveled to Bali, Indonesia for a special U.S.-ASEAN Health
    Ministerial Meeting, during which the two sides agreed to develop a
    cooperation work plan and to convene senior officials’ meetings.  
     
-   In June, the Department of Transportation led U.S. participation in
    the first-ever U.S.-ASEAN Senior Transport Officials Dialogue in
    Bali, Indonesia, where ASEAN endorsed an ASEAN-U.S. transport
    cooperation work plan.   
-   In August, Secretary of State Antony Blinken attended the
    annual U.S.-ASEAN, East Asia Summit, and ASEAN Regional Forum
    foreign ministers’ meetings in Cambodia.  
-   In September, the Department of Energy participated in the
    second U.S.-ASEAN Energy Ministers’ Meeting, institutionalizing a
    dialogue first convened by Secretary of Energy Granholm in 2021.  
     
-   In September, U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Katherine Tai
    traveled to Siem Reap, Cambodia to meet with ASEAN Economic
    Ministers and attend the East Asia Summit Economic Ministers’
    Meeting.  ASEAN endorsed a new ASEAN-U.S. Trade and
    Investment Framework Arrangement Work Plan to further promote
    economic relations and trade.    
-   In September, USAID Administrator Samantha Power co-chaired
    a special U.S.-ASEAN Ministerial Dialogue on Gender Equality and
    Women’s Empowerment.    
-   In October, the Office of the Special Presidential Envoy for Climate
    joined a senior officials’ dialogue on the environment and climate
    with ASEAN, during which the two sides agreed to establish a
    cooperation work plan and to hold
    a special U.S.-ASEAN Ministerial Dialogue on the Environment
    and Climate in 2023.      
-   Later this month, Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin will travel to
    Cambodia for the ASEAN Defense Ministers Meeting “Plus” (ADMM+)
    where he will coordinate with ASEAN partners on defense matters,
    continuing the United States’ unbroken record of attending every
    ADMM+ meeting at the highest level.

Supporting the PARTNER with ASEAN Act: The Biden-Harris Administration
welcomes the recent introduction of bipartisan legislation that would
authorize the President to extend privileges and immunities under the
International Organizations Immunities Act to ASEAN. President Biden
hopes to have the opportunity to sign the PARTNER with ASEAN Act into
law.  
  
U.S. Assistance in Southeast Asia: The United States is proud to provide
over $860 million in assistance through the Department of State and U.S.
Agency for International Development to our ASEAN partners in 2022. This
assistance is supporting climate ambition and the clean energy
transition, access to education, strengthened health systems, security
modernization efforts, rule of law and human rights, and more.  
  
PROMOTING CONNECTIVITY  
  
U.S.-ASEAN Electric Vehicle Initiative: Today, President Biden launched
the U.S.-ASEAN Electric Vehicle Initiative, through which the United
States and ASEAN will work together to develop an integrated electric
vehicle (EV) ecosystem in Southeast Asia, thereby enhancing the region’s
connectivity while ensuring ASEAN nations can achieve ambitious
emissions reductions targets. As the flagship initiative of the
U.S.-ASEAN Transportation Dialogue Partnership, the U.S.-ASEAN Electric
Vehicle Initiative will:  

-   Support the planning, integration, and deployment of EV
    infrastructure;   
-   Support the development of an ASEAN EV Implementation Roadmap;    
-   Provide capacity-building and technical assistance to accelerate the
    adoption of EVs across Southeast Asia; and   
-   Facilitate partnerships with U.S. companies and familiarize
    ASEAN governments and companies with U.S. solutions and
    technologies. 

U.S.-ASEAN Platform for Infrastructure and Connectivity: President Biden
announced the establishment of a U.S.-ASEAN Platform for Infrastructure
and Connectivity, a demand-driven co-development mechanism through which
the United States will support ASEAN initiatives that enhance
connectivity across Southeast Asia and facilitate high-quality
investment in regional infrastructure projects, under the auspices of
the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII). Based
in Jakarta to facilitate partnershipwith the ASEAN Secretariat and the
ASEAN Committee of Permanent Representatives, this mechanism
will supportimplementation of the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity
2025, the ASEAN Interconnection Masterplan Study III, and other
high-priority ASEAN infrastructure initiatives.   
  
Emerging Defense Leaders Program: The Department of Defense plans to
invest approximately $10 million each year to launch and support a new
network of Southeast Asian emerging defense leaders. This initiative
will provide training opportunities that will accelerate defense sector
professionalization, while building mutual understanding and lasting
connections among the next generation of Southeast Asian defense leaders
and their U.S. counterparts. Training opportunities will include English
language classes, as well as courses focused on international
law, defense strategy planning, and responsible defense budgeting and
resource allocation. The program seeks to build people-to-people
connectivity by supporting an alumni
network, facilitating exchanges with high-level
officials, and offering follow-on courses and trainings.  
  
ACHIEVING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS  
  
Food Security and Access to Clean Water: The U.S. Department of
Agriculture and U.S. International Development Finance Corporation will
invest $57 million in new programs across Southeast Asia to promote food
security and ensure access to clean water, including a new “Food for
School Feeding” program that will provide meals to 109,000 Cambodian
students over the next five years, as well as loans that will provide
affordable drinking water to vulnerable populations in Southeast Asia,
as well as India, and help the Philippines expand production of organic
coconut products.  
  
Resilient Health Supply Chains: The U.S. International Development
Finance Corporation will partner with the Quadria Capital Fund III to
invest $75 million in strengthening healthcare systems and building
resilient health supply chains across Southeast Asia – as well as India
and Sri Lanka. This partnership will increase access, affordability,
awareness, and quality of healthcare services for low- and middle-income
consumers throughout the region.  
  
ASEAN Center for Pandemic Health Emergencies and Emerging Diseases: The
United States will support the ASEAN Center for Pandemic Health
Emergencies and Emerging Diseases (ACPHEED), including through USAID
assistance and through the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, which is
assigning Regional Technical Advisors to support ACPHEED in the areas of
workforce development, infection prevention and control, antimicrobial
resistance, respiratory disease surveillance, and zoonotic diseases.  
  
ASEAN Center for Climate Change: The United States will support the new
ASEAN Centre for Climate Change, based in Brunei Darussalam, including
through technical exchanges with the United States’ premier climate
experts. For example, the U.S. Department of Energy’s Argonne National
Laboratory will provide trainings that expand the Centre’s capacity for
decarbonization research, disaster management planning, and other areas
of work.  
​  
Disability Rights: The United States is working with ASEAN and civil
society partners to launch a U.S.-ASEAN Dialogue on the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities, focused on implementing the ASEAN Enabling
Masterplan on Mainstreaming the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and
the obligations of States Parties to the Convention on the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities. The United States will support
complementary programs that support ASEAN countries and disabled
people’s organizations to accelerate regional implementation
of the ASEAN Masterplan.    
  
ASEAN Regional Plan of Action on Women, Peace, and Security: In
December, USAID, in collaboration with ASEAN and UN Women, will launch
the Regional Plan of Action on Women, Peace, and Security. The plan will
build on the achievements of the inaugural U.S.-ASEAN Ministerial
Dialogue on Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment, and it will be
implemented through a partnership with the ASEAN Committee for Women and
ASEAN Commission on the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Women
and Children.  
  
ADVANCING ECONOMIC COOPERATION  
  
Supporting Women Entrepreneurs: The U.S. International Development
Finance Corporation will invest $215 million in loans to Southeast Asian
financial institutions, in order to support women entrepreneurs and
women-owned small- and medium-sized enterprises. These investments will
help low-income women access capital and contribute to economic growth,
while addressing the credit gap for women-led businesses.   
  
Investing in Sustainable Infrastructure: The U.S. Trade and Development
Agency will launch $13 million in new infrastructure project preparation
initiatives designed to catalyze financing for the development of
high-quality sustainable infrastructure projects valued at over $7
billion across Southeast Asia.  These projects will strengthen
transportation links and supply chains, promote regional energy security
and the clean energy transition, facilitate improved healthcare, and
advance digital connectivity.   
  
Digital Economy & Digital Trade Standards: To strengthen ASEAN’s digital
trade ecosystem and enhance regional connectivity, the U.S. Department
of Commerce will partner with the ASEAN Consultative Committee on
Standards and Quality (ACCSQ) to co-develop programs on digital trust
and cybersecurity standards. Commerce will convene U.S. industry leaders
and the ASEAN Digital Trade Standards and Conformance Working Group to
promote good regulatory practices, address cyber risks, and pursue best
practices for regional harmonization and stronger interoperability.    
  
ASEAN SME Academy 2.0: In April 2022, USAID launched the ASEAN SME
Academy 2.0 in collaboration with the U.S.-ASEAN Business Council. Now,
USAID will expand SME support in the ASEAN region to accelerate economic
recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and address the rising cost of
living. New resources to strengthen small business recovery will be
available in four languages (English, Thai, Indonesian, and Vietnamese)
in 2023. Through the modernized SME Academy platform, SMEs will be
better equipped to manage cash flow, increase revenue, and leverage
digital technologies for growth.  
  
EXPANDING MARITIME COOPERATION  
  
Countering Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing:USAID is
strengthening the regional capacity to combat illegal, unreported, and
unregulated (IUU) fishing through the Sustainable Fish Asia (SuFiA)
project. SuFiA is partnering with the ASEAN Secretariat and ASEAN
members to undertake a demand-driven technical service model for the
region, a gender equality and social inclusion analysis, with a focus on
small-scale and indigenous fishers and youth, and a regional IUU fishing
risk assessment.   

\###
