---
date: '2022-11-03'
published_time: 2022-11-03 20:35:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/03/what-they-are-reading-in-the-states-biden-harris-administration-helps-lowers-families-energy-expenses/
tags: statements-releases
title: "What They Are Reading in the States: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Helps\
  \ Lowers Families\u2019 Energy\_Expenses"
---
 
This week, the Biden-Harris administration announced a series of actions
to lower energy costs for families as the winter approaches. The actions
included providing $4.5 billion in funding to states, territories and
Tribes through the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to
help cover home heating costs, settle unpaid utility bills, and make
cost-effective home energy repairs to lower families’ heating and
cooling bills. The administration also announced $8.5 billion from
President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act to support up to 1.6 million
households nationwide in upgrading homes and apartments to lower energy
bills, including by installing up to 500,000 heat pumps and conducting
deep building retrofits through insulation and electrical wiring. These
steps will not only help cut home energy costs ahead of the winter
months, but will also help households afford energy efficient equipment
when they need to make home repairs and save on their bills in the
future.  
  
*Read below for a sampling of the local coverage.*  
  
**Nexstar:** [**Biden admin distributing $4.5 billion to help with home
heating
costs**](https://fox4kc.com/news/national/biden-admin-distributing-4-5-billion-to-help-with-home-heating-costs-heres-how-to-apply-for-assistance/)  
Billions of dollars in federal aid is being made available to help
Americans with their heating bills through the Low Income Home Energy
Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The Biden administration said Wednesday
that roughly $4.5 billion has been allocated for LIHEAP this winter, to
help low-income families pay their energy or utility bills, or, in some
cases, to cover the cost of weatherization or repairs. The funds will be
distributed to states, territories and tribal governments this week.  
  
**New Hampshire Bulletin:** [**New Hampshire to receive $104 million for
energy rebates and fuel
assistance**](https://newhampshirebulletin.com/briefs/new-hampshire-to-receive-110-million-for-energy-rebates-and-fuel-assistance/)  
During a press event Wednesday, White House National Climate Adviser Ali
Zaidi said heat pumps can help households save around $500 a year. Half
of the energy costs for a home go to heating and cooling, Zaidi said.
Across the country, the $9 billion in funding is enough to help 1.6
million households switch to a heat pump, he said.  
  
**NJ.com:** [**N.J. residents to get $336M from feds to help cover
rising energy
costs**](https://www.nj.com/politics/2022/11/nj-residents-to-get-336m-from-feds-to-help-cover-rising-energy-costs.html)  
“As we get close to these winter months, millions of hard-working
families throughout the country are going to be looking for ways to keep
their houses warm” while also putting food on the table, U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra said on a
conference call with reporters. “We’re going to do everything we can to
make LIHEAP work for them.”  
  
**Connecticut Public Media:** [**Connecticut will get $86 million to
help families pay home heating
costs**](https://www.ctpublic.org/news/2022-11-03/connecticut-will-get-86-million-to-help-families-pay-home-heating-costs)  
Connecticut will get $86 million in assistance to help lower heating
costs for families this winter. It’s part of $4.5 billion in help for
American families announced Wednesday. Spending for the program is
significantly higher than the typical annual funding of about $3.5
billion, but far below the $8 billion the administration and
congressional Democrats delivered last winter as part of President Joe
Biden’s coronavirus relief package. Money will be distributed through
the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program or LIHEAP. The program
helps families struggling with energy bills and also pays for home
energy repairs to help lower bills.  
  
**Boston Business Journals:** [**As energy prices soar, feds release
millions in heating aid for New
Englanders**](https://www.bizjournals.com/boston/news/2022/11/02/rhode-island-liheap-energy-prices-heating.html)  
“We want to make sure we help all families,” said HHS Secretary Xavier
Becerra. LIHEAP is there to help disadvantaged communities, particularly
those who are very vulnerable to swings in temperature. We’re going to
do everything we can to make LIHEAP work for them once again regardless
of all the different calamities affecting the price of energy.”  
  
**WFSB (CBS Hartford, CT):** [**Help is on the way to help people pay
for energy bills this
winter**](https://www.wfsb.com/2022/11/02/help-is-way-help-people-pay-energy-bills-this-winter/)  
There is some help on the way. The White House announced more than $13
billion in funding to lower your energy bills. There’s $13.5 billion in
funding to help people, and $4.5 billion of that is heading to the Low
Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). That money will help
people pay their heating and utility bills. There will also be $9
billion going to the Inflation Reduction Act. That will help a few
million people with home repairs, which will eventually lower heating
bills. In Hartford, people are happy there’s some help because they’re
getting worried.  
  
**WPRI (CBS Providence, RI):** [**Home heating assistance: Here’s how to
apply**](https://www.wpri.com/money/home-heating-assistance-heres-how-to-apply/)  
“As temperatures begin to dip and Putin’s invasion of Ukraine forces
worldwide energy price spikes, LIHEAP funds are a real lifeline for many
vulnerable Americans,” \[Sen. Jack\] Reed added. “No one should have to
choose between paying their heating bills and paying for other
essentials like food and medicine.”  
  
**WICS (ABC Springfield, IL):** [**$208 million to help Illinoisans heat
their homes in
winter**](https://newschannel20.com/newsletter-daily/208-million-to-help-illinoisans-heat-their-homes-in-winter)
“  
On Thursday, Illinois received $208,170,481 million to help Illinoisans
pay the rising cost of home heating bills this winter. The funding is
through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Low
Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP).  
  
**KAAL (ABC Rochester, MN):** [**Biden announced $4.5B to help lower
home heating costs; $128M to MN, $60M to
IA**](https://www.kaaltv.com/news/top-news/biden-announced-4-5b-to-help-lower-home-heating-costs-128m-to-mn-60m-to-ia/)  
The Biden administration said Wednesday it is making $4.5 billion
available through a low-income home energy assistance program to help
with heating costs this winter. Spending for the program is
significantly higher than the typical annual funding of about $3.5
billion, but far below the $8 billion the administration and
congressional Democrats delivered last winter as part of the coronavirus
relief package.  
  
**KCCI (CBS Des Moines, IA):** [**Iowans can apply for home heating
assistance**](https://www.kcci.com/article/iowans-can-apply-for-home-heating-energy-assistance/41842270)  
Iowans worried about paying their heating bills this winter have started
signing up for help. The Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, or
LIHEAP, opened up the application process Tuesday morning for homeowners
and renters.  
  
**WCSH (NBC Portland, ME):** [**Maine gets $42.5M in LIHEAP funding as
home heating concerns
mount**](https://www.newscentermaine.com/article/money/maine-gets-425m-in-liheap-funding-as-home-heating-concerns-mount-energy-costs-maine/97-71fb6a2b-b877-4cbe-be99-8d665a012f50)  
With energy costs soaring and fuel supplies tightening, many Maine
families are concerned about heating their homes this winter.  On
Tuesday, the state of Maine was awarded $42.5 million through the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services’ Low Income Home Energy
Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which provides funding to help low-income
households pay their energy bills \[…\]  
  
**WTAE (ABC Pittsburgh, PA):** [**LIHEAP heating assistance program now
accepting applications in
Pennsylvania**](https://www.wtae.com/article/liheap-pennsylvania-heating-assistance/41805532)  
The application process for Pennsylvania’s Low-Income Home Energy
Assistance Program – known as LIHEAP – is underway for the 2022-2023
season…The federally-funded program administered by the Department of
Human Services helps renters and homeowners with home heating bills…The
application period for both cash and crisis grants is open until April
28, 2023.

\###
