---
date: '2022-11-11'
modified_time: 2022-11-10 18:42:23-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-11 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/11/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-is-supporting-americas-veterans-and-their-families-caregivers-and-survivors/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:  Biden-\u2060Harris Administration is Supporting America\u2019\
  s Veterans and Their Families, Caregivers, and\_Survivors"
---
 
President Biden believes we have a sacred obligation to our nation’s
veterans and their families. Since taking office, President Biden has
signed into law over 25 bipartisan bills that address some of the most
important issues facing veterans today, including the landmark PACT Act
to address toxic exposures. On education, housing, and health care, the
Administration and Congress have worked together to connect veterans and
their families to much-needed resources. As we mark this Veterans Day
and honor all those who have worn the uniform of the United States, the
Administration is continuing to support our veterans by:  
  
**Delivering timely, high quality benefits and services. **Under the
Biden-Harris Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is
delivering more benefits and health care, more quickly, to more veterans
than ever before. In 2022, VA processed an all-time record 1.7 million
veteran claims—breaking the previous record by 12%. In total, VA
delivered $128 billion in earned benefits to 6.1 million veterans and
survivors during 2022. Over the last two years, VA has provided more
than 220 million health care engagements to veterans—the most for a
two-year time period in VA history.

**Addressing toxic exposures. **Earlier this week, VA [began
screening](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5838) all
veterans enrolled in VA health care for toxic exposures, thanks to a
bipartisan bill President Biden got through Congress—marking the biggest
expansion of VA health care in nearly 30 years. In August, President
Biden signed the [bipartisan Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson
Honoring our Promise to Address Comprehensive Toxics (PACT)
Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/10/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-the-pact-act-and-delivers-on-his-promise-to-americas-veterans/) and
announced that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs would make all
presumptive conditions effective immediately. This new law makes it
easier for veterans to get benefits and services they have earned. Since
enactment, more than 137,000 toxic exposure related claims have been
filed and [more veterans are now eligible for health
care](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5826). Thanks
to this new law, 31 new clinical sites will be opened and more providers
hired to deliver the care. The Department of Defense (DOD) also
announced updates to its policies related to burn pits – thereby
decreasing exposure for troops in the future.  
  
**Reducing veteran suicide. **Since releasing a comprehensive public
health strategy for [reducing military and
veteran](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Military-and-Veteran-Suicide-Prevention-Strategy.pdf) suicide
last year, the Biden-Harris Administration has continued to improve
suicide prevention efforts. This year,
both [DoD](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3193806/department-of-defense-releases-the-annual-report-on-suicide-in-the-military-cal/) and [VA](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5823) have
reported declines in suicide deaths, marking progress in federal efforts
to prevent suicide. [VA
awarded](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5823) $52
million in grants for 80 community-based organizations to deliver or
coordinate suicide prevention programs and services for veterans and
their family members. In July, the [988 Veterans Crisis
Line](https://www.veteranscrisisline.net/about/what-is-988/) went live
to provide veterans and their loved ones an easy to remember number to
help veterans in crisis.  
  
**Ending veteran homelessness. **Thanks to efforts by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the US Interagency Council on
Homelessness (USICH), and VA, as well as historic investments from the
President’s American Rescue Plan, the number of [veterans experiencing
homelessness
declined](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5836) by
11% between 2020 and 2022 – the largest decline in the last five years –
and our nation is on track to permanently house 38,000 veterans in 2022
alone. To further this progress, last month, VA [awarded $130
million](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5823) to
support programs to help veterans and their families find stable
housing. VA also [released three new grant
opportunities](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5835) to
provide veterans with rapid re-housing services, 11,000 temporary beds,
and case managers who can help find community-based assistance and
permanent housing.  
  
**Supporting women veterans. **Women are the fastest growing group of
veterans who use VA services. The Biden-Harris Administration is
committed to addressing and providing resources for the specialized
health care needs of women veterans including increasing cancer
screenings, improving mental health care and access, addressing
infertility and reducing intimate partner violence. Over the past year,
VA has expanded access to reproductive health services to
include [abortion counseling and abortion services in limited
circumstances](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5820),
committed to [improving maternal
health](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Maternal-Health-Blueprint.pdf),
and placed a Women’s Mental Health Champion at every VA Medical Center
to ensure women feel welcome and receive equitable treatment and care.  
  
**Removing barriers to services for LGBTQ+ veterans.** The Biden-Harris
Administration is committed to protecting and serving our LGBTQ+
veterans. The Administration ended the ban on transgender service and
directed a review of all policies and practices to ensure greater
inclusivity of LGTBQ+ veterans. VA also committed to [providing gender
affirming care](https://www.patientcare.va.gov/LGBT/) and resources in
an inclusive environment. Last month, VA also announced it
was [extending survivor
benefits](https://www.va.gov/opa/pressrel/pressrelease.cfm?id=5832) for
certain survivors of LGBTQ+ veterans.  
  
**Protecting service member and veteran education benefits**. For too
long, service members and veterans have been targeted by predatory
marketing practices from for-profit educational institutions. In
October, the Department of Education [closed the 90/10
loophole](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/education-department-unveils-final-rules-protect-veterans-and-service-members-improve-college-access-incarcerated-individuals-and-improve-oversight-when-colleges-change-owners) in
the Higher Education Act that allowed for-profit colleges to
aggressively recruit veterans and service members. The revised
definition means institutions will no longer be able to count money from
veteran and service member benefits toward the 10% revenue requirement
from non-federal sources requirement.  
  
**Protecting veterans and military families from fraud**. In 2021 alone,
veterans, military personnel, and their families reported fraud
losses [exceeding $267
million](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2022/07/ftc-details-its-enforcement-actions-crack-down-fraud-against-military-community-testimony-house).
The Biden-Harris Administration is working to better protect veterans
and their families against these scams. VA, in partnership with the
Department of Education*,* Federal Trade Commission, Social Security
Administration, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, State Department,
and Department of Defense are working to develop new consumer education
initiatives, consolidated fraud reporting processes, and more rapid
responses to fraud attempts against veterans and military personnel.
More information will be released in the coming months.  
  
**Connecting more veterans with resources for training and
employment. **The Department of Labor and its partners are working to
ensure all veterans have access to the resources they need to find
gainful employment. This year, the Department of Labor (DOL), in
partnership with the Department of Transportation, launched a [90-Day
Trucking Apprenticeship
Challenge](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/dot-dol-announce-expansion-trucking-apprenticeships-new-truck-driver-boards-and) that
produced more than 2,000 veteran apprentices and 500 fully trained
veteran trucking professionals. In April 2021, DOL launched
the [Employment Navigator Partnership
Pilot](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/vets/vets20210401) (ENPP)
to provide one-on-one career assistance to transitioning service
members. Since launch, more than 6,500 service members and their spouses
received assistance through the program.  
  
**Expanding services for veteran caregivers.** More than 5.5 million
caregivers provide support to our nation’s wounded, ill, and injured
service members and veterans, many of whom require close care and
supervision. Ensuring caregivers receive the support, training, and
compensation they deserve is a critical priority for the Biden-Harris
Administration. In October, [VA expanded the Program of Comprehensive
Assistance for Family
Caregivers](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5829) to
veterans of all service eras. Of the 17,000 applications received since,
over 14,400 have been reviewed and advanced to the next stages of
processing or clinical review.  
  
**Helping educators support military-connected students. **As part of
First Lady Jill Biden’s Joining Forces initiative, the Administration
will [release new
toolkits](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/joiningforces/#resources) later
this month to help educators support military-connected children,
including the more than 2.3 million children and youth living with and
supporting wounded, ill, or injured service members and veterans. The
toolkit outlines ways educators and school administrators can build
awareness and community around veterans and their families. It includes
activities elementary, middle, and high schools can use to support
military-connected students throughout the school year.  
  
**Supporting children living with wounded, ill, or injured service
members and veterans. **Under the leadership of First Lady Jill Biden’s
Joining Forces initiative, the [Hidden Helper
Coalition](https://hiddenheroes.org/resources/hiddenhelpers/) supports
the more than 2.3 million children and youth living with and serving
wounded, ill, or injured service members and veterans. Since its launch
one year ago, the coalition has announced a series of
new [commitments](https://hiddenheroes.org/about/news/) to bring
attention to the untold stories of child caregivers and expanded the
coalition to 75 member organizations that represent a diverse
cross-section of public and private sector partners committed to
supporting this mission.  
  
**Ending hunger and promoting healthier living. **Addressing hunger and
increasing healthy eating and physical activity are key to improving
health outcomes for veterans. As part of the [White House Strategy on
Hunger, Nutrition, and
Health](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/White-House-National-Strategy-on-Hunger-Nutrition-and-Health-FINAL.pdf),
VA announced it will establish an Office of Food Security to help tackle
food insecurity among veterans, expand the clinical nutrition services
it provides to veterans receiving VA health care, and pilot produce
prescription programs, food pantries, and mobile food pantries to meet
the needs of veterans. VA also [announced $16
million](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5831) in
funding to help veterans participate in adaptive sports. And, earlier
this week, the Department of
Interior [announced](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/new-lifetime-pass-available-military-veterans-and-gold-star-families-access-public) the
availability of a free lifetime pass for veterans and Gold Star families
to more than 2,000 federal recreation sites spread out across more than
400 million acres of public lands, including national parks, wildlife
refuges, and forests.    
  
**Helping heal trauma**. The National Endowment for the Arts
(NEA) [opened
applications](https://www.arts.gov/news/press-releases/2022/applications-open-creative-forces-community-engagement-grants) for
the second round of Creative Forces Community Engagement Grants. The
program provides resources to support local and regional communities in
artmaking experiences to support veterans and their families. In June,
NEA funded 26 organizations that incorporate visual arts, crafts, dance,
creative writing, theater and music to improve engagement and outcomes
for veterans. Creative Forces is an initiative of NEA in partnership
with DoD and VA to improve the health, well-being, and quality of life
for military and veteran populations exposed to trauma, as well as their
families and caregivers.

\###
