---
date: '2022-11-23'
published_time: 2022-11-23 20:47:20-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/23/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-occasion-of-international-day-for-the-elimination-of-violence-against-women-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the Occasion of International Day for\
  \ the Elimination of Violence Against\_Women"
---
 
This year, on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence
Against Women— which kicks off the global 16 Days of Activism against
Gender-Based Violence—we remember that gender-based violence continues
to impact millions of women, girls, and marginalized people around the
world, particularly in areas of democratic backsliding, conflict, and
instability. The United States will not stand by as they face pain and
suffering. Today, we stand in solidarity with the women of Ukraine
suffering Russia’s brutal and unjust war, where we are once more seeing
rape used as a weapon. We stand with the women of Russia, against whom
domestic violence was partially decriminalized in 2017. We stand with
the women of Iran, who are facing down violence and oppression to demand
their human rights and fundamental freedoms. And we stand with the
estimated one in three women around the world who will experience
physical violence, rape, or stalking at some point in their lifetimes.  
  
For all our progress on this issue, these numbers remain an outrage.
And, as is too often the case, women and girls from historically
marginalized communities—including people of color, people with
disabilities, and people who identify as LGBTQI+—are disproportionately
affected. We must recommit ourselves to ending violence against women
and girls in all their diversity—wherever and whenever it occurs. Ending
this scourge is a moral imperative, and it is in our strategic interest
to strengthen security and stability for us all. When women are safe and
fully integrated into their societies, everyone does better.    
  
Ending violence against women has been the cause of my life. As a
Senator, I wrote and championed the first Violence Against Women Act
(VAWA) and then worked for decades to strengthen VAWA’s support to
survivors and increase prevention efforts. This past March, as
President, I had the honor of signing into law the strongest survivor
protections to date through the Violence Against Women Act
Reauthorization Act of 2022. Under the leadership of the Gender Policy
Council, my Administration is putting gender equality and equity at the
heart of all that we do. And, over the last year, we’ve redoubled our
efforts to address gender-based violence and abuse, including
implementing historic military justice reform, taking targeted actions
to support Native survivors and LGBTQI+ survivors, combatting
technology-facilitated gender-based violence, advancing efforts to
prevent domestic violence homicides and gun violence, and increasing
support to address conflict-related sexual violence.  
  
We still have more to do. No one should live under the threat of
violence. No one should go through their life fearing violence, abuse,
and persecution. That is our ultimate goal, and my Administration will
continue to lead this work at home and around the world.

\###
