---
date: '2022-11-07'
modified_time: 2022-11-07 05:46:52-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-07 07:01:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/07/joint-readout-of-u-s-eu-task-force-meeting-on-energy-security/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Readout of U.S.-EU Task Force Meeting on Energy\_Security"
---
 
On 3 November 2022, the U.S.-EU Task Force on Energy Security met in
Washington to discuss implementation of the 25 March Joint Statement by
Presidents Biden and Von der Leyen, which aims to help diversify the
EU’s natural gas supplies and reduce natural gas demand and consumption.
The Task Force builds on long-standing cooperation under the U.S.-EU
Energy Council, including to advance the clean energy transition. The
meeting was co-chaired by Björn Seibert, Head of Cabinet of the European
Commission President, and Amos Hochstein, U.S. Special Presidential
Coordinator, and under the leadership of Ditte Juul Jørgensen, European
Commission Director General for Energy, and Stephanie Epner, Special
Advisor and Acting Senior Director for Climate and Energy at the White
House National Security Council.

The meeting of the Task Force took stock of joint work to date,
including multiple meetings with EU Member States and EU and U.S.
industry representatives to discuss and compare policy approaches, as
well as best practices with respect to energy savings, deployment of
clean energy technologies, and decoupling from Russian energy in 2022
and beyond.

Also, as the world gathers for COP27 this week, we reaffirmed our
commitment to an accelerated and responsible clean energy transition,
which is both key to achieving our shared climate goals and the best way
to ensure long-term energy security around the world.

We condemned Russia’s unprovoked aggression on Ukraine and Russia’s
repeated attacks on civilian energy and electricity infrastructure, and
the risks to humanitarian conditions caused by these attacks. The EU and
United States will continue to partner on providing emergency energy
assistance to Ukraine, and support to other heavily affected countries
in the region, such as Moldova, which face acute impacts from Russia’s
actions to employ energy as a weapon.

\*\*\*

Russia’s war against Ukraine and its weaponization of energy resources
pose significant challenges to European and global energy security.
Russia has acutely disrupted global energy markets leading to sharp
increases in prices and threatening food security, with disproportionate
consequences for the developing world and the most vulnerable
populations. Russia has taken unilateral decisions to disrupt natural
gas supplies to several European countries and attack critical
infrastructure in disregard of the international legal order pertaining
to safe, secure and peaceful use of nuclear energy technologies. The
EU’s resolve to diversify its natural gas supplies and reduce overall
natural gas use, as stated in the RePowerEU Plan, is unequivocal. Close
partnership between the EU and the United States on energy matters
offers opportunities for both sides to accelerate the clean energy
transition and, also curtails Russia’s energy revenues, which are used
to fund the unprovoked and unjustified war.

The participants welcomed surpassing the commitment made in the Joint
Statement by Presidents Biden and Von der Leyen, to increase LNG
supplies to Europe by 15 bcm in 2022 as compared to 2021. This year
alone, between January through October, approximately 48 bcm of LNG was
exported from the U.S. to the EU, which is 26 bcm more than for the full
year of 2021. Building on this trend, the participants committed to work
on keeping a high level of LNG supplies to Europe in 2023 of an
additional approximately 50 bcm as compared to 2021. The parties also
discussed how the Task Force will contribute to ensuring security of
supply and storage filling in 2023 at prices reflecting economic
fundamentals and our shared push for energy market stability. This
effort will be further supported with the establishment of the EU Energy
Platform as an instrument for demand aggregation and joint purchase of
gas.

Both sides underscored that Russia’s weaponization of energy reinforces
the need to accelerate the energy transition and implement more
ambitious policies to reduce dependence on gas and other fossil fuels. 
The participants welcomed the EU’s ongoing efforts to reduce natural gas
demand by 15% and considered current and potential new energy efficiency
measures to ensure the EU’s energy security throughout the winter
2022/23. Earlier this fall, the Task Force also initiated a dialogue
among the EU, the U.S. Government, EU Member States, industry, NGOs and
private sector representatives to share the key elements for successful
consumer campaigns as well as actionable policy recommendations to
smooth energy demand peaks, reduce natural gas and electricity usage,
improve energy efficiency of people’s homes and lower consumer bills as
well as government expenditures. During the meeting, the participants
committed to pursue a series of targeted sub-dialogues to explore deeper
cooperation on offering incentives for utilities and consumers to
implement energy efficiency solutions for reducing electricity and gas
use without sacrificing comfort, shifting demand from peak to off-peak
hours, and targeted digital solutions to help save consumers money on
their bills.

Mindful of the environmental impact of LNG production and consumption,
the United States and the EU commit to step up their efforts to reduce
methane emissions both in bilateral trade and at the global level, by
supporting domestic and international measures for reinforced
monitoring, reporting and verification, as well as transparency, for
methane emissions data in the fossil energy sector. In this spirit, the
EU has proposed new legislation to reduce methane emissions across the
oil, gas and coal sectors, setting clear monitoring, reporting and
verification requirements, as well as strict mitigation measures and
global monitoring and information tools to ensure transparency of
methane emissions reduction. Both sides take note of the U.S. Inflation
Reduction Act’s Methane Emissions Reduction Program, which will invest
$1.55 billion to reduce methane emissions and implement a methane waste
fee on major emitting facilities, as well as the ongoing rulemaking
process to sharply reduce methane and other harmful air pollution from
both new and existing sources in the oil and natural gas sectors via the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Building on this progress, the
EU-U.S LNG trade should aim to achieve significant reductions in
flaring, venting, and leakage of methane across the oil and gas value
chains to the fullest extent practicable. Both sides also plan to pursue
initiatives to reduce flaring, venting, and leakage in oil and gas value
chains, including through innovative purchasing frameworks to
incentivize the capture of this gas to bring to market, such as the EU’s
proposed “you collect, we buy” approach. These methane reduction efforts
should be aligned with internationally accepted standards to improve the
accuracy and transparency of fossil energy methane emissions data, such
as the Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 (OGMP2.0). We also commit to
continue to lead global efforts to reduce methane emissions worldwide
under the Global Methane Pledge and the Global Methane Pledge Energy
Pathway, which will substantially advance and accelerate global climate
action.  

\###
