---
date: '2022-11-02'
published_time: 2022-11-02 18:07:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/02/readout-of-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivans-participation-at-the-high-level-multi-stakeholder-hybrid-event-on-the-declaration-for-the-future-of-the-internet/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan\u2019s Participation at\
  \ the High-Level Multi-stakeholder Hybrid Event on the Declaration for the Future\
  \ of the\_Internet"
---
 
Today, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan delivered closing remarks
at the High-Level Multi-stakeholder Hybrid Event on the Declaration for
the Future of the Internet (DFI). The event was organized by the
European Commission in coordination with the European External Action
Service and the Czech Presidency of the Council of the European
Union. In his remarks, Mr. Sullivan joined other DFI partners in
welcoming new countries that endorsed the DFI and reaffirmed the U.S.
endorsement of the DFI vision and principles. The event brought together
representatives from DFI partners and representatives from the global
multistakeholder community to promote the DFI vision and share ideas to
implement the DFI principles.  
  
The DFI provides a common vision for open, free, global, interoperable,
reliable, and secure Internet and digital technologies. In working to
further advance the DFI’s principles, Mr. Sullivan noted the Declaration
provides a vision for the Future of the Internet which we will work to
bring into action during the United States chairship of the Freedom
Online Coalition in 2023, and the next Summit for Democracy. Mr.
Sullivan further noted that last month, the Biden Administration issued
a Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights, a guide for the use of artificial
intelligence in ways that reinforce our democratic values. Mr. Sullivan
also announced that the United States and European Commission intend to
bring together experts to explore collaboration on research projects
that can benefit DFI partners and the global scientific community,
promoting secure and privacy-protected sharing of data and artificial
intelligence models, starting with the following focus areas: extreme
weather and climate forecasting; health and medicine; electric grid
optimization; agriculture optimization; and emergency response
management.

\###
