---
date: '2022-11-30'
modified_time: 2022-11-29 20:01:14-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-30 06:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/30/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-support-indian-country-and-native-communities-ahead-of-the-administrations-second-tribal-nations-summit/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:  Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Actions to Support\
  \ Indian Country and Native Communities Ahead of the Administration\u2019s Second\
  \ Tribal Nations\_Summit"
---
 
This week, President Biden is hosting the second Tribal Nations Summit
of his Administration to help foster Nation-to-Nation relationships and
provide Tribal leaders with an opportunity to engage directly with
senior Administration officials. Since taking office, President Biden
has prioritized relationships with Tribal Nations that are built on
respect for Tribal sovereignty and self-governance, honoring federal
trust and treaty responsibilities, protecting Tribal homelands, and
conducting regular, meaningful, and robust consultation. The President
has also advanced an economic agenda that includes historic levels of
funding specifically for Tribal communities and Native people, including
$32 billion in the American Rescue Plan (ARP), $13 billion in the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL), and $700 million in the Inflation
Reduction Act (IRA).

As Tribal leaders gather in Washington at the Department of the Interior
for the first in-person Summit of this Administration, the President and
members of the Cabinet will be announcing a number of new actions that
will build on the progress that has already been made, create new
opportunities for Tribal consultation and input, and produce lasting
changes that will impact the lives of Tribal leaders and their citizens
for generations to come.

-   **<u>Presidential Memorandum on Uniform Standards for Tribal
    Consultation</u>.** The President will sign a new Presidential
    Memorandum establishing uniform standards to be implemented across
    all federal agencies regarding how Tribal consultations are
    conducted. These standards respond to input received from Tribal
    Nations regarding Tribal consultation and ensure more consistency in
    how agencies initiate, provide notice for, conduct, record, and
    report on Tribal consultations. The Presidential Memorandum will
    also require annual training regarding Tribal consultation for
    federal employees who work with Tribal Nations or on policies with
    Tribal implications.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>New Tribal Consultation Policies</u>.** To align with the new
    Presidential Memorandum on Uniform Standards for Tribal
    Consultation, and to advance the Administration’s goals of improving
    Tribal consultation across the federal government, nine agencies
    will implement new or updated Tribal consultation policies. These
    include: (1) new policies announced today by the Department of the
    Interior (DOI), Department of Justice (DOJ), Department of
    Transportation (DOT), and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
    Administration (NOAA); and (2) new policies to be released in the
    coming months from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS),
    Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Department of the
    Treasury, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), and the Advisory
    Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP).

<!-- -->

-   **<u>New Best-Practices Report for Tribal Treaty and Reserved
    Rights</u>.** Today, 17 federal agencies, coordinated through the
    White House Council on Native American Affairs (WHCNAA), are
    releasing a new best-practices report to integrate Tribal treaty and
    reserved rights into agency decision-making processes. This
    best-practices report was developed in consultation with Tribal
    Nations and implements the agencies’ Memorandum of Understanding
    Regarding Interagency Coordination and Collaboration for the
    Protection of Tribal Treaty Rights and Reserved Rights. The agencies
    include ACHP, Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), Department of
    Commerce (DOC), Department of Defense (DOD), Department of Energy
    (DOE), DOI, DOJ, Department of Labor (DOL), Department of State
    (DOS), DOT, DHS, Department of Education (ED), Environmental
    Protection Agency (EPA), Department of Housing and Urban Development
    (HUD), Office of Personnel Management (OPM), Department of
    Agriculture (USDA), and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Implementing Tribal Co-Management and Co-Stewardship of Federal
    Lands and Waters</u>.** President Biden has recognized the
    importance of increasing Tribal participation in the management and
    stewardship of federal lands and waters of significance to Tribal
    communities. In 2021, USDA and DOI signed Joint Secretarial Order
    3403, committing to Tribal co-stewardship, including through written
    co-stewardship agreements with Tribal Nations. In 2022, they
    delivered on this commitment: in total, USDA Forest Service and DOI
    signed over 20 new co-stewardship agreements with Tribes to further
    co-stewardship goals, with more than 60 additional agreements under
    various stages of review.  
      
    Today, the Department of Commerce is announcing that it will
    formally join in these co-stewardship efforts by signing onto Joint
    Secretarial Order 3403. This commitment furthers an
    all-of-government approach to co-stewardship, and ensures that
    additional agencies—like NOAA—will further co-stewardship goals in
    their management of waters, fisheries, and other resources of
    significance and value to Tribes.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>New Indigenous Knowledge Guidance for Federal Agencies.</u>**
    The White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and
    CEQ are announcing first-of-its-kind government-wide guidance for
    federal agencies to recognize and include Indigenous Knowledge in
    federal research, policy, and decision-making. Initiated at the 2021
    Tribal Nations Summit, the new White House guidance was developed
    with federal agencies, in consultation with Tribes and engagement
    with Indigenous peoples, to elevate Indigenous observations, oral
    and written knowledge, practices, and beliefs that promote
    environmental sustainability and the responsible stewardship of
    natural and cultural resources in federal policymaking.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Access to Capital in Indian Country</u>.** The Small Business
    Administration (SBA), in coordination with WHCNAA and with
    involvement from DOC, DOE, DOI, Treasury, USDA, OMB, and the White
    House Council of Economic Advisers, is announcing a new access to
    capital initiative with the goal of increasing awareness, access,
    and utilization of financing opportunities for Tribal Nations.
    Implementing part one of the plan—awareness—will entail identifying
    and summarizing all loan and financing programs available to Tribes,
    including through ARP, BIL, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the IRA.
    Part two of the plan—access—will involve identifying barriers to
    capital and summarizing policy, regulatory, and statutory solutions
    to increase access to federal financing programs. Part three of the
    plan—utilization—will involve increasing utilization of federal
    capital programs by establishing baselines of use and setting
    metrics to improve the utilization rate of the programs.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Implementation of the Indian Energy Purchase Preference at
    Federal Facilities</u>*.*** To ensure that investments in the clean
    energy economy reach Tribal lands, DOE—in coordination with WHCNAA
    and with involvement from DOD and the General Services
    Administration (GSA)—will launch a new initiative to increase
    federal agencies’ use of Tribal energy through purchasing authority
    established by statute. Title V of the Energy Policy Act of 2005
    established for federal agencies a preference for purchasing
    electricity and other energy products from Indian Tribes and Tribal
    enterprises. That authority has been unused for over 17 years. The
    Administration will hold listening sessions with Tribal Nations to
    better understand the market conditions for Tribes and Tribal
    majority-owned businesses developing carbon pollution-free
    electricity (CFE). DOD will integrate the Indian Energy Purchase
    Preference into electricity procurement strategies. GSA will lead a
    pilot focused on Tribal energy production to develop procurement
    strategies. Agencies will develop training and resources for Tribes
    and Tribal majority-owned businesses to foster technical expertise
    in the development of CFE projects, improve awareness of the
    Preference, and encourage partnerships for CFE development.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Electric Vehicle (EV) Initiative for Tribal Nations</u>*.***
    BIL includes funding to secure an American EV supply chain and to
    build out the first-ever nationwide public EV charging network of
    500,000 EV chargers. Today, the Administration is announcing an EV
    Initiative for Tribal Nations to ensure that Tribal Nations and
    Native communities are part of the EV future of the country. Ten
    federal agencies, including DOT, DOE, DOI, DOL, ED, EPA, HHS, HUD,
    GSA, and USDA, coordinated through WHCNAA, are supporting this
    effort, which will include:
    -   mapping the proposed deployment of EV infrastructure;

    <!-- -->

    -   prioritizing projects that serve rural and underserved areas,
        including Tribal lands and communities;

    <!-- -->

    -   providing technical assistance to take advantage of funding
        opportunities;

    <!-- -->

    -   prioritizing Tribal, Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA)-funded, and
        other schools on Indian lands for replacing diesel school buses
        with low or zero emission school buses within EPA’s Clean School
        Bus Program;

    <!-- -->

    -   providing assistance to Tribes for the purchase or lease of EV
        fleet vehicles;

    <!-- -->

    -   consulting with Tribes to consider updates to the state
        certification process to improve Tribal input into state plans;

    <!-- -->

    -   releasing a new Toolkit that will provide Tribes the information
        they need to start planning and implementing EV infrastructure
        projects;

    <!-- -->

    -   expanding training, teaching, and employment opportunities for
        Tribal members within the EV market; and

    <!-- -->

    -   supporting Tribal Nations’ roles in the EV battery supply chain.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Implementation of the Buy Indian Act</u>.** President Biden
    committed to strengthening implementation of the Buy Indian Act,
    which provides for special federal contracting preferences by DOI
    and HHS to procure supplies, services, and construction from
    Native-owned businesses. The federal government is the largest
    purchaser of goods and services in the country, buying everything
    from software and building construction to financial and asset
    management—making its procurement a powerful tool to advance equity
    and build wealth in underserved communities.  
      
    Today, DOI is announcing its goal of awarding 75% of contract
    dollars from Indian Affairs (including BIA, Bureau of Indian
    Education, and Bureau of Trust Funds Administration) and 10% of
    contract dollars across the rest of the Department to Native-owned
    businesses, using its authority under the Buy Indian Act. The Indian
    Health Service (IHS) is announcing its goal of 20%. These targets
    will raise Buy Indian Act utilization rates at the agencies, result
    in hundreds of millions of dollars being spent in Indian country,
    and advance the President’s effort to increase the share of
    government-wide contract dollars going to small disadvantaged
    businesses (SDBs) by 50% by 2025.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>10-Year National Plan on Native Language Revitalization</u>.**
    The WHCNAA Education Committee is releasing a draft 10-Year National
    Plan on Native Language Revitalization. The Administration will
    consult with Tribal Nations on the draft and finalize the plan
    in 2023. This plan will be built upon four pillars: (1)
    Awareness—creating national awareness on the importance of Native
    languages, the current crises of Native language loss, and the
    urgency for immediate action; (2)
    Recognition/Affirmation—establishing a formal policy recognizing the
    role that the United States government played in erasing Native
    languages and affirming the need for federal resources and support
    for Native language revitalization; (3) Integration—integrating
    Native language revitalization in mainstream society, including in
    federal policies, and outlining the need to create Native language
    revitalization ecosystems; and (4) Support—identifying funding,
    including federal and philanthropic sources for Native language
    revitalization.

Other announcements that are being made at the Summit this year are
included below. Additionally, the White House is releasing a
comprehensive [Progress
Report](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/2022_11_23-WH-Tribal-Nations-Summit-Progress-Report-Final.pdf)
that details actions that have been taken across the Administration over
the past two years. The full report can be read
[here](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/2022_11_23-WH-Tribal-Nations-Summit-Progress-Report-Final.pdf).

**<u>Additional Announcements That Will Be Made During the Tribal
Nations Summit</u>**

**Strengthening and Standardizing Tribal Consultation**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Tribal Advisory Committees
and Positions</span>. USDA and HUD will establish their first-ever
Tribal Advisory Committees to ensure that Tribal leaders have direct and
consistent contact with federal agency decisionmakers and to
institutionalize Tribal voices within policymaking.

DOD is establishing a permanent position to serve as the Senior Advisor
and Liaison for Native American Affairs within the Office of the
Secretary of Defense. This position will provide more permanence and
certainty to Tribal Nations working with DOD. The Senior Advisor and
Liaison for Native American Affairs will be responsible for advising the
Department on matters concerning interactions with Native Americans,
including federally recognized Tribes and Native Hawaiian Organizations.

NOAA will add two new Tribal Coordinators to its ranks in Alaska and the
North Atlantic region. The Alaska Tribal Coordinator will focus on
commercial fisheries and establish strong cross-cultural relationships
with Tribes in Alaska. The North Atlantic Region Tribal Coordinator
will engage with North Atlantic Tribes and affiliated Tribal
organizations on ocean policy issues. 

For the first time in its almost 30-year history, AmeriCorps—the federal
agency for national service and volunteerism—will create a new senior
political appointee position for a Strategic Advisor for Native American
Affairs. This position will lead the agency’s engagement with Indian
country; carry out the agency’s Native American Action Plan to reduce
barriers to service and increase investment in Tribes and Native
communities; and develop, implement, and evaluate initiatives to further
Native American participation in AmeriCorps’ programs and endeavors.

These agency efforts build upon this year’s successes of establishing
new Tribal Advisory Committees at DOI and DHS; establishing a new Office
of Tribal and Native Affairs at Treasury; and appointing the first-ever
Tribal Policy Advisor at OMB.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Consultation Trainings and
Guidebooks</span>. The Economic Development Administration (EDA) at DOC
will launch a new staff training series on working with Tribal
communities. The training will ensure that EDA staff recognize and
respect Tribal self-government and sovereignty, honor Tribal treaty and
reserved rights, and strive to meet the federal government’s trust
responsibility toward Tribes. In December 2022, DOD will publish a
Tribal Protocols Guidebook, which will serve as a resource guide for DOD
components on how to build and enhance relationships with Tribal
governments.

**Tribal Homelands**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Regulations and Process for
Fee to Trust Land Acquisitions</span>. DOI will publish a Notice of
Proposed Rulemaking on proposed amendments to 25 C.F.R. Part 151, which
governs fee-to-trust land (or “land into trust”) acquisitions that
transfer land title to the United States to be held in trust for the
benefit of an individual Indian or Tribe, including in Alaska. The
process is critical for Tribal sovereignty, self-determination,
preservation of history and culture, economic development, and the
well-being of Tribal citizens. This process is also helping right the
wrongs of past policies like allotment, which removed millions of acres
of land from Tribal ownership and federal protection. In line with
President Biden’s promise to make it easier for Tribes to place land
into trust, Interior’s proposed amendments to the fee-to-trust
regulations provide for a more efficient, less cumbersome, and less
expensive fee-to-trust process, including for conservation purposes. The
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking incorporates feedback from Tribal
consultations earlier in the year, and DOI will hold Tribal
consultations on the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in December 2022.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Regulations to Protect
Tribal Reserved Rights</span>. EPA will propose revisions to the federal
water quality standards (WQS) rule, clarifying that, when developing new
and revised WQS, states must evaluate Tribal reserved rights to an
aquatic and/or aquatic-dependent resource in the area or downstream of
the area. If a right exists, states must evaluate available data to
inform the level of water quality necessary to protect that Tribal
reserved right, and, if necessary, revise their WQS to ensure
protection.

<u>New Baseline Water Quality Standards Rule</u>. EPA is developing a
proposed rule to establish baseline WQS for Indian reservation waters
that do not have Clean Water Act WQS in place. This action would narrow
the Clean Water Act protection gap in Indian country and safeguard water
quality until Tribes obtain authority to adopt Clean Water Act WQS
themselves.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Appendix C Rulemaking
Effort</span>. The U.S. Army has historically used USACE Appendix C for
actions affecting historic properties under Section 106 of the National
Historic Preservation Act. Tribal Nations and Native Hawaiian
communities have, for many years, complained that Appendix C does not
comply with Section 106 procedures. USACE is announcing a rulemaking
effort proposing to rescind Appendix C. USACE would instead rely on
ACHP’s regulations and joint USACE/ACHP guidance for implementation of
Section 106. The Army intends to coordinate closely with Tribal Nations
and ACHP throughout this rulemaking effort.

<u>New Regulations to Consider Tribal Benefits in Water Resources
Development Projects</u>. USACE will establish new agency procedures to
consider a wider range of Tribal and public benefits of water resource
development projects. USACE is the nation’s largest water resource
developer, and the agency’s current procedures for development projects
focus primarily on achieving national economic development benefits.
Under the new procedures, the agency will take into account additional
public benefits of water resources investments, including whether an
investment achieves social and environmental benefits for a Tribe.

<u>Domestic Mining Law Reform– Improving Tribal Engagement</u>. This
year, DOI launched an interagency working group to reform hardrock
mining laws and policies to ensure that mining activities are conducted
using strong environmental, sustainability, safety, Tribal consultation,
and community engagement standards. Today, DOI and USDA are implementing
a number of recommendations that will be part of a forthcoming report
from the Interagency Working Group on Mining Regulations, Laws, and
Permitting, including (1) recommendations on ways to ensure Tribes are
engaged earlier during the development of mining proposals on public
lands; (2) providing Tribes a seat at the table in discussions regarding
mining proposals; and (3) improving consideration and protection of
Tribal interests and resources as mining decisions are being made.
Several steps will be implemented by DOI’s Bureau of Land Management,
such as notifying Tribes when exploration work is about to occur and
inviting Tribes to join pre-application meetings with mine developers.
Complimentary to the efforts described above, the U.S. Federal
Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Permitting Council) will set
aside $5 million for Federally recognized Tribes in order to enhance
Tribal engagement in the permitting review and authorization process for
FAST-41 covered projects. The Permitting Council will issue a Dear
Tribal Leader Letter to initiate consultations starting in February to
design the program.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Agency Implementation of
Indigenous Knowledge (IK)</span>. In support of the Administration’s IK
initiative, DOI and ACHP are publishing new IK guidance. DOI is
instituting Departmental guidance for DOI bureaus to support
collaborative engagement with Tribes and the use and protection of IK.
ACHP is developing a policy regarding the role IK has in historic
preservation to advance greater incorporation of and consideration for
IK throughout the review process under Section 106 of the National
Historic Preservation Act.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">USDA to Fund IK Research Track
at AISES</span>. In further support of the Administration’s IK
Initiative, USDA will partner with the American Indian Science and
Engineering Society (AISES) to fund an IK research track at the annual
AISES conference for students who conduct science and engineering
research at the intersection of western science and IK.

**Climate Change**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Tribal Climate Resilience and
Community-Driven Relocation</span>. DOI is announcing new
community-driven relocation demonstration projects. This funding
represents a vital investment to address the growing risks faced by many
Tribes as a result of climate change. DOI, the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), the Denali Commission, and partnering federal
agencies, will coordinate with these Tribes to support their relocation
efforts and address the numerous and costly aspects of relocating entire
communities. BIL funding will also support Tribal climate resilience
through increased funding for the BIA Annual Awards Program that is
available to all Tribes facing climate-related risks.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Additional Support for
Community-Driven Relocation</span>. USDA’s Natural Resources
Conservation Service (NRCS) Watershed and Flood Prevention Operations
Program will allocate $40 million from BIL to assist with
community-driven relocation of Alaska Native Villages due to climate
change, erosion, and flooding. Seven villages have been chosen from a
set of the highest-risk villages. This funding will cover feasibility
studies, watershed planning and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
compliance, and move design. USDA will coordinate with DOI’s
community-driven relocation program in providing this funding.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Director of Alaska Native
Climate Change Initiatives</span>. NOAA is using Climate and Equity
Pilot Project funds to establish a director of Tribal climate change
initiatives position at the Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium
(ANTHC), a non-profit Tribal health organization serving Alaska Native
and American Indian people in Alaska. The director will lead a landscape
assessment of Tribal climate change adaptation activities in Alaska and
establish a baseline understanding of Tribal climate change challenges
and responses. In addition, the director will lead the formulation and
launch of an Alaska Tribal Climate Change Advisory Group to ensure that
Tribal climate change efforts across the state are led and prioritized
by Alaska Native people.

**Economic Development, Energy, and Infrastructure**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Tribal Clean Energy Transition
Initiative</span>. DOE is launching a new inter-agency initiative to
support Tribes transitioning from conventional to clean energy
development. DOE will enter into memoranda of understanding (MOUs) with
interested Tribes to establish frameworks for collaboration. DOE will
coordinate and collaborate with WHCNAA and the Interagency Working Group
on Coal Power Plant Communities and Economic Revitalization. Active
involvement from DOI, DOT, USDA, DOC, ED, and DOL will support and
strengthen this initiative.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Renewable Energy Accelerated
Deployment Initiative for Indian Country (READI)</span>. DOI is
announcing the Renewable Energy Accelerated Deployment Initiative for
Indian Country (READI) to centralize Native renewable energy expertise
and expedite renewable energy resource development on Indian lands. The
initiative will: streamline and advance renewable energy development in
departmental policies, procedures, and regulations, including leasing;
solicit and receive Tribal government advice on renewable energy
resource needs and priorities; and incentivize renewable energy
development on Indian lands through technical assistance and
consensus-based updates to regulations and other legal authorities.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Gaming Regulations</span>.
DOI will publish a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on proposed amendments
to regulations governing the review and approval of Tribal-state gaming
compacts (found at 25 C.F.R. Part 293). Indian gaming is a vital
economic and community development tool that has funded strong Tribal
governments and significantly advanced Tribal self-determination. The
proposed amendments seek to improve the negotiation process for
Tribal-state compacts by clarifying allowable topics of negotiation,
better defining key terms, and clearly outlining when DOI must review a
gaming compact. The Notice of Proposed Rulemaking incorporates feedback
received during Tribal consultations, and DOI will hold additional
Tribal consultations on the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in December
2022.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Enhancing Tribal Participation
in the 477 Program</span>. Last month, 12 federal agencies signed a [new
Memorandum of Agreement
(MOA)](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-delivers-new-memorandum-of-agreement-to-streamline-employment-and-job-training-funding-for-tribal-nations/)
to implement the Tribal “PL477 Program,” named for Public Law 102-477.
PL477 allows Tribal governments to consolidate important federal funding
for job training, workforce development, and other economic development
purposes into a single plan, with a single reporting requirement,
administered by DOI. PL477 eases the burden on Tribes and makes it
easier to provide federally funded employment and job training services
based on unique Tribal goals. DOI and DOL will develop guidance to
assist Tribes in using the new 477 MOA to boost their employment, job
training, and related services. This guidance will help Tribes (1)
identify funding eligible for consolidation and (2) develop and submit
477 plans for approval.

<u>SBA Funding for Native American Serving Organizations</u>. SBA is
announcing $1.2 million in funding for seven organizations providing
community-level training and technical assistance for Native American
small businesses and entrepreneurs across the country. SBA now has more
Native American-focused partners than ever before, thanks in part to the
Community Navigators Pilot Program, an ARP initiative designed to reduce
barriers faced by underrepresented and underserved entrepreneurs.

<u>Consultation on Treasury Tribal Advisory Committee’s Dual Taxation
Report</u>. Dual taxation on Tribal lands (i.e., taxes levied by both
state and Tribal governments on the same persons, properties, or
transactions) inhibits Tribal economic development and economic
sustainability because it diverts tax revenue from Tribes to non-Tribal
governments and deters private sector capital investment in Indian
country. The Treasury Tribal Advisory Committee (TTAC) issued a report
in 2021 that documented the effects of dual taxation and provided
recommendations for federal partners. Due to increased Tribal leader
interest, and to ensure a robust evaluation of these
recommendations, Treasury will commence a second consultation on this
report and address feedback during the first public TTAC meeting in
2023.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Tribal Transit
Symposium</span>. Today, DOT is announcing its first-ever Tribal Transit
Symposium, which will be held in 2023. This symposium will provide
Tribes the opportunity to: meet with Federal Transit Administration
leadership; receive technical assistance; learn about funding
opportunities under BIL; and learn about the Tribal Transit Program,
which funds planning, capital, and operating assistance for Tribal
public transit services.

<u>Tribal Aviation Symposium</u>. Today, DOT is announcing that it will
join the Federal Aviation Administration in co-hosting its second Tribal
Aviation Symposium in 2023. This symposium will be open to all 574
Tribes and will cover grant applications, Tribal access to airports,
commercial sea plan access, drone usage, and Tribal youth engagement and
education. Technical assistance will be provided to Tribal airport
owners and operators on airport improvement plans and financial
reimbursement and reporting procedures.

<u>Improving Highway Safety in Indian Country</u>. Motor vehicle crashes
are a leading cause of death for American Indians and Alaska Natives
DOT’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is leading
a multi-agency effort to address highway safety in Indian country. In
2023, NHTSA will expand the initiative. This campaign will bring
awareness to the higher rates of fatal crashes in Indian country and
will include safety strategies for Tribes. NHTSA will partner with BIA’s
Office of Public Safety and Justice to conduct outreach to Tribes for
the campaign.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Tribal Maritime
Roundtable</span>. DOT is announcing that its Maritime Administration
(MARAD) will host its first-ever Tribal Maritime Roundtable in 2023 to
update Tribes on the Port Infrastructure Development Program, the
America’s Marine Highway Program, and workforce development
opportunities in the maritime sector.

**Tribal Broadband and Spectrum**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">DOI-FCC-DOC Electromagnetic
Spectrum MOU</span>. DOI, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC),
and DOC are announcing a new MOU to advance consistent interagency
coordination to promote electromagnetic spectrum access and deployment
of broadband and other wireless services on Tribal lands. The MOU will
provide a framework for exploring new opportunities for tribal policy
development for wireless services, including spectrum access and data
exchange, in support of Tribes’ political and economic
self-determination.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Establishment of a DOI Office
of Indigenous Communications & Technology (OICT)</span>. The new office
will assist Tribal Nations and Tribal entities in managing, developing
and maintaining broadband infrastructure, new electromagnetic spectrum
leasing mechanisms, and in providing technical assistance for the
establishment of wireless, digital, and technological projects on Tribal
lands. The office will also focus on the development of new
technological services to facilitate new partnerships between Tribes and
the tech industry for the advancement of Tribal self-governance
initiatives, including EV; light detection and ranging (LiDAR) used for
mapping, surveying and other services; and opportunities for Indigenous
participation in data science, coding, and software engineering.

**Public Safety and Justice                  **

<u>New Memorandum of Understanding to Improve Law Enforcement
Coordination in Indian Country</u>. The Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI) and DOI’s Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, on behalf of the
BIA Office of Justice Services (BIA-OJS), will sign a new Memorandum of
Understanding, which will be the first update of the agencies’ MOU since
the early 1990s. The new MOU will clarify investigative roles, define
best practices, and recommend training for personnel working in Indian
Country, a significant reform to improve coordination between the two
law enforcement agencies that share responsibility for investigating
Indian Country crimes, including missing or murdered Indigenous people
(MMIP) investigations.

<u>Improving Case Intake for MMIP Cases</u>. The FBI and BIA-OJS will
embed a criminal investigator and program analysts from DOI’s Missing
and Murdered Unit into the FBI headquarters-level unit in charge of
Indian country to facilitate MMIP case intake. Having MMIP-experienced
staff involved at inception will expedite and enhance law enforcement’s
approach to MMIP cases from the outset.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New National Native American
Outreach Services Liaison</span>. DOJ is announcing its first-ever
National Native American Outreach Services Liaison. This position was
created as part of the President’s Executive Order on Improving Public
Safety and Criminal Justice and Addressing the Crisis of Missing and
Murdered Indigenous People. The Liaison will build on and enhance
existing protocols for effective, consistent, and culturally and
linguistically appropriate communication with families of victims and
work to ensure that victims of crime have a voice during every step of
the criminal justice process where the federal government has
jurisdiction.   

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Updated U.S. Attorney’s Offices
Operational Plans</span>. DOJ is announcing that U.S. Attorney’s Offices
within Indian country will finalize their operational plans to better
promote public safety in Tribal communities. On July 13, 2022, the
Deputy Attorney General issued a
[directive](https://www.justice.gov/dag/page/file/1519801/download) to
all U.S. Attorneys and law enforcement agencies that made it a priority
to address the disproportionately high rates of violence experienced by
American Indians and Alaska Natives, and relatedly, the high rates of
Indigenous persons reported missing. Consistent with that directive and
Savanna’s Act, U.S. Attorneys Offices have, in consultation with Tribes
located in their district, worked to develop guidelines for cases
involving missing or murdered Indigenous persons and to update their
operational plans to improve coordination, better support victims, and
address other pressing public safety issues.      

<span style="text-decoration: underline">2023 Environmental Justice
Convening</span>. Next year, DOJ will host an Environmental Justice
Convening with federal officials and Tribal leaders to develop
strategies to prevent and address harms caused by environmental crimes,
pollution, and climate change in Indian country. The convening will
incorporate recommendations from Tribal leaders gathering during Tribal
listening sessions in late 2022 and early 2023.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Expansion of the National Human
Trafficking Hotline to address MMIP</span>. To address the MMIP epidemic
and reduce factors for victimization, HHS will ensure that the National
Human Trafficking Hotline is able to make referrals to mental health
organizations and health care providers with the appropriate expertise
to work with human trafficking victims, including those who have
cultural competency for working with Indigenous peoples of North America
and the Pacific. It will do so by: (1) consulting with the National
Human Trafficking Hotline on the status of referrals with cultural
competencies; and (2) expanding outreach to providers with
trauma-informed training and culturally and linguistically appropriate
competencies for inclusion in the Hotline referral directory.

**Education and Native Languages**

<u>Expanding and Implementing the Native Languages MOA</u>. In November
2021, 10 federal agencies, coordinated through WHCNAA, signed a Native
Languages MOA to promote collaboration on programming, resource
development, and policy related to Native languages. The number of
agencies will more than double, with 13 additional agencies now joining
the MOA and committing to advance its Native languages objectives. These
additional agencies include ACHP, DOC, DOE, DHS, DOJ, DOL, EPA, OPM,
SBA, DOS, VA, the Social Security Administration, and OMB.
Implementation of the MOA will be coordinated through the WHCNAA
Education Committee and the White House Initiative on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for Native
Americans and Strengthening Tribal Colleges and Universities.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Resources Guide for Native
Languages</span>. Today, the National Endowment for the Arts, in
coordination with the WHCNAA Education Committee, is releasing an
updated Resources Guide that provides a comprehensive overview of
federal funding sources, including agency contacts and program
descriptions, that can be used to support Native arts and cultural
activities, including Native language revitalization.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Research on Native Language
Retention and Revitalization</span>. The White House Initiative on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Native Americans and Strengthening Tribal Colleges and
Universities—established by President Biden’s Executive Order 13592—will
prepare a summary of research that explores educational attainment and
Native language retention and revitalization to identify evidence-based
approaches that will inform the 10-Year National Plan on Native Language
Revitalization.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">National, Comprehensive Study
of Native American Education</span>. In 2023, ED will launch a national,
comprehensive study of Native American education in both public and BIE
settings in accordance with the 10-Year National Plan on Native Language
Revitalization. This national study will examine the educational
landscape from birth through lifelong learning and provide baseline data
from which the National Plan will derive measurable outcomes.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">National Native American
Language Resource Center</span>. ED will launch the National Native
Language Resource Center and conduct Tribal consultation and targeted
listening sessions with Tribal Nations and language communities
beginning in early 2023 to ensure its meaningful design. The center will
serve as a comprehensive online resource to support American Indian,
Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian schools, language programs, and
individuals engaged in the reclamation, revitalization, preservation,
and instruction of American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian
languages.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Native Language Grant
Requirements</span>. ED and DOI will review federal grant requirements
and suggest mechanisms to award additional grant points for applications
that integrate, support, and promote Native language revitalization.

<u>Federal Indian Boarding School Oral History Project</u>. In June
2021, the Secretary of the Interior launched the [Federal Indian
Boarding School
Initiative](https://www.doi.gov/sites/doi.gov/files/secint-memo-esb46-01914-federal-indian-boarding-school-truth-initiative-2021-06-22-final508-1.pdf)
(BSI) to shed light on the troubled history of federal Indian boarding
school policies and their legacy for Indigenous peoples. In May 2022,
the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs released Volume 1 of the
[investigative
report](https://www.bia.gov/sites/default/files/dup/inline-files/bsi_investigative_report_may_2022_508.pdf)
called for by the Initiative. To implement one of the recommendations of
that report, and with new funding announced today from the National
Endowment for the Humanities, DOI will begin the first-ever oral history
project for survivors in 2023. Indigenous communities requested this
project as a way to tell the stories of their citizens.

<u>Native Language Voting Rights Reports</u>. Today, DOI published
translations of the landmark report of the Interagency Steering Group on
Native American Voting Rights. The report followed consultations with
Tribal Nations and listening sessions with Native Hawaiians,
organizations advocating for improved Tribal voting rights, and state
and local election officials in jurisdictions with sizable Native
populations. Those sessions revealed recurring, unnecessary, and
unacceptable impediments to the franchise. The steering group’s
subsequent report chronicled the barriers Native voters face and
recommended actions for policymakers at every level to help break these
barriers down. Further, the Department took the unique step of
translating the report itself into six Native languages, in writing and
by audio, reflecting the regional consultation structure: Navajo,
Yup’ik, Ojibwe, Cherokee, Lakota, and Native Hawaiian. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Tribal Early Learning
Initiative</span>. In support of the Administration’s goal to increase
the percentage of Native American children and families who participate
in high-quality early childhood programs and services, the
Administration for Children and Families (ACF) at HHS will launch a new
Tribal Early Learning Initiative (TELI). TELI will enable Tribes to
improve collaboration and coordination across Tribal early childhood
programs (including Head Start, child care, home visiting, and
preschool) to support stronger Tribal early childhood systems. ACF
initiated TELI in response to feedback from Tribal leaders during
Nation-to-Nation consultation. Forty-nine Tribes will participate in a
broad network of Tribes working to coordinate their programs (the TELI
Network) and eight Tribes will participate in a more intensive peer
learning community (the TELI Collaborative).

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Education Partnerships</span>.
Today, DOI is announcing that BIE will partner with the Trust for Public
Lands’ Community Schoolyards Project to create outdoor educational
spaces to support healthy Tribal communities. The partnership will
initially identify six to nine BIE schools for such “Community
Schoolyard” projects. The schoolyards will be designed in collaboration
with students and community members to reflect the values and culture of
each community. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">National Fund for Excellence in
American Indian Education</span>. Today, DOI is renewing the National
Fund for Excellence in American Indian Education, a congressionally
chartered, but long unused, non-profit organization to support
educational opportunities for American Indian students attending BIE
schools. DOI is working to re-invigorate the organization to support
Tribally led education initiatives, including the Department’s work on
Native language revitalization.

**Health**

<u>New Strategy for Tribes to Access the Strategic National
Stockpile</u>. Today, HHS is sharing its next steps in its draft
strategy for Tribes to access the Strategic National Stockpile. HHS will
initiate Tribal Consultation on a strategy that describes how IHS,
Tribal health departments, and Urban Indian Organizations (UIOs) can
access the lifesaving federal repository of drugs and medical supplies
to support Native communities, prevent supply shortages, and reduce
health disparities.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Policy Clarifying Data
Sharing with Tribal Epidemiology Centers for HHS Agencies</span>. HHS
will announce a new Tribal Data Sharing Policy in 2023 that will include
guidance and a streamlined process for Tribal Epidemiology Centers to
request and access critical health data at HHS components. This policy
responds to recommendations by the U.S. Government Accountability Office
(GAO) as well as requests from Tribal leaders to improve data sharing at
IHS and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). In
development of this new policy, HHS will be examining the broader impact
of Tribal access to health data as well.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Bison Initiative to Further
Food Sovereignty</span>. USDA and DOI are announcing new efforts to help
restore bison populations and promote species conservation. A new USDA
initiative will include cooperative agreements with the InterTribal
Buffalo Council to prepare and release: (1) a handbook to provide best
practices for humane handling and harvesting of bison in the field; and
(2) a hands-on curriculum and training focused on food sovereignty and
food safety. USDA will also consider actions to remove barriers to
serving Tribally produced bison in child nutrition programs. BIA’s
Office of Trust Services will create a Branch of Bison Restoration to
assist Tribes in developing new bison herds.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Nutrition and
Agriculture</span>. DOI announced Indigenous Food Hubs for BIE-operated
schools and BIA-operated detention centers at the White House Conference
on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health in September 2022. To further this
work, DOI is committed to adopting Indigenous-based land and
agricultural management practices and metrics for BIA-managed lands.
Today, USDA and DOI are announcing that they will hold listening
sessions to receive feedback on such practices, and on barriers and
solutions to inform guidance on improving sustainability for flora and
fauna biodiversity and sound Indigenous agricultural practices.
Additionally, USDA will promote the use of traditional foods in school
meals and work with state agencies and schools to overcome food safety,
crediting, or other barriers to serving traditional foods in school
meals programs.

<u>Hall of Tribal Nations at HHS</u>. HHS is unveiling its plans for a
new Hall of Tribal Nations at HHS headquarters in Washington, D.C. to
increase visibility of Tribal Nations as Nation-to-Nation partners in
providing health and human services in their communities. The Hall of
Tribal Nations will be complete in early 2023 with inaugural Tribal
flags representing the members of the Secretary’s Tribal Advisory
Committee. 

**Housing**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Section 184 Regulations to
Increase Home Ownership</span>. HUD will publish a new Section 184
Indian Home Loan Guarantee Program proposed rule that modernizes the
program and provides more homeownership opportunities in Indian country.
The rule will: (1) codify program requirements governing underwriting,
loan origination, claims, and more; and (2) introduce much needed
certainty into the program to attract more participating lenders. The
proposed rule would, among other things, authorize HUD to establish a
minimum level of lending on trust land.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Housing for Skilled
Workers</span>. Skilled workers are vital to any community’s overall
well-being and ability to achieve sustainable economic growth.
Unfortunately, some Tribal communities—particularly those located in
very remote areas—have historically struggled to attract skilled workers
because of a lack of available housing. To address this issue, HUD will
begin to implement a new Section 184 demonstration program that
specifically targets Tribes and Tribally Designated Entities to use
Section 184 financing for the construction of rental housing for skilled
workers in Tribal communities. HUD will issue guidance outlining
programmatic requirements and begin to make this loan product available
to Tribes in 2023.

<u>Native American Veteran Homelessness Initiative.</u> VA, HHS, and
HUD, through the WHCNAA Health Committee, are announcing an interagency
initiative to increase access to care and services for American Indian
and Alaska Native Veterans experiencing or at risk of homelessness in
urban areas. The initiative will involve partnerships with UIOs and
focus on intake and referral services to ensure that Native veterans are
aware of and have access to available resources.

**International and Border Issues**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Reciprocal Indigenous
Mobility</span>. DHS will work to identify and remove barriers that
impede the access of Tribal Nations and Alaska Native Villages to
border-crossing and immigration rights and benefits. These rights and
benefits are needed to revitalize, strengthen, and sustain their
familial, Tribal, Native language, cultural, and religious and spiritual
ties. Achieving reciprocal Indigenous mobility will directly support the
aims of the Native Language MOA and the 10-Year National Plan on Native
Language Revitalization. DHS will provide a report to the White House
Domestic Policy Council within 180 days of the Tribal Nations Summit
describing its progress and recommending any new operational procedures
or legal authorities necessary to support these efforts.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Indigenous Peoples’
Conservation Advisory Network</span>. DOS and EPA, with guidance from
DOI, will launch a new interagency initiative, the Indigenous Peoples’
Conservation Advisory Network (IPCAN), to support and uplift the
leadership of Indigenous peoples and their knowledge in conservation,
restoration, and sustainable management efforts in terrestrial,
coastal, and ocean ecosystems. IPCAN will be developed through robust
consultation with global Indigenous stakeholders and will facilitate a
global, Indigenous-led network supporting Indigenous
peoples’ stewardship of lands and waters to address the climate and
biodiversity crises. 

**Public-Private Partnership Initiatives**

<u>Establishment of an Office of Strategic Partnerships at Interior</u>.
DOI is establishing a new Office of Strategic Partnerships within Indian
Affairs to build partnerships, leverage resources, and promote
innovative solutions for Indian country. The new office will also work
to bring awareness of the needs and unique status of Indian Tribes. With
support from a partnership with Native Americans in Philanthropy, the
office will work in close coordination with WHCNAA to serve Tribes and
Tribal organizations to develop and build long-term sustainable
public-private partnerships and further conservation, education, and
economic development in Indian country.

\###
