---
date: '2022-11-12'
modified_time: 2022-11-12 07:04:24-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-12 07:04:23-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/12/asean-u-s-leaders-statement-on-the-establishment-of-the-asean-u-s-comprehensive-strategic-partnership/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ASEAN-U.S. Leaders\u2019 Statement on the Establishment of the ASEAN-U.S.\
  \ Comprehensive Strategic\_Partnership"
---
 
**1 WE,** the Member States of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN) and the United States of America (United
States),gathered on the occasion of the 10thASEAN-United States (U.S.)
Summit and the commemoration of the 45th anniversary of ASEAN-U.S.
Dialogue Relations in Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, on November 12,
2022; ****

**2** **APPRECIATING** the United States’ support for ASEAN centrality
in the evolving regional architecture and its continued contribution to
regional peace, stability, security, and prosperity and to ASEAN
integration and the ASEAN Community building process;****

**3 REAFFIRMING** the importance of adhering to key principles, shared
values and norms enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, the
ASEAN Charter, the Declaration on Zone of Peace, Freedom and Neutrality
(ZOPFAN), the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC),
the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), the
Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (SEANWFZ) and the
ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP);****

**4 NOTING** that both the AOIP and the Indo-Pacific Strategy of the
United States share relevant fundamental principles in promoting an
open, inclusive, and rules-based regional architecture, in which ASEAN
is central, alongside partners who share in these goals;****

**5 WELCOMING** the significant growth of our political-security,
economic, and socio-cultural cooperation since launching our dialogue
partnership in Manila in 1977; ****

**6 HIGHLIGHTING** that as strategic partners, ASEAN and the United
States have enhanced our dialogue through annual leaders’ meetings
(since 2009); annual leaders’ summits (since 2013); the elevation of
ASEAN-U.S. Dialogue Relations to a Strategic Partnership (2015); the
Special ASEAN – U.S. Leaders’ Summit (Sunnylands Summit)– the first
ASEAN-U.S. standalone summit in the United States (2016); the expansion
of ASEAN-U.S. engagement and cooperation, including through the existing
and the proposed ministerial-level meetings on climate and the
environment, energy, health, transportation, and gender equality and
women’s empowerment – building on our long-standing ministerial-level
engagement on defense (2010), and economics (2002); and the ASEAN-U.S.
Special Summit (2022) commemorating 45 years of Dialogue Partnership –
where for the first time, U.S. President Joseph R. Biden Jr. welcomed
ASEAN leaders to Washington D.C.;

**7 REAFFIRMING** the goals and principles enumerated in the Joint
Vision Statement of the ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit, adopted by the
Leaders of ASEAN and the United States in Washington, D.C. on May 12,
2022;******

**8 EMPHASIZING** that the Plan of Action to Implement the ASEAN-U.S.
Strategic Partnership (2021-2025)outlines our shared commitments under
ASEAN’s political-security, economic, and socio-cultural pillars, and
its priorities for cooperation, including trade and investment; maritime
cooperation; environmental protection and climate change; digital
development and cybersecurity; energy transition; smart cities; public
health; good governance and human rights; human capital development;
people-to-people ties; trans-national crime, counter-terrorism;
supporting micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs); combatting
illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing; supporting the
Initiative for ASEAN Integration (IAI) and Narrowing the Development
Gap; and achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals;

**9 ACKNOWLEDGING** that at the 9th ASEAN-U.S. Summit, President Biden
announced the U.S. intent to provide up to USD 102 million in new
initiatives to expand the ASEAN-U.S. Strategic Partnership and that at
the 2022 ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit in Washington, D.C., President Biden
announced USD 150 million in programs for ASEAN that combined with over
USD 800 million requested in fiscal year 2023 for bilateral programs in
ASEAN Member States, over USD 12 billion in development, economic,
health, and security assistance since 2002, and over USD 1.4 billion in
humanitarian assistance, including life-saving disaster assistance,
emergency food aid, and support to refugees throughout Southeast Asia
over the same period of time, will support the implementation of the
AOIP and reflect the Biden-Harris Administration’s deep commitment to
ASEAN’s central role in the Indo-Pacific region**.**

**WE** **HEREBY DECLARE TO:**

-   **ESTABLISH** the ASEAN-U.S. Comprehensive Strategic Partnership to
    reflect the ambitious outcomes of the 9thASEAN-U.S. Summit and the
    2022 ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit and to open new areas of cooperation
    vital to the future prosperity and security of our combined one
    billion people, and task our officials to follow up on its
    implementation.

<!-- -->

-   **REAFFIRM** steadfast support for an open, transparent, resilient,
    inclusive, and rules-based ASEAN-centered regional architecture at
    the heart of the Indo-Pacific region that promotes ASEAN’s strong,
    unified, and constructive role in addressing regional issues of
    common concern.

<!-- -->

-   **FURTHER** **REAFFIRM** that the ASEAN-U.S. Comprehensive Strategic
    Partnership supports ASEAN’s goal to implement the AOIP through
    existing ASEAN-led mechanisms and supports the principles upon which
    it is based.

<!-- -->

-   **PROMOTE** maritime cooperation through ASEAN-led mechanisms by
    upholding freedom of navigation and overflight, peaceful resolution
    of disputes in accordance with universally recognised principles of 
    international law, including the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of
    the Sea (UNCLOS), and promote cooperation and coordination among our
    relevant agencies, including maritime law enforcement agencies, to
    collaborate to improve maritime domain awareness, search and rescue,
    protection, restoration and sustainable management of the marine
    environment, maritime safety, security and education, as well as to
    promote sustainable and responsible fisheries, including through
    possible collaboration with the ASEAN Network for Combatting IUU
    Fishing (AN-IUU).

<!-- -->

-   **BUILD** people-to-people connectivity within the region and beyond
    by enhancing economic and socio-cultural cooperation including
    through ASEAN-led mechanisms, focusing on good governance and the
    rule of law, investing in human capital development, empowering
    youth and vulnerable or marginalized groups, advancing the rights of
    persons with disabilities, investing in education, promoting and
    protecting cultural heritage, empowering women and girls and
    promoting gender equity and equality, and strengthening the
    connections between our combined one billion people.

<!-- -->

-   **ADVANCE** efforts to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals
    by promoting complementarities between the ASEAN Community Vision
    2025 and the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development with
    particular emphasis on eradicating poverty, promoting the
    conservation of natural resources and the environment, and promoting
    peace and prosperity through equitable  development and sustainable
    economic growth, including in the fields of energy resilience; clean
    and just energy transition and renewable energy deployment;
    decarbonization of the transportation sector; climate change
    mitigation and adaptation; health security; sustainable management
    of water and natural resources; food security; sustainable
    agriculture, fisheries, forestry, and land management.

<!-- -->

-   **ENHANCE** partnerships in economic and technological cooperation,
    catalyze investments in high-standard, transparent, and
    climate-resilient infrastructure, including projects under the
    Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity (MPAC) 2025, as part of the
    regional transformation to net zero emissions, facilitate trade and
    investment between the two sides to promote resilient global supply
    chains and seamless regional connectivity, and promote stronger,
    more equitable, and more inclusive economic growth as well as
    sustainable development to achieve sustainable and broad-based
    prosperity in ASEAN and the United States as well as better and
    stronger economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic.

<!-- -->

-   **STRENGTHEN** practical cooperation in areas of humanitarian
    assistance and disaster relief, maritime security,
    counter-terrorism, peacekeeping operations, military medicine,
    humanitarian mine action, and cyber security through the ASEAN
    Defence Ministers’ Meeting Plus (ADMM-Plus) framework.

<!-- -->

-   **FURTHER PROMOTE** the stability, peace, prosperity, and
    sustainable development of the Mekong subregion through shared
    initiatives under the Mekong-U.S. Partnership (MUSP), which
    complements the Friends of the Mekong and supports the
    implementation of MPAC 2025 and the IAI Work Plan IV (2021-2025), in
    support of ASEAN Centrality and unity in promoting ASEAN’s
    sub-regional development.

**ADOPTED in Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, on** the Twelfth day of
November in the Year Two Thousand and Twenty-Two in a single original
copy in the English language. ****

\###
