---
date: '2022-11-15'
modified_time: 2022-11-16 21:42:38-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-15 05:09:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/15/indonesia-and-international-partners-secure-groundbreaking-climate-targets-and-associated-financing/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Indonesia and International Partners Secure Groundbreaking Climate Targets\
  \ and Associated\_Financing"
---
 
Today, at the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment
(PGII) event at the G20 Summit, President Joko Widodo of Indonesia and
leaders of the International Partners Group (IPG) of likeminded
countries, co-led by the United States and Japan, and including Canada,
Denmark, the European Union, France, Germany, Italy, Norway, and the
United Kingdom, [issued a Joint
Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Joint-Statement-1.pdf),
launching a Just Energy Transition Partnership (JETP) developed with
Indonesia during its G20 Presidency. The landmark partnership pursues an
ambitious and just power sector transition in Indonesia, supporting a
trajectory consistent with keeping 1.5 °C global warming limit within
reach.   
   
Indonesia will work, with support from international partners, to
develop a comprehensive investment plan to achieve significant new
targets and policies to reduce GHG emissions and support impacted
communities by:

-   Peaking total power sector emissions by 2030, shifting its projected
    emissions peak forward.
-   Capping power sector emissions at 290 megatons of CO2 in 2030, down
    from baseline value of 357 MT CO2.
-   Establishing a goal to reach net zero emissions in the power sector
    by 2050, bringing forward Indonesia’s net zero power sector
    emissions target by ten years.
-   Accelerating the deployment of renewable energy so that renewable
    energy generation comprises at least 34 percent of all power
    generation by 2030, which would roughly double the total renewables
    deployment over the course of this decade compared to current
    plans.   

To achieve these targets, this long-term partnership intends to mobilize
an initial $20 billion in public and private financing over a
three-to-five-year period, using a mix of grants, concessional loans,
market-rate loans, guarantees, and private investments. Contributions to
the JETP include $10 billion in public sector pledges, and a commitment
to work to mobilize and facilitate $10 billion in private investment
from an initial set of private financial institutions coordinated by the
Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ), including Bank of
America, Citi, Deutsche Bank, HSBC, Macquarie, MUFG, and Standard
Chartered. The partnership will also leverage the expertise, resources,
and operations of the multilateral development banks.  
  
A successful partnership is expected to help shift Indonesia’s power
sector peaking date forward by approximately seven years and result in a
cumulative reduction of more than 300 megatons in greenhouse gas
emissions through 2030 and a reduction of well above 2 gigatons through
2060 from Indonesia’s current trajectory.  
  
Over the next six months, the Parties will work together to develop a
concrete plan for investments, financing, and technical assistance to
support these ambitious goals.  
  
Indonesian President Joko Widodo stated that “Indonesia is committed to
using our energy transition to achieve a green economy and drive
sustainable development. We are grateful for the cooperation and the
support from our international partners to realize its full
implementation that will accelerate this transition. This partnership
will generate valuable lessons for the global community and can be
replicated in other countries to help meet our shared climate goals
through concrete collaborative actions.”  
  
U.S. President Biden emphasized the importance of this partnership,
saying, “Indonesia has shown tremendous leadership and ambition
throughout the development of this partnership.  The resulting new and
accelerated targets demonstrate how countries can dramatically cut
emissions and increase renewable energy while advancing a commitment to
creating quality jobs and protecting livelihoods and communities.”

Japan’s Prime Minister Kishida Fumio said, “Japan welcomes the launch of
the Partnership, which supports Indonesia’s commitment towards the 1.5
degree target. Japan will continue to co-lead the Partnership with the
U.S., in coordination with the other partner countries, and accelerate
Indonesia’s realistic but ambitious transition from coal to renewable
alternatives with further private sector engagement.”  
  
Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau said, “Developing clean energy
is a central part of addressing climate change and moving to a more
secure, sustainable, and strong global economy. Through this new
partnership, Canada will help Indonesia meet its climate and energy
goals, drive up renewable energy generation, invest in communities and
workers and reduce emissions while enhancing energy security.  
  
President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen said, “The
Just Energy Transition Partnership for Indonesia will chart a roadmap to
a greener, cleaner future in the country – and a future full of
opportunities for the Indonesian people. They will be the ones reaping
the benefits of the transformation of their economy, as Indonesia
becomes a renewables hub.”   
  
“France is proud to be part of this ambitious partnership to support
Indonesia’s commitment to reach carbon neutrality to boosting the
deployment of renewable energy. This partnership will support
Indonesia’s development and will create many economic opportunities in a
just way that leaves no one behind,” said Emmanuel Macron, President of
France.  
  
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said, “At the G7 Summit in Elmau, the G7
and international partners pushed forward Just Energy Transition
Partnerships. Our progress together with Indonesia is a strong signal
that accelerating climate action goes hand in hand with a just
transition and economic prosperity. This JETP is a lighthouse project
for multilateral cooperation, energy transition and sustainable
investment.”  
  
Italy’s Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni said, “Italy is proud to be part
of the Just Energy Transition Partnership, an ambitious platform that
will provide substantial financial resources and technical assistance to
power Indonesia’s energy transition away from fossil energy sources
towards renewables.”   
  
“Norway is delighted to be able to contribute to this partnership and
support Indonesia’s effort to speed up the energy transition. We believe
this can mobilize much needed private capital to accelerate the
deployment of renewable energy and efficiently contribute to large scale
reduction of emissions to limit the climate crisis,” said Jonas Gahr
Støre, Prime Minister of Norway.  
  
UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said, “I am proud to launch a new Just
Energy Transition Partnership with the Government of Indonesia. This
will unlock billions in private finance for new green infrastructure.”

\###
