---
date: '2022-11-29'
published_time: 2022-11-29 13:55:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/29/background-press-call-previewing-the-upcoming-france-state-visit/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Background Press Call Previewing the Upcoming France State\_Visit"
---
 
Via Teleconference

6:20 P.M. EST  
  
MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thank you for joining us on the background
call this evening.  And my apologies that this moved around a little
bit.  We had a little trouble wrangling some schedules.  But we’re all
here now, and it’s before 8:00 p.m., so I think that that’s pleasing to
everybody.  
  
What we’re going to do tonight is set the stage for the France state
visit.  As a reminder, this call is on background.  It’s attributable to
“senior administration officials,” and it’s embargoed until the end of
the call.  
  
For your awareness but not for reporting purposes, we will
\[redacted\].  
  
Today we’re joined by \[senior administration official\] and \[senior
administration official\].  They’re both going to make a few brief
remarks at the top, and then we’ll take your questions.  
  
So, with that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration
official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[moderator\].  And good
evening to everybody.  We are very excited to welcome President and Mrs.
Macron and the delegation from France to the United States this week.  
  
As you all know, it’s the first state visit of the Biden-Harris
administration, and we view this as an opportunity to highlight a
foundational component of the administration’s approach to foreign
policy, strengthening our alliances.  
  
And so in that case, it is fitting that France is the first country to
receive a state visit.  France, of course, is our oldest ally.  It is
one of our most capable partners and is a critical partner for the
United States on the full range of global challenges.   
  
It really has been an incredible year of partnership, particularly in
response to the crisis in Ukraine, including through our collaboration
together within the G7, on the U.N. Security Council, as Allies in NATO,
and working in close partnership with the European Union.  
  
Events over the course of the state visit will emphasize both our
long-shared history as allies as well as our deep partnership in
confronting many of the most urgent global challenges currently facing
both of our countries.   
  
In addition to these foreign policy elements, I do also want to give a
shout-out to the strong people-to-people ties that we have between our
countries.  Our economic ties span established and cutting-edge sectors
with major investments in both directions supporting hundreds of
thousands of jobs in each country.  And our cultural ties remain a
source of strength and importance to our bilateral relationship, with
France remaining a top destination for American students, creators, and
tourists, as well as vice versa.  And I think many of the richness of
our economic and cultural ties will be on display at the state dinner
later this week.  
  
So, first and foremost, this visit is an opportunity for the two
presidents to coordinate on the most urgent global issues.  I would
expect discussions about Ukraine will be front and center to their
conversations, as it has been through so many of the meetings and phone
calls that they have had over the last year.   
  
Expect that they will also be discussing the challenges posed by China,
as well as other challenges in Iran, in the Middle East, and the
Sahel.   
  
And also expect that they will be discussing our shared economic
cooperation, our energy cooperation.  And my colleague will have more to
say on the economic and the energy components of the relationship and
the visit.  
  
We will be releasing a joint statement coming out of the visit, which is
going to lay out, I think, in clear detail the breadth and the depth of
our bilateral relationship, both in terms of setting out information on
the many areas in which our countries are cooperating, on everything
from clean energy and cyber to defense, economic, and commercial ties,
as well as space and science and technology, as well as our shared views
to many of the pressing foreign policy issues that our countries are
facing today.  
  
So let me leave it there and turn it over to \[senior administration
official\], and then I’m happy to answer specific questions.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\], and thanks, everyone, for joining.  Maybe a few observations
about the U.S.-France economic partnership.  
  
One, you know, just that the most important point is that it’s a strong
economic partnership, that it’s going to be a core focus of conversation
during the visit, recognizing the expansive set of economic ties that
bind our two countries across both established and cutting-edge sectors,
major investments traveling in both directions, and supporting hundreds
of thousands of jobs in each country.  
  
We’ve worked closely together under this administration to tackle the
biggest challenges we face, whether that’s the impact of Putin’s war on
energy and food prices, whether that’s clean energy and creating good
jobs, whether that’s coordinating on the non-market practices of the
People’s Republic of China.  
  
To maybe just give a few examples under each of those headers: You know,
first, on the rise in gas prices in Europe caused by Putin’s invasion of
Ukraine and Putin’s energy war against Europe, the U.S. has risen to the
occasion in terms of our partnership with Europe and France, and
increased dramatically, enabled Europe to diversify away from Russia.  
  
The U.S. has more than doubled its liquid natural gas exports to the
EU27 this year compared to 2021.  That increase in global LNG supplies
led by the United States helped Europe and its economies get to storage
levels that have put the continent in an encouraging place ahead of the
thick of winter.  And we will continue to work with France and Europe to
ensure sufficient supplies will be available not just for this winter,
but beyond.  
  
To maybe make one more point on the energy issue, you know, we’ve seen
articles out there stating that the U.S. is profiting off of its LNG
sales to Europe.  This is a false claim.  In fact, the U.S. has
mobilized LNG to help Europe prepare for winter, and that is what is
happening.  As you heard me say, our exports this year to the EU27 have
more than doubled versus what they were in 2021.  
  
And let’s be clear: The vast majority of U.S. LNG is exported to Europe
via transparent, long-term contracts with foreign energy trading firms,
including several European companies.  And those exports are then onsold
to end European consumers by energy trading firms.  
  
So just wanted to be sure that we set the record straight on some of
what we’re seeing out there and the fact that this isn’t — this is
nothing but a false claim.  
  
Second, moving on from energy to the Inflation Reduction Act, I would
just make the point that Europe is one of our strongest economic
partners, and we share a commitment to addressing the climate crisis.   
  
The IRA, of course, as the most ambitious piece of climate legislation
in U.S. history, has a number of provisions that will contribute to the
growth of the clean energy sector globally.  Obviously, combating the
climate crisis is a shared goal of the United States and France.  And
the IRA is a substantial — is a substantial accomplishment from the
United States, doing its part to help deliver on those climate goals.  
  
But beyond that, the IRA presents significant opportunities for European
firms, as well as benefits to EU energy security by accelerating the
energy transition and realigning clean energy supply chains to trusted
partners.  
  
This is not a zero-sum game.  The IRA is going to grow the pie for clean
energy investments the world over, not split it up.  
  
We are committed to continuing to work with the EU to help them better
understand the IRA; to do what we can to address their concerns through
the U.S.-EU Task Force on the Inflation Reduction Act, which I am
\[redacted\] but more broadly has a lot of involvement from the White
House broadly, as well as from the European Commission.  The task force
has already met several times this month, and we expect these productive
conversations to continue.  
  
Third, \[senior administration official\] referenced the strong sense of
alignments between us and France on China and the challenges presented
by China’s non-market practices.  I would just observe, you know, in my
own role around the G7 Summit, we really observed the way in which the
G7 as a whole, including France, really has come to align around a
shared diagnosis of what China’s non-market practices mean and can do,
and the fact that we as a G7 need to align around a set of steps to
address those challenges presented by the PRC in common across the G7. 
Again, so it’s really calling out the work that France did as part of
the G7 to align on those objectives.  
  
Lastly, we are working on a range of other economic issues like
resilient supply chains.  We’ve done a lot of work with France alongside
the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment that was on
display at the G7 this summer, as well as the G20 a couple of weeks
ago.  And that is, of course, an effort to help close the infrastructure
and investment gap in emerging economies around the world.  
  
So, the bottom line being we look forward to a substantive conversation
on each of these individual economic and energy elements, and underscore
the extent and strength of the partnership between the U.S. and
France.   
  
And with that, I’ll hand it back to the moderator.  
  
MODERATOR:  I think we’re ready to open it up to questions.  
  
Q    Hey, thank you.  Just a couple of questions.  Would the attacks by
Russia on Ukraine power facilities — do you expect the presidents to
find some solution to the growing energy crisis in Ukraine or discuss
options?  And secondly, are you in agreement on when Ukraine should
engage in diplomatic talks with Russia?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for both of those questions.  As
I said at the top, I expect that Ukraine is going to be one of the top
agenda items for the two presidents to discuss, as it has been
throughout their conversations over the last year.   
  
In terms of the energy piece, obviously there is tremendous concern over
the last couple of weeks about Russia’s increased attacks on civilian
infrastructure and, in particular, energy infrastructure in Ukraine. 
So, very much expect that this is going to be something that the two
leaders are going to be discussing.   
  
The United States has been working very hard across the government to
respond to the needs that Ukraine is facing on its energy
infrastructure, with USAID Administrator Samantha Power tweeting out
today the large number of generators, for example, that the United
States is providing.  There’s a diplomatic effort being led out of the
State Department to rally global support for countries to respond to the
energy crisis as well.  
  
I expect that this is a topic that will come up on the margins of the
NATO foreign ministerial meeting later this week. And then France, of
course, is hosting a conference in Paris in early December to help
encourage countries to deal with the resilience of — to develop the
resilience of Ukraine going forward.  
  
So, very much expect that this is something that the leaders are going
to discuss, as well as the numerous diplomatic and global coordination
efforts that are underway in terms of responding to what really is a
critical need of the Ukrainians right now.   
  
In terms of the broader context, the United States has been very clear
that we are not putting any pressure on the Ukrainians to engage in
negotiations.  We all very much welcome the statements that President
Zelenskyy has been making about his openness to a just peace.  This is
something that President Macron and the other G7 leaders welcomed, as
noted in the G7 statement from several weeks ago.   
  
And I expect our presidents to continue discussing ways that they can
support Ukraine not only in terms of its energy security needs, but also
with security assistance needs, humanitarian assistance, budgetary
support, and the full range of areas in which the United States, France,
and the rest of our allies and partners are continuing to support
Ukraine.  
  
Q    Thanks so much for doing this and sorry about the glitch.  My
question would be about the Inflation Reduction Act, because the French
have been quite clear that they think this piece of legislation is
protectionist.  And President Macron is said to be seeking exemptions
for European industries and especially everything that has to do with
electric vehicles, obviously.  Do you think that there will be any kind
of deliverables after this visit, any kind of major announcements that
maybe the United States are ready to grant exemptions?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for that.  I think we certainly
expect that the Inflation Reduction Act will be a topic of conversation
between the two leaders.  You know, I would just sort of make really the
same set of observations that I made during my opening remarks: that,
you know, we think that the Inflation Reduction Act is a historic
achievement in terms of taking steps forward for the U.S. to meet
ambitious climate goals.  And meeting the climate challenge head on is
an important shared objective of the United States and France and has
been for the entire duration of the Biden-Harris presidency.  
  
Secondly, that, you know, we think that the IRA ultimately doesn’t just
achieve climate ends.  It also achieves important ends across the U.S.
and Europe in terms of growing opportunity for energy security, for the
clean energy transition, for realigning supply chains to trusted
partners, and that in so doing, it’s going to create opportunities for
European firms, for French firms along the way.   
  
Our core belief is that this isn’t a zero-sum game — that the IRA grows
the pie for clean energy investments writ large; it doesn’t split it
up.  And that this is an important step forward for both economies in
terms of making this transition as a matter of climate as well as a
matter of economics.   
  
The last thing I would say is, you know, we have put in place a process
to have exactly these conversations in the form of a U.S.-EU Task Force
on the Inflation Reduction Act.  You know, I’ve been very heavily
involved in it \[redacted\].  We’ve met several times since its
inception a little more than a month ago.  We expect that dialogue to
continue — to continue constructively, as it has.  And that’s been a
really productive forum both for speaking about some of the challenges
that our European partners and allies face with respect to the IRA but
also, importantly, to talk about the things that I mentioned at the head
of my answer around its ability to generate economic opportunity, as
well as opportunity around the clean energy transition for economies on
both sides of the Atlantic.  
  
Q    Hi, I wanted to ask about COVID.  Since this first state dinner is
happening later than usual because of COVID, can  
you talk about what the COVID protocols are for the dinner specifically
and the visit generally?   
  
MODERATOR:  Hi, it’s \[senior administration official\].  Maureen, let
me follow up with you on this one.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Thanks so much for doing this.  I want to ask how much of picking
France first had to do with continuing to mend ties over AUKUS.  I mean,
does the administration now feel that, you know, any friction or
lingering feelings over that has been recovered?  Is this a sign of
that?   
  
And also, you know, France has talked about a third — regarding China,
France has talked about a third way for countries of the Indo-Pacific to
meet defense needs and other needs.  Does — you know, in order not to
get in between China and the United States, does the United — will that
come up?  How will it come up?  Will the United States seek
clarification on France’s, you know, third way?  And does the U.S. see
any conflict there?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much for both of those
questions.  As to the question of why France, I’ll just return to what I
said at the beginning, which really speaks to the breadth and depth and
the importance of the U.S. relationship with France.   
  
France truly is one of our most capable allies.  It is a nuclear power. 
It’s a member of the P3, of the U.N. Security Council.  It’s a critical
partner in the G7.  It’s an important ally within NATO and an important
partner within the European Union as well.  And President Biden came
into office very much focused on the importance of alliances.  And
certainly one of our strongest and most important allies is France.  
  
There’s also been a very long track record of engagement with France.  I
think virtually every French president at some stage has had a state
visit here at the White House.  And certainly, if you look at the last
three administrations — the first state visit in the second term of
Obama, Trump’s first state visit, and now President Biden state visit
has been with France as well.  
  
As I think \[senior administration official\] and I have been setting
out here, it’s hard to think of any sort of global issue on which we are
not closely partnering with France.  Certainly in response to the crisis
in Ukraine.  France is a very important partner in the Indo-Pacific. 
We’ve had close cooperation in the Sahel.  And I think all of these are
going to be very much reflected in this visit and also in the meeting
between our two presidents.  
  
On the question on China, you know, I will let President Macron and the
French government speak to the views expressed by President Macron. 
But, you know, from our perspective, we have seen incredible convergence
between the United States and our European allies over the last year in
terms of our response to the threat in China.  We’ve got very rich and
robust dialogues, including through the U.S. and the EU.  We’ve got
consultations on the Indo-Pacific.  And as I mentioned before, France
remains one of our most important partners in the Indo-Pacific as
well.  
  
Certainly, I think China will be on the very top of the agenda between
the two leaders.  The President, of course, met with Xi when he was in
Bali.  President Macron has spoken about his likely intention to visit
Beijing early in the next year.  And so, I’m sure that the two
presidents are going to want to compare notes on that.   
  
Certainly, to your questions, Europe has its own interests.  Our views
on China are not identical, but I think there is a strong view that we
should be speaking from a common script in response to China, and, I
think, on all of the big issues we are.  And we very much welcome
France’s partnership to ensure a free, open, and secure Indo-Pacific and
expect that will be very much top of mind for the two presidents.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you for doing this and for taking my question.  First, I
wanted to follow up on the answer about the IRA.  You know, you’ve made
the case that actually this is ultimately a good thing for European
industry.  That’s obviously not what French officials have said. 
They’ve said that this is a threat to European companies.  So, is the
U.S. position just that they misunderstand the implications of this
legislation?  
  
And on the invitation itself, I just wondered if you could give us some
more background in terms of, you know, was this a visit that was in the
works and you decided to elevate it to a state visit, or was there a
decision, okay, it’s time for a state visit, you know, and France is the
country we’re going to choose to invite for a state visit?  Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, on the first, you know, I would say
I think that the task force that’s been set up has been really
productive for hearing from European officials about the challenges that
they see around the Inflation Reduction Act.  And it’s also, as I’ve
said, been an opportunity for us to talk through how we see some of the
opportunities embedded in the IRA for European firms, for the European
economy, but also, of course, for the clean energy transition and
meeting our climate goals more broadly.  
  
I would, you know, just kind of point to three that we’ve kind of
continually pointed to.  You know, one, a place like the commercial EV
tax credits — important opportunities there for European manufacturers
to be an important part of the U.S. EV market through that provision.  
  
Secondly, the provisions around renewable energy production.  Again,
there, I think we see important opportunities for European firms, in
particular around both onshore and offshore wind.  
  
And lastly, the provisions around hydrogen and seeing that as an
opportunity to really scale up over time U.S. hydrogen production, which
can be — you know, I think, particularly facing the circumstances that
we’ve been facing since the start of Russia’s invasion around the
weaponization of energy, around the challenges to economies around the
world, particularly in Europe in the face of high-energy prices, and
limited energy supplies — you know, the steps the act is taking to
generate low-cost, stable, secure, abundant renewable energy out over
the medium to long term is ultimately to the benefit of the global
economy as a whole, but also, specifically, a benefit to Europe’s
economy.   
  
Those are the types of things that we’re talking through, through the
task force.  And like I say — like I said, I think it’s been a very
constructive set of conversations that we expect to continue at a very
regular clip.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you so much.  I have two questions.  The first one is in
respect to the energy security, the situation in the Zaporizhzhia
Nuclear Power Plant.  Do the leaders planning to discuss this topic?   
  
And circling back on China, respectively you said that we have two
different positions, but could you please be more specific on China’s
role in the war in Ukraine that was waged by Russia?  And do you see any
signs that China is helping Russia?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi.  Thanks for those questions.  I
think I will leave some of the weedier analysis of China and the role in
Russia and the rest to separate conversations and keep the call here
today focused on the state visit.  
  
On your first question on energy security, we’ll repeat what I said in
response to a previous question, which is that, yes, I very much expect
the two leaders to talk about the importance of supporting Ukraine as it
comes under Russian assault against its power grids and civilian
infrastructure.  This is very much front of mind for President Biden.   
  
President Macron, as I said, is going to be hosting a conference in
Paris in early December focused on ensuring the resilience of Ukraine
going forward on these energy issues as well.  
  
And on China, more broadly, I think that both leaders recognize that we
should have a China angle to our Ukraine diplomatic strategy.  That’s
something that President Biden strongly agrees with, and it’s something
that I assume the two leaders will discuss during their meeting as
well.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks very much for taking my question.  I think this question
is for \[senior administration official\], since you’ve been involved in
this bilateral task force on the Inflation Reduction Act.  
  
We’re just hearing a lot of rhetoric out of Europe about a potential
trade war or a subsidy raised as a result of the IRA legislation.  And I
just wonder, in the conversations that you’re having with your European
counterparts, are they using that kind of language?  Are they saying
that if we don’t — that if, you know, the U.S. doesn’t provide some
accommodation for Europe here, that they’re going to rush ahead with
subsidies of their own, or possibly impose tariffs on U.S. exports?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I would just say a couple things. 
One, I think it’s been a very constructive set of conversations that,
you know, is ongoing between us and our partners in the EU, like I said,
both with respect to their articulation of the challenges that they feel
they face as a result of the IRA, as well as our articulation of some of
the opportunities that we think the IRA provides.  
  
You know, the one last piece, you know, I would add is that I think
we’ve seen some of the conversation in recent days, some of the
reporting in recent days around a coalescence from some key European
countries, including France, on a potential pathway ahead on subsidies. 
And I think there, you know, I think our perspective is: If you look at
the economics of this, if you look at the amount of need around clean
energy investments around renewables investments, around EVs, you know,
there’s just a huge amount of work to be done and more, frankly, to be
done than the market would provide for on its own.  And so, there is an
important role for subsidies to help accelerate and generate the
positive spillovers from the climate that result from these
investments.  
  
You know, we think the Inflation Reduction Act is reflective of that
type of step, but we also think there is space here for Europe and
others, frankly, to take similar steps.  And we view the task force as a
way of allowing those conversations to play out for us to have
conversations about — not unlike in the setting of semiconductors and
chips, for us to make sure that their approach and our approach ends up
complementing one another, being harmonized with one another.   
  
Those are the kinds of conversations that we think are very
constructively being had and able to be had within the confines of the
task force, precisely because the needs here for the climate are so
great, and the opportunities both on this side of the Atlantic as well
as on the European side are so important.  
  
MODERATOR:  All right.  Thank you all for taking the time.  This
concludes the call.  Take care.  
  
6:51 P.M. EST
