---
date: '2022-11-12'
published_time: 2022-11-12 06:36:48-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/12/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-prime-minister-hun-sen-of-cambodia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with Prime Minister Hun Sen\
  \ of\_Cambodia"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met today with 2022 ASEAN Chair Prime
Minister Hun Sen of Cambodia in Phnom Penh. President Biden expressed
appreciation for Cambodia’s leadership of ASEAN during a challenging
year. The leaders reflected on the success of the historic U.S.-ASEAN
Special Summit in Washington, DC and welcomed plans to establish a
U.S.-ASEAN Comprehensive Strategic Partnership at the annual U.S.-ASEAN
Summit later that day. They also discussed the crisis in Burma and
ASEAN’s response, underscoring the international community has an
important role to play in promoting a return to democracy and stability
in Burma, and supporting the ASEAN Five Point Consensus. President Biden
also expressed his appreciation for Cambodia co-sponsoring resolutions
at the United Nations to support Ukraine against Russia’s brutal
aggression. 

The President raised concerns regarding the situation at Ream Naval Base
and underscored the importance of full transparency about activities by
the PRC military at Ream Naval Base. President Biden also urged Prime
Minister Hun Sen to reopen civic and political space ahead of the 2023
elections. He also called for the release of activists detained on
politically motivated charges, including U.S.-Cambodian dual citizen
Seng Theary. President Biden reiterated the United States’ commitment to
the Cambodian people and their aspirations for a more prosperous,
democratic, and independent country.

\###
