---
date: '2022-11-16'
modified_time: 2022-11-16 10:30:13-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-16 10:30:12-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/16/g20-bali-leaders-declaration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G20 Bali Leaders\u2019\_Declaration"
---
 
**Bali, Indonesia, 15-16 November 2022**

1\. Fourteen years ago, the Leaders of the G20 met for the first time,
facing the most severe financial crisis in our generation. We
recognized, as large global economies, that collectively we carry
responsibilities and that our cooperation was necessary to global
economic recovery, to tackle global challenges, and lay a foundation for
strong, sustainable, balanced, and inclusive growth. We designated the
G20 the premier forum for global economic cooperation, and today we
reaffirm our commitment to cooperate as we, once again, address serious
global economic challenges.

2\. We met in Bali on 15-16 November 2022, at a time of unparalleled
multidimensional crises. We have experienced the devastation brought by
the Covid-19 pandemic, and other challenges including climate change,
which has caused economic downturn, increased poverty, slowed global
recovery, and hindered the achievement of the Sustainable Development
Goals.

3\. This year, we have also witnessed the war in Ukraine further
adversely impact the global economy. There was a discussion on the
issue. We reiterated our national positions as expressed in other fora,
including the UN Security Council and the UN General Assembly, which, in
Resolution No. ES-11/1 dated 2 March 2022, as adopted by majority vote
(141 votes for, 5 against, 35 abstentions, 12 absent) deplores in the
strongest terms the aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine
and demands its complete and unconditional withdrawal from the territory
of Ukraine. Most members strongly condemned the war in Ukraine and
stressed it is causing immense human suffering and exacerbating existing
fragilities in the global economy – constraining growth, increasing
inflation, disrupting supply chains, heightening energy and food
insecurity, and elevating financial stability risks. There were other
views and different assessments of the situation and sanctions.
Recognizing that the G20 is not the forum to resolve security issues, we
acknowledge that security issues can have significant consequences for
the global economy.

4\. It is essential to uphold international law and the multilateral
system that safeguards peace and stability. This includes defending all
the Purposes and Principles enshrined in the Charter of the United
Nations and adhering to international humanitarian law, including the
protection of civilians and infrastructure in armed conflicts. The use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons is inadmissible. The peaceful
resolution of conflicts, efforts to address crises, as well as diplomacy
and dialogue, are vital. Today’s era must not be of war.

5\. At today’s critical moment for the global economy, it is essential
that the G20 undertakes tangible, precise, swift and necessary actions,
using all available policy tools, to address common challenges,
including through international macro policy cooperation and concrete
collaborations. In doing so, we remain committed to support developing
countries, particularly the least developed and small island developing
states, in responding to these global challenges and achieving the SDGs.
In line with the Indonesian G20 Presidency theme — Recover Together,
Recover Stronger — we will take coordinated actions to advance an agenda
for a strong, inclusive and resilient global recovery and sustainable
development that delivers jobs and growth. With the above in mind, we
will:

-   Stay agile and flexible in our macro-economic policy responses and
    cooperation. We will make public investments and structural reforms,
    promote private investments, and strengthen multilateral trade and
    resilience of global supply chains, to support long-term growth,
    sustainable and inclusive, green and just transitions. We will
    ensure long-term fiscal sustainability, with our central banks
    committed to achieving price stability.
-   Protect macroeconomic and financial stability and remain committed
    to using all available tools to mitigate downside risks, noting the
    steps taken since the Global Financial Crisis to strengthen
    financial resilience and promote sustainable finance and capital
    flows.
-   Take action to promote food and energy security and support
    stability of markets, providing temporary and targeted support to
    cushion the impact of price increases, strengthening dialogue
    between producers and consumers, and increasing trade and
    investments for long-term food and energy security needs, resilient
    and sustainable food, fertilizer and energy systems.
-   Unlock further investments for low- and middle-income and other
    developing countries, through a greater variety of innovative
    financing sources and instruments, including to catalyze private
    investment, to support the achievement of the SDGs. We ask the
    Multilateral Development Banks to bring forward actions to mobilize
    and provide additional financing within their mandates, to support
    achievement of the SDGs including through sustainable development
    and infrastructure investments, and responding to global challenges.
-   Recommit to accelerate achievement of the SDGs, achieving prosperity
    for all through sustainable development.

6\. We are deeply concerned by the challenges to global food security
exacerbated by current conflicts and tensions. We therefore commit to
taking urgent actions to save lives, prevent hunger and malnutrition,
particularly to address the vulnerabilities of developing countries, and
call for an accelerated transformation towards sustainable and resilient
agriculture and food systems and supply chains. We commit to protect the
most vulnerable from hunger by using all available tools to address the
global food crisis. We will take further coordinated actions to address
food security challenges including price surges and shortage of food
commodities and fertilizers globally. Recalling the G20 efforts such as
the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program, we welcome global,
regional, and national initiatives in support of food security, and in
particular note the progress made by the UN Secretary General’s Global
Crisis Response Group on Food, Energy and Finance, as well as the World
Bank Group’s and IMF’s food security responses. We emphasize the
importance of building on the G20 Matera Declaration, working together
to sustainably produce and distribute food, ensure that food systems
better contribute to adaptation and mitigation to climate change, and
halting and reversing biodiversity loss, diversify food sources, promote
nutritious food for all, strengthen global, regional, and local food
value chains, and accelerate efforts to reduce food loss and waste. We
will also implement the One Health approach, intensify research on food
science and technology, and improve stakeholders’ capacity along the
food supply chains, particularly women, youth, smallholder, and marginal
farmers as well as fishers.

7\. We support the international efforts to keep food supply chains
functioning under challenging circumstances. We are committed to
addressing food insecurity by ensuring accessibility, affordability, and
sustainability of food and food products for those in needs,
particularly in developing countries and least developed countries. We
reiterate our support for open, transparent, inclusive, predictable, and
non-discriminatory, rules-based agricultural trade based on WTO rules.
We highlight the importance of enhancing market predictability,
minimizing distortions, increasing business confidence, and allowing
agriculture and food trade to flow smoothly. We reaffirm the need to
update global agricultural food trade rules and to facilitate trade in
agricultural and food products, as well as the importance of not
imposing export prohibitions or restrictions on food and fertilizers in
a manner inconsistent with relevant WTO provisions. We are committed to
sustained supply, in part based on local food sources, as well as
diversified production of food and fertilizers to support the most
vulnerable from the disruptions in food trade supply chain. We will
avoid adversely impacting food security deliberately. We commit to
facilitate humanitarian supplies for ensuring access to food in
emergency situations and call on UN Member States and all relevant
stakeholders with available resources to provide in-kind donations and
resources to support countries most affected by the food crisis, as
required and based on assessed needs by governments of affected
countries. We continue to support the carve out of humanitarian
activities from sanctions and call on all nations to support this aim,
including through current efforts at the UN. We will continue to closely
monitor the state of global food security and nutrition.

8\. We welcome the Türkiye and UN-brokered two Istanbul Agreements
signed on 22 July 2022 and consisting of the Initiative on the Safe
Transportation of Grain and Foodstuffs from Ukrainian Ports (Black Sea
Grain Initiative) and the Memorandum of Understanding between the
Russian Federation and the Secretariat of the United Nations on
Promoting Russian Food Products and Fertilizers to the World Markets, on
the unimpeded deliveries of grain, foodstuffs, and fertilizers/inputs
from Ukraine and the Russian Federation, to ease tension and prevent
global food insecurity and hunger in developing countries. We emphasize
the importance of their full, timely and continued implementation by all
relevant stakeholders, as well as the UN Secretary-General’s calls for
continuation of these efforts by the Parties. In this context we
highlight other efforts that ensure the flow of agri-food goods such as
the EU Solidarity Lanes and the Russian donations of fertilizers
facilitated by the World Food Programme. Moreover, we take note of
various initiatives addressing food insecurity such as the Arab
Coordination Group initiative.

9\. We are committed to supporting the adoption of innovative practices
and technologies, including digital innovation in agriculture and food
systems to enhance productivity and sustainability in harmony with
nature and promote farmers and fishers’ livelihoods and increase income,
in particular smallholders by increasing efficiency, and equal access to
food supply chains. We will promote responsible investments in
agricultural research and science and evidence-based approaches. We will
continue to strengthen the Agricultural Market Information System (AMIS)
as an early warning tool, to enhance food and fertilizer/inputs market
transparency, reduce market uncertainties, and support coordinated
policy responses for food security and nutrition, through the sharing of
reliable and timely data and information.

10\. We ask the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the World
Bank Group (WBG) to share with us the results of their mapping exercises
on food insecurity, which will be consolidated in the future with inputs
from technical experts and other relevant international organizations,
and will provide a systemic analysis of responses to address food
security. This will identify any major gaps in global responses; examine
food and nutrition variables and funding; examine the supply and demand
of fertilizers; build on the G20 Agricultural Market Information System
(AMIS); and identify any medium-term issues that require further
technical and systemic analysis. The FAO and WBG will report back by the
2023 Spring Meetings.

11\. We meet at a time of climate and energy crises, compounded by
geopolitical challenges. We are experiencing volatility in energy prices
and markets and shortage/disruptions to energy supply. We underline the
urgency to rapidly transform and diversify energy systems, advance
energy security and resilience and markets stability, by accelerating
and ensuring clean, sustainable, just, affordable, and inclusive energy
transitions and flow of sustainable investments. We stress the
importance of ensuring that global energy demand is matched by
affordable energy supplies. We reiterate our commitment to achieve
global net zero greenhouse gas emissions/carbon neutrality by or around
mid-century, while taking into account the latest scientific
developments and different national circumstances. We call for continued
support for developing countries, especially in the most vulnerable
countries, in terms of providing access to affordable, reliable,
sustainable, and modern energy, capacity building, affordable latest
technology within the public domain, mutually beneficial technology
cooperation and financing mitigation actions in the energy sector.

12\. We reaffirm our commitment to achieve SDG 7 targets and strive to
close the gaps in energy access and to eradicate energy poverty.
Recognising our leadership role, and guided by the Bali Compact and the
Bali Energy Transition Roadmap, we are committed to finding solutions to
achieve energy markets stability, transparency, and affordability. We
will accelerate transitions and achieve our climate objectives by
strengthening energy supply chain and energy security, and diversifying
energy mixes and systems. We will rapidly scale up the deployment of
zero and low emission power generation, including renewable energy
resources, and measures to enhance energy efficiency, abatement
technologies as well as removal technologies, taking into account
national circumstances. We recognise the importance to accelerate the
development, deployment and dissemination of technologies, and the
adoption of policies, to transition towards low-emission energy systems,
including by rapidly scaling up the deployment of clean power
generation, including renewable energy, as well as energy efficiency
measures, including accelerating efforts towards the phasedown of
unabated coal power, in line with national circumstances and recognising
the need for support towards just transitions. We will increase our
efforts to implement the commitment made in 2009 in Pittsburgh to
phase-out and rationalize, over the medium term, inefficient fossil fuel
subsidies that encourage wasteful consumption and commit to achieve this
objective, while providing targeted support for the poorest and the most
vulnerable. We will strengthen international cooperation as well as
relevant producer-consumer dialogues on securing energy affordability
and accessibility by limiting volatility in energy prices and scaling up
clean, safe, inclusive, and sustainable technologies, including
developing regional energy interconnectivity. We are committed to
promote investment in sustainable infrastructure and industry, as well
as innovative technologies and a wide range of fiscal, market and
regulatory mechanisms to support clean energy transitions, including, as
appropriate, the use of carbon pricing and non-pricing mechanisms and
incentives, while providing targeted support for the poorest and the
most vulnerable.

13\. Mindful of our leadership role, we reaffirm our steadfast
commitments, in pursuit of the objective of UNFCCC, to tackle climate
change by strengthening the full and effective implementation of the
Paris Agreement and its temperature goal, reflecting equity and the
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective
capabilities in light of different national circumstances. We will play
our part fully in implementing the Glasgow Climate Pact and the relevant
outcomes of previous COPs and CMAs, in particular COP 26, including the
call to revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in our NDCs, as
necessary to align with the Paris Agreement. In this regard, we welcome
enhanced climate actions resulting from the new or updated NDCs and
invite parties to urgently scale up mitigation and adaptation ambition
and means of implementation as well as make progress on loss and damage
at COP 27 which is being held in Africa. Noting the IPCC assessments
that the impact of climate change will be much lower at a temperature
increase of 1.5°C compared with 2°C, we resolve to pursue efforts to
limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C. This will require meaningful
and effective actions and commitment by all countries, taking into
account different approaches, through the development of clear national
pathways that align long-term ambition with short and medium-term goals,
and with international cooperation and support, including finance and
technology, and sustainable and responsible consumption and production
as critical enablers, in the context of sustainable development.

14\. We welcome the progress to date towards achieving a Post 2020
Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF). We urge all parties and countries
to finalize and adopt the GBF with the view of realizing of 2050 Vision
of “Living in harmony with Nature” at the second part of COP15 CBD as a
strong framework of action and accountability for halting and reversing
biodiversity loss by 2030 and, as appropriate, to update National
Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans accordingly. We emphasize the
importance of achieving and synergizing the objectives of the three Rio
Conventions. We stress the need for clear and measurable goals and
targets for biodiversity and means of implementation and accountability.
We commit to strengthen actions to halt and reverse biodiversity loss by
2030 and call on CBD Parties to adopt an ambitious, balanced, practical,
effective, robust and transformative post-2020 Global Biodiversity
Framework at COP-15 in Montreal. We urge for increased resource
mobilization from all sources, including from countries and entities, to
provide new and additional financial resources for the implementation of
the GBF, once it is negotiated, including to help enable and support
developing country parties, and for aligning private and public
financial flows with biodiversity objectives. We will scale up efforts
to combat biodiversity loss, deforestation, desertification, land
degradation and drought, as well as restoring degraded land to achieve
land degradation neutrality by 2030, and in support of the G20’s
ambition to reduce land degradation by 50% by 2040 on a voluntary basis.
We recognize the effort made by a number of countries to ensure that at
least 30% of global land and at least 30% of the global ocean and seas
are conserved or protected by 2030 and we will help to make progress
towards this objective in accordance with national circumstances. We
commit to reduce environmental impacts by changing unsustainable
consumption and production patterns as well as to enhance
environmentally sound waste management including by preventing illegal
cross-border traffic of waste.

15\. We will step up efforts to halt and reverse biodiversity loss,
including through Nature-based Solutions and Ecosystem-based Approaches,
support climate mitigation and adaptation, enhance environmental
conservation and protection, sustainable use and restoration, responding
to natural disasters, reduce ecosystem degradation, enhance ecosystem
services and to address issues affecting the marine and coastal
environment. We will further promote sustainable development and
lifestyles, resource efficiency and circular economy to increase
sustainability and work together on scientific knowledge-sharing,
raising awareness, and capacity building, particularly to advance on the
ocean-based climate action. We are committed to ending illegal,
unreported and unregulated fishing. We welcome the WTO multilateral
Agreement on Fisheries Subsidies and encourage its rapid entry into
force. In line with the UNEA Resolution 5/14, we are committed to
develop an international legally binding instrument on plastic
pollution, including in the marine environment, with the ambition of
completing the work by the end of 2024. We highlight the progress made
and call on participating delegations to achieve an ambitious and
balanced agreement without delay on an international legally binding
instrument under UNCLOS on the conservation and sustainable use of
marine biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction, as
called for in the UNGA Resolution 69/292. We also acknowledge that
ecosystems, including forests, seagrasses, coral reefs, wetland
ecosystems in all their diversity, including peatlands and mangrove,
support climate change mitigation and adaptation efforts.

16\. We acknowledge the urgent need to strengthen policies and mobilize
financing, from all sources in a predictable, adequate and timely manner
to address climate change, biodiversity loss, and environmental
degradation including significantly increasing support for developing
countries. We recall and further urge developed countries to fulfil
their commitments to deliver on the goal of jointly mobilizing USD 100
billion per year urgently by 2020 and through to 2025 in the context of
meaningful mitigation action and transparency on implementation. We also
support continued deliberations on an ambitious new collective
quantified goal of climate finance from a floor of USD 100 billion per
year to support developing countries, that helps in fulfilling the
objective of the UNFCCC and implementation of the Paris Agreement. We
emphasize the importance of transparency in the implementation of the
pledges. We also recall the Glasgow Climate Pact urging developed
countries to at least double their collective provision of climate
finance for adaptation to developing countries, from 2019 levels, by
2025, in the context of achieving a balance between mitigation and
adaptation in the provision of scaled up financial resource, recalling
Article 9 of the Paris Agreement.

17\. In the context of strengthening global efforts to reach the
objective of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) and the goals of the Paris Agreement, as well as implementing
the COP26 commitments, we reiterate that our policy mix toward carbon
neutrality and net zero should include a full range of fiscal, market
and regulatory mechanisms including, as appropriate, the use of carbon
pricing and non-pricing mechanisms and incentives, and phase out and
rationalize, over the medium term, inefficient fossil fuel subsidies
that encourage wasteful consumption and commit to achieve this
objective, while providing targeted support to the poorest and most
vulnerable, and in line with national circumstances. We acknowledge the
macro-economic risks stemming from climate change and will continue
discussions on the costs and benefits of different transitions.

18\. We are committed to take actions in support of orderly, just and
affordable transitions to achieve the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development in line with the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement
as well as with the convention on Biological Diversity. We welcome the
progress made across the G20, international organizations, other
international networks and initiatives, and the private sector in
addressing the priorities of the G20 Sustainable Finance Roadmap, which
is voluntary and flexible in nature, and call for further efforts to
advance the Roadmap’s recommended actions that will scale up
sustainability financing. We welcome the establishment of the
Sustainable Finance Working Group’s online dashboard and repository of
relevant work, to illustrate ongoing and future progress made on the
Roadmap, and encourage members to contribute on a voluntary basis,
taking country circumstances into consideration. We endorse the 2022 G20
Sustainable Finance Report which articulates practical and voluntary
recommendations for jurisdictions and relevant stakeholders in
developing transition finance frameworks, improving the credibility of
financial institutions’ net zero commitments and scaling up sustainable
finance instruments, with a focus on improving accessibility and
affordability. We also welcome the valuable discussion during the
Presidency’s Forum on policy levers that incentivize financing and
investment to support the transition.

19\. We remain committed to promoting a healthy and sustainable recovery
which builds towards achieving and sustaining Universal Health Coverage
under the SDGs. While the COVID-19 pandemic is not over, the World
Health Organization (WHO) has recently declared monkeypox as another
Public Health Emergency International Concern (PHEIC), reinforcing that
international health threats are ever present and that the G20 and
broader global community must come together to improve our collective
prevention, preparedness and response capabilities. We reaffirm the
importance of strengthening of national health systems by putting people
at the center of preparedness and equip them to respond effectively. We
emphasize the need for equitable access to pandemic medical
countermeasures, and welcome the efforts of ACT-A, and note that the
results of the ACT-A external evaluations can be useful lessons for
future discussions. We reaffirm our commitment to strengthen global
health governance, with the leading and coordination role of WHO and
support from other international organizations. We support the work of
the Intergovernmental Negotiating Body (INB) that will draft and
negotiate a legally binding instrument that should contain both legally
binding and non-legally binding elements to strengthen pandemic PPR and
the working group on the International Health Regulations that will
consider amendments to the International Health Regulations (IHR) (2005)
mindful that the decision will be made by World Health Assembly.

20\. The G20 High Level Independent Panel, as well as the WHO and World
Bank have estimated there is an annual pandemic PPR financing gap of
approximately USD 10 billion. As initiated by the Saudi Arabian G20
Presidency, the Italian G20 Presidency and continued by the Indonesian
G20 Presidency, we welcome the provision of additional financial
resources, to assist in financing critical gaps in implementing IHR
(2005) and increase PPR capacities. In this regard, we welcome the
establishment of a new Financial Intermediary Fund for Pandemic PPR (the
‘Pandemic Fund’) hosted by the World Bank. It aims to address critical
pandemic PPR gaps and build capacity at national, regional and global
levels, bring additionality in financial resources for pandemic PPR,
catalyze complementary investments, and facilitate a coordinated and
coherent approach to pandemic PPR strengthening. We welcome the Pandemic
Fund’s inclusive membership and representation from low- and
middle-income countries, civil society organizations and donors, and
acknowledge the WHO’s technical expertise and central coordination role
in this endeavor, which reflects its leadership role in the global
health architecture. We appreciate the work of the Secretariat hosted by
the World Bank, with the WHO as technical lead and as chair of the
Technical Advisory Panel. We look forward to the launch of the Pandemic
Fund’s first call for proposals as soon as possible. We commit to
increase the capacity of developing countries for pandemic PPR through
the Pandemic Fund, and look forward to the stocktaking review of the
Pandemic Fund at the end of its first year to draw on lessons learned
and incorporate any changes needed to ensure it is operating in
accordance with its governing documents and effective at filling
critical PPR gaps, and that it continues to have a central coordination
role for the WHO, maintains a strong connection to the G20, and is
inclusive of the perspectives of low- and middle-income countries and
additional non-G20 partners in its decision making. We commend the
pledges by current donors, amounting to over USD 1.4 billion, and
encourage additional voluntary pledges. We call on new donors to join
the Pandemic Fund, as they are able to.

21\. It is essential to continue collaboration between Finance and
Health Ministries for pandemic PPR. We extend the mandate of the Task
Force, and ask the Secretariat of the Task Force to work with the Task
Force co-chairs, the incoming Indian G20 Presidency, the G20 Troika, and
G20 members to agree on a Task Force workplan for 2023, taking into
account a multi-year planning horizon. We thank the WHO for continuing
to host the Secretariat, with support from the World Bank. In 2023 the
Task Force will continue to be co-chaired by Indonesia and Italy,
representing advanced and emerging economy perspectives, and will
continue to draw on expertise of the WHO, International Financial
Institutions and other relevant organizations, with the support of the
2023 Indian G20 Presidency. To expand the voice of lower income
countries we invite key regional organizations to join the Task Force
meetings, as appropriate. We will work closely with the WHO to ensure
the Task Force continues to complement the global pandemic PPR
architecture and there is no further duplication and fragmentation of
the global health governance system. Delivering on the mandate from the
G20 Rome Leaders’ Declaration, in 2023 the Task Force will continue
developing coordination arrangements between Finance and Health
Ministries, and share best practices and experiences from past
finance-health coordination in order to develop joint responses to
pandemics, as appropriate. The Task Force will undertake work to better
understand economic risks and vulnerabilities from pandemics, and how to
mitigate them, with a focus on finance and health coordination in
response to new pandemics, considering country-specific circumstances
and recognizing the importance of further work on resource mobilization.
We ask the Task Force to report back to Finance and Health Ministers in
2023 on its progress.

22\. We recognize that the extensive COVID-19 immunization is a global
public good and we will advance our effort to ensure timely, equitable
and universal access to safe, affordable, quality and effective
vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics (VTDs). Acknowledging the
adoption of the Ministerial Declaration on the WTO Response to the
COVID-19 Pandemic and Preparedness for Future Pandemics and the
Ministerial Decision on the TRIPS Agreement at the WTO’s 12th
Ministerial Conference (MC12), we note that, no later than six months
from the date of the Ministerial Decision on the TRIPS Agreement, WTO
members will decide on its extension to cover the production and supply
of COVID-19 diagnostics and therapeutics. We remain committed to
embedding a multisectoral One Health approach and enhancing global
surveillance, including genomic surveillance, in order to detect
pathogens and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) that may threaten human
health. To enable global pathogen surveillance as part of our commitment
to implement the IHR (2005), we encourage sharing of pathogen data in a
timely manner on shared and trusted platforms in collaboration with WHO.
We encourage sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of
pathogens consistent with applicable national laws.

23\. We recognize the need for strengthening local and regional health
product manufacturing capacities and cooperation as well as sustainable
global and regional research and development networks to facilitate
better access to VTDs globally, especially in developing countries, and
underscore the importance of public-private partnership, and technology
transfer and knowledge sharing on voluntary and mutually agreed terms.
We support the WHO mRNA Vaccine Technology Transfer hub as well as all
as the spokes in all regions of the world with the objective of sharing
technology and technical know-how on voluntary and mutually agreed
terms. We welcome joint research and joint production of vaccines,
including enhanced cooperation among developing countries. We
acknowledge the importance of shared technical standards and
verification methods, under the framework of the IHR (2005), to
facilitate seamless international travel, interoperability, and
recognizing digital solutions and non-digital solutions, including proof
of vaccinations. We support continued international dialogue and
collaboration on the establishment of trusted global digital health
networks as part of the efforts to strengthen prevention and response to
future pandemics, that should capitalize and build on the success of the
existing standards and digital COVID-19 certificates.

24\. The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the transformation of the
digital ecosystem and digital economy. We recognize the importance of
digital transformation in reaching the SDGs. We acknowledge that
affordable and high-quality digital connectivity is essential for
digital inclusion and digital transformation, while a resilient, safe
and secure online environment is necessary to enhance confidence and
trust in the digital economy. We recognize the importance of policies to
create an enabling, inclusive, open, fair and non-discriminatory digital
economy that fosters the application of new technologies, allows
businesses and entrepreneurs to thrive, and protects and empowers
consumers, while addressing the challenges, related to digital divides,
privacy, data protection, intellectual property rights, and online
safety. We acknowledge the importance to counter disinformation
campaigns, cyber threats, online abuse, and ensuring security in
connectivity infrastructure. We remain committed to further enable data
free flow with trust and promote cross-border data flows. We will
advance a more inclusive, human-centric, empowering, and sustainable
digital transformation. We also reaffirm the role of data for
development, economic growth and social well-being.

25\. We encourage international collaboration to further develop digital
skills and digital literacy to harness the positive impacts of digital
transformation, especially for women, girls, and people in vulnerable
situations, and further support efforts to develop reliable skills and
literacy. We note the increasing demands for a workforce adept at
utilizing emerging technologies, education and training, reskilling and
upskilling to meet such demands. We also seek to increase connectivity
by accelerating high capacity and secure infrastructure and provide more
accessible and affordable resources and tools, while also improve the
digital literacy skills of learners, teachers, school leaders, and other
educational professional to ensure universal access to education,
accelerate learning recovery and promote lifelong learning.

26\. We found digital technology becomes the key for recovery and
empowerment across various sectors, including in building a resilient
and sustainable food system and agriculture, creating sustainable and
decent jobs and human capacity development, supporting inclusive trade,
industrialization and investment, increasing productivity, as well as
opening up the potential of the future economy, especially for Micro,
Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and start-ups. It is essential to
ensure that no one is left behind in our effort to digitally transform
our society, by involving all stakeholders, including the youth, women,
business sector, audit institution, parliaments, scientists, and
labours.

27\. We support continued implementation of the G20 Roadmap for
Enhancing Cross-Border Payments, including the future delivery of the
initial estimates for key performance indicators and 2022 Progress
Report that sets out priorities for the next stage of work. We encourage
central banks, other public authorities and the payments industry to
continue to work collaboratively on these important initiatives to
enhance cross-border payments. We welcome the report by the Bank for
International Settlements (BIS) Committee on Payments and Market
Infrastructures (CPMI) on interlinking payment systems and the role of
Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) that was presented in a joint
workshop by the Indonesian G20 Presidency in coordination with the BIS
CPMI and the BIS Innovation Hub (BISIH) on cross-border payments and
interoperability at the Festival Ekonomi Keuangan Digital Indonesia
(FEKDI) 2022. We also welcome the joint report by the BIS CPMI, BISIH,
IMF, and World Bank on options for access to and interoperability of
Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDCs) for cross-border payments.

28\. We endorse the G20 Financial Inclusion Framework on Harnessing
Digitalization to Increase Productivity and Foster a Sustainable and
Inclusive Economy for Women, Youth and MSMEs or Yogyakarta Financial
Inclusion Framework guided by the G20 2020 Financial Inclusion Action
Plan. To address digitalization and sustainable finance developments,
and support financial inclusion and well-being, we endorse the updated
G20/OECD High-Level Principles on Financial Consumer Protection and
welcome the updated G20/OECD High-Level Principles on SME Financing.

29\. To support our collective ambition to recover together, recover
stronger, we commit to well-calibrated, well-planned, and
well-communicated policies to support sustainable recovery, with due
consideration to country-specific circumstances. We commit to mitigate
scarring effects to support strong, sustainable, balanced and inclusive
growth. We will stay agile and flexible in our fiscal policy response,
standing ready to adjust to the changing circumstances as needed.
Temporary and targeted measures to help sustain the purchasing power of
the most vulnerable and cushion the impact of commodity price increases,
including energy and food prices, should be well designed to avoid
adding to high inflationary pressures. We will continue to enhance macro
policy cooperation, preserve financial stability and long-term fiscal
sustainability, and safeguard against downside risks and negative
spillovers. Macroprudential policies need to remain vigilant to guard
against rising systemic risks as financial conditions tighten.
Recognizing that many currencies have moved significantly this year with
increased volatility, we reaffirm the commitments made on exchange rates
by our Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors in April 2021. We
also reiterate the importance of global cooperation and express our
appreciation to the Indonesian G20 Presidency for its efforts to
maintain an effective system of multilateralism through the G20.

30\. G20 central banks are strongly committed to achieving price
stability, in line with their respective mandates. To that end, they are
closely monitoring the impact of price pressures on inflation
expectations and will continue to appropriately calibrate the pace of
monetary policy tightening in a data-dependent and clearly communicated
manner, ensuring that inflation expectations remain well anchored, while
being mindful to safeguard the recovery and limit cross-country
spillovers. Central bank independence is crucial to achieving these
goals and buttressing monetary policy credibility.

31\. We are committed to the swift implementation of the OECD/G20
two-pillar international tax package. We welcome the progress on Pillar
One. We also welcome progress on Pillar Two Global Anti-Base Erosion
(GloBE) Model Rules, which pave the way for consistent implementation at
a global level as a common approach, and we look forward to the
completion of the GloBE Implementation Framework. We call on the
OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS)
to finalize Pillar One, including remaining issues and by signing the
Multilateral Convention in the first half of 2023, and to complete the
negotiations of the Subject to Tax Rule (STTR) under Pillar Two that
would allow the development of a Multilateral Instrument for its
implementation. We will work to strengthen the tax and development
agenda in light of the July 2022 G20 Ministerial Symposium on Tax and
Development, and we note the G20/OECD Roadmap on Developing Countries
and International Tax. We support the progress made on implementing
internationally agreed tax transparency standards, including regional
efforts and welcome the signing of the Asia Initiative Bali Declaration
in July 2022. We also welcome the Crypto-Asset Reporting Framework and
the amendments to the Common Reporting Standard, both of which we
consider to be integral additions to the global standards for automatic
exchange of information. We call on the OECD to conclude the work on
implementation packages, including possible timelines, and invite the
Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax
Purposes to build on its commitment and monitoring processes to ensure
widespread implementation of both packages by relevant jurisdictions.

32\. We reaffirm our commitment to strengthening the long-term financial
resilience of the international financial architecture, including by
promoting sustainable capital flows, and developing local currency
capital markets. We welcome the IMF’s revised Institutional View on
Liberalization and Management of Capital Flows and look forward to
continued discussions with international organizations on the coherent
implementation of international frameworks for the use of capital flow
management measures, while being mindful of their original purpose. We
look forward to further progress by the IMF in operationalizing the
Integrated Policy Framework and welcome the report by the Bank for
International Settlements (BIS) on Macro-financial stability frameworks.
We welcome continued exploration of how CBDCs could potentially be
designed to facilitate cross-border payments, while preserving the
stability and integrity of the international monetary and financial
system. We welcome the successful completion of the G20 TechSprint 2022,
a joint initiative with the BISIH, which has contributed to the debate
on the most practical and feasible solutions to implement CBDCs. We
reiterate our commitment to maintaining a strong and effective Global
Financial Safety Net with a strong, quota-based and adequately resourced
IMF at its center. We remain committed to revisiting the adequacy of
quotas and will continue the process of IMF governance reform under the
16th General Review of Quotas, including a new quota formula as a guide,
by 15 December 2023. We take note on the continuation of discussion of
the IMF surcharge policy.

33. <sup>1 </sup>We are committed to support all vulnerable countries to
recover together, recover stronger. We welcome pledges amounting to USD
81.6 billion through the voluntary channelling of Special Drawing Rights
(SDRs) or equivalent contributions, and call for further pledges from
all willing and able countries to meet the total global ambition of USD
100 billion of voluntary contributions for countries most in need. We
welcome the operationalization of the Resilience and Sustainability
Trust (RST) to help eligible low-income countries, small states and
vulnerable middle-income countries address longer-term structural
challenges that pose macroeconomic risks, including those stemming from
pandemics and climate change. We welcome the voluntary contributions to
the RST and call for additional pledges and timely contributions to it
and to the Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust (PRGT), especially for
subsidy resources, to ensure a broad pool of contributors to meet
funding needs. We are open to explore viable options for countries to
voluntarily channel SDRs through Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs),
while respecting national legal frameworks and the need to preserve the
reserve assets status of SDRs. We will explore ways, including through
balance sheet optimization measures, and other potential avenues, to
maximize MDBs’ development impact. We welcome early deliberations and
urge MDBs to continue to discuss options for implementing the
recommendations of the G20 Independent Review of MDBs’ Capital Adequacy
Frameworks within their own governance frameworks, and to deliver an
update in Spring 2023. This will inform the ongoing development of a
roadmap for the implementation of the recommendations, while
safeguarding MDBs’ long-term financial sustainability, robust credit
ratings and preferred creditor status. We acknowledge the concluding
report on the 2020 Shareholding Review of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and look forward to the 2025
Shareholding Review. At this challenging juncture, we reiterate our
commitment to step up our efforts to implement the Common Framework for
Debt Treatment beyond the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) in a
predictable, timely, orderly and coordinated manner. We welcome progress
in this regard, including the provision of financing assurances for
Zambia. We welcome the conclusion of the debt treatment to Chad and
encourage the timely conclusion of the debt treatment for Zambia by
early 2023. We also encourage the conclusion of the debt treatment for
Ethiopia under an IMF-supported program. We are concerned about the
deteriorating debt situation in some vulnerable middle income countries.
This could be addressed by multilateral coordination that involves all
official and private bilateral creditors to take swift action to respond
to their requests for debt treatments. We stress the importance for
private creditors and other official bilateral creditors to commit to
providing debt treatments on terms at least as favourable to ensure fair
burden sharing in line with the comparability of treatment principle. We
reaffirm the importance of joint efforts by all actors, including
private creditors, to continue working toward enhancing debt
transparency. We welcome the efforts of private sector lenders who have
already contributed data to the joint Institute of International Finance
(IIF)/OECD Data Repository Portal, and continue to encourage others to
also contribute on a voluntary basis.

34\. In the face of a more challenging global economic and financial
outlook, we underline the need to reinforce global financial system
resilience and ask the Financial Stability Board (FSB) and IMF to
continue their monitoring efforts. We commit to sustaining global
financial stability, including through continued coordination of policy
measures and implementation of international standards. We welcome the
FSB’s final report on financial sector exit strategies and scarring
effects of COVID-19 and its conclusions regarding financial stability
issues by the end of 2022. We strongly support global policy actions to
increase resilience, in particular against cross-border spillovers,
including by addressing the identified structural vulnerabilities in
non-bank financial intermediation (NBFI) from a systemic perspective. To
this end, we welcome the FSB’s NBFI progress report with policy
proposals to address systemic risk in NBFI, including in open-ended
funds. We welcome the report by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision (BCBS), the BIS Committee on Payments and Market
Infrastructures (CPMI), and the International Organization of Securities
Commissions (IOSCO) on the review of margining practices. We support
taking forward the implementation of the FSB updated Roadmap for
addressing climate-related financial risks which complements the G20
Sustainable Finance Roadmap. Globally consistent data are needed in
order to effectively address climate-related financial risks. We look
forward to the finalization of standards by the International
Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) in support of globally consistent,
comparable and reliable climate-related financial disclosures, and its
work beyond climate, and we welcome the efforts to achieve
interoperability across disclosure frameworks. We welcome the FSB
progress report on achieving consistent and comparable climate-related
financial disclosures and the final report on supervisory and regulatory
approaches to climate-related risks. We welcome the report by the FSB
and the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) on
climate-scenario analysis by jurisdictions.

35\. We welcome ongoing work by the FSB and international standard
setters to ensure that the crypto-assets ecosystem, including so-called
stablecoins, is closely monitored and subject to robust regulation,
supervision, and oversight to mitigate potential risks to financial
stability. We welcome the FSB’s proposed approach for establishing a
comprehensive international framework for the regulation of crypto-asset
activities based on the principle of ‘same activity, same risk, same
regulation’. We welcome the FSB consultative report on the review of its
high-level recommendations for the regulation, supervision and oversight
of “global stablecoin” arrangements. We also welcome the FSB
consultation report on promoting international consistency of regulatory
and supervisory approaches to crypto-assets activities and markets. It
is critical to build public awareness of risks, to strengthen regulatory
outcomes and to support a level playing field, while harnessing the
benefits of innovation. We welcome the final guidance by the BIS CPMI
and IOSCO which confirms that the Principles for Financial Market
Infrastructures apply to systematically important stablecoin
arrangements. We welcome the FSB consultative report on achieving
greater convergence in cyber incidents reporting, and look forward to
the final report. We welcome the results of the second phase of the Data
Gaps Initiative (DGI-2) and will continue to work with partners in
addressing the identified remaining challenges. We welcome the workplan
on the new Data Gaps Initiative (DGI) prepared by the IMF, FSB and the
Inter-Agency Group on Economic and Financial Statistics (IAG) in
collaboration with participating members. We ask the IMF, the FSB and
the IAG to begin work on filling these data gaps and report back on
progress in the second half of 2023, noting that the targets are
ambitious and delivery will need to take into account national
statistical capacities, priorities, and country circumstances as well as
avoiding overlap and duplication at international level. We welcome the
progress of work on the review of the G20/OECD Principles of Corporate
Governance, including the second report and the ongoing public
consultation, and look forward to further updates on the review.

36\. We reaffirm that the rules-based, non-discriminatory, free, fair,
open, inclusive, equitable, sustainable and transparent multilateral
trading system (MTS), with the WTO at its core, is indispensable to
advancing our shared objectives of inclusive growth, innovation, job
creation and sustainable development in an open and interconnected world
as well as to supporting the resilience and recovery of a global economy
under strain due to COVID-19 and global supply chain disruption. We
agree that reforming the WTO is key in strengthening trust in the MTS.
We will continue to ensure a level playing field and fair competition to
foster a favourable trade and investment environment for all. We note
the importance of the contribution of the MTS to promote the UN 2030
Agenda and its SDGs. Commending the successful conclusion of the 12th
WTO Ministerial Conference (MC12), we commit to seize and advance the
positive momentum by engaging in active, constructive, pragmatic, and
focused discussions on WTO reform to improve all its functions,
including reform of the dispute settlement mechanism, on the path
leading to the MC13.

37\. We are committed to reinforce international trade and investment
cooperation to address supply chain issues and avoid trade disruptions.
We believe that trade and climate/environmental policies should be
mutually supportive and WTO consistent and contribute to the objectives
of sustainable development. We also recognise the importance of
inclusive international cooperation on digital trade. We recognize the
need to promote value addition through sustainable and inclusive
investment in highly productive sectors such as downstream
manufacturing, digital trade, and services, and to foster linkages
between foreign investors and local enterprises particularly MSMEs. We
note the initiative from the Indonesian Presidency to hold discussions
on policy coherence between trade, investment and industry, and to
continue addressing industry-related issues in the broader G20 process,
as appropriate.

38\. We recognize the importance of revitalizing infrastructure
investment in a sustainable, inclusive, accessible, and affordable way.
We endorse the voluntary and non-binding G20/GI Hub Framework on How to
Best Leverage Private Sector Participation to Scale Up Sustainable
Infrastructure Investment which will consider country circumstances, and
which will complement investment from other sources, including public
investment and finance provided by MDBs. We note the Outcome Document
from the 2022 G20 Infrastructure Investors Dialogue. To enhance social
inclusion and address subnational disparities, we endorse the G20-OECD
Policy Toolkit on Mobilizing Funding and Financing for Inclusive and
Quality Infrastructure Investment in Regions and Cities, prepared with
the support of the Asian Development Bank (ADB). We note the Preliminary
Findings Report on Gender Inclusive Approaches in Private Participation
in Infrastructure in promoting gender considerations during the
infrastructure lifecycle and look forward to the final report. We
endorse the InfraTracker 2.0 which will enable both the public and
private sectors towards transformative infrastructure investment
post-COVID-19, by providing insights into long-term infrastructure
strategies and plans. To narrow the digital divide, we endorse the G20
Compendium of Case Studies on Digital Infrastructure Finance: Issues,
Practices and Innovations. We endorse the Quality Infrastructure
Investment (QII) Indicators and associated guidance note, developed for
the G20, which are voluntary and non-binding and consider country
circumstances, and we look forward to further discussions on how the QII
indicators can be applied. We welcome progress made towards developing a
possible new governance model for the Global Infrastructure Hub (GI Hub)
and ask that principles to guide the process be finalized as soon as
possible.

39\. The rise of automation and digital technologies are reshaping the
world of work, presenting both opportunities and challenges. Adding to
the situation, the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated pre-existing
inequalities in many countries and continues to disproportionately
affect women, youth, older workers, persons with disabilities and
migrant workers. We underline that it remains our utmost priority to
mitigate the adverse impact of the current trends on the labour market,
reduce inequalities while responding effectively to the opportunities
that automation and digital technologies present and promote gender
equality. We remain committed to the promotion of decent work and the
elimination of child and forced labour.

40\. We reaffirm our commitment to support the full inclusion of
migrants, including migrant workers, refugees, in our recovery efforts,
in the spirit of international cooperation and in line with national
policies, legislation, and circumstances, ensuring full respect for
their human rights and fundamental freedoms regardless of their
migration status. We also recognize the importance of preventing
irregular migration flows and the smuggling of migrants, as part of a
comprehensive approach for safe, orderly and regular migration, while
responding to humanitarian needs and the root causes of displacement. We
support strengthening cooperation between countries of origin, transit,
and destination. We will continue the dialogue on migration and forced
displacement in future Presidencies.

41\. We remain committed to a human-centred, inclusive, fair,
sustainable approach that leads to greater social justice, decent work,
and social protection for all. We will continue our work to integrate
persons with disabilities, women, and youth across sectors and levels in
pursuit of an inclusive labour market. We are resolved to promote
sustainable development of human capacity, labour markets, and
productivity, including through community-based vocational education and
training, to advance job creation through entrepreneurship, to empower
MSMEs, and to accelerate our efforts to foster and adapt labour
protection for all workers, including those in the informal sector. We
will maximize our approach to skills development to respond effectively
to the needs of the labour market, with the involvement of social
partners. We will accelerate progress towards the Antalya Youth Goal, as
well as universal social protection for all by 2030.

42\. We are deeply concerned that multidimensional crises, including the
COVID-19 pandemic, as well as lack of fiscal space and unequal access to
finance and technology, are posing significant challenges towards
realizing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Addis
Ababa Action Agenda in a timely manner. We will demonstrate leadership
and take collective actions to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development and accelerate the achievement of the SDGs by 2030 and
address developmental challenges by reinvigorating a more inclusive
multilateralism and reform aimed at implementing the 2030 Agenda.

43\. In this regard, we will strengthen inclusive and sustainable
recovery and build resilience in all developing countries, including
SIDS in the Pacific and Caribbean and LDCs, through ambitious and
concrete actions. We also reiterate our continued support to Africa,
including through the G20 Compact with Africa and the G20 Initiative on
Supporting Industrialization in Africa and LDCs. We will focus on MSMEs,
adaptive social protection, green economy and blue economy. We recognise
the need for partnership to promote mutually beneficial technology
cooperation and share good practice, as well as the need for inclusive
and quality infrastructure investment for stronger recovery and
resilience. We underscore the need to address the financing gap towards
implementation of the 2030 Agenda, through enhancing innovative
financing mechanisms, including blended finance, while noting the
importance of transparency and mutual accountability. We take note of
initiatives such as the Coalition for Disaster Resilience Infrastructure
and the Global Blended Finance Alliance, and welcome the Global Platform
for Disaster Risk Reduction. We look forward to the success of the SDGs
Summit in 2023.

44\. Access to education is a human right and a pivotal tool for
inclusive and sustainable economic recovery. We welcome the outcome of
the Transforming Education Summit. We will act in solidarity in
particular with developing countries to rebuild more resilient,
tech-enabled, accessible, and effective education systems. We will
empower relevant actors within and beyond G20 to remove barriers to
education, improve teaching and learning environments, and support
transitions within and across all stages of education, with emphasis on
women and girls. We also underscore the importance of learners’
well-being in their preparation for work and meaningful participation
and contribution to more equitable, inclusive and sustainable society.
We reaffirm the importance of Education for Sustainable Development
(ESD) and our commitment to SDG4 to ensure inclusive and equitable
quality education and training. We are committed to promoting lifelong
learning at all levels amidst the changing nature of work and encourage
partnership in this regard.

45\. We acknowledge the importance of research and innovation in
sustainable resource utilization in various sectors, especially in the
midst of health, climate, food and energy crises. We welcome research
and innovation collaboration for the conservation of biodiversity and
its use to support the sustainable development including green and blue
economy. We also promote inclusive collaborations to further research
and innovation, as well as promoting researchers’ international
mobility.

46\. As women and girls continue to be disproportionately affected by
the COVID-19 pandemic and other crises, we reaffirm our commitment to
put gender equality and women’s empowerment at the core of our efforts
for an inclusive recovery and sustainable development. We commit to
implement the G20 Roadmap Towards and Beyond the Brisbane Goal foster
financial inclusion and access to digital technologies, including to
address the unequal distribution in paid and unpaid care and domestic
work, with a focus on closing the gender pay gap. We commit to the
elimination of gender-based violence, the enhancement of social, health,
care and educational services, and the overcoming of gender stereotypes.
We will continue to advance women’s and girls’ equal access to inclusive
and quality education, including participations in STEM education, women
entrepreneurship through MSMEs, and women’s and girls’ access in
leadership positions. We will promote quality of life for women in rural
areas and women with disabilities. We welcome the work that has been
done by the EMPOWER Alliance and its engagement with the G20, and
support the future convening of G20 Ministerial Conference on Women’s
Empowerment.

47\. We reaffirm the important role of tourism for global recovery, and
the community-based approach for rebuilding a more human-centred,
inclusive, sustainable, and resilient tourism sector. We acknowledge the
vital importance of strengthening safe international mobility and
connectivity and seamless post-Covid travel to enable tourism recovery.
We further recognize that creative economy, which involve
knowledge-based economy, human creativity, and intellectual property
rights, contributes to improving the resiliency of tourism local
communities and MSMEs through human capital development, digital
transformation, innovation, public-private partnerships, sustainable
preservation of natural and cultural heritage, and innovative financing
while retaining their significant commercial and cultural values.

48\. We reaffirm the role of culture as an enabler and driver for
sustainable development with intrinsic value beyond its social and
economic benefits. We are committed to develop policies that draw on
cultural diversity as a resource for sustainable living and promote an
inclusive and equitable ecosystem at all levels that values the
contribution of those working in the culture, arts and heritage sectors.
We will respect, protect and preserve the cultural heritage of our
peoples, including local communities and indigenous peoples, as
applicable. We support public incentives and sustainable investments
from the private sector to strengthen the cultural economy. We will
safeguard cultural heritage as well as fighting illicit trafficking of
cultural property and promoting restitution to its rightful
owner/countries of origin, in accordance with the relevant UNESCO
Conventions and national laws.

49\. We will continue to lead by example through strengthening and
implementing our obligations and commitments to anti-corruption efforts
including through legally binding instruments, while renewing our
commitment to zero tolerance for corruption. We emphasize the importance
of transparency and accountability for both public and private sector as
a crucial part of a collective recovery effort. We underscore the
important role of auditing as well as public participation and
anti-corruption education in preventing and tackling any form of
corruption. We recall our commitments and call on all countries to
criminalise bribery, including bribery of foreign public officials, and
effectively prevent, combat, detect, investigate, prosecute and sanction
bribery. We will further work to strengthen international cooperation
and legal frameworks to combat economic crimes including corruption
related to organized crime and money laundering, including, on a
voluntary basis, through existing networks and initiatives such as GlobE
and the G20 Denial of Entry Experts Network. We will share information
on our actions towards criminalising foreign bribery and enforcing
foreign bribery legislation in line with Article 16 of UNCAC, and look
forward to enlarging participation to the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention,
as appropriate. We reaffirm our commitment to deny safe haven to
corruption offenders and their assets, in accordance to domestic laws.
We also recognize the importance of mitigating corruption risk in all
sectors. We will further strengthen our engagement with and promote
active participation by stakeholders such as academia, civil society,
media and the private sector, including to advance a culture of
integrity.

50\. We recognize the need for the international community to step up
their efforts to effectively combat money laundering, terrorism
financing, and proliferation financing. We reaffirm our commitment to
delivering the strategic priorities of the Financial Action Task Force
(FATF) and its FATF Style Regional Bodies (FSRBs) to lead global action
to respond to these threats. We welcome the initiative by the FATF to
promote implementation of international standards on virtual assets, in
particular the “travel rule”, and transparency of beneficial ownership,
and acknowledge their role in the fight against systemic corruption and
environmental crimes, which gravely impact economies and societies. We
support the ongoing work of the FATF to enhance global efforts to seize
criminal proceeds and return funds to victims and states in line with
domestic frameworks. We encourage all G20 members to strengthen
collaboration to adopt and effectively implement the FATF standards.

51\. We welcome the Indonesian Presidency’s efforts to compile a wide
array of national submissions and international coordinated
collaborations from G20 members, invited countries, and regional and
international organizations. These have been presented in the “G20
Action for Strong and Inclusive Recovery”, as annexed. We call for
further concrete actions to impart greater momentum and impact to the
efforts of international community to recover together and recover
stronger.

52\. We welcome the outcomes of various G20 working groups and
Ministerial meetings. We appreciate and thank Indonesia for its
Presidency and for successfully hosting the Bali G20 Leaders’ Summit and
for its contribution to the G20 process. We look forward to meeting
again in India in 2023, in Brazil in 2024 and in South Africa in 2025.

We thank international organizations, including the UN and its
Specialised Agencies, World Bank Group, IMF, OECD, Asian Development
Bank, ERIA, CEPI, European Investment Bank, GGGI, ICAO, IEA, IEF, IFAD,
ILO, IRENA, FAO, FSB, Gavi, Global Fund, IAEA, Islamic Development Bank,
ITU, Medicine Patent Pool, Sustainable Energy for All (SEforAll), OPEC,
WEF, WFP, WHO, WTO, UNCCD, UNCTAD, UNDESA, UNDP, UNECE, UNESCAP, UNESCO,
UNFCCC, UN Global Pulse, UN Habitat, UNICEF, UNIDO, UNOPS, UN Women,
UNWTO and the G20 Engagement Groups (W20, L20, T20, S20, Y20, SAI20,
P20, C20, B20, U20) for their valuable inputs and policy
recommendations.

—–  
<sup>1 </sup>Noting that one member has divergent views on debt issues
in paragraph 33, and emphasized the importance of debt treatment by
multilateral creditors like MDBs.  

\###
