---
date: '2022-11-08'
modified_time: 2022-11-08 00:31:41-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-08 05:01:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/08/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-announces-roadmap-for-nature-based-solutions-to-fight-climate-change-strengthen-communities-and-support-local-economies/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Roadmap for Nature-Based\
  \ Solutions to Fight Climate Change, Strengthen Communities, and Support Local\_\
  Economies"
---
 
*New actions and recommendations announced at COP27 will make
nature-based solutions a go-to option for fighting climate change and
boost progress towards U.S. climate goals*

Today at COP27 in Egypt, the Biden-Harris Administration is releasing
the Nature-Based Solutions Roadmap, an outline of strategic
recommendations to put America on a path that will unlock the full
potential of nature-based solutions to address climate change, nature
loss, and inequity. This marks the first time the U.S. has developed a
strategy to scale up nature-based solutions.

To demonstrate how the U.S. is already taking action, the Administration
is also announcing new and recent interagency commitments aligned with
the roadmap including: agency actions to ensure over $25 billion in
infrastructure and climate funding can support nature-based solutions; a
new guide for bringing the power of nature to maximize the value and
resilience of military bases; and a new technical working group to
better account for nature-based options in benefit cost analysis – a
powerful tool for federal decisions.

Nature-based solutions are actions to protect, sustainably manage, or
restore natural or modified ecosystems as solutions to societal
challenges, like fighting climate change. Examples include protection or
conservation of natural areas, reforestation, restoration of marshes or
other habitats, or sustainable management of farms, fisheries, or
forests. These actions can increase resilience to threats like flooding
and extreme heat, and can slow climate change by capturing and storing
carbon dioxide. Nature-based solutions play a critical role in the
economy, national security, human health, equity, and the fight against
climate change.

John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy
Innovation and Implementation, and chair of President Biden’s National
Climate Task Force, unveiled the roadmap at the opening of the U.S.
Center at United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change’s
Conference of the Parties (COP27). Mr. Podesta encouraged other nations
to join the U.S. by taking bold action to invest in nature and its many
benefits.  

On Earth Day 2022, President Biden issued Executive Order 14072, which
recognizes the importance of forests and other nature-based solutions to
tackle the climate crisis and strengthen communities and local
economies. In the Executive Order, President Biden directed the Council
on Environmental Quality, the Office of Science and Technology Policy,
and the National Climate Advisor, in consultation with agencies, to
identify key opportunities for greater deployment of nature-based
solutions across the Federal government. The Roadmap submitted to the
National Climate Task Force today calls on expanding the use of
nature-based solutions and outlines five strategic areas of focus for
the federal government: (1) updating policies, (2) unlocking funding,
(3) leading with federal facilities and assets, (4) training the
nature-based solutions workforce, and (5) prioritizing research,
innovation, knowledge, and adaptive learning that will advance
nature-based solutions.

This work builds on President Biden’s climate leadership. The
Administration is already advancing nature-based solutions in support of
the President’s commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 50-52%
below 2005 levels in 2030, to conserve at least 30% of U.S. lands and
waters by 2030, and to increase community resilience to extreme weather
and other climate impacts. The new [Nature Based Solutions
Roadmap](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Nature-Based-Solutions-Roadmap.pdf)
will help the Administration seize additional opportunities; key
recommendations and related new and recent agency commitments are below.

The Biden-Harris Administration also released a companion resource guide
with examples of nature-based climate solutions and over 150 resources
to spur action. The Nature-Based Solutions Resource Guide: Compendium of
Federal Examples, Guidance, Resource Documents, Tools and Technical
Assistance is available
[here](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Nature-Based-Solutions-Resource-Guide-2022.pdf).
 

**<u>NATURE-BASED SOLUTIONS ROADMAP: FIVE STRATEGIC AREAS FOR
ACTION</u>**  
  
1. *Update Policies to Accelerate Nature-Based Solutions*

The roadmap recommends that agencies update federal policies and
guidance, making it easier to consider and adopt nature-based solutions.
Major areas for advancement include policies and guidance for federal
planning, permitting, cost-sharing, risk management, and benefit cost
analysis. Aligned Administration actions include:

-   **Guidance on valuing nature:** Current federal policies and
    guidance on accounting and analysis can under-value nature-based
    solutions. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is reviewing
    central guidance on benefit cost analysis (Circulars A-4 and A-94)
    to help federal agencies more fully account for the value of nature
    in regulatory and funding decisions. Today, the White House is
    standing up a new technical working group on Frontiers of Benefit
    Cost Analysis to support agencies in benefit cost analysis for
    nature-based solutions and other analysis needs. This is coupled
    with the developing [National Strategy for a system of natural
    capital
    accounts](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/briefing-room/2022/08/18/A-New-National-Strategy-to-Reflect-Natural-Assets-on-Americas-Balance-Sheet/),
    which will place nature on the nation’s balance sheet and allow
    regular tracking of the economic benefits that investments in
    nature-based solutions provide.
-   **Nature-based solutions in floodplain management:** The Federal
    Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is revising its floodplain
    management requirements to require consideration of nature-based
    solutions as alternatives for all projects that have the potential
    to affect floodplains or wetlands. This action is in response to
    Executive Order 13690, which established the Federal Flood Risk
    Management Standard that requires federal agencies to amend their
    floodplain policies to consider the use of nature-based solutions.
    [Interim program
    policies](https://www.fema.gov/sites/default/files/documents/fema_fp-104-22-0003-partial-implemetnation-ffrms-pa-interim.pdf)
    are underway.  
      
    2. *Unlock Funding for Nature-Based Solutions*

Federal funding for domestic and international projects can provide a
strong lever to increase deployment of nature-based solutions. The
roadmap recommends that Federal agencies do more to prioritize
nature-based solutions in funding decisions; increase and ease access to
this funding; and catalyze private investment. Actions by the
Administration to unlock funding include:

-   **Supporting nature-based solutions in hazard mitigation:** FEMA’s
    Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) grant
    program already prioritizes nature-based solutions in its project
    scoring criteria. Last month, FEMA announced a new effort that will
    reduce the burden of applying for BRIC funding for disadvantaged
    communities, and that may make it easier for projects with
    nature-based solutions to access funding. This effort reduced the
    discount rate from 7% to 3% for these communities on some projects
    in FY 2022.
-   **Combining solar energy and nature-based solutions:** The
    Department of Energy Solar Energy Technology Office (SETO) is
    investing in combined development of ground mounted solar systems
    and pollinator habitat. In fiscal year 2022, SETO selected projects
    [worth $14 million for Deploying Solar with Wildlife and Ecosystem
    Services
    Benefits](https://usdoe.sharepoint.com/sites/PoliticalAppointees/Shared%20Documents/S4/Earthshots%20and%20Crosscuts/SETT%20Collaboration%20Materials_Shared%20Folder/CDR%20SETT%20Collaboration%20Folder/$14%20million%20for%20Deploying%20Solar%20with%20Wildlife%20and%20Ecosystem%20Services%20Benefits),
    developing innovative strategies that maximize benefits and minimize
    impacts to wildlife and ecosystems from solar energy
    infrastructure.  
      
    3. *Lead with Federal Facilities and Assets*

The roadmap recommends that federal agencies expand their use of
nature-based solutions in the design, retrofitting, and management of
federal facilities and embed these solutions in management of natural
assets through improved planning, co-management, and co-stewardship.
Given the scale of federal assets, expanding deployment of nature-based
solutions would have direct climate and conservation benefits and send a
strong signal to others. Administration actions include:

-   **Guide on nature-based solutions for military installations:** The
    Department of Defense is developing a guide on nature-based
    solutions for Military Installation natural resources management
    planning. The guide will provide military installation planners and
    managers with current and actionable information on the appropriate
    use of nature-based solutions; the current state of science and
    observed performance reliability; and other considerations regarding
    design, cost and benefits, implementation, and operations and
    maintenance. Preliminary guidance will be published in March 2023,
    with the full technical guide expected by March 2024.
-   **Nature-based solutions for energy, the economy and national
    security:** In October, 2022, the Department of Energy launched
    [Sustainable Climate-Ready
    Sites](https://www.energy.gov/ehss/sustainable-climate-ready-sites)
    (SCRS), a site performance rating system. The program challenges DOE
    sites to apply innovative nature-based solutions as they manage 2.4
    million acres of land and carry out their missions. SCRS performance
    criteria include environmental justice and cultural resource
    protection, emphasizing collaboration and engagement with
    communities and Tribal nations. Annual leadership awards will be
    given to personnel at participating sites that achieve top SCRS
    category scores.  
      
    4. *Train the Nature-Based Solutions Workforc*e

We need a diverse, equitable workforce skilled in building nature-based
solutions. To reach this goal, the roadmap recommends that agencies
expand educational and workforce training offerings related to
nature-based solutions to support good jobs in federal agencies and the
private sector. These needs apply across a wide range of skills
including engineering, law, finance, ecology, accounting, economics,
community planning and maintenance for nature-based solutions.
Administration actions include:

-   **Growing awareness of how nature-based solutions benefit
    households:** The Department of the Treasury’s Financial Literacy
    Education Commission (FLEC) is producing a series of reports
    entitled *How Climate Challenges American Household Finances*. One
    report in the series will address housing, and FLEC will include
    ways that nature-based solutions can provide benefits to households
    through housing and landscaping options. The report will be released
    in 2023.  
      
    5. *Prioritize Research, Innovation, Knowledge, and Adaptive
    Learning*

As the world changes, we must continually innovate and fill gaps in our
understanding. The roadmap recommends that federal agencies advance
research and innovation in all sectors to fully reveal the scale of the
opportunity that nature-based solutions provide, and incentivize
continual learning about how and where nature-based solutions work best.
Administration actions include:

-   **Synthesizing what we know about nature-based solutions
    effectiveness:** Nature-based solutions have been evaluated in
    different ways by different experts and sectors, making it difficult
    to see the big picture of what we now about where and how these
    solutions provide benefits. Today, the U.S. Global Change Research
    Program (USGCRP) is announcing a study to synthesize this
    multi-disciplinary evidence base, and evaluate the effectiveness of
    nature-based solutions for climate mitigation, adaptation and other
    benefits. An initial database of evaluations will be made public in
    2023 and the analysis will be available by 2024.
-   **National summit on measuring nature-based solutions:** The USACE
    will host a [National Summit on Measuring What
    Matters](https://ewn.erdc.dren.mil/?p=7841) at the National
    Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine in Washington D.C.
    on November 30, 2022. At the public Summit, the USACE Engineering
    with Nature Program will share the results of a two-year project
    focused on approaches for advancing comprehensive benefit evaluation
    for nature-based solutions and other projects. 

**<u>BUILDING ON THE BIPARTISAN INFRASTRUCTURE LAW AND INFLATION
REDUCTION ACT</u>**  
The roadmap and aligned actions build on major investments made through
President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction
Act. These laws made unprecedented investments in nature-based
solutions, placing forests, agricultural lands and coastal wetlands
front and center in the climate fight. For example, $20 billion is
directed to farmers, ranchers, and private forest owners working to
increase carbon storage and reduce emissions. Another $5 billion is for
forest management actions that can reduce wildfire risk, store carbon,
and cool communities. These laws also weave nature into infrastructure
investments. Over $8.7 billion will build climate resilience into
transportation systems from the ground up. Another $8.6 billion will
restore and conserve coastal habitats, investments that will buffer
communities from storms and boost local economies. Several agencies are
 acting to leverage recent laws and appropriations towards nature-based
solutions, including:

-   **Increasing carbon stored in wetlands and grasslands**: The
    Inflation Reduction Act provides additional funding for the U.S.
    Department of Agriculture, Natural Resource Conservation Service
    (NRCS) conservation programs, including the Agricultural
    Conservation Easement Program (ACEP). In FY23, this funding will be
    targeted to improve climate and environmental outcomes. The programs
    will prioritize conservation and restoration of carbon rich wetlands
    and conservation of grasslands that are at risk of losing carbon and
    habitat through conversion to more intensive agriculture.
-   **Promote resilient housing:** The Department of Housing and Urban
    Development (HUD), through the new Green Resilient Retrofit Program,
    is administering $837.5 million in grant funds and $4 billion in
    loan authority provided through the Inflation Reduction Act. This
    program provides grants that include nature-based solutions to
    improve energy efficiency, water efficiency, and climate resilience.
    HUD will ensure the program promotes nature-based solutions as
    effective investments to improve a properties’ climate resilience.
    HUD will encourage owners to implement the nature-based solution
    recommendations, where appropriate and feasible. Additional
    technical assistance will be offered with this program to aid
    communities in exploring nature-based solutions.
-   **Protecting watersheds and communities with nature-based
    solutions:** The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law includes more than
    $23 billion in supplemental funds to EPA’s Clean Water and Drinking
    Water State Revolving Funds and nearly $1.9 billion to EPA’s
    place-base Geographic, National Estuary and Gulf Hypoxia programs.
    In its March 2022 Bipartisan Infrastructure Law [SRF Implementation
    Memo](https://www.epa.gov/dwsrf/bipartisan-infrastructure-law-srf-memorandum),
    EPA emphasized the importance and eligibility of nature-based
    infrastructure, and encouraged states and communities to make full
    use of the SRF Green Project Reserve, which supports nature-based
    solutions and other environmentally innovative activities. EPA’s
    implementation of its [National
    Estuary](https://www.epa.gov/nep/national-estuary-program-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-implementation-memo),
    Geographic, and [Gulf Hypoxia
    programs](https://www.epa.gov/ms-htf/gulf-hypoxia-program) also
    prioritizes use of nature-based solutions, where applicable, to
    restore coastal and riparian ecosystems and protect the communities
    that depend on them.
-   **Coordinating access to funds that reduce floods and benefit
    wildlife**: The White House Infrastructure Implementation Task Force
    is advancing an effort to simplify access to new Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law funds that aim to reduce the risk of flooding,
    improve habitat connectivity for fish and wildlife, and improve
    public safety. The Department of the Interior’s Fish and Wildlife
    Service, Department of Transportation, U.S. Department of
    Agriculture, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
    (NOAA) are coordinating to facilitate access to these opportunities
    and ensure efficient use of federal funds.
-   **Advancing Coastal Resilience with Natural Infrastructure
    Projects:** Through its Climate Ready Coasts Initiative, the
    Department of Commerce’s NOAA is helping coastal communities by
    investing in high-impact natural infrastructure projects that build
    economic and environmental resilience, create jobs, store carbon and
    restore habitat. The $1.5 billion in Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    funds will be supplemented by future Inflation Reduction Act funding
    opportunities.

**<u>DRIVING GLOBAL ACTION</u>**  
President Biden is committed to unlocking the full potential of
nature-based solutions for achieving climate goals and combatting nature
loss, especially for communities that are disproportionately impacted by
climate change and environmental injustices. By announcing this roadmap
and actions at the UNFCCC COP27, we recognize the need for global action
to confront these triple crises and look forward to announcing
additional actions during the upcoming Convention on Biological
Diversity COP15. We invite partners, communities, and other nations to
join the Biden-Harris Administration in taking aggressive action to
advance nature-based solutions as powerful tools that the world needs
now.

\###
