---
date: '2022-11-10'
modified_time: 2022-11-09 23:30:39-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-10 09:01:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-proposes-plan-to-protect-federal-supply-chain-from-climate-related-risks/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Proposes Plan to Protect Federal\
  \ Supply Chain from Climate-Related\_Risks"
---
 
*Proposed rule to improve efficiency and reduce financial risks from
climate change*

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is taking historic action to
address greenhouse gas emissions and protect the Federal Government’s
supply chains from climate-related financial risks. In support of
President Biden’s Executive Orders on [*Climate-Related Financial
Risk*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/20/executive-order-on-climate-related-financial-risk/)
and [*Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal
Sustainability*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/08/executive-order-on-catalyzing-clean-energy-industries-and-jobs-through-federal-sustainability/)*,*
the Administration is proposing the *Federal Supplier Climate Risks and
Resilience Rule*, which would require major Federal contractors to
publicly disclose their greenhouse gas emissions and climate-related
financial risks and set science-based emissions reduction targets.  
  
President Biden is highlighting this proposed action at the
27<sup>th</sup> Conference of the Parties to the U.N. Framework
Convention on Climate Change (COP27) in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt. Through
this action, the United States would become the first national
government to strengthen its supply chain by requiring major suppliers
to set Paris Agreement-aligned emissions reduction goals.  
  
As the world’s single largest buyer of goods and services—purchasing
over $630 billion in the last fiscal year alone—the Federal Government
faces significant financial risks from climate change. Supply chain
disruptions over the past year have impacted every sector, including the
Federal Government and its critical contractors and subcontractors. The
new *Federal Supplier Climate Risks and Resilience Rule* would
strengthen the resilience of vulnerable Federal supply chains, resulting
in greater efficiencies and reduced climate risk.  
  
Today’s proposed action is also an integral part of the President’s
[Federal Sustainability
Plan](https://www.sustainability.gov/federalsustainabilityplan/index.html),
which set a goal to achieve net-zero emissions procurement by 2050. The
*Federal Supplier Climate Risks and Resilience Rule* covers
approximately 85 percent of the emissions associated with the Federal
supply chain, which are estimated to be more than twice as large as the
emissions from operating the Federal Government’s 300,000 buildings and
600,000 vehicles combined.  
  
Managing emissions builds efficiency and effectiveness, and can reduce
costs for Federal suppliers. Since establishing the Federal Government’s
own climate goals, energy use by buildings and vehicles has dropped 32
percent, saving taxpayers $11.8 billion annually. Suppliers understand
that you cannot manage what you don’t measure—tracking emissions and
setting and meeting targets can increase resilience and reduce costs.  
  
The proposed rule is part of the President’s leadership to implement the
first [comprehensive, government-wide
strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/15/fact-sheet-biden-administration-roadmap-to-build-an-economy-resilient-to-climate-change-impacts/)
to measure, disclose, manage, and mitigate the systemic risks that
climate change poses to American families, businesses, and the economy.
In addition to protecting federal supply chains, agencies are taking new
actions to protect [pensions and retirement
plans](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/ebsa/ebsa20211013),
[insurance
availability](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1030),
[household savings and
credit](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0404), [state
and local government
programs](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0627), [our
financial system](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0894),
and [the federal
budget](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2022/04/04/quantifying-risks-to-the-federal-budget-from-climate-change/)
from the financial risks of climate change.  
  
**<u>Federal Supplier Climate Risks and Resilience Rule</u>**  
  
The proposed *Federal Supplier Climate Risks and Resilience Rule*
provides a targeted, risk-based approach by focusing primarily on major
Federal suppliers. Under the proposed rule, the largest suppliers
including Federal contractors receiving more than $50 million in annual
contracts would be required to publicly disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and
relevant categories of Scope 3 emissions, disclose climate-related
financial risks, and set science-based emissions reduction targets.
Federal contractors with more than $7.5 million but less than $50
million in annual contracts would be required to report Scope 1 and
Scope 2 emissions. All Federal contractors with less than $7.5 million
in annual contracts would be exempt from the rule. Small businesses with
over $7.5 million in annual contracts would only be required to report
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions under the proposed rule.  
  
This proposed rule leverages widely-adopted third party standards and
systems that many Federal contractors already use when disclosing their
emissions and setting emissions reduction targets, including the CDP
environmental reporting system, the Task Force on Climate-Related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendations, and the Science Based
Targets Initiative (SBTi) criteria.  
  
Today, more than half of major Federal contractors are already
disclosing climate related information. These Federal contractors are
among the 18,700 companies globally—worth more than half of global
market capitalization—that voluntarily disclose emissions and climate
risk through CDP, including 1,800 small and medium-sized enterprises.
Further, nearly 4,000 companies globally—representing one third of the
global economy’s market capitalization—have voluntarily committed to
setting science-based targets.  
  
The Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council, composed of the Department
of Defense, the General Services Administration, the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, and chaired by the Office of
Federal Procurement Policy in the Office of Management and Budget, is
issuing this proposed rulemaking, which would amend the Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) to implement these changes, if finalized.
The FAR is the primary regulation for use by all executive agencies in
their acquisition of supplies and services with appropriated funds.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration invites public input on this proposed
rulemaking. To learn more about the rulemaking, please visit
<https://www.sustainability.gov/federalsustainabilityplan/fed-supplier-rule.html>

\###
