---
date: '2022-11-01'
modified_time: 2022-11-01 14:22:20-04:00
published_time: 2022-11-01 17:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/01/fact-sheet-the-second-international-counter-ransomware-initiative-summit/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Second International Counter Ransomware Initiative\_Summit"
---
 
The White House brought together 36 countries, and the EU, for the
Second International Counter Ransomware Initiative (CRI) Summit October
31-November 1, 2022. Throughout the Summit, CRI and private sector
partners discussed and developed concrete, cooperative actions to
counter the spread and impact of ransomware around the globe.

Ransomware is a pocketbook issue that impacts thousands of companies and
individuals every year globally. The CRI Summit is a cornerstone of the
Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to disrupt ransomware attacks and
a core part of our international cybersecurity agenda. While the United
States has made concerted efforts under our own national authorities and
capabilities to fight the scourge of ransomware, it is a challenge that
knows no borders. Through this Initiative, the Administration is taking
concrete actions with our international partners to protect our citizens
and businesses from cyber criminals.

Over the past year, the CRI has worked to increase the resilience of all
CRI partners, disrupt cyber criminals, counter illicit finance, build
private sector partnerships, and cooperate globally to address this
challenge. This work was carried out under the auspices of five working
groups: resilience (co-led by Lithuania and India), disruption (led by
Australia), counter illicit finance (led by the UK and Singapore),
public-private partnership (led by Spain), and diplomacy (led by
Germany).

*To further this work in the next year, the CRI will:*

**Establish an International Counter Ransomware Task Force (ICRTF)**,
led by Australia as the ICRTF’s inaugural chair and coordinator, to
coordinate resilience, disruption, and counter illicit finance
activities in alignment with the ICRTF’s thematic pillars. ICRTF members
will commit to contribute to joint work of the coalition through
information and capability sharing, as well as joint action in the
fields of resilience, disruption, and countering illicit finance.

**Create a fusion cell at the Regional Cyber Defense Centre (RCDC)** in
Kaunas, led by Lithuania, to test a scaled version of the ICRTF and
operationalize ransomware related threat information sharing
commitments. The RCDC will publish semiannual public reports on
ransomware trends and mitigation measures. Through this effort, we will
share technical information about ransomware (tools, tactics, and
procedures) with a wide spectrum of stakeholders. Data provided by
participating members will be aggregated and summarized by the RCDC.

**Deliver an** **investigator’s toolkit**, including lessons learned and
strategies for responding to significant ransomware events and
proactively tackling major cybercriminal actors; resources to build
capacity to effectively disrupt the threat of ransomware; and
consolidated “tactics, techniques, and procedures” (TTPs) and trends for
key identified actors. This will allow CRI partners to benefit from the
breadth of expertise and technical capability brought together under the
working groups.

**Institute active and enduring private-sector engagement** based on
trusted information sharing and coordinated action to improve our joint
work towards operational disruption.

**Publish joint advisories outlining TTPs for key identified actors.**
Ransomware has impacts that extend far beyond the borders of CRI
partners. Joint public advisories will offer warning and mitigation
measures to the international community so that the global community is
enabled to close vulnerabilities to these cyber criminals, amplifying
our collective reach.

**Coordinate priority targets through a single framework**, focused on
hard and complex targets.  We will translate these initiatives into
concrete disruption results with law enforcement groups. ** **

**Develop a capacity-building tool** to help countries utilize
public-private partnerships to combat ransomware. The tool will feature
a series of case studies of public-private partnerships that have been
used in the counter ransomware fight. 

**Undertake biannual counter ransomware exercises** to further develop,
strengthen, and integrate our collective approach to combatting
ransomware from resilience to deterrence.

*Through the course of the Summit, CRI partners have committed to:*

**Hold a second counter-illicit finance ransomware workshop** to expand
on the lessons learned during the first workshop led by U.S. Treasury in
July 2022 and build capacity on blockchain tracing and analytics, which
would include a tabletop ransomware exercise, coordinated with law
enforcement.

**Take joint steps to stop ransomware actors from being able to use the
cryptocurrency ecosystem** to garner payment. This will include sharing
information about cryptocurrency “wallets” used for laundering extorted
funds and the development and implementation of the international
anti-money laundering/combating the financing of terrorism
(AML/CFT)standards for cryptocurrency and related service providers,
including “know your customer” rules to mitigate their misuse by cyber
criminals.

**Actively share information** between the public and private sectors,
including through new platforms, on actors and tradecraft. CRI members
will also share information about ransomware strains on an active and
enduring basis.

**Pursue the development of** **aligned frameworks and guidelines** to
prevent and respond to ransomware, with particular regard to the
provision of essential services and critical infrastructure. Members are
also committed to mapping inter-jurisdictional issues.

**Address ransomware across appropriate multilateral formats** to
establish broader based practices, actions, and norms around countering
ransomware activity and responses. These efforts will only be as
effective as their implementation. Members of the CRI will strengthen
their diplomatic engagement in appropriate multilateral fora and work
together to increase political costson countries that harbor and enable
ransomware actors.

**Coordinate our cyber capacity building programs strategically** to
strengthen resilience, disruption capabilities, legal frameworks, and
law enforcement capacity to combat ransomware other countries.

\###
