---
date: '2022-11-15'
modified_time: 2022-11-15 12:44:46-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-15 12:44:45-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/15/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-accomplishes-cybersecurity-apprenticeship-sprint/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Accomplishes Cybersecurity Apprenticeship\_\
  Sprint"
---
 
Cybersecurity becomes more essential to our economy and our critical
infrastructure – like financial institutions, personal data, and even
our elections – everyday. As the demand for cybersecurity workers grows
to meet these threats, the President is committed to seeing a more
inclusive, robust, and skilled workforce to protect our personal and
national interests.

On July 19<sup>th</sup> at the [National Cyber Workforce and Education
Summit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/21/fact-sheet-national-cyber-workforce-and-education-summit/),
the Administration gathered Cabinet Secretaries and major companies to
discuss ways to improve pathways into this critical sector, and
announced the start of its  [Cybersecurity Apprenticeship
Sprint](https://www.apprenticeship.gov/cybersecurity-apprenticeship-sprint).
Today marks the finish line of the Sprint, an initiative run by the U.S.
Department of Labor in coordination with the White House Office of the
National Cyber Director, Departments of Commerce, Homeland Security,
Defense, and other federal agencies. An event held today at the White
House as part of National Apprenticeship Week and the celebration of the
85th Anniversary of the National Apprenticeship Act, public and private
sector leaders will showcase the accomplishments of DOL’s [120-Day
Cybersecurity Apprenticeship
Sprint](https://www.apprenticeship.gov/cybersecurity-apprenticeship-sprint)[,
and discuss lessons learned, best practices, and paths
forward.](https://www.apprenticeship.gov/cybersecurity-apprenticeship-sprint) The
event will include 1) remarks from senior White House and agency
officials on the importance of Registered Apprenticeship in building a
skilled and diverse cybersecurity workforce and the accomplishments of
the Sprint; 2) a moderated panel discussion highlighting progress and
advantages of building cybersecurity talent using Registered
Apprenticeship programs; 3) apprentice spotlight; and 4) signing
ceremony of representatives from new programs involving several
employers and education organizations.

This effort has once again demonstrated overwhelming potential and
success in promoting Registered Apprenticeships.  The Sprint was rooted
in the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to expand Registered
Apprenticeships, a proven earn-while-you-learn model that aims to build
a pipeline of skilled workers with a focus on underserved communities.
According to CyberSeek.org, the cybersecurity market grew at 2.4 times
the rates of the rest of the job market in the last year. This leaves
nearly 770,000 open cybersecurity positions at all career levels. The
nation’s economic and national security is dependent on solving this
workforce challenge and employers are turning to Registered
Apprenticeships to meet this critical workforce needs.

**Major Achievements of Biden Effort to Expand and Improve Cybersecurity
Jobs:**

-   **As a result of the Sprint, 194 new cybersecurity Registered
    Apprenticeship programs have been approved or are under
    development.**  
     
-   **Through our efforts, new and pre-existing program sponsors are
    expanding their programs by adding 120 cybersecurity-related
    occupations to pre-existing and new Registered Apprenticeship
    programs.**

<!-- -->

-   **The work of the sprint has resulted in over 7,000 apprentices
    getting hired**, over 1,000 of whom were from the private sector. Of
    these private sector apprentices, 42% were people of color and 32%
    female. Prior to this Sprint, 27% of all cybersecurity apprentices
    were people of color and 28% women, which reflects the impact of
    this sprint and the power of the public and private sector working
    together and partnering with community-based organizations to reach
    diverse populations.  
     
-   **Major organizations have created new or expanded pre-existing
    Registered Apprenticeships**
    -   Employers and other organizations that expanded programs include
        IBM, NPower, CompTIA, and the Department of Defense.    
         
    -   Those that launched new programs include Austin Community
        College, Boeing, BuildWithin, Cisco Systems, Cyversity,
        Industrial Automation & Cybersecurity for America Foundation,
        (ISC)2, Island Mountain Development Group (IMDG), McDonalds,
        Manpower Group, Minorities in Cybersecurity, NPower Texas, Per
        Scholas, Spark Mindset, Per Scholas, and the U.S. Department of
        Veterans Affairs, and many more.    
         
-   **Over 2,000 organizations and career seekers expressed an interest
    in learning more about Registered Apprenticeship.**  
     
-   **Many others have committed to supporting the cybersecurity
    Registered Apprenticeship ecosystem through promotional activities
    and participating in diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility
    expansion efforts.**

The largest cybersecurity Registered Apprenticeship program is sponsored
by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD)’s United Services Military
Apprenticeship Program (USMAP). Under the umbrella of DoD’s USMAP, DoD
and DOL partnered to establish the first Federal Cybersecurity
Apprenticeship Program in January 2022.  Since inception, DOD identified
and developed standards for 15 critical cybersecurity occupations to not
only address military needs, but potentially serve as a model for other
Federal agencies as well.  All 15 have been finalized and approved, 10
of which were approved during the Sprint. DOL and DOD are working to
finalize the remaining occupational standards over the next several
weeks.

Furthermore, the DOD issued a memo – jointly signed by the Chief
Information Officer and the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition &
Sustainment – aimed at expanding the cybersecurity workforce by
encouraging the use of Registered Apprenticeship programs. These efforts
will help DOD and the Defense Industrial Base continue to identify,
recruit, develop, and retain the cybersecurity workforce in order to
support the Nation’s efforts to defend against current and future cyber
threats and attacks.

**New Program Highlights**  
  
As a direct result of the Sprint, the following employers, Federal
Agencies, and other organizations have accomplished the following to
meet their critical cybersecurity workforce needs, many in partnership
with DOL industry intermediaries AIR, Apprenti, and Safal Partners:

-   **Cisco Systems, Inc**., a worldwide leader in technology that
    powers the internet, became a new national Registered Apprenticeship
    sponsor. Now public and private entities from every sector hiring
    for key tech positions including Cybersecurity Analysts, IT Help
    Desk Technicians and Network Administrators can utilize Cisco’s
    program through its 2,200+ Cisco Networking Academies, located in
    secondary and post-secondary schools and institutions nationwide, to
    more quickly and easily source diverse, work-ready apprentices.  
     
-   **CompTIA** created a new national Registered Apprenticeship program
    called “CompTIA Apprenticeships for Tech” with 5
    cybersecurity-related occupations. River Valley School District was
    the [first public school
    district](https://www.latrobebulletinnews.com/education/river-valley-school-district-partners-with-comptia-apprenticeships-for-tech/article_84e84e16-b1b9-54fd-a9ca-82a140701732.html) in
    the U.S. to join it in an effort to develop talent and provide
    training for high-demand occupations in the tech industry.  
     
-   **McDonald’s Corporation **will launch its first registered
    apprenticeship program in the U.S. in Cybersecurity, bringing in
    high-performing talent from Chicago City Colleges to McDonald’s
    Headquarters.  
     
-   **Howard Community College **(HCC) is offering a Information
    Technology (IT) Apprenticeship Program in partnership with local
    networking and technology firms, AT&T and SCD IT, in four career
    tracks: IT Field Support Specialist, Network Field Support
    Specialist, Information Systems Security Engineer, and Linux System
    Administrator.  
     
-   **IBM’s** Apprenticeship Program, launched in 2017, the program has
    expanded to 30 Registered Apprenticeship roles including data
    science, design and cybersecurity. IBM has committed to investing
    $250 million in apprenticeship and New Collar programs by 2025.  
     
-   **Island Mountain Development Group (IMDG) **joined Safal Partners’
    National Program and is one of the first cybersecurity
    apprenticeship program for the Native American community. IMDG was
    founded in 2009 by the Fort Belknap Indian Community Council as an
    autonomous for-profit economic development corporation to serve the
    Aaniiih (Gros Ventre) and Nakoda (Assiniboine) Nations in Montana.
    IMDG’s mission is to build a self-sustaining local economy through
    the creation of business opportunities, jobs, and resource
    development. This new apprenticeship program is part of IMDG and
    Tribal Members’ work to create true, generational change and
    economic prosperity in the Fort Belknap Indian Community.  
     
-   **The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) **worked through a P3
    Collaboration to design and establish the first civilian federal
    cybersecurity apprenticeship program. The scalable and sustainable
    model will provide a pathway to quickly hire a diverse, underserved
    population of Veterans into the federal government into
    cybersecurity roles to protect our nation’s most vulnerable systems’
    dependability, integrity, and data privacy. The first cohort of 8-10
    apprentices will begin February 2023.  
      
    The U.S. Department of Labor National Office and contracted
    intermediaries spoke about the value of cybersecurity Registered
    Apprenticeship and how to engage in the Sprint at over 100 events
    over the course of the 120 days, often joined by colleagues at the
    U.S. Department of Commerce. These efforts complement the
    Administration’s broad, ongoing efforts to expand Registered
    Apprenticeship to build a skilled, diverse workforce in high-demand
    areas such as cybersecurity.  
      
    Visit [www.apprenticeship.gov](http://www.apprenticeship.gov/) to
    start a program, become an apprentice, or learn more about the
    120-Day Cybersecurity Apprenticeship Sprint.

\###
