---
date: '2025-10-28'
modified_time: 2025-10-28 09:13:27-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-28 09:13:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/10/28195/
tags: fact-sheets
title: 'Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Drives Forward Billions in Investments
  from Japan'
---
 
**EXPANDING THE U.S. INDUSTRIAL BASE AND SECURING OUR SUPPLY CHAINS:**
Today in Tokyo, President Donald J. Trump announced major projects
advancing Japan’s previous $550 billion investment commitment to the
United States to further revitalize the U.S. industrial base, signed a
landmark critical minerals agreement with Japan, secured historic
purchases of U.S. energy, and deepened U.S.-Japan cooperation in
combatting illegal drug trafficking.

**STRENGTHENING U.S. MANUFACTURING AND EXPORTS:** President Trump and
Japan’s Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi conducted a signing ceremony
memorializing the U.S.-Japan Framework Agreement. As part of this
agreement, Japan and various Japanese companies have outlined their
commitments to pursuing the following investments.

-   Critical Energy Infrastructure Investments:
    -   Up to $332 billion to support critical energy infrastructure in
        the United States, including the construction of AP1000 and
        small modular reactors (SMRs), in partnership with Westinghouse;
        construction of SMRs in collaboration with GE Vernova and
        Hitachi; the supply of large-scale baseload power infrastructure
        from ENTRA1 Energy; engineering, procurement, and other services
        to build critical power plants, substations, and transmission
        systems in collaboration with Bechtel and Kiewit; other services
        for design, procurement, and maintenance of large-scale power
        infrastructure in collaboration with SoftBank Group Corp.; and
        natural gas transmission and power infrastructure services in
        collaboration with Kinder Morgan.

    <!-- -->

    -   Up to $25 billion to supply large-scale power equipment such as
        gas turbines, steam turbines, and generators for grid
        electrification and stabilization systems, including
        high-voltage direct current and substation solutions for
        mission-critical facilities in partnership with GE Vernova.

    <!-- -->

    -   Up to $25 billion to supply electrical power modules,
        transformers, and other power-generation substation equipment in
        collaboration with Toshiba.
    -   Up to $20 billion to supply thermal cooling systems and
        solutions, including chillers, air handling systems, and coolant
        distribution units essential for power infrastructure in
        partnership with Carrier.
-   AI Infrastructure Investments:
    -   Up to $30 billion in partnership with Mitsubishi Electric to
        supply power station systems and equipment for data centers, up
        to $25 billion in collaboration with TDK for advanced electronic
        components and power modules, and up to $20 billion with
        Fujikura to supply optical fiber cables.
-   Electronics and Supply Chain Investments:
    -   Up to $15 billion to produce advanced electronic components,
        including multilayer ceramic capacitors, inductors, and
        electromagnetic interference suppression filters, in partnership
        with Murata Manufacturing.

    <!-- -->

    -   Up to $15 billion to supply energy storage systems and
        electronic devices and components in collaboration with
        Panasonic.
-   Critical Minerals Investments:
    -   Up to $3 billion to construct an ammonia and urea fertilizer
        facility in the United States and $2 billion to construct a
        copper smelting and refining facility in the western United
        States.
-   Manufacturing and Logistics Investments:
    -   $600 million to upgrade ports and waterways across the southern
        United States to facilitate the export of U.S. crude oil; $500
        million to establish a high-pressure, high-temperature diamond
        grit manufacturing facility in the United States; and $350
        million to construct a lithium-iron-phosphate production
        facility in the United States.
-   Japan committed to further expand opportunities for U.S. exports,
    including:
    -   Toyota plans to export its U.S.-made vehicles to Japan and open
        its distribution platform in Japan to U.S. automakers, as a
        result of Japan’s commitment to accept for sale in Japan U.S.
        manufactured and U.S. safety-certified vehicles without
        additional testing.

    <!-- -->

    -   Japan will implement its Mobile Software Competition Act in a
        way that does not discriminate against U.S. companies, balances
        the need for fair and free competition with user safety and
        convenience, and respects the legitimate exercise of
        intellectual property rights.
-   The United States and Japan signed a Memorandum of Cooperation (MOC)
    to expand shipbuilding capacity in both nations by aligning
    investment, procurement, workforce, and technology initiatives.

**ENHANCING SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE AND ECONOMIC SECURITY:**

-   President Trump and Prime Minister Takaichi signed a historic
    critical minerals agreement to further diversify our critical
    minerals supply chain. Today’s critical minerals agreement builds on
    similar deals President Trump has secured with foreign partners to
    strengthen America’s mineral supply chain resilience.
-   The U.S. and Japan committed to strengthening and applying
    comprehensive mechanisms for reviewing inbound investment and
    addressing risks from outbound investments based on national
    security.
-   Japan will pursue new sanctions frameworks to target vessels linked
    to shadow fleets and disrupt shadow fleet activity in close
    coordination with the United States and G7 partners.

**FURTHERING AMERICA’S ENERGY OPPORTUNITY AND SECURITY:** The United
States and Japan announced record purchases of U.S. energy by Japan.

-   Tokyo Gas and JERA, respectively, announced letters of intent with
    Glenfarne for LNG offtake from a pipeline proposed to be constructed
    in Alaska.  Japanese companies’ total offtake now represents more
    than 10% of the project’s export capacity.
-   JERA announced a $1.5 billion investment in Louisiana’s Haynesville
    Shale basin—bringing its total U.S. investments to more than $6
    billion.
-   Global Coal Sales Group, LLC, announced a multi-year deal valued at
    over $100 million with Tohoku Electric Power for U.S.-sourced
    thermal coal.

<!-- -->

-   The United States welcomed Japan’s intention to promote early
    engagement among officials, regulators, utilities, and suppliers to
    ensure transparent and competitive procurement processes that create
    meaningful opportunities for U.S. industry participation in Japan’s
    nuclear decommissioning market.

**STRENGTHENING DETERRENCE AND COMBATTING ILLEGAL DRUG TRAFFICKING**
President Trump and Prime Minister Takaichi committed to deepening the
U.S.-Japan defense relationship and expanding efforts to address the
global synthetic drug crisis.

-   The United States welcomed Japan’s commitment to significantly
    increase defense capabilities. This commitment supports the
    U.S.-Japan Alliance’s goal of peace through strength by rapidly
    strengthening deterrence in the Indo-Pacific.
-   The United States accelerated deliveries of Advanced Medium-Range
    Air-to-Air Missiles for Japan’s F-35 fighter jets, enhancing
    deterrence and burden sharing in the First Island Chain. The first
    tranche of accelerated missile deliveries occurred earlier this
    week.
-   Both nations agreed to enhance cooperation through
    intelligence-sharing, risk profiling, and operational collaboration,
    and announced plans to amend their Customs Mutual Assistance
    Agreement (CMAA) to prevent, investigate, and repress customs law
    violations.

**PROMOTING AMERICAN LEADERSHIP IN ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY:** The United
States and Japan committed to major agreements in science and
technology.

-   The United States and Japan signed an MOC for the U.S.-Japan
    Technology Prosperity Deal.
    -   Both nations will cooperate to accelerate AI adoption and
        innovation by driving innovative research for applications in
        science, industry, and society, advancing pro-innovation AI
        policy frameworks, and promoting export.

    <!-- -->

    -   Additional areas of collaboration include research security, 6G,
        pharmaceutical and biotechnology supply chains, quantum
        information science and technology, fusion energy, and space.

<!-- -->

-   Both countries affirmed the benefits of cloud technology for storing
    sensitive data and enabling modern cybersecurity tools.  The two
    sides will launch a working group composed of relevant government
    agencies to deepen mutual understanding on technical standards and
    requirements, including sharing U.S. experience and knowledge for
    secure and sovereign cloud development. The working group will
    invite Japanese and American firms, when necessary, to seek their
    expertise. 

**THE DEALMAKER IN CHIEF:** Today’s announcements reflect the strong and
enduring relationship between the United States and Japan, while
advancing the economic and national security interests of the American
people.

-   President Trump recognizes that Japan is one of America’s closest
    allies and most important trading partners, and he has worked to
    deepen this relationship.
-   In July, President Trump announced a landmark economic and trade
    agreement with Japan, in which Japan agreed to invest $550 billion
    into American industries and pay a baseline 15% tariff rate.
-   In September, President Trump signed an Executive Order implementing
    this framework agreement announced in July.
-   Today’s Japan deals build on President Trump’s prior successes with
    Japan and Sunday’s Malaysia agreements, securing strong deals that
    benefit the American people.
-    With this Asia trip, President Trump is fostering broader regional
    cooperation, strengthening alliances, and expanding economic
    opportunities for American workers.
