---
date: '2022-04-12'
modified_time: 2022-04-12 19:31:19-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-12 19:31:18-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/12/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-the-administrations-historic-commitment-to-worker-organizing-and-empowerment/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on the Administration\u2019s Historic Commitment\
  \ to Worker Organizing and\_Empowerment"
---
 
*Sheet Metal Workers Local 19 JATC  
*Philadelphia, Pennsylvania**

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  Good afternoon,
everyone.  Good afternoon.  Can we please give it up for William? 
(Applause.)   
  
You know, I was — I was backstage listening to you, William.  And when I
listened to you — we had a minute to talk earlier — and I know that you
represent the future of the American labor movement.  And in that
movement, we are strong.  Yes.  (Applause.)     
  
Well, good afternoon, Philadelphia.  It’s good to be back.  (Applause.) 
It’s good to be back, and it’s good to be here at the Sheet Metal
Workers Local 19.  (Applause.)  I love being in the house of labor.   
  
And I will tell you — I think we all know, William had it exactly right
— being here — Marty Walsh talked about it — being here — well, it’s
being with family.  It feels like being with family because it is being
with family.   
  
I want to recognize and thank my friend, Liz Shuler, the President of
the AFL-CIO, who traveled down with me on Air Force Two.  As you all
know well, Liz is a fighter.  She goes to work  
every day for the working people of our nation, and she is an essential
partner to our administration.  
  
I know Joe Sellers is here because we were hanging out earlier — I want
to thank him — the General President of the Sheet Metal Workers
International, who got his start right here at Local 19.  
  
And I know Sean O’Brien is here, the new General President of the
Teamsters.   
  
Thank you each for your tremendous leadership.  (Applause.)  
  
Also here with us here are a number of elected officials — true
champions of the labor movement, people I have worked with for years —
leaders like Senator Bob Casey.  Thank you, Bob, always.  (Applause.) 
Congresswoman Mary Gay Scanlon.  (Applause.)  There she is.  And
Congressman Dwight Evans.  (Applause.)  
  
I want to thank you, Governor, for the warm welcome at the tarmac this
morning when I arrived.  And thank you for your work.  
  
And, Mayor Jim Kenney, thank you as well.  (Applause.)  
  
And, of course, joining us today, a great, great leader — before he had
the title of “Secretary,” because he’s just been a leader in every
position he’s had — but our Secretary of Labor, Mahrty — Marty —
(laughter) — Marty Walsh.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  
  
SECRETARY WALSH:  (Inaudible.)   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Mahty!  
  
You know, over the past year, Secretary Walsh and I have been traveling
the country.  We’ve been visiting job sites and training facilities and
union halls.   
  
And we’ve actually been on a bit of a traveling roadshow, I should say. 
And I couldn’t tell you — I’ve seen Secretary Walsh — I heard him say
this earlier — but I’ve seen you, Secretary, when the cameras are on,
when the sec- — when the cameras are off.  And you are always fighting
for the working people of our nation.  I thank you for that. 
(Applause.)  
  
And some of you may have met the Secretary for the first time, but you
probably know from hearing him speak: Secretary Walsh — he grew up in a
union household, in a family and in a community that believed in the
power of solidarity.  
  
And, you know, he and I get on quite well.  We really do enjoy each
other’s company.  We’ve developed a real friendship.  And, you know,
some people might look at us and say, “Well, what could they possibly
have in common?”   
  
You know, I grew up on the other side of the country.  But I was raised
— and he and I were raised with the same values.  
  
My parents met while they were marching for civil rights.  They taught
me that people can make a difference and that when we use our collective
voice, whether at a protest or a picket line, we can drive great
change.  
  
And that belief in the power of solidarity has guided me, him, and all
of us our entire lives.  And it guides our administration.  
  
President Joe Biden and I are determined to lead the most pro-union
administration in America’s history.  (Applause.)  
  
Because you see, we are clear and we know, each and every day in ways
big and small, unions change lives.  Unions negotiate better wages and
safer working conditions for millions of workers around our country.   
  
And let’s be clear: Even if you are not a member of a union, you thank
unions for every benefit that you receive.  (Applause.)  Thank unions
for the five-day workweek, for the weekend, for sick leave. 
(Applause.)  
  
     We should all — anyone who works in America — know that you have
benefited from the hard work, from the fight of the leaders in this
movement.  Our labor leaders, our unions train people to take on good
jobs.   
  
     But as you have heard, it’s so much more than a training of a
skill.  It provides community.  It provides home.  It provides a place
that remembers that nobody should be made to fight alone.  It is so
fundamental in terms of the approach, which says that we all know we are
stronger when we stand together.  (Applause.)  That is at the heart of
the spirit behind this movement.   
  
     Unions create stronger communities.  They bring people together. 
And they, of course, protect workers from things like harassment and
discrimination.  And they give workers a voice.  Put simply, unions move
our nation forward.  And the American people know it.  The American
people know that when unions win, workers win, families win, communities
win.  (Applause.)  When unions win, America wins — (applause) — as
evidenced by the fact that, today, unions have their highest approval
rating since 1965.  (Applause.)   
  
People know what we’re talking about.  They know what we’re talking
about.  They know, today, as a matter of fact, about half of all
non-union workers say they would join a union if given a chance.  That
is almost 60 million people in our country, nearly 20 percent of our
nation.  Think about it.  Think about it.  
  
     And then that, of course, has to prompt the question: “Well, what’s
stopping them?”  And we know that part of the answer — a big part of the
answer is that, for decades, powerful forces in our country have been
hard at work building barriers to stop workers from organizing.  And we
all know that we’ve got to then take it on with a powerful counterforce,
which is why our administration is working even harder to tear those
barriers down.  
  
     As Secretary Walsh mentioned, as partners, he and I lead the White
House Task Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment.  Last year, our
task force proposed nearly 70 actions the executive branch of our
government can take to protect and expand the rights of workers to
organize and collectively bargain.  And the President — our President,
Joe Biden — accepted every single one.  (Applause.)  
  
     Last year, as everyone here knows, we also made an historic
investment in our nation’s infrastructure.  With your help, we passed
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  
  
It will put thousands of union workers, carpenters, and pipefitters, and
plumbers, and, yes, sheet metal workers,  
to work across the country.  
  
In fact, last week, I met — in my office in D.C., I met with some
longtime friends from the California Building Trades.  And one of the
leaders told me there that thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
workers will soon be upgrading — not only in California, but around the
country — for example, the H-VAC systems in local schools.  Well, let’s
think about what that means.  (Applause.)  
  
As the pandemic — it, of course, only highlighted the importance of
clean air in our schools where our babies, where the children of our
nation go to get an education, to reach their God-given capacity.  And
we know then the connection between these issues because we know that
when students breathe clean air, they are healthier, they concentrate
better, they learn more.  Well, who’s going to do the job of help making
that possible?  These folks.  (Applause.)  
  
So, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, it invests billions of dollars in
our nation’s schools so that we make it safer for our children.   
  
     All these issues are connected.   
  
     And we are fighting not only to create jobs, but to protect our
workers.  
  
     Now, as has been mentioned and Liz talked about it, summer, of
course, is coming.  And the late — the last, actually, eight years, you
all might know, have been the hottest on record.  The last eight years
have been the hottest on record.  And many of the jobs that the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law created will require workers to work
outdoors, outside, to build back up our nation’s infrastructure.   
  
     And that means, during the summer months in particular, they will
be working outside in the heat, building bridges, replacing lead pipes,
laying broadband wire so that our students can have the benefit of being
able to have that resource, knowing that, unlike for some of us, the
thing of Encyclopedia Britannica is a thing of a long time ago —
(laughter) — and now the kids need to be online to help get their
homework done.  
  
     Broadband wire — why do we care about that?  We’re going to lay it
across the country because we know that our seniors might need the
benefit of telemedicine if it’s too far to get to a hospital.  Our small
business owners need access to high-speed broadband to run those small
businesses that are part of what fuels America’s economy.   
  
     But all that work, so much of it will be done by highly skilled
workers outside.  So it’s a real issue.  
  
And then, there are other jobs created by the Infrastructure Law that
will require workers to be indoors —  
in steel mills and on factory floors — where temperatures can climb high
enough to give workers heatstroke.  
  
And as many of you know then, this high heat is dangerous and can be
dangerous when it is there, in their workplace — even deadly.  
  
And every year, thousands of workers suffer heat-related  
injury and illnesses.  The danger posed by extreme heat has been ignored
and overlooked for far too long.  And that danger is only increasing.  
  
Because as we know, climate change has become a climate crisis.  By
2030, this very city can expect 25 days a year with heat and humidity
that will make it feel like 105 degrees or hotter.  Think about that.  
  
So, let’s be clear: Heat is a workplace safety issue.  It turns out
outdoor heat, indoor heat presents a workplace safety issue.  And
employers are responsible for protecting their workers in the workplace
from the dangers of heat, including  
in farm fields, in delivery vans, and in nursing homes — (applause) —
everywhere that has workers.  
  
So, our administration is fighting to make sure  
every workplace is protected.  
  
Now, I’m making an obvious point clear.  Some people who don’t
understand need to understand that the workplace to get the jobs done
that’ll make life easier for most people in our country, that workplace
is not necessarily an office with air conditioning.  But it is a
workplace nonetheless where highly skilled workers work.  And that is
how we are approaching this issue.   
  
In fact, I know you heard, when I served in the United States Senate
with Bob Casey, I introduced a bill to create a federal heat standard to
protect workers.  We named it after a farmworker who lost his life after
picking grapes for 10 hours in 105-degree heat.  
  
And I’m proud that last fall, OSHA — the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration — took the first step toward creating such a standard. 
But we cannot wait for that rule to be finalized to protect our
workers.  
  
So, today, OSHA is initiating what’s named a National Emphasis Program
on heat.  And for the first time, OSHA will begin — for the first time,
OSHA will begin nationwide workplace heat inspections — (applause) —
targeting over 70 high-risk industries.   
  
Because we’re going to put these values in place.  We’re going to put
these rules in place.  And we’re going to monitor to make sure that the
workers aren’t out there without us making sure that they are receiving
all of the protections that they are entitled to receive.  And we’re not
going to stop there.   
  
As all of you know, it is not how you start a job; it is how you finish
it.  And so our administration is going to continue this fight until
every worker is protected, by using every tool at our disposal to
mitigate the danger posed by extreme heat.  
  
Philadelphia: For myself, for President Biden, and I know for so many of
you, this is what it all comes down to — dignity.  The dignity of work. 
Understanding all work requires a skill.  And this work is highly
skilled.  And it is critical that if we are to strengthen ourselves as a
nation, we must strengthen the rights of workers and we must
collectively recognize their value and the dignity of that work. 
(Applause.)   
  
Every worker deserves a safe and a healthy workplace.  Every worker
deserves a job with good wages and fair benefits.  Every worker in
America deserves the choice to join a union.  And the President and I
will always stand with you to defend these sacred principles.   
  
Our administration will do everything in our power to ensure the workers
of our nation can succeed and can thrive.  Because when workers succeed
and thrive, so does our nation.   
  
I thank you all very much.  And please take care.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)   
  
                          END
