---
date: '2022-04-04'
published_time: 2022-04-04 17:27:45-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/04/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-trucking-action-plan-to-strengthen-our-nations-supply-chains/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Trucking Action Plan to Strengthen Our\
  \ Nation\u2019s Supply\_Chains"
---
 
*South Lawn*

2:08 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  I think she can do anything she wants, don’t you? 

Well, hello, everyone.  It’s an honor to welcome you to the White House
out on the lawn here.  I heard that helicopter going by.  I was hoping
the helo wasn’t going to land.  (Laughter.)

Maria, thanks for sharing your story.

And my buddy, Patrick Murphy, former Assistant Secretary — Secretary of
the Army as well as a former congressman.  And the boy stays in shape,
man.  Huh?  Look at him.  (Laughter.)  I tell you —

CHAIR MURPHY:  I’m trying to (inaudible) you, sir.  I (inaudible) you.

THE PRESIDENT:  I tell you what, man, I — and I want to thank you for
being here, man.  Nobody worked harder as a congressman or Acting
Secretary of the Army to connect veterans to opportunity, and that’s
what it’s all — been all about for you.

And I want to thank another veteran who knows a thing or two about
laying the foundation for good jobs and the transportation sector:
Secretary Buttigieg.  (Applause.)

And I — he says, “Go Navy.”  He says, “Go Army.”  I used to say, “Go
Navy,” but then my son got a Bronze Star in the Army and I decided I
couldn’t say it anymore.  So I just say, “Go American forces.” 
(Laughter.)  Anyway. 

I also want to recognize — he couldn’t be here today, but Marty Walsh,
the Secretary of the — of Labor.  And he’s doing an outstanding job
helping to lead this effort alongside Pete — Secretary Buttigieg.

And, you know, I want to welcome members of Congress who are here today
as well.  Tammy, how are you, Tammy?  Good to see you.  Tammy Baldwin,
by the way.  (Applause.) 

And also, Congressman Pete DeFazio.  (Applause.) 

And Laura Underwood — where’s Laura?  There she is, right there — right
in front.  Good to see you, Laura.  (Applause.)

And I want to particularly shout out to the new President of the
Teamsters, Sean O’Brien.  Stand up, man; I want them to see you. 
(Applause.)  As — as they say in parts of Wilmington, Delaware, “These
guys brung me to the dance” 35 years ago — 40 years ago.

And also, I want to say a quick hi to a pal.  And you’ve been a pal. 
You know, I — thank you for being here and getting things done. 

And, you know, in addition to all that, there’s an outfit called —
you’ve probably heard of them — the United Mine Workers.  Yeah, well,
you know, they got the president here too.  Mr. President, where are
you?  Where is he sitting?  He was here.  A lot of truckers in the
United Mine Workers. 

At any rate, folks, I spend a lot of time talking about the economy and
the record-breaking economic comeback we’re — experienced because of all
of you sitting out there in those chairs. 

Today, I want to talk with people who are — who are making the comeback
possible — people like Maria, who you just heard from, and her son Roman
who’s going there pretty soon. 

And all those truck drivers and their families that are here today, I
want to thank you all to — you keep — what you’re doing to keep America
moving, because that’s literally what you’re doing, especially these
last two years helping carry the nation, literally, on your backs.

You learned, on Friday, the economy created 431,000 jobs in March. 
(Applause.)  A record. 

Over the course of my presidency, the economy has now created 7.9
million jobs.  More jobs in the first 14 months than any President ever
— (applause) — in large part of all of you.  Not a joke.

Unemployment is at 3.6 percent, down from 6.4 when we took office.  The
fastest decline in unemployment at the start of any presidential term
ever recorded.

And after a long stretch, Americans are back to work.  Americans are
back to work.  (Applause.) 

An economy has gone from being on the mend to being on the move.  And
the economy we’re building — we’re building a strong economy, one where
hardworking Americans can live with dignity, support their families,
build a better life, and a better life for their children as well.

All of you here today are people our economy should be built around
because you all — you all are the people who literally make it run. 
That’s not hyperbole.  You literally make it run.

I have nothing against investment bankers.  They could all retire and
nothing much would change.  You all quit, everything comes to a halt. 
(Laughter.)  Think about it.  I’m not joking.  (Applause.)  Think about
it.  Come to a literal halt.

During the pandemic, a lot of Americans have been introduced to a term
you all know well — and Pete used it: supply chains.  A simple term.  A
supply chain is a journey — the journey of a product to get to a
customer’s doorstep.  That’s what it is.

And during the pandemic, those chains were interrupted.  Factory
closures around the world — not just in the United States, around the
world — caused backups and delays because of COVID.

At the same time, because of the strength and speed of our recovery,
Americans had more money in their pockets than they had in a long time. 

During the pandemic, they wanted to spend that money not on restaurants
or vacations, which are now coming back as well, but on hard goods.

They wanted home improvements, televisions, and automobiles — things
that had to be transported.  The very products that slow down by
disruptions of the supply chain. 

Demand was high.  Supply was interrupted.  And the recipe for higher
prices and long delays — that’s exactly what we saw not only here, but
all around the world.

So, we knew we needed every tool at our disposal to address the
problem.  And the best way to do it was to invest in people who make the
supply chain run.  Trucking moves about 70 percent — about 70 percent of
all the goods in this country.  Seventy percent.  (Applause.)

And truck drivers are facing real challenges.  The average driver waits
four and a half hours for their truck to be loaded and unloaded during
an eleven-hour shift — and 40 percent of their day.  And often, they
don’t get paid for that wait time.

Back in 1978, the average truck driver’s pay was $34 — was $34 an hour
in today’s dollars.  Last year, it was $25 an hour, nearly a 30 percent
decline.  In this iconic American industry, it’s getting harder and
harder to raise a family with dignity and pride that you deserve.  And
it’s no surprise so many drivers left their jobs.

The workforce is getting older — not that I am, but they are. 
(Laughter.)  I used to drive a truck; it’s a long story.  Anyway. 
(Laughter.)

It’s getting har- — and I thought I was going to get to drive one of
these suckers today, but — (laughter) — anyway, it’s another story, too.

But, look, it’s getting harder and harder to recruit new drivers,
particularly women and people of color, to an industry that this nation
and our economy desperately needs at full strength.

The good news is that since I took office, we’ve begun to turn things
around.  In fact — and 2021 was the best year for trucking employment
since 1994.  (Applause.)  There are now 35,000 more trucking jobs than
there were before the pandemic.

But we all know that we need to move faster getting more people working
in this industry, in jobs they can rely on and raise a family on.

That’s why last December we brought together industry and labor to
tackle the problem facing drivers, and we listened. 

And when we heard that there were long wait times in many states for
people wanting to get their commercial driver’s licenses — their CDLs —
we took action.  We provided technical assistance as well as $57 million
in federal funds to help states issue these CDLs faster. 

And I’m proud to report: Because of Pete and others, so far in 2022,
we’re issuing CDLs at double the rate of last year — 120,000 in January
and February alone.  

We also know that the key ingredient to getting and keeping more drivers
was increasing training programs like the registered apprenticeships
approved by the Department of Labor — programs that allow aspiring
drivers to learn while — earn while they learn, while making this
essential job more attractive for potential drivers regardless of age,
background, and gender.

The program has proven to be — improve safety and better working
conditions and better pay and benefits.

Typically, it takes about eight months to create a registered
apprenticeship program.  But because of Pete and others and this
Department of Labor, we were able to cut the red tape.  And now it takes
as little as two days.  (Applause.)

As a result, in the last 90 days, 100 major employers have launched new
registered apprenticeship programs — UPS, Domino’s, Pepsi, Albertsons,
and more; along with the trade associations, like the American Trucking
Association, the National Minority Trucking Association, the Food
Industry Association, and others.

What that all adds up to is a strong foundation for the work ahead: a
pipeline of hardworking men and women from all backgrounds, highly
trained and highly motivated to get behind the wheel, including a whole
lot of veterans, thanks to the veterans trucking initiative known as
“Taskforce Movement” by Patrick Murphy — led by Patrick Murphy. 
(Applause.)

And, by the way, I’d say, parenthetically: If you can handle a tank, if
you can handle an armored personnel carrier, you sure in hell can handle
one of these suckers. 

And an awful lot of well-known people also.

The idea — I remember — I’m going to just digress for one second.  I — I
got a commercial license because my dad used to run an automobile
agency.  And I used to have to go up to the body shop up in Philadelphia
from Wilmington.  And when they’d order a trailer or a cab, I’d just —
they’d sell the cab.  And so, I had to have a licensed to be able to
drive it up and back. 

And so, during the truckers strike years later, when I was a young
senator, I was — there was a guy who ran steel from Deemer Steel out to
Ohio.  And so, I decided to ride out with him to see what it was like in
the strike.  And I was driving, going through Shiloh, Ohio, and — and we
— he was — his handle was “Big 10”.  And I remember every — all the
trucks stops were being blockaded at the time during the strike.

And he — he called, and he said, “Big 10 wanting to come in.”  I forget
exactly how he said it.  And the — and the only woman truck driver I
ever knew I met that day. 

She said, “This is Big Mama.  No room.”  (Laughter.)  Swear to God, true
story.  (Laughter.)  Swear to God.  He said, “I’ve got a United States
senator driving my truck.”  She said, “I got the damn president in
mine.  So what?”  (Laughter.)  I’ll never forget that.  I was a very
powerful guy.

Anyway — (laughter) — that was the first woman trucker I met. 

But look, the Labor and — Labor and Transportation Departments are
working closely with industry to tackle issues facing women in trucking,
recruit and retrain more women drivers so we can draw more Americans to
work with increased wages, reduced wait times, and improved safety, and
so much more.

Folks, there’s a heck of a lot more we have to do.   A lot more we have
to do.  Secretary Buttigieg laid out some of the steps we’re taking to
make these jobs more attractive for more Americans.  And it’s all
centered around listening to you, the drivers. 

Look, you’ve got to keep it — we’ve got to keep it going.  We’re
building a better economy around American manufacturing and American
supply chains.  And thanks to the Infrastructure Law — and it wasn’t my
law; it was a bipartisan — one of the few great bipartisan things we’ve
done this year — we’re making the largest investment in American roads
and bridges since, literally, the creation of the Interstate Highway
System.  And that means a bright future for American trucking.

This — this country will be counting on you more than it ever has.  So
we should be able to — you should be able to count on us to keep
investing in you and your families.  That’s exactly what we’re going to
do. 

I’m looking forward to all of the progress we’re going to make
together.  And I want to thank you all.  Thank you for being here. 
Thank you for what you do.  Thank your families. 

And may God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you,
thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

   2:20 P.M. EDT
