---
date: '2022-04-22'
modified_time: 2022-04-22 21:30:20-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-22 21:30:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/22/remarks-by-president-biden-on-lowering-costs-for-american-families/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Lowering Costs for American\_Families"
---
 
Grand Hall, Green River College  
Auburn, Washington

1:19 P.M. PDT   
   
THE PRESIDENT:  Juliana, my colleagues — I’m taking her back to
Washington.  We’re going to get my — the rest of my bill passed. 
(Laughter.)  We’re going to get it done.

MS. JULIANA GRACEFFO:  Yes, we are.

THE PRESIDENT:  By the way, I hope I don’t embarrass her, but she’s off
to Notre Dame next year.  (Applause.)  I’ve done the commencement there
a couple times.  I told her if she sees me on campus, I don’t want her
say “Joe who?” when I come up to see her.  (Laughter.)  Promise?

MS. JULIANA GRACEFFO:  Promise.

THE PRESIDENT:  God love you.  Thank you very, very much.  (Applause.)

MS. JULIANA GRACEFFO:  Thank you so much (inaudible).

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mom.

Elisa and Juliana, thank you for that introduction.  And, you know, as
my mother would say, “God love you.”  You’re saving lives.  You’re
saving lives by pointing out what needs to be done.

You know, the — I want to start off, though, by pointing out a couple
things.  Number one, as was mentioned earlier, my wife Jill is a
community college professor.  I believe she’s the only — (applause) —
she’s the only First Lady ever to work full-time.  And she’s still
working full-time as a community college professor.  And that’s not why
— that’s why she’s not with me today.

But one of the things we’re also working on, just parenthetically — and
this is a great — this is a great college.  It really is.  (Applause.) 
Thanks in part to the leadership of the Governor, you have one of the
best systems in the country.

And I want you to know, though, that we know and I know firsthand — my
wife is an English professor and teaches writing as well — the number of
students who come back to schools like this and the community college
where Jill teaches, Northern Virginia Community College, are coming back
having not been in school for a long time, many times. 

They’re coming back because they want to better their lives, breaking
their necks to get here.  Some of them — and they’re — the average age
of my wife’s students is 28 years of age.  That’s the average age. 
People coming back from — coming through difficult circumstances they
find themselves in.  And back east, a number of immigrant families
coming through.

And the cost is still — no matter how the states try to control it, it
still matters.

So, one of the things that — it didn’t do all I wanted to do, but I was
just able to sign the new budget bill that increases the Pell Grants by
$400 a year.  (Applause.)  The largest increase in 10 years.  But we
have to do more.

Look, I want to say a special thank you to Governor Inslee for his
welcome and his partnership across a broad range of issues.  I —
including strengthening the pen- — the economy, your economy, and
fighting the pandemic. 

But, you know, I refer to him, and I — he knows this to be true because
when I was back seeking the nomination, he is the “Environmental
Governor” of the nation.  This guy is leading the whole country. 
(Applause.)

And you have one heck of a congressional delegation, starting —
(applause) — starting with my friend, Patty Murray.  You know, when we
passed the Recovery Act — the first bill we passed — I went to Patty and
I said, “I want to deal with the Child Tax Credit,” which was something
that had to be done.  Patty has been fighting for it for years and years
and years.  I got it passed.  We got it passed.  And it reduced child
poverty in America by 40 percent.  But because of a couple folks —
because we don’t have this — (applause) — we lack 1 Democrat and 50
Republicans from — keeping it from passing this time around.

But it really fundamentally changed the lives of millions of people,
Patty.  You know it better than I do.  But it reduced child poverty by
40 percent.

And she talked about — earlier about — about the cost of childcare.  I
was a single dad for five years when my wife and daughter were killed in
an automobile accident.  And everybody — and I commuted every day — did
250 miles, 270 miles a day from Wilmington, Delaware, to Washington,
D.C., on Amtrak.

Everybody thought I did it because I just wanted to be home.  And that’s
true.  But I did it because I couldn’t possibly afford childcare.  I was
a United States senator.  I had the dubious distinction for 36 years of
being listed as the poorest man in the Senate.  (Laughter.)  But I was
making a lot of money as a senator, from my perspective, and I didn’t
think I should be making any money other than my salary as a senator.

And I could not possibly afford — even back in 1972 and ‘3, I could not
afford childcare.  That’s why I went home every single night, over a
million two hundred million miles — -two hundred thousand miles worth
over my career. 

And, folks, we got — we — there’s easy answers.  There’s easy answers. 
We can do all that Patty and I and others have been talking about, and
not one person in America making less than $400,000 a year will see a
single, solitary increase in their taxes.  Not one.  Not a single
increase. 

And, folks, you know, I’m — you know, I’ve sometimes been called by some
of my interesting Republican friends — we’re all — “Democrats are all
socialists.”  I’m a capitalist.  And I think if you can make a billion
dollars or a million dollars or a hundred million, you should be able to
do it.  But pay your fair share.  (Applause.)  Pay your fair share.

I come from the corporate state of the world, Delaware.  More
corporations are incorporated in Delaware than every other state in the
Union combined.  And I got elected six times as senator notwithstanding
that.

Here’s the point: Of the Fortune 500 companies, 40 of them last year,
they made $40 billion and didn’t pay a single, solitary penny in taxes. 
It’s not right.  It’s just not fair.  All you got to do is just pay a
fair share.  And we can do all of this and so much more, but that’s not
what — my point of being here tonight — or today, I should say.

And Senator Cantwell, she’s been a champion in this state, a key player
in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and delivering high-speed Internet
all across the state of Washington.  And — because we’re going to
outcompete the rest of the world.  She understands how we do it.  We got
to have you have access — access to that information. 

Think about it: During the pandemic, how many of your — you parents had
to drive your kids into a McDonald’s parking lot to get on the Internet
to be able to do your homework?  Not a joke.  This the United States of
America, for God’s sake.  The United States of America.  Because of this
lady and others, we are going to see to it every single place in this
country — rural, urban, and suburban — has access to high-speed
Internet.

(Applause.)

And Congressman Schrier, who represents the district — a doctor, an MD,
who knows what folks go through in our healthcare system and knows how
to make it better.  You know, this includes how to fill the nursing
shortage to help colleges like this one train and prepare the next
generation of nurses and healthcare workers. 

My wife and her at — when at Delaware Community College and now Northern
Virginia, teaches an awful lot of nurses — an awful lot of nurses.  And,
by the way, docs are okay.  (Laughter.)  I’ve been a significant
consumer of healthcare in my career, unfortunately.  I was hospitalized
for the better part of seven months with two cranial aneurysms and an
embolism, and my son Beau was — came back as a decorated war hero from
the state — from Iraq after a year with stage four glioblastoma and
spent 15 months at the end just hanging on.

And, you know, doctors let you live.  Nurses, male and female — I’m not
joking — any of you in nursing programs — they make you want to live. 
Not a joke.  Not a joke.  (Applause.)

And I think it’s the single-most underrated profession in the United
States of America.  I really mean it.  When I was at Walter Reed all
those months, I’d lay there in that ICU and look at the — at the
monitors.  And you know if any of those lines go flat, you’re in
trouble.  (Laughter.)

But seriously, after a while — and you’ve seen this, Doc — you just get
tired.  Wasn’t in pain; just get tired.  You just want to stop.

And my nurses — I remember to this day their names — they’d come in and
they’d change the pillow, they’d rub my head, they’d do something —
they’d keep you moving, talk to you.  Talk to you.

That’s why, what I did was — they — everybody who comes out of an
intensive care unit, the joke is — in hospitals — is they either get
taken out in a — the nurses never see them again.  They either get taken
out in a bag and — or they never want to come back.  (Laughter.)  I used
to go back once a month and have dinner for the nurses every night — on
the nightshift, to thank them.

So any of you who are — anybody in — well, I’m not sure how many are
part of the college, but any of you studying nursing, keep it —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Nurses are over here!  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, God love them.  No, I really mean it.  And I don’t
want to disappoint you, but the male nurses are as consequential as the
female nurses.  Okay?  (Laughter.)  Not a joke. 

And so, anyway, I just wanted to mention that.  And I want to thank
<s>Congresswoman</s> \[Congressman\] Kilmer and — for the nearby
district — the 6th District, I guess.  He’s leading the charge in the
economy to make sure that — that we leave no community behind. 

And we’re also joined today by Larsen and — and — (laughs) — I know it. 
You got — 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Smith. 

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I got it.  (Laughter.)  DelBene, who’s a real
champion for working families.  And while she couldn’t be here today,
Congresswoman Jayapal is doing an incredible job in the state. 
(Applause.)  She’s visiting — she’s been a great partner of mine and
worked really closely with me.  And she’s visiting her — her family now,
and she’ll be back shortly. 

But, folks, we’re all laser-focused on lowering the costs for you and
your families across the board.  And a big way to do that is lower the
cost of healthcare — healthcare especially in the area of prescription
drugs. 

The governor of this state has already gotten insulin down to 35 bucks
for — I guess it’s a year you’ve done it so far.  Is that right? 

Well, either — earlier this month, President Obama came back to the
White House.  He’s a good friend.  He came back to the White House for
the first time in a long time to celebrate the 12th anniversary of the
Affordable Care Act. 

And we talked about how hard it was to get it done in the first place
and why we were so determined to get it done.  It was for the people who
desperately needed it and had no alternatives and deserve to be treated
with, as my dad — the word — word he used most is: Everyone is entitled
to be treated with “dignity.”  Everyone.  And there’s no loss of your
dignity like not being able to take care of a child who’s sick or a wife
or a spouse, a husband. 

And countless Americans lie in bed at night staring up at the ceiling
wondering, “What happens — what happens if I get sick?  What happens if
I get prostate cancer and my wife gets breast cancer?  What do we do? 
How do we take care of the family?  Who’s going to pay for it?  What’s
going to happen?”  Thousands and thousands of Americans stare at that
ceiling.

So we did it with the idea that, in America, healthcare should be a
right, not a privilege.  And, well, with the help of the leaders here,
at a federal and state level, we began to make some good — good on the
proposition of fighting and defending and improving the Affordable Care
Act after it got passed. 

You know, if we can hold for a second here, remember — my colleagues
remember I was out of office one year as Vice President, at the end of
the term, in the 2018 elections. 

And you remember, the other team wanted to do away with Obamacare.  They
had scores of court cases, scores of votes to try to eliminate it.  But
what happened was a lot of people didn’t — Barack is kind of a humble
guy.  And I used to say to him after we won that Affordable Care fight —
I said, “We ought to take a victory lap, let people know what
happened.”  He said, “We don’t have time.  We don’t have time.” 

Well, guess what?  I went into 58 races that year to campaign where
there was an incumbent Republican and a Democrat running, and
(inaudible) Republicans who wanted to eliminate the Affordable Care
Act.  And what I pointed out was: If, in fact, that Republican won that
year and they took back the Congress, what was going to happen?  Anyone
with a preexisting condition could not get coverage again, not just
through the Affordable Care Act, but couldn’t get coverage in your
personal insurance you paid for. 

And all of a sudden, people went, “Whoa, we won 44 of those races.”  And
the one thing knowing they were going to eliminate — eliminate the idea
that if you have a preexisting condition, you couldn’t get coverage. 
You — now you can under the Affordable Care Act. 

Within the first months of my administration, we passed the landmark
American Rescue Plan, a law that not only helped us get COVID-19 under
control and our economy back on track, but got millions of people more —
people insured more — millions of people more insured under the
Affordable Care Act.

We made it easier for people to sign up for coverage in the middle of
the pandemic.  We opened a Special Enrollment Period and gave millions
of Americans more time to enroll in the Affordable Care Act. 

We quadrupled the number of navigators out in the communities helping
folks know how to sign up to get the coverage. 

And here in the Washington State, about 240,000 folks signed up for ACA
coverage just last year — an additional 240,000.  And we are continuing
to expand Medicaid in states.

You know, there are a total of 36 states who said we’re going to cover —
even though the federal government was saying we’re going to cover for
free in the beginning, and they have to eventually sign on to help pay
for it. 

Well, we added two more states.  That’s millions of people who have now
Medicaid coverage. 

Over 31 million Americans now have health insurance through the
Affordable Care Act.  And that includes — (applause).  And that includes
nearly 900,000 people across the state of Washington.

Four out of five Americans can find quality coverage for under $10 a
month on the Affordable Care Act.

We made it cheaper to purchase the premium plans under the Affordable
Care Act.  The average family today, since we passed that law in our
administration, are saving $2,400 on their annual premiums and getting
better coverage. 

That’s $200 savings every month, allowing them to have more money
available for other needs in their lives with inflation, with Putin’s
gas tax, with their groceries because of the loss of access to the wheat
fields in Russia and in Ukraine, prescription drugs, and other
necessities.  That $200 can make a difference in a month.

The bottom line is this: The Affordable Care Act is stronger now than
it’s ever been.  And we’re strengthening it even further.

Earlier this month, I signed an executive order directing the federal
agencies to continue doing everything they can in their power to expand
— to expand the quality of the affordable healthcare coverage.

This work builds on what we’ve done to end those surprise charges you
often see on medical bills, particularly at hospitals.  If any of you
have been hospitalized — I hope you haven’t had to, but if you’ve been
lately and you found out your coverage doesn’t cover a certain
particular doctor, you tend to get a surprise bill for a couple thousand
bucks because, without your knowledge, they had another doctor looking
at what was — what you needed to do.  No surprise bills anymore.  They
can’t do that.  They can’t do that.  No more surprise medical billing.

And separately, we’re fixing — (applause).  And separately, we’re fixing
what was referred to as the “family glitch”.  What — that is a common
issue facing 5 million Americans who can’t get financial help or get
coverage under the Affordable Care Act.

Here’s the problem: Under the current rules, a working mom is told that
as long as she can afford employer-based coverage herself, she can’t
qualify for premium subsidies in the Affordable Care Act to afford
coverage for the rest of her family.  And so, we changed that. 

We proposed that, starting next year, working families will get the help
they need to afford family coverage under the Affordable Care Act.  And
as a result, these families will save hundreds of dollars a month.

With this change, it’s estimated that 200,000 presently uninsured
Americans will gain coverage.  Nearly one million Americans — (applause)
— nearly one million Americans will see their coverage become more
affordable.  This is considered one of the best things — the biggest
thing my administration can do is lower costs and expand coverage.

We talked about — you know, I’ve talked about and it was mentioned by
several who spoke before me about just a little breathing room.

I was raised in a town in Delaware.  It was a nice neighborhood.  It was
four — a three-bedroom split-level home in a developing suburban area —
a housing development.  That — with four kids, a mom and a dad, and a
grandpop living with us.

And the walls were thin.  And you could hear — I remember, one day —
this is a true story — one day, I could — one night I hear my dad was
really restless getting up and down.  And I asked my mom the next
morning before I went to school what was wrong with Dad. 

She said, “They told him, honey, that they’re not going to cover
insurance any more in his job.”  Health insurance. 

Well, like I said, it’s about dignity.  It’s about worrying about your
family. 

So, we need to keep this fight up.  And Republicans and I — as you know,
I get criticized by the press because I’m not — I’m not partisan enough,
okay?

Well, this is not your father’s Republican Party, as I said.  They
continue to attack the Affordable Care Act and want to eliminate it. 
They’re unrelenting.  Multiple court challenges, sabotage from the
previous administration, over 70 attempts to repeal the law by
Republicans in Congress.  Seventy times.

In fact, just last month, Republican Senator Jon — excuse me, Ron
Johnson from Wisconsin said that if the Republicans get back in power
and take back the House and the Senate, they should repeal the
Affordable Care Act again.

Twelve years later, Republicans still haven’t stopped their attacks on
this lifesaving law.

So, pay close attention.  If they have their way, it means 100 million
Americans with a preexisting condition will once again be denied health
— be denied health coverage — not hyperbole; this is a fact — will be
denied healthcare coverage by their insurance companies.  That’s what
the law was before Obamacare. 

In addition, tens of millions of Americans could lose their coverage,
including young people, who will no longer be able to be covered by
their parents’ plans up to age 26.  Premiums are going to go through the
roof.  So, there’s a lot at stake.

Well, I’ve got a better idea: Instead of destroying

the Affordable Care Act, let’s keep building on it. 

Extend the American Rescue Plan subsidies that we’ve already passed,
allowing premiums and expanded coverage — lower premiums, expanded
coverage. 

Close the Medicaid coverage gap that locks nearly 4 million Americans
out of coverage just because they’re in states who refused to expand
Medicaid.

And let’s do something that will bring down prices, lower the cost of
prescription drugs.

Let me note parenthetically: The only thing that Medicare cannot
negotiate with healthcare providers on are drugs.  They can tell you
they’re only going to pay X amount of money for doctor visits, Y amount
of money for a particular operation, et cetera.  But the only thing they
can’t negotiate are prescription drugs, except for one area. 

We insisted a long time ago that the department that relates to the
military — you have a great guy running Veterans Affairs now.  Veterans
Affairs can say, “We’re not going to pay you any more than X or Y for
this particular drug.”  But you can’t do that for anything else —
Medicare can’t do that anywhere else.

In America, we pay the highest prescription drug cost

of any developed nation in the world.  That’s a fact.  It’s about two
and a half to three times higher than paid for the same exact drug, the
same manufacturer in other countries.

For example, the anti-cancer drug to treat leukemia and lymphoma costs
<s>$1,400</s> \[$14,000\] a month in the United States.  Some of you may
know that.  The same exact drug, the same exact company, same
distribution costs $6,000 — not $14,000 — in France.  Same company. 
American company.  Same exact amount.  It’s unconscionable. 

Today, one in four Americans who need prescription drugs struggle to
afford them.

Nearly 30 percent of people needing essential drugs — doses that they’re
supposed to take — 30 percent skipped their doses because they want to
extend life of the drug that they need.

Many people use over-the-counter drugs instead, and they cut pills in
half because they can’t afford them.  And there’s others who simply not
fill their prescriptions at all.

As I said, for God’s sake, this is the United States of America.  What
are we doing?  It’s simply wrong, especially since it doesn’t cost the
drug companies nearly as much to make the drug or the research that went
into it. 

There’s a system they have, noted in Germany and other countries, that
the drug company can charge — the price is set when they — when they, in
fact, try to bring the drug on market.  It’s like, in our case, the FDA
approve it.  And the way it works is: They go, “How much did you invest
to come up with the drug?  How much did you put in?”  And they allow a
healthy profit of 10, 20, 30, 40 percent and say, “That’s what you can
sell it for in our country unless you invest more to improve the drug
and show you put more into it.  Otherwise, it can’t go below the cost of
inflation.”

Look, the insulin we’re talking about: You know how much it makes —
costs to make that vial of insulin?  Ten dollars.  T-E-N.  Ten dollars
to treat diabetes.  Ten dollars.  A condition that affects millions of
Americans, including a congresswoman.

Look, some families have to pay hundreds of dollars a month, some even
over a thousand dollars.  The average cost is $863 a month — or, excuse
me, $683 a month for lifesaving insulin. 

You just heard Elisa and <s>Julia</s> \[Juliana\] talk about trying to
afford insulin and treat the Type 1 diabetes.

Imagine what it’s like if you don’t have insurance and you don’t have
the cash to look at your child, knowing what they need and knowing
there’s not a damn thing you can do about it. 

Not only is your child put in jeopardy, you’re deprived of your
dignity.  How do you look at your child and deal with it?  There’s no
excuse.  None.  We’re not asking drug companies to do anything that they
can’t afford.  And if you think it doesn’t affect you, it does. 

Everyone has less money in their pocket today because of the high cost
of healthcare.  Over the past decade, healthcare costs have gone up 50
percent, and a major reason of that increase is the cost of the drugs in
healthcare.

Folks, while we may not agree on everything, I think it’s safe to say
that all of us, whatever our background, our age, where we live, agree
that prescription drugs are outrageously expensive.

So, here’s what I’m proposing — (applause).

I met with the 12 largest drug manufacturers when I did the initiative
the Pres- — the last President, Obama, when I was Vice President,
allowed me to do to deal with the cost of this.  And I met with them. 
And I said — they said, “What if you find the cure for a particular
drug?  What should you be able to charge for a major cancer facility?” 
They said, “Whatever the market will bear.” 

I said, “No.”  I said, “Here’s the deal — here’s what I think you should
do: If you have to spend millions of dollars, you should be able to
recoup everything you put into it.  But if it’s way beyond the cost of
the average American, the federal government should step up and
compensate you for it so that the — in fact, the American people can
still have lifesaving drugs.”

So, here’s what I’m proposing, with the help of the members of Congress:

First, let’s cap the cost of insulin at $35 a month.  That still means —
it costs them $10 — three and a half times as much it costs them. 
(Applause.) 

Second, let’s end the days when companies could increase prices with no
oversight and no accountability.

If drug companies increase their prices faster than the rate of
inflation, they should have to face a steep tax.  We’re saying that — by
the way, we wouldn’t let utility companies do it.  Utilities can’t, all
of a sudden, raise their cost of the utilities you’re paying.  We’re
saying, “Drug companies, you are finally going to be held accountable
when you raise prices for the American people.”  You should be able to
make a significant profit, but not gouge. 

Third, let’s cap the amount that seniors on Medicare

have to spend for prescription drugs each year. 

If you’re on Medicare, you won’t have to spend more than $2,000 out of
pocket, which is a lot of money, and that’s no more than $170 a month no
matter how many prescriptions you’re taking, because Medicare will take
up the rest.  (Applause.) 

Drug companies, insurance companies, Medicare would pick up the rest of
the cost.

And finally, let’s give Medicare the power to negotiate

prescription drug prices.  For every other type of healthcare —
(applause) — uses it to leverage lower prices for American seniors. 

But for prescription drugs, the only prescription drugs

Medicare is prohibited by law from negotiating to get the best deal for
seniors.

And by the way, it doesn’t put the drug company — we’re just saying
we’re not going to — Medicare is not going to buy it.  They’re not going
to buy it beyond a certain price. 

It doesn’t mean you can’t continue to manufacture and ask a billion
dollars for it.  But the federal government is not going to pay for it.

It’s long past time we get rid of these absurd limitations.  Let
Medicare negotiate pri- — fair prices that reflect the cost of research
and development and the need for a significant profit but also
affordable for seniors.

Let me close with this: I grew up in family where if prices went up for
things that were daily requirements like the gallon of gasoline, it
became a discussion at the kitchen table.  It mattered.  It was always
on the margins.  We felt it.

That’s why I’m so focused on doing everything I can to lower the cost of
gas and energy, and accelerate our transition to clean energy.  I also
know there are other basic needs that affect the standard of living for
most families.

I was a single dad, as I said, for five years.  I couldn’t afford
childcare.  No way I could.  But I had a sister and a brother.  We have
an expression in my family — for real, not a joke — “If you have to ask,
it’s too late.”  Think about what that means. 

So, when my wife and daughter were killed and the boys came home from
the hospital, I found out my sister and her husband had already moved
into my house.  I had bought a — I had purchased an old farmhouse — a
colonial farmhouse in northern Delaware.  And it had a little barn on it
as well.  It was only a couple acres. 

My brother came in and spent money changing the barn and the — the
upstairs of the barn into an apartment.  My brother and sister moved
in. 

I’d dropped my kids off every morning when I’d go to the train station
with my mom. 

But look, as I said, I had a good job.  How do people make it? 

But I know childcare is hard.  It costs a lot of money.  That’s why,
with your members of Congress — led by Patty, who’s an absolute leader
on this — I want to cap the child- — the ch- — the cost of childcare for
families making under $125,000 to 7 percent of your income.  (Applause.)

We can do these things without raising taxes a penny to anyone, as I
said, making over — under 400,000 bucks. 

The bottom line is this: When I was running for the President, you heard
me say a thousand times — you probably got tired of it, and you’re tired
of it now — that we’re going to build this economy around you, the
American middle class.  We’re going to — because when the middle class
does well, the poor have a way up and the wealthy do very well.  They
never hurt when the middle class is doing well. 

And we’re going to deal in people and the places that have been left out
and left behind.  And we’re making progress.

Over the course of my presidency — so far, 14 months — we’ve created 7.9
million good-paying jobs.  More jobs created in 14 months than any
presidency in a year ever.  (Applause.)

The unemployment rate is 3.6 percent, down from 6.4 percent when I took
office.  The fastest decline in unemployment at the start of any
presidency ever recorded.

Washington State, you’ve added 218,000 jobs, and unemployment dropped
from 6.3 to 4.2 percent.

Last year, in 2021, we cut — (applause) — and all this was going on.  We
cut the deficit.  You know, my — all my friends talk about how they care
about the deficit?  We cut it $350 billion last year.  (Applause.)

And this year, in 2022, we’re on track to cut the deficit by more than —
I want — mark it down because you’ll — you’ll remind me of this — by
$1.3 trillion — 1.3.  (Applause.)  If that stays on course, it’d be the
largest one-year reduction of a deficit in history.

This is particularly important now as we work to reduce pressure on
inflation.  From Washington State to all across America, we’ve gone from
“on the mend” to “on the move.”

We’re coming at our — at our challenges from a position of strength.

I’m more optimistic.  I’m more optimistic about America today than I’ve
been in my whole life and my whole career, because I fee- — see a future
that’s within our grasp.

We’re the only nation on Earth — think about this now — we’re the only
nation on Earth that has always come out of every crisis we’ve ever met
stronger than when we went in it.  No other nation in the world can say
that.  It’s because of you, because of the ingenuity and determination
of the American people.

We’ve — we’ve — we’ve just looked at opportunity and seized it.  That’s
exactly what we’re doing today.

So as my Grandfather Finnegan used to say, “With the grace of God and
the goodwill of the neighbors and the crick not rising, we’re going to
do well.” 

It’s going to be hard for a while getting through the cost of gasoline
and energy because of Putin and the war, but we’re going to do it.

And with your help — and I say to all the folks who are students here, I
wish you well.  We need you badly.  You’re — and the reason I’m so
optimistic — think about it — you are the least prejudiced, the most
involved, the most concerned generation in American history.  You really
are.  (Applause.) 

So, thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.

God bless you all.  Appreciate it.  Thanks.  (Applause.)

1:54 P.M. PDT
