---
date: '2022-04-08'
modified_time: 2022-04-08 16:07:05-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-08 16:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/08/remarks-by-president-biden-vice-president-harris-and-judge-ketanji-brown-jackson-on-the-senates-historic-bipartisan-confirmation-of-judge-jackson-to-be-an-associate-justice-of-the-supreme-court/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden, Vice President Harris, and Judge Ketanji Brown\
  \ Jackson on the Senate\u2019s Historic, Bipartisan Confirmation of Judge Jackson\
  \ to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme\_Court"
---
 
South Lawn

12:33 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good morning.  Good morning.  (Applause.)  Good
morning, America.  (Laughs.)  Have a seat, please. 

President Joe Biden, First Lady Dr. Jill Biden, Second Gentleman Douglas
Emhoff, members of Congress, members of the Cabinet, members of our
administration, and friends and fellow Americans: Today is, indeed, a
wonderful day — (applause) — as we gather to celebrate the confirmation
of the next justice of the United States Supreme Court, Judge Ketanji
Brown Jackson.  (Applause.)

President George Washington once referred to America as a “great
experiment” — a nation founded on the previously untested belief that
the people — we, the people — could form a more perfect union.  And that
belief has pushed our nation forward for generations.  And it is that
belief that we reaffirmed yesterday — (applause) — through the
confirmation of the first Black woman to the United States Supreme
Court.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Whoa!  It’s about time! 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And, Judge Jackson, you will inspire generations of
leaders.  They will watch your confirmation hearings and read your
decisions.

In the years to come, the Court will answer fundamental questions about
who we are and what kind of country we live in: Will we expand
opportunity or restrict it?  Will we strengthen the foundations of our
great democracy or let them crumble?  Will we move forward or backward?

The young leaders of our nation will learn from the experience, the
judgment, the wisdom that you, Judge Jackson, will apply in every case
that comes before you.  And they will see, for the first time, four
women sitting on that Court at one time.  (Applause.) 

So, as a point of personal privilege, I will share with you, Judge
Jackson, that when I presided over the Senate confirmation vote
yesterday, while I was sitting there, I drafted a note to my
goddaughter.  And I told her that I felt such a deep sense of pride and
joy and about what this moment means for our nation and for her future. 
And I will tell you, her braids are just a little longer than yours. 
(Laughter.) 

But as I wrote to her, I told her what I knew this would mean for her
life and all that she has in terms of potential. 

So, indeed, the road toward our more perfect union is not always
straight, and it is not always smooth.  But sometimes it leads to a day
like today — (applause) — a day that reminds us what is possible — what
is possible when progress is made and that the journey — well, it will
always be worth it. 

So let us not forget that, as we celebrate this day, we are also here in
great part because of one President, Joe Biden — (applause) — and —
(laughs) — and because of Joe Biden’s vision and leadership and
commitment — a lifelong commitment — to building a better America.

And, of course, we are also here because of the voices and the support
of so many others, many of whom are in this audience today.

And with that, it is now my extreme and great honor to introduce our
President, Joe Biden.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Kamala.  Thank you, thank you, thank you. 
The first really smart decision I made in this administration. 
(Laughter.)

My name is Joe Biden.  Please, sit down.  I’m Jill’s husband —
(laughter) — and Naomi Biden’s grandfather.

And, folks, you know, yesterday — this is not only a sunny day.  I mean
this from the bottom of my heart: This is going to let so much shine —
sun shine on so many young women, so many young Black women — (applause)
— so many minorities, that it’s real.  It’s real. 

We’re going to look back — nothing to do with me — we’re going to look
back and see this as a moment of real change in American history.

I was on the phone this morning, Jesse, with President Ramaphosa of
South Africa.  And he was talking about how — the time that I was so
outspoken about what was going on and my meeting with Nelson Mandela
here.  And I said, “You know” — I said, “I’m shortly going to go out,”
look- — I’m looking out the window — “I’m going to go out in this — what
they call the South Lawn of the White House, and I’m going to introduce
to the world — to the world — the first African American woman out of
over 200 judges on the Supreme Court.”  And he said to me — he said,
“Keep it up.”  (Laughter.)  “Keep it up.”  (Applause.) We’re going to
keep it up.

And, folks, yesterday we all witnessed a truly historic moment presided
over by the Vice President.  There are moments, if people go back in
history, and they’re literally historic, consequential, fundamental
shifts in American policy.

Today, we’re joined by the First Lady, the Second Gentleman, and members
of the Cabinet, the Senate Majority Leader.  Where — there you are,
Chuck.  The Senate Majority Leader.  And so many who made this possible.

But — and today is a good day, a day that history is going to remember. 
And in the years to come, they’re going to be proud of what we did, and
which (inaudible) — Dick Durbin did as the chairman of the committee. 
(Applause.)  I’m serious, Dick.  I’m deadly earnest when I say that.

To turn to our children and grandchildren and say, “I was there.”  “I
was there.”  That — this is one of those moments, in my view.

My fellow Americans, today I’m honored to officially introduce to you
the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States,
Ketanji Brown Jackson.  (Applause.) 

After more than 20 hours of questioning at her hearing and nearly 100
meetings — she made herself available to every single senator who wanted
to speak to her and spoke for more than just a few minutes, answered
their questions, in private as well as before the committee — we all saw
the kind of justice she’ll be: Fair and impartial.  Thoughtful. 
Careful.  Precise.  Precise.  Brilliant.  A brilliant legal mind with
deep knowledge of the law.  And a judicial temperament — which was
equally important, in my view — that’s calm and in command.  And a
humility that allows so many Americans to see themselves in Ketanji
Brown Jackson. 

That brings a rare combination of expertise and qualifications to the
Court.  A federal judge who has served on the second most powerful court
in America behind the Supreme Court.  A former federal public defender
with the — (applause) — with the ability to explain complicated issues
in the law in ways everybody — all people — can understand.  A new
perspective. 

When I made the commitment to nominate a Black woman to the Supreme
Court, I could see this day.  I literally could see this day, because I
thought about it for a long, long time.  As Jill and Naomi would tell
you, I wasn’t going to run again.  But when I decided to run, this was
one of the first decisions I made.  I could see it.  I could see it as a
day of hope, a day of promise, a day of progress; a day when, once
again, the moral arc of the universe, as Barack used to quote all the
time, bends just a little more toward justice. 

I knew it wouldn’t be easy, but I knew the person I nominated would be
put through a painful and difficult confirmation process.  But I have to
tell you, what Judge Jackson was put through was well beyond that. 
There was verbal abuse.  The anger.  The constant interruptions.  The
most vile, baseless assertions and accusations. 

In the face of it all, Judge Jackson showed the incredible character and
integrity she possesses.  (Applause.)  Poise.  Poise and composure. 
Patience and restraint.  And, yes, perseverance and even joy. 
(Applause.)  Even joy. 

Ketanji — or I can’t — I’m not going to be calling you that in public
anymore.  (Laughter.)  Judge, you are the very definition of what we
Irish refer to as dignity.  You have enormous dignity.  And it
communicates to people.  It’s contagious.  And it matters.  It matters a
lot.

Maybe that’s not surprising if you looked to who sat behind her during
those hearings — her husband Dr. Patrick Jackson and his family. 
(Applause.)  Patrick, stand up, man.  Stand up.  (Applause.)  Talia and
Leila, stand up.  (Applause.)  I know it’s embarrassing the girls.  I’m
going to tell you what Talia said.  I said to Talia, “It’s hard being
the daughter or the son of a famous person.”  I said, “Imagine what it’s
like being President.”  And he said — she said, “She may be.”  (Laughter
and applause.)  I couldn’t agree more.  Thank you.  Thank you, thank
you, thank you. 

And Ketajh, her brother, a former police officer and a veteran.  Ketajh,
stand up, man.  (Applause.)  This a man who looks like he can still
play, buddy.  He’s got biceps about as big as my calves.  (Laughter.) 
Thank you, bud.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.

And, of course, her parents: Johnny and Ellery Brown.  Johnny and
Ellery, stand up.  (Applause.)  I tell you what — as I told Mom: Moms
rule in my house.  (Laughter.)  No, you think I’m kidding.  I’m not.  My
mom and my wife as well.

Look, people of deep faith, with a deep love of family and country —
that’s what you represent; who know firsthand, Mom and Dad, the
indignity of Jim Crow, the inhumanity of legal segregation, and you had
overcome so much in your own lives. 

You saw the strength of parents in the strength of their daughter that
is just worth celebrating.  I can’t get over, Mom and Dad — you know, I
mean, what — what you did, and your faith, and never giving up any
hope.  And both that wonderful son you have and your daughter.

You know, and that strength lifted up millions of Americans who watched
you, Judge Jackson, especially women and women of color who have had to
run the gauntlet in their own lives.  So many of my Cabinet members are
women — women of color, women that represent every sector of the
community.  And it matters.  And you stood up for them as well.  They
know it — everybody out there, every woman out there, everyone —
(applause) — am I correct?  Just like they have.  Just like they have.

And same with the women members of Congress, as well, across the board.

Look, it’s a powerful thing when people can see themselves in others. 
Think about that.  What’s the most powerful thing — I’ll bet every one
of you can go back and think of a time in your life where there was a
teacher, a family member, a neighbor — somebody — somebody who made you
believe that you could be whatever you wanted to be.  It’s a powerful,
powerful, powerful notion. 

And that’s one of the reasons I believed so strongly that we needed a
Court that looks like America.  Not just the Supreme Court. 
(Applause.) 

That’s why I’m proud to say, with the great help of Dick Durbin, I’ve
nominated more Black women judges to the federal appeal courts than all
previous presidents combined.  (Applause.)  Combined. 

And that’s why I’m proud that Kamala Harris is our Vice President of the
United States.  (Applause.)  A brilliant lawyer.  The Attorney General
of the State of California.  Former member of the Senate Judiciary
Committee.  Kamala was invaluable during this entire process. 
(Applause.)

And, Chuck, our Majority Leader, I want to thank you, pal.  You did a
masterful job in keeping the caucus together,  getting this vote across
the finish line in a timely and historic manner.  Just watching it on
television yesterday, watching when the vote was taken — and the
Democratic side, they’re brave people — there was such enthusiasm,
genuine.  You can tell when it’s real.  You can tell when it’s real. 
You did an incredible job, Chuck.  Thank you so much.  (Applause.) 

Folks, because you’re all able to sit down and don’t have to stand, I’m
going to go on a little longer here and tell you — (laughter) — I want
to say something about Dick Durbin again.  Dick, I’m telling you,
overseeing the hearing, how you executed the strategy by the hour, every
day, to keep the committee together.  And you have a very divided
committee with some of the most conservative members of the Senate on
that committee.  It was especially difficult with an evenly divided
Senate. 

Dick, I served as chairman of that committee for a number of years
before I had this job and the job of Vice President.  As did all the
Democrats, you did an outstanding — I think all the Democrats in the
committee did and every Democrat in the Senate, all of whom voted for
Judge Jackson. 

And notwithstanding the harassment and attacks in the hearings, I always
believed that a bipartisan vote was possible.  And I hope I don’t get
him in trouble — I mean it sincerely — but I want to thank three
Republicans who voted for Judge Jackson.  (Applause.)  Senators Collins,
who’s a woman of integrity.  Senator Murkowski, the same way — in Alaska
— and up for reelection.  And Mitt Romney, whose dad stood up like he
did.  His dad stood up and made these decisions on civil rights. 

They deserve enormous credit for setting aside partisanship and making a
carefully considered judgment based on the Judge’s character,
qualifications, and independence.  And I truly admire the respect,
diligence, and hard work they demonstrated in the course of the
process. 

As someone who has overseen, they tell me, more Supreme Court
nominations than anyone who’s alive today, I believe that respect for
the process is important.  And that’s why it was so important to me to
meet the constitutional requirement to seek the advice and the consent
of the Senate.  The advice beforehand and the consent. 

Judge Jackson started the nominating process with an imper- — an
impressive range of support: from the FOP to civil rights leaders; even
Republican-appointed judges came forward. 

In fact, Judge Jackson was introduced at the hearing by Judge Thomas
Griffith, the distinguished retired judge appointed by George W. Bush. 

She finished the hearing with among the highest levels of support of the
American people of any nomination in recent memory.  (Applause.)

So, soon, Judge Jackson will join the United States Supreme Court.  And
like every justice, the decisions she makes will impact on the lives of
America for a lot longer, in many cases, than any laws we all make.  But
the truth is: She’s already impacting the lives of so many Americans. 

During the hearing, Dick spoke about a custodial worker who works the
night shift at the Capitol.  Her name is Verona Clemmons.  Verona, where
are you?  Stand up, Verona.  I want to — (applause) — if you don’t
mind. 

She told him what this nomination meant to her.  So he invited Ms.
Clemmons to attend the hearing because she wanted to see, hear, and
stand by Judge Jackson. 

Thank you, Verona.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you, thank you.

At her meeting with Judge Jackson, Senator Duckworth introduced her to
11-year-old — is it Vivian? 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Vivienne.

THE PRESIDENT:  *Vi-vinne*? 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Vivienne. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Vivienne.  I’m sorry, Vivienne.  There — that’s her —
that’s your sister.  He’s point- — (laughter) — who was so inspired by
the hearing that she wants to be a Supreme Court justice when she grows
up.  (Applause.)  God love you.  Stand up, honey.  Am I going to
embarrass you if I just ask you to stand up?  Come on, stand. 
(Applause.) 

There’s tens of thousands of Viviennes all through the entire United
States.  She met Judge Jackson and saw her future.  Vivienne, you’re
here today, and thank you for coming, honey.  I know I embarrassed you
by introducing you, but thank you. 

People of every generation, of every race, of every background felt this
moment, and they feel it now.  They feel a sense of pride and hope, of
belonging and believing, and knowing the promise of America includes
everybody — all of us.  And that’s the American experiment. 

Justice Breyer talked about it when he came to the White House in
January to announce his retirement from the Court.  He used to
technically work with me when I was on the Judiciary Committee, and
that’s before he became a justice.  He’s a man of great integrity. 
We’re going to miss Justice Breyer.  He’s a patriot, an extraordinary
public <s>service</s> \[servant\], and a great justice of the Supreme
Court.

And, folks — (applause) — let me close with what I’ve long said: America
is a nation that can be defined in a single word.  I was in the foothi-
— foot- — excuse me, in the foothills of the Himalayas with Xi Jinping,
traveling with him.  (Inaudible) traveled 17,000 miles when I was Vice
President at the time.  I don’t know that for a fact. 

And we were sitting alone.  I had an interpreter and he had an
interpreter.  And he looked at me.  In all seriousness, he said, “Can
you define America for me?”  And I said what many of you heard me say
for a long time.  I said, “Yes, I can, in one word: possibilities.” 
(Applause.)  “Possibilities.”  That, in America, everyone should be able
to go as far as their hard work and God-given talent will take them. 
And possibilities.  We’re the only ones.  That’s why we’re viewed as the
“ugly Americans”: We think anything is possible.  (Laughter.)  

And the idea that a young girl who was dissuaded from even thinking you
should apply to Harvard Law School — “Don’t raise your hopes so high.” 
Well, I don’t know who told you that, but I’d like to go back and invite
her to the Supreme Court so she can see the interior.  (Laughter.) 

Look, even Supreme Court of the United States of America. 

Now, folks, it’s my honor — and it truly is an honor; I’ve been looking
forward to it for a while — to introduce to you the next Associate
Justice of the United States Supreme Court, the Honorable Ketanji Brown
Jackson.  (Applause.)

JUDGE JACKSON:  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you all. 
Thank you, all, very much.  Thank you. 

Thank you so much, Mr. President.  It is the greatest honor of my life
to be here with you at this moment, standing before my wonderful family,
many of my close friends, your distinguished staff and guests, and the
American people.

Over these past few weeks, you’ve heard a lot from me and about me, so I
hope to use this time primarily to do something that I have not had
sufficient time to do, which is to extend my heartfelt thanks to the
many, many people who have helped me as part of this incredible
journey. 

I have quite a few people to thank.  And — and as I’m sure you can
imagine, in this moment, it is hard to find the words to express the
depth of my gratitude. 

First, as always, I have to give thanks to God for delivering me as
promised — (applause) — and for sustaining me throughout this nomination
and confirmation process.  As I said at the outset, I have come this far
by faith, and I know that I am truly blessed.  To the many people who
have lifted me up in prayer since the nomination, thank you.  I am very
grateful. 

Thank you, as well, Mr. President, for believing in me and for honoring
me with this extraordinary chance to serve our country. 

Thank you also, Madam Vice President, for your wise counsel and steady
guidance. 

And thank you to the First Lady and the Second Gentleman for the care
and warmth that you have shown me and my family. 

I would also like to extend my thanks to each member of the Senate.  You
have fulfilled the important constitutional role of providing advice and
consent under the leadership of Majority Leader Schumer.  And I’m
especially grateful for the work of the members of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, under Chairman Durbin’s skillful leadership.  (Applause.) 

As you may have heard, during the confirmation process, I had the
distinct honor of having 95 personal meetings with 97 sitting senators. 
(Laughter.)  And we had substantive and engaging conversations about my
approach to judging and about the role of judges in the constitutional
system we all love. 

As a brief aside, I will note that these are subjects about which I care
deeply.  I have dedicated my career to public service because I love
this country and our Constitution and the rights that make us free. 

I also understand from my many years of practice as a legal advocate, as
a trial judge, and as a judge on a court of appeals that part of the
genius of the constitutional framework of the United States is its
design, and that the framers entrusted the judicial branch with the
crucial but limited role.

I’ve also spent the better part of the past decade hearing thousands of
cases and writing hundreds of opinions.  And in every instance, I have
done my level best to stay in my lane and to reach a result that is
consistent with my understanding of the law and with the obligation to
rule independently without fear or favor.

I am humbled and honored to continue in this fashion as an Associate
Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, working with
brilliant colleagues, supporting and defending the Constitution, and
steadfastly upholding the rule of law.  (Applause.)

But today, at this podium, my mission is far more modest. I’m simply
here to give my heartfelt thanks to the categories of folks who are
largely responsible for me being here at this moment. 

First, of course, there is my family.  Mom and Dad, thank you not only
for traveling back here on what seems like a mos- — moment’s notice, but
for everything you’ve done and continue to do for me. 

My brother, Ketajh, is here as well.  You’ve always been an inspiration
to me as a model of public service and bravery, and I thank you for
that. 

I love you all very much.  (Applause.)

To my in-laws, Pamela and Gardner Jackson, who are here today, and my
sisters-in-law and brothers-in-law, William and Dana, Gardie and
Natalie: Thank you for your love and support.

To my daughters, Talia and Leila: I bet you never thought you’d get to
skip school by spending a day at the White House.  (Laughter.)  This is
all pretty exciting for me as well.  But nothing has brought me greater
joy than being your mother.  I love you very much.  (Applause.)

Patrick, thank you for everything you’ve done for me over these past 25
years of our marriage.  You’ve done everything to support and encourage
me.  And it is you who’ve made this moment possible.  (Applause.) 

Your — your steadfast love gave me the courage to move in this
direction.  I don’t know that I believed you when you said that I could
do this, but now I do.  (Laughter and applause.)  And for that, I am
forever grateful.

In the family category, let me also briefly mention the huge extended
family, both Patrick’s and my own, who are watching this from all over
the country and the world.  Thank you for supporting me.  I hope to be
able to connect with you personally in the coming weeks and months.

Moving on briefly to the second category of people that warrant special
recognition: those who provided invaluable support to me professionally
in the decades prior to my nomination, and the many, many friends I have
been privileged to make throughout my life and career.

Now, I know that everyone who finds professional success thinks they
have the best mentors, but I truly do.  (Laughter.)  I have three
inspiring jurists for whom I had the privilege of clerking: Judge Patti
Saris, Judge Bruce Selya, and, of course, Justice Stephen Breyer.  Each
of them is an exceptional public servant, and I could not have had
better role models for thoughtfulness, integrity, honor, and principle,
both by word and deed.

My clerkship with Justice Breyer, in particular, was an extraordinary
gift and one for which I’ve only become more grateful with each passing
year.  Justice Breyer’s commitment to an independent, impartial
judiciary is unflagging.  And, for him, the rule of law is not merely a
duty, it is his passion.  I am daunted by the prospect of having to
follow in his footsteps.  And I would count myself lucky, indeed, to be
able to do so with even the smallest amount of his wisdom, grace, and
joy.

The exceptional mentorship of the judges for whom I clerked has proven
especially significant for me during this past decade of my service as a
federal judge.  And, of course, that service itself has been a unique
opportunity.  For that, I must also thank President Obama, who put his
faith in me by nominating me to my first judicial role on the federal
district court.  (Applause.) 

This brings me to my colleagues and staff of the federal district court
in Washington, D.C., and the D.C. Circuit: Thank you for everything.  I
am deeply grateful for your wisdom and your battle-tested friendship
through the years.

I also want to extend a special thanks to all of my law clerks, many of
whom are here today, who have carved out time and space to accompany me
on this professional journey. 

I’m especially grateful to Jennifer Gruda, who has been by my side since
nearly the outset of my time on the bench — (applause) — and has
promised — has promised not to leave me as we take this last big step. 

To the many other friends that I have had the great, good fortune to
have made throughout the years — from my neighborhood growing up; from
Miami Palmetto Senior High School, and especially the debate team; from
my days at Harvard College, where I met my indefatigable and beloved
roommates, Lisa Fairfax, Nina Coleman Simmons, and Antoinette Sequeira
Coakley — they are truly my sisters.  (Applause.) 

To my time at Harvard Law School and the many professional experiences
that I’ve been blessed to have since graduation: Thank you. 

I have too many friends to name, but please know how much you’ve meant
to me and how much I have appreciated the smiles, the hugs, and the many
“atta girls” that have propelled me forward to this day.

Finally, I’d like to give special thanks to the White House staff and
the special assistants who provided invaluable assistance in helping me
to navigate the confirmation process.

My trusted sherpa, Senator Doug Jones, was an absolute godsend. 
(Applause.)  He was an absolute godsend.  He’s not only the best
storyteller you’d ever want to meet, but also unbelievably popular on
the Hill, which helped a lot.  (Laughter.) 

I’m also standing here today in no small part due to the hard work of
the brilliant folks who interact with the legislature and other
stakeholders on behalf of the White House, including Louisa Terrell,
Reema Dodin, and Tona Boyd, Minyon Moore, Ben LaBolt, and Andrew Bates. 
(Applause.) 

I am also particularly grateful for the awe-inspiring leadership of
White House Counsel Dana Remus.  (Applause.)  Of Paige Herwig.  Where is
Paige?  (Applause.)  And Ron Klain.  (Applause.) 

They led an extraordinarily talented team of White House staffers in the
Herculean effort that was required to ensure that I was well prepared
for the rigors of this process and in record time.  Thank you all. 
(Applause.) 

Thank you, as well, to the many, many kind-hearted people from all over
this country and around the world who’ve reached out to me directly in
recent weeks with messages of support.

I have spent years toiling away in the relative solitude of my chambers,
with just my law clerks, in isolation.  So, it’s been somewhat
overwhelming, in a good way, to recently be flooded with thousands of
notes and cards and photos expressing just how much this moment means to
so many people.

The notes that I’ve received from children are particularly cute and
especially meaningful because, more than anything, they speak directly
to the hope and promise of America. 

It has taken 232 years and 115 prior appointments for a Black woman to
be selected to serve on the Supreme Court of the United States. 
(Applause.) 

But we’ve made it.  (Applause.)  We’ve made it, all of us.  All of us. 

And — and our children are telling me that they see now, more than ever,
that, here in America, anything is possible.  (Applause.) 

They also tell me that I’m a role model, which I take both as an
opportunity and as a huge responsibility.  I am feeling up to the task,
primarily because I know that I am not alone.  I am standing on the
shoulders of my own role models, generations of Americans who never had
anything close to this kind of opportunity but who got up every day and
went to work believing in the promise of America, showing others through
their determination and, yes, their perseverance that good — good things
can be done in this great country — from my grandparents on both sides
who had only a grade-school education but instilled in my parents the
importance of learning, to my parents who went to racially segregated
schools growing up and were the first in their families to have the
chance to go to college.

I am also ever buoyed by the leadership of generations past who helped
to light the way: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Justice Thurgood Marshall,
and my personal heroine, Judge Constance Baker Motley.  (Applause.) 

They, and so many others, did the heavy lifting that made this day
possible.  And for all of the talk of this historic nomination and now
confirmation, I think of them as the true pathbreakers.  I am just the
very lucky first inheritor of the dream of liberty and justice for all. 
(Applause.) 

To be sure, I have worked hard to get to this point in my career, and I
have now achieved something far beyond anything my grandparents could’ve
possibly ever imagined.  But no one does this on their own.  The path
was cleared for me so that I might rise to this occasion. 

And in the poetic words of Dr. Maya Angelou, I do so now, while
“bringing the gifts…my ancestors gave.”  (Applause.)  I –“I am the dream
and the hope of the slave.”  (Applause.) 

So as I take on this new role, I strongly believe that this is a moment
in which all Americans can take great pride.

We have come a long way toward perfecting our union.

In my family, it took just one generation to go from segregation to the
Supreme Court of the United States.  (Applause.) 

And it is an honor — the honor of a lifetime — for me to have this
chance to join the Court, to promote the rule of law at the highest
level, and to do my part to carry our shared project of democracy and
equal justice under law forward, into the future.

Thank you, again, Mr. President and members of the Senate for this
incredible honor.  (Applause.) 

1:15 P.M. EDT
