---
date: '2022-04-20'
published_time: 2022-04-20 18:23:56-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/20/remarks-by-president-biden-before-meeting-with-the-secretary-of-defense-deputy-secretary-of-defense-joint-chiefs-of-staff-and-combatant-commanders/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Meeting with the Secretary of Defense,\
  \ Deputy Secretary of Defense, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Combatant\_Commanders"
---
 
Cabinet Room

4:28 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Secretary Austin, Deputy Secretary Hicks, and
General Milley, my — and all our other outstanding military leaders
around this Cabinet table: I’m honored to welcome you to the White
House.  And I really mean it — I’m honored to welcome you to the White
House. 

Above all, I want to thank each of you for your dedication to the
service of this country and your members, families, and the longstanding
service that you’ve all put in.

I also want to recognize the groundbreaking nature of this gathering. 
For the first time in the proud history of the Armed Forces, we not only
have highly — highly quai- — hali- — a highly qualified woman as Vice
President, but as Deputy Secretary of Defense and two women combatant
commanders.  And it’s an important milestone, I think, that speaks to
how we’re harnessing the strength and diversity of our country in making
sure women succeed in the military and throughout their careers.

As I said when I got elected — and I didn’t think people thought I meant
it — but my administration is going to look like America.  And I mean
that sincerely.  Not just in the military, but across the board.  That’s
where our strength comes from, in my view.

And today, I want to hear from all of you on your assessments on what
you’re seeing in the field and across our forces. 

And the strategic environment is evolving rapidly in the world, but that
means our plans and force posture have to be equally dynamic.  Things
are changing.  And, you know, ensuring that — the security of the
American people, our interests, and the interests of our Allies means
having to constantly adapt to anything and everything that’s happening
around the world.

And we’re seeing this very day the need for adapt — adaptation as a
consequence of our standing with Ukraine against Putin’s brutal and
unjustified war.

And I want to applaud the exceptional work you’re doing to arm and equip
brave Ukrainians that defend their nation.  I don’t know about you, but
I’ve been to Ukraine a number of times before the war.  I’ve spoken to
the Rada.  I was deeply involved in what was going on in Ukraine.  And I
knew they were tough and proud, but I tell you what: They’re tougher and
more proud than I thought.  I’m amazed what they’re doing with your
help, in terms of providing advice and — and weaponry we’re providing,
along with the rest of NATO.  
  
Weapons and ammunition are flowing in daily.  And we’re seeing just how
vital our alliances and partnerships are around the world.   
  
Our Allies are stepping up, amplifying the impact of our response.  And
NATO is united, focused, and energized as it’s ever been.   
  
When I was a kid in the United States Senate in my 30s and in my 40s, I
was chairman of the NATO subcommittee — the Foreign Relations
Committee.  I — not because of me or any particular thing, but I’ve
never seen NATO as united.  I know all the — I — I’m confident, in my
view, just — this was Biden speaking — that I don’t think that Putin
counted on being able to hold us together. 

And I’ve spoken well over 150 times to our NATO Allies, either — like,
yesterday, there were four- — how many on —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Twelve of them.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  How many?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Twelve.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Twelve, yesterday for a couple hours.  They — they are —
they’re — they’re stepping up.   
  
And the same is true of the Indo-Pacific, where our allies are the
foundation for the future we want to see in that vital region of the
world.   
  
Your central, indispensable mission to deter aggression from all our
enemies, if required, is — is on display, and to fight, to win wars
remain critical to American power.  
  
And as Commander-in-Chief, I — I rely on your advice and maintain our —
to maintain our military edge and remain the ultimate guarantor of
America’s security.  
  
Quite frankly, even though I’ve been Vice President for 8 years and a
senator for 36, I didn’t fully appreciate that — how the rest of the
world literally looks to us as the leader of the free world.  I mean,
looks to us in very precise, specific ways.  And something you all
fully, fully understand.  
  
And I rely, as I said, on your device — your advice and your ability to
maintain our military edge.  
  
And, you know, in return, I promise you — and I hope it’s been
demonstrated since I’ve been President — that we as a nation will uphold
the sacred duty we have and we owe you, our military men and women, to
prepare, properly equip you before we send you into harm’s way.  And
when we do, to care for those and your family when you come home.  And
that’s why we’re doing so much at the — at the Veterans Affairs as
well.  It’s a — it’s a — it’s a sacred obligation.   
  
And so, I want to thank you all again.  I’m looking forward to our
discussion. 

And I thank the press for coming in.  Thank you.  
  
4:34 P.M. EDT
