---
date: '2022-04-21'
modified_time: 2022-04-22 09:25:45-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-21 21:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/21/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-infrastructure-investments-made-at-portland-international-airport/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Infrastructure Investments Made at Portland\
  \ International\_Airport"
---
 
Portland Air National Guard Base  
Portland, Oregon

2:35 P.M. PDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Please have a seat if you have one.  Thank you all very
much.  It’s great to be back in Portland.  It’s great to — and, Lauren,
thank you very much for that introduction. 

And, Mayor Wheeler, thanks for the passport into the city.  Being a
mayor is the toughest job in American politics.  They know where you
live — (laughter) — and they — everything that affect them, they look to
you for answers. 

Governor Brown, thank you for welcoming me back to Oregon.

And, Colonel, I want to thank you and the 142nd Wing of the Redhawks of
Oregon, the Air National Guard for hosting us at the base today.  We’re
making a lot of work for you.  I understand that.

I also want to thank Oregon’s outstanding members of Congress. 

Ron Wyden.  Ron — Ron has been a leader in the Senate, fighting for
clean energy and jobs for a long time.  And now he’s chairman of a
finance committee, which makes him the king of the Senate.  (Laughter.) 
But we’re going to make sure that teachers and firefighters don’t pay a
higher tax than billionaires, which, in many cases, they do.

We’re going to get it done, Ron.  We’re going to get it done.

And Senator Jeff Merkley — a leader on climate and foreign policy.  And,
you know, we — we’ve been together — put together this Bipartisan
Infrastructure bill.  Jeff was key — a key leader in getting that done.

He made sure it included the money for wild- — wildfire prevention, to
help prevent and respond to fires like the thousands that burned a half
a million acres — a half a million acres across Oregon last year.  All
those major fires that took place since I’ve been in office with FEMA —
I’ve been in a helicopter from — flying — Northern California through
these — all across the Northeas- — the Northwest and into the state of
Idaho.  And it’s just devastating what’s happened, what continues to
happen.

And Congressman Pete DeFazio, chair of the Transportation Committee. 
Pete has helped ensure that we’re going to rebuild the country and we
buy American — we buy American.  (Applause.) 

And, look, the union workers and U.S. steel, we’re going to miss Pete. 
We’re going to miss you, Pete.  I don’t — I don’t know — I wish you
weren’t leaving.

And Congressman Earl — where’s Earl?  (Applause.)  There — Earl, thank
you.  Earl had me ride here on a bicycle.  (Laughter.)  But I don’t
mind.  But I got a new one.  I got a — it’s really not — anyway.  A
critical voice in Congress when it comes to investing in infrastructure,
Earl helped bring together labor and business to help us get this done.

And Congressman Kurt Schrader, who — he’s played a key part in the
progress we’ve made as a nation on jobs, economic growth, and clean
energy.  Thank you very much, pal.

And he’s a strong and consistent voice to make sure we modernize our
infrastructure and help Oregon and everyone all across America.

You know, the last guy that had this job talked about “Infrastructure
Week.”  Every week, he’d talk about “Infrastructure Week.”  It didn’t
come for four years.

Well, I gave you “Infrastructure Decade.”  This is for 10 years. 
(Applause.)  One trillion four hundred billion dollars. 

And Suzanne, who works tirelessly to ensure that we have left out — no
one is left out, you know, including women and people of color.  We’re
not — we’re building a better America.  (Applause.)

When I got elected, I said — and I meant it — people weren’t sure I
really meant it, but I said, “I want my administration to look like
America — to look like America.”  And it does.  (Applause.)  There are
more women in my administration than men.  There are more women in
positions of consequence.  There are more African American judges that
have been appointed than every other president combined has appointed. 
(Applause.)

Folks, I want to thank you all for everything you’re doing for the
people of Oregon. 

We’re here today to talk about investments we’re making to modernize
this airport and this economic engine for the entire region.

Though — through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we’re investing $25
billion to upgrade and modernize American airports, out of the money
that is — the over a trillion dollars we’re spending on infrastructure.

Airports all across America are second rate.  I used to tell the story
that if, in fact, I dropped you in the middle of the night in an airport
in China and an airport in the United States, took the blindfold off,
and said, “Where are you?  Where are you?,” you’d think the one in China
was in America.  We are — we’ve fallen behind.  We haven’t invested in
ourselves.

And I want to thank Ron and Jeff, Peter, Earl, Kurt, Suzanne for helping
prove that America can do big things again.  We can do anything we want
to do.  (Applause.)

It bothers the heck out of me that there’s this belief that we can’t do
big things anymore.  But we can.  We’re proving we can.  And we must
build a better America.  And a good place to start is right here in
Portland.

Folks, look, Portland International Airport is a perfect example of both
the need and the opportunity and the ability to make progress. 

I don’t have to tell you that it’s an essential economic engine for the
entire region, not just Portland.  A lot of folks may not know it, but
this airport employs 10,000 people — 10,000 people.  (Applause.)  Every
day, they show up — airline workers, technicians, retail workers,
maintenance staff, and more.

In addition, 20 million people travel from this airport every year,
bringing 330,000 metric tons of cargo in and out of this state through
this airport, in the air — shipping seafood from Oregon to fishermen all
across America, all across the world, quite frankly; bringing goods from
every corner of the country to Oregon homes and businesses.

But here’s the deal.  It’s been much too big and too long since America
has invested in our own airports, our ports, and our rail.  We haven’t
done it.

We used to have best infrastructure — rated the best infrastructure in
the world.  This is a fact.  We are now ranked by the international
community as 13th best infrastructure — 13.  The United States. 

We’ve stopped investing in ourselves.  We stopped investing in our
people.  We stopped investing in America.  And I know people are tired
of hearing me say it, but this time, we’re going to lead the world and
invest in ourselves, invest in the nation, and invest in our people. 
That’s the place to start.  (Applause.)

People kind of forget that America invented modern aviation.  But like I
said, we’ve allowed our airports to lag far behind our competitors.

I remember, when I was Vice President, I was flying into New York to
make a speech.  And I landed in New York on Air Force Two in LaGuardia
Airport.  As I was walking through the terminal to get out to the
vehicles, there was a sign on an escalator going to one of the gates
saying that, “Out of order.  Fixed in two months.”  Not a joke. 

The United States of America, in one of the leading cities in the world,
and it had a sign saying the escalator to the gate would take two months
to be fixed. 

At the time, I said if I took the average person, dropped them off, as I
said, in LaGuardia or anywhere else, they’d wonder where in God’s name
they were.  But look, they’d probably think — they’d probably think they
weren’t in America if they didn’t know better. 

But, folks, by the way, LaGuardia has — I caused a bit of a stir because
I said it publicly, what was happening.  And guess what?  The governor
and legislature decided they had to change things.  And they invested $4
billion into one of the great destinations of the world, New York. 
(Applause.)

The whole point of telling this story is — and I realize I’m preaching
to the choir — is we need to invest in American airports and here in
Oregon.

As I said earlier, through the Bipartisan Infrastructure bill — which I
might add, I wrote the original one with my own paw; I wrote it.  Sat
down and wrote it because I was convinced there was no other answer
other than beginning to invest in our country again.  And we’re
investing $25 billion this year to modernize American airports all
across this country and across this state, not just here. 

And that includes $211 million this year in Oregon, $42 million being
delivered this year alone — not just to modernize PDX but for 50
additional airports across Oregon, because you’ve got more than one, as
you all know. 

And that’s in addition to the $20 million we invested in PDX last year.

Look, here’s just some of the — what we’re — this investment will do. 

First, thanks to Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley and Earl Bam- — and Earl —
excuse me —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.) 

THE PRESIDENT:  I know.  You can call me “Bid-en.”  (Laughter.)  Joe
Bid-en.

Helping deliver a more resilient, state-of-the-art runway.

You know, I don’t have to tell you or anyone here in Oregon, it sits on
a major earthquake zone.  And in fact, you had a 4 — a <s>.4</s> \[4.0\]
magnitude earthquake strike not far from here just two days ago.

Imagine what would happen if that earthquake struck closer to the
airport.  It wouldn’t just threaten lives, it would threaten to shut
down the local economy for a heck of a lot longer than the two months it
takes to fix an escalator.

Folks, but your senators and congressmen are looking out for you.  They
fought to dedicate $3.75 million in the last month’s omnibus bill to
build a resilient runway here at PDX.

The project is being modeled on the engineering of an airport that I
happened to visit in Japan that remained operational in the face of a
devastating earthquake and tsunami in 2011, successfully evacuating
families and moving lifesaving supplies because their runway was
resilient.  It was built resilient in the first place.

Best of all, extensive research shows that every dollar we invest in our
resilience of your runway will save $50 down the road by pe- — keeping
this airport operational, safe, and efficient.

But that’s not all we’re doing.  You’re in the midst of a $2 billion
renovation to build a cutting-edge mai- — main terminal.

I just saw an incredible component of that terminal being constructed —
392,000 square feet of roof being built out of what’s known as “mass
timber” — advanced engineering wood design that you’re pioneering right
here in Oregon.  And it won’t just stay in Oregon.

Almost every single piece of wood being used was substantially harvested
from local forests.  You can point to any beam, and the folks building
it can tell you where it came from.

Best of all, this project will support more than 1,250 good-paying jobs
constructing the terminal.  Over 95 percent of the construction is being
done by union workers.  Union.  (Applause.)

Someone criticizing me two — I guess it was now two months ago.  They
said, “You know, you — you were using the word ‘union’ more than all
presidents combined.”  Well, there’s a good reason for that: They’re the
best workers in the world.  There’s a reason why it makes sense to have
a union worker.  They train like — it’s like going to college to get
that apprenticeship.  Not a joke.

And in addition to that, they are the — they get it done on time and
with the best possible results you can get. 

We already nearly have 280 contracts amounting to $80 million that have
gone out to small businesses that are minority-owned and women-owned and
veteran-owned, lifting up the economy for everyone. 

And this is just the start.  Because of the Infrastructure Law, we’re
going to see modern baggage claim area, improved taxi-ways, and, yes,
better escalators.  (Laughter.)

And, you know, the investment all across Oregon is going to continue,
like was mentioned earlier, by Coos Bay.  You know, we’ve delivered
nearly $33 million in January to modernize the main jetty, making it
safer and more efficient for ships, boaters, and fishermen.

And improving the capacity of that port is something Ron Wyden and Pete
DeFazio in particular have been fighting for for a long time. 

All across Oregon, we’re sending the message: These ports and airports
are open for more business.  And we’re seeing — and we’re sending the
same message — the same message about your roads and your bridges.

Right now, there are nearly 400 bridges and about 1,300 miles of highway
in poor condition just here in Oregon.  It’s estimated that driving on
those roads that need repair costs Oregon drivers an extra $256 a year
in gas, repairs, and longer commute times.  That’s a $256 hidden tax on
Oregon drivers.

And thanks to the Infrastructure Law, we’re making the most significant
investment to modernize roads and bridges in the last 70 years since
Eisenhower’s Interstate Highway System.

This year alone, we’re delivering $662 million to fix roads and bridges
in Oregon, plus an additional $53 million in dedicated funding for
bridges.

We’re also going to start replacing 100 percent — 100 percent of the
lead pipes and water serv- — and water lines that go into homes and
schools in this country.  (Applause.) 

You’ve got an estimated 14,000 lead service lines here in Oregon. 
Because of the Infrastructure Law, we’re getting rid of the poisonous
pipes and delivering 92 million to Oregon — dollars to Oregon this year
to provide clean and safe water, because every American, every child —
(applause) — should be able to turn on a faucet and drink water that’s
clean.  And it’ll also create thousands of good-paying jobs for plumbers
and pipefitters in the process.  (Applause.) 

Folks, Ron and Jeff and Earl and Kurt and Suzanne, we all share a core
belief that high-speed Internet is essential to success in the 21st
century.  But today, more than 1 in 10 Oregon households don’t have
high-speed Internet.

And the law delivers — this law delivers $100 million to Oregon to make
high-speed Internet affordable and available everywhere in the state —
urban, suburban, and rural — (applause) — creating jobs for union
technicians laying down those broadband lines.

Never again should a parent have to sit in their car, drive to a
McDonald’s parking lot, sit there with their child to get online so they
can do their homework, which was happening during the pandemic. 

The law also builds up our resilience to extreme weather.  Over the last
decade, extreme weather has cost the state of Oregon at least $5 billion
in damages — $5 billion.

Our Infrastructure Law upgrades modernizing and the strengthening of
transmission lines, helping communities to deal with floods, droughts,
wildfires that are only coming with more frequency and ferocity.

Folks, there’s so much more in this law. 

We’ve made a lot of progress, and the fact is we have an incredible
opportunity ahead of us.

But we also know that families are still struggling with higher prices.

I grew up in a family where, when the price of gasoline went up, it was
a conversation at the kitchen table because it made a difference to my
dad.  We felt it. 

Let’s be absolutely clear about why prices are high now.  Two reasons. 
First, COVID.

The way the global economy works: If a factory in Vietnam makes a
computer chip and shuts down due to COVID in Vietnam, the ripple effect
can slow down automobile manufacturing in Detroit.  So, because of the
pandemic, we’ve had disruptions in our supply of important materials, so
prices went up.

Just look at automobiles.  Last year, they accounted for one third of
all the inflation in America.  One third was because if automobile
companies couldn’t get computer chips and the price of automobiles
skyrocketed because there was fewer — significant demand because the
economy was growing, but no availability.

So I’m calling on Congress to pass the bipartisan Innovation Bill to
make more of these chips here at home and speed up the supply chains.

And folks, with regard to supply chains, let me say one thing: There’s a
little outfit called Intel.  The chairman of the board of Intel asked
can he come and see me in Washington.  And he said he wanted to invest
$20 billion in a computer chip factory he was going to build just
outside of Cleveland — $20 billion.

It was going to create thousands of jobs building the facility and
thousands of jobs running the facility.  Average wage once the facility
was built: $132,000.  This is — and now he’s — if you guys pass and get
me that other bill on my desk, he’s prepared to invest another $100
billion — $100 billion in that same facility. 

And what everybody forgets: We invented the damn thing.  We invented the
computer chip.  Not a joke.  And all the progress, all the change has
come from American technology.  We don’t make them any more, basically. 
But now we’re changing that.

The second big reason for inflation is gas prices — and it’s Vladimir
Putin’s gas price increase. 

Putin’s invasion in Ukraine has driven up gas prices and food prices all
around the world.  We saw that in the most recent inflation data.

Last month, 70 percent of the increase in inflation was a consequence of
Putin’s price hike because of the impact on gas and energy prices.

I’m doing everything I can to bring down the price to address Putin’s
price hike.  That’s why I authorized the release of 1 million barrels
per day for the next six months from our Strategic Petroleum Reserve,
and I worked with oil-producing \[countries\] to ramp up production.

I coordinated the release with our partners all around the world,
because I spent a lot of time with them.  And they agreed — over 30
countries agreed to release 60 million additional barrels over the same
period for another 240 million barrels over the next six months — the
largest collective reserve release in history.  Nations coming together
to help deny ability to Putin to weaponize his energy resources against
American families and families in Europe and around the world.

And Americans should be seeing some savings, which you’ve already seen
in the price of gas coming down.  But we need to do something else. 

We need to get off this rollercoaster of relying on oil.  We need to
declare America’s energy independence.  (Applause.)  We need to
accelerate our path to clean, renewable energy that includes adoption of
electric — adaptation of electric vehicles, like cars, trains, school
buses, and transit.  We found new battery technology that is just
amazing. 

Beyond the price — beyond gas prices, I’ve called on Congress to move
immediately to lower the cost of families’ utility bills, prescription
drug costs while lowering the deficit and reducing inflationary
pressure. 

Folks, I’ll give you one example.  There’s over 200,000 children in
America with Type 1 diabetes.  They need that vial of insulin all the
time.  If they don’t get it — you know what the average cost for that is
nationwide?  Six hundred and forty-seven dollars.  That’s how much it
costs them a month.

Not only is it a concern if you don’t have the insurance, you don’t have
the income.  Imagine being the parent robbed of your dignity, knowing
you don’t have the ability to help your child at all and seeing what’s
happening.  You know how much it cost them to make that one vial?  Ten —
T-E-N — dollars.  Ten dollars. 

With a little bit of help — and I know my colleagues support me — with a
little bit of help and a few Republicans getting out of the way in the
United States Congress, because none of them are helping, we can lower
that price to $35 a month and they’d still make three and a half times
what they paid for it.  (Applause.)

It would make a big difference in families’ lives.  We can do it without
raising taxes a penny on anyone making under $400,000.  No one making
under 400 grand would see a penny in their taxes go up.  That’s the best
way Congress can address inflation right now: lower the cost of other
things for people — everyday people working like hell just to keep food
on the table.

Let me close with this: When I was running for office — I’m sure you’ve
heard me say it a thousand times — I was going to build this economy
from the bottom up and the middle out.  Because when that happens,
everybody does well.  The wealthy do very, very well.  The poor have a
way up.  And the middle class can grow, as my dad would say, and just
have a little bit of breathing room.  Just a little bit of breathing
room.

So we’re going to deal in the people and the places that have been left
out and left behind.  We’re making progress.

Over the course of my presidency, our recovery has created 7.9 million
jobs — (applause) — more jobs created over the first 14 months of my
presidency than any presidency in American history.

Over 420,000 manufacturing jobs.  Who says we can’t manufacture our way
through all of this?  We have the best workers in the world.  Not a
joke.

Unemployment nationwide is at 3.6 percent, down from 6.4 percent when I
took office 19 months ago — the fastest decline in unemployment at the
start of a term of a President ever recorded. 

Oregon, you’ve just added 122,000 jobs, and unemployment has dropped
from 6.4 percent to 3.8 percent.  (Applause.)

Last year and during all this time — don’t listen to my Republican
friends in Congress — last year, we reduced — my budget reduced the —
the deficit by $350 billion.  You hear me?  (Applause.)  We didn’t spend
— we didn’t increase the deficit a penny.  We reduced it by $350
billion. 

And the budget that I submitted, (inaudible) getting done — this year,
in 2022, we’re on track to reduce the deficit by more than $1.3 trillion
— $1.3 trillion — (applause) — the largest one-year reduction in the
deficit in American history.

This is particularly important now as we work to reduce pressure on
inflation.

Oregon and America have gone from being on the mend to being on the
move.  We just go to get the hell out of our own way. 

So, we’re coming — we’re coming forward with challenges — challenges
from strength positions that we’re in, not like we’ve been before.  I’m
more optimistic about America’s potential today than I’ve been any time
in my career — and I’ve been doing this job in national politics for a
long time — because I see a future that is without limit.

I mean, this is the United States of America, for God’s sake.  We’re the
only nation in the world — this is a fact; look it up — the only nation
in the world that’s come out of every crisis stronger than when we went
into the crisis — stronger every single time.

I was with Xi Jinping, who — I’ve traveled with 17,000 miles with him
and spent more time with than any other world leader over a total of, I
think — and we’re up to ni- — 90-some hours of talking or meeting
together over the last six, seven years.

And we were in the foothills of the Tibet.  And he asked me — he said —
I had a translator and he had a simultaneous translator.  And he said,
“Can you define America for me?”  This is a true story; he repeats it. 
I said, “Yeah, I can, in one word.”  And he looked at me and said, “What
do you mean ‘in one word’?”  I said, “Possibilities.” 

Anything is possible in America.  Anything is po- — and that’s what
we’re — exactly we’re going to do today: Do what we are capable of doing
— stop feeling sorry for ourselves, get the hell up, and take this
country back in a way that we lead the world again.  Because we can do
it, we’re on the way to doing it, and with the help of your delegation,
we’re going to get it done.  I mean it.  (Applause.) There’s nothing
beyond our capacity. 

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.  Appreciate it.  (Applause.)

3:00 P.M. PDT
