---
date: '2022-04-06'
modified_time: 2022-04-06 18:21:15-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-06 18:21:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/06/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-h-r-3076-the-postal-service-reform-act-of-2022/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Signing of H.R. 3076, the \u201CPostal Service\
  \ Reform Act of\_2022\u201D"
---
 
State Dining Room

4:28 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  You know, Annette, as you were speaking, I looked down
at — Senator Carper used to be chairman of this committee.  How many
years, Tommy, you’ve been working on this?

SENATOR CARPER:  Four hundred.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  I tell you what — your service both in the
Air Force as a letter carrier is real, and it’s all about serving your
community, and I appreciate it very much.

Matter of fact, when I said, “It’s good to meet you,” she said, “I know
you.  We’ve met before.”  And I said, “I apologize.”  She said, “You
used to show up every — in Wilmington” — how often?

MS. TAYLOR:  In D.C.

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, in D.C.

MS. TAYLOR:  Every year.

THE PRESIDENT:  Every year, I’d show up to the letter carriers’
breakfast or lunch or dinner — I can’t remember which.  But it reminded
me why I — I think foreign policy is easier.  (Laughter.)  “War and
Peace” goes down easier, Gerry, I think.  (Laughs.) 

Senator Peters, Senator Portman, Senator Carper, Senator Tillis;
Representatives Maloney, Comer, Connolly, and Virginia Foxx and Stephen
Lynch — Stephen, good to see you, pal.  I didn’t do — I didn’t know you
did post offices.

REPRESENTATIVE LYNCH:  Oh, yeah.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  And — and Brenda Lawrence, who served the U.S. Postal
Service for 30 years before being elected to Congress.  (Applause.) 
Which was harder?  (Laughs.)

Well, look, some of you know, before I became President — I’m sure you
all know this — I was the Ben Franklin Professor of Practice at the
University of Pennsylvania.  Professor, Jim.  (Laughter.)  And everybody
walks in and they wonder why Ben Franklin’s picture is hanging in my —
portrait is hanging in my office.  Because if I didn’t put that up,
there’d be no — nobody I knew would get into University of Pennsylvania
again. (Laughter.)  I’m only kidding.  That’s a joke. 

But Ben Franklin, one of our Founding Fathers, was our first postmaster
general.  And he saw the Postal Service in a way to connect the colonies
and to build together as one nation.  I mean, literally, that’s what it
was seen as: It was to connect the colonies and build one nation —
connect everything.

He saw the power of the Postal Service to deliver more than the mail,
but some of our most basic freedoms and basic rights were delivered by
the Post Office.  Freedom of speech by allowing citizens the voice and
to — their voices to be amplified all across the country.  Freedom of
the press by offering discounted rates for newspapers.  The right to
privacy by expressly prohibiting — this sounds silly — but expressly
prohibiting the opening of mail that belonged to somebody else. 

And beyond those rights and freedoms, our oldest postal roads helped
give rise to some of our nation’s most essential infrastructure.  There
were postal highways.  That’s why a lot of these roads were built: to
provide post.  

And, by the way, we used to serve with a guy who was from West Virginia,
Jennings Randolph.  And he — the thing he — he started an airline.  But
the way the airlines used to work was there’d be a great — Tommy, they’d
put up two big poles like goal posts, and they would put a wire between
it and they’d hang whatever the Postal Service — the post mail used to
be collected.  And the airplane would come down with a hook on it and
pick it up and take it off.  So, you know — I’m not going to say — if
Jennings were here, he’d say there’d be no Post Office out there.  But
anyway, I’m only kidding.  But —

But today, more than 670,000 — -75,000 dedicated men and women of the
U.S. Postal Service continue to deliver for the American people.

They help keep us healthy by shipping 4 million prescriptions per day. 
Four million per day.  And when we’re dedicated — and when we dedicated
to send and committed we would send to — free — to — COVID-19 tests
directly to people’s homes, the Postal Service stepped up to make that
happen as well.

And now they delivered over two hundred and — three hundred — excuse me
— 320 million COVID test 19 kits so far, in every state, territory, and
U.S. military base in the world.  (Applause.)

An impressive turnaround for an unprecedented task.  And it’s continuing
the truly heroic service that they provided throughout this pandemic.

When everyone was worried about — that supply chain delays would ruin
the holidays, the Post Office delivered the packages that were — that —
more than any other shipper in the world, and they got the gifts to our
homes and our loved ones on time.

And the Postal Service is central to our economy and is central to rural
America, delivering mail and packages between small businesses and
customers every single, solitary day.

And the deliveries — you know, and delivering seeds and even live
animals, often, to parts of the country that private carriers can’t or
won’t or aren’t required to reach. 

And there is another essential thing the Postal Service delivers: your
vote.  In 2020, 43 percent of the votes cast by ballot were cast by
mail.  And on average, it took those ballots — (applause) — on average,
it took those ballots less than two days to get from the voter to the
election office, faster than the average delivery time for first-class
mail.

So it’s no exaggeration to say that the Postal Service delivers
democracy.  And it’s no exaggeration to say the Postal Service is as
essential as it ever was, as it’s ever been — today.

In 2006, the law required the Postal Service to prepay — prepay
retirement benefits 50 years into the future.  No other — no other
company or federal agency has to do anything like that.  And the
requirement of that law stretched the Postal Service’s finances almost
to the breaking point, with real consequences. 

There are stories of people across the country getting hit with late
fees because their credit card bill arrived a week late, if it arrived
at all.  Small businesses on the verge of collapse because payments they
were counting on were — were severely delayed.  Elderly Americans
suffering because they had to go weeks without their medication. 

I, like many of you, made a campaign promise to fix this. And today we
are.  You all — the members in front of me did all the work.  I made the
promise; you did all the work.  (Laughter.)  And I’m glad that strong,
bipartisan majorities in the House and Senate have come together to
deliver on this needed reform.

With this bill, we’re repealing the pre-funding mandate and setting the
Postal Service on a more sustainable and stable financial footing. 
We’re guaranteeing that the mail will continue to be delivered six days
a week.  

And the bill increases transparency by requiring the Postal Service to
develop online — an online public dashboard updated weekly with local
and national service performance data.

You’ll be able to see in real-time how well the Postal Service is
delivering for you and for your community.  And this bill streamlines
healthcare for Postal workers as well.  They deliver for us, so —
through rain and snow and sleet, and we’re making sure the healthcare
they need will be there for them as well.

And finally, this bill will allow the Postal Service to partner with
state, local, and Tribal governments to offer valuable and helpful
non-postal services to the public.  Imagine a trip to the Post Office
where you can pick up your bus pass or your hunting license or your
fishing license.  

Of course, there are more areas where we want to see the Postal Service
leading.  For example, it needs to do more to modernize and electrify
its fleet of vehicles to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to save
money.  (Applause.)  And we’re going to do that.  

And I’ll continue to fight for these commonsense improvements. 

But today, we enshrine in law our recognition that the Postal Service is
fundamental to our economy, to our democracy, to our health, and the
very sense of who we are as a nation. 

And this bill — this bill recognizes the Postal Service is a public
service, and we’re ensuring that it can continue to serve all Americans
for generations to come.

Now, I’ll now go over and sign that postal bill.  And those of you who
are going to come up while I sign it, I’m not going to read out your
names; they told me who you are.  Everybody but Steny can come. 
(Laughter.)  I’m only kidding, Steny.

And we’ll get this reform bill finally signed.  And, Thom, it only took
what?  Eleven years?

SENATOR TILLIS:  (Inaudible).

THE PRESIDENT:  Twelve.  Twelve.  Twelve years.

SENATOR TILLIS:  It seems like more.

THE PRESIDENT:  Rob, now that’s pretty fast, right?  (Laughter.) 

Anyway, all kidding aside, thank you for the hard work you’ve done. 
You’ve done a good job.  Let me walk over here.  (Applause.)

(The bill is signed.)  

All right, it’s official.  (Applause.) 

4:38 P.M. EDT
