---
date: '2022-04-22'
modified_time: 2022-04-22 18:24:38-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-22 18:24:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/22/remarks-by-president-biden-on-earth-day-and-at-signing-of-an-executive-order-strengthening-the-nations-forests-communities-and-local-economies/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks By President\_Biden on Earth Day and at Signing of an Executive Order\
  \ Strengthening the Nation\u2019s Forests, Communities, and Local\_Economies"
---
 
Seward Park  
Seattle, Washington

11:07 A.M. PDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody.  (Applause.)  My name is Joe Biden.  I
work for Patty Murray.  (Applause.)  Been doing it for a long time.  
  
I can’t think of a better place to celebrate Earth Day — this
magnificent park.  I’ve only been here once before.  I came to speak
years ago, and, on my own, I came up here to take a look.  And it’s
really quite beautiful.  
  
Governor Inslee, who is known where I’m from as the “Environmental
Governor,” and Mayor <s>Harley</s> \[Harrell\], Senator Murray, Senator
Maria Cantwell, and all — I mean, you’ve got everybody here.  You got
Representatives Smith, Larsen, DelBene, Schrier.  And it’s an honor to
be here in this beautiful park with you all.  
  
You know, Edward Abbey, the writer who once worked as a Park Ranger — I
didn’t know he had been a Park Ranger, to tell you the truth — wrote the
following: “Every man, every woman, carries in heart and mind \[an\]
image of \[an\] ideal place, the right place, the one true home, known
or unknown, actual or visionary.”  
  
For many Seattle families, I think we’re in that place right now, here
in this park and places like this.  There are not that many like this,
unfortunately.  
  
And all around this country, there used to be a hell of a lot more
forests like this.  But we’re doing everything we can.  Everybody behind
me and all of you want desperately to protect what we have and increase
what we have.  
  
You know, our natural wonders are, you know, inspired — they’re a
reflection that inspires us to take action.  
  
You know, my mother had an expression — and I apologize to my
colleagues, they’ve heard me do two things my whole career: quote my
mother and father and quote Irish poets.  (Laughter.)  But I’m not going
to quote any Irish poets today, okay?  But, you know, she’d say, “Out of
everything difficult, something good will come if you look hard enough
for it.”  
  
And I think that we’re in one of those moments in world history and in
American history where we’ve reached the point that the crisis on the
environment has become so obvious, with the notable exception of the
former President, that we — we really have an opportunity to do things
we couldn’t have done 2, 5, 10 years ago.  
  
And I want to — I want to talk about that today with leaders who
understand that to their core, the folks standing behind me.  I wish you
didn’t have to stand.  Don’t you guys have any chairs?  (Laughter.)  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We’re good.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not used to them standing for me, you know. 
Anyway.  
  
But here’s the deal: As I said, Governor Inslee is the climate governor,
and I’ve gone to him throughout asking him for advice and counsel.  And
thanks for welcoming me back to Washington State, Gov.   
  
And to Mayor — Mayor Harrell, the passport to the city is very much
appreciated.  I hope I don’t do anything to have it revoked. 
(Laughs.)   
  
And, Congressman Smith, thank you for your commitment to the
environment, including helping our Armed Forces transition to clean
energy technologies.   
  
One of the things I found out as the President of the United States: I
get to spend a lot of that money.  (Laughter.)  I get to decide where —
no, I’m not joking.  And we’re going to completely — but before — we’re
— I’m going to start the process where every vehicle in the United
States military — every vehicle is going to be climate friendly.  Every
vehicle.  We’re going to have — (applause) — no, I mean it. 
(Applause.)  We’re spending billions of dollars to do it.   
  
And — and it’s going to matter.  You know, it matters.  You know, in my
view, this crisis, as I said, is a genuine opportunity — an opportunity
to do things we wanted to do, and only now it’s become so apparent.   
  
On this day, 52 years ago, millions of Americans of every age and
background rallied together on Earth Day.   
  
A guy I worked with as a young senator back in those days was a guy
named Gaylord Nelson from Wisconsin.  And the guy who helped organize
Earth Day was a guy who was from Delaware and worked for me as well, and
— Mike McCabe.    
  
And, you know, it was — they had a vision, a vision for a healthier and
more prosperous America.  And over time, they delivered.  They
delivered.  Cleaner water.  Proof that a sustainable environment can
mean a stronger economy.  You know, I — and one of the things I’m
proudest of in our administration: Before I went into detail with my,
quote, “Green Agenda,” I got all the unions together.  Literally, got
all the unions.  (Inaudible) the unions view it as against their
interests.  
  
And starting with the IBEW Electrical, because they endorsed it.  And
every union has stepped up because they figured it out.  Their jobs —
they’re the ones who can help us transition in ways like never before. 
It’s not going to cost them jobs; it’s going to increase jobs.  The IBEW
is going to be building <s>50,000</s>\[500,000\] electric stations —
electric charging stations all across America, for example.  
  
And so, look, change continues today, and the new generation of
Americans are helping us lead the way against the threat of climate
change.    
  
You know, every time I get a little down — I don’t know about my
colleagues; I suspect they’re the same — I just turn on a television or
take a look at all the young people.  This young generation is not going
to put up with the — all that stuff.  No, they’re not.  I mean, they’re
— they are really, really energized, whether it’s basic human rights or
it’s the environment.  They’re just not stopping.  And from day one of
my administration, we’ve stood with them.    
  
Governor, I hate to admit it, but I was part of that early Earth Day.  I
was only seven years old, but — (laughter).  God, I — oh, my Lord, I
can’t even believe I said that.  (Laughter.)    
  
But anyway, it’s been a passion of mine as long as I’ve been involved in
public life.  The first thing — what got me involved in politics — not
that it matters to you all, but I was thinking about it on the way over
here.  (Laughter.)  I was a young attorney in Delaware, and they wanted
— across the top of my state, they wanted to connect two highways, and
it’s through what is the most beautiful part of the state.    
  
But instead of being willing to do it in an area that, in fact, had no
consequence for the environment, they decided to put it through areas
that were — that were straighter and — but more damaging.    
  
And I got involved to try to stop the construction of that highway,
which I did.  That’s what got me involved.  And it caused me great
problems because I ended up having to run for the county council, which
was the hardest job I ever had.  (Inaudible.)  At any rate —  
  
But as a matter of fact, in 1986, in the United States Senate, I
introduced and we passed the first Global Climate Protection Act — the
first time — and it was a warming legislation in the Senate.    
  
And on Earth Day, you know, we convened last year over 40 leaders from
around the globe, reasserting America’s leadership on climate after four
years of an administration denying that there was a climate crisis,
denying that there was any need to do anything about the environment.   
  
And the commitments galvanized that meet- — at that meeting, including
our own goal of cutting emissions from 50 to 52 percent
below <s>‘25</s>\[‘05\] levels by 2030 and reaching net-zero emissions
by 2050, taking the steps the United States needs to limit the planet’s
warming to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius.  And the rest of the world
started to come along.  We did more than set bold goals; we acted to
achieve them.  
  
Last year, with all the disappointments we faced — but last year, the
United States deployed the most solar, wind, and battery storage in
American history.  And we made record-setting investments in clean
energy in rural America.  
  
For example, we have a $1 billion program that no one knows about except
the Department of Agriculture — the grants and loans for farmers and
rural co-ops to deploy solar and storage and powerlines to carry clean
energy across the country.   
  
We’re investing in technology so you can — you can heat and cool your
home when the sun doesn’t shine and the wind doesn’t blow, because out
here in Silicon Valley, you’re developing the battery technology I —
they showed me one that is about a little bit wider than this podium,
about that thick, and about this wide that, in fact, you can install in
your home.  And when the sun ain’t shining, that stored electricity runs
the whole deal.    
  
And by the way — by the way, windmills don’t cause cancer. 
(Laughter.)  
  
And across the country, we have enough clean energy capacity to power
now 56 million homes.   
  
Now, here’s what we’re doing with automobiles.  I — I’m an automobile
buff.  I have a ‘68 Corvette that does nothing but pollute the air.  But
I don’t drive it very much.  (Laughter.)  
  
And — but I brought together the automobile manufacturers.  And
Mary <s>Berry</s>\[Barra\], who was — who runs General Motors, is a
fine, fine person.  At the time, she was suing the state of California —
General Motors — for their increased mileage requirements that exceeded
the federal standard — I mean, exceeded — yes, the federal standard. 
And the argument Ford — General Motors was making was you couldn’t
exceed the federal standard locally.   
  
And we had a long talk.  And I didn’t suggest it, but she dropped that
suit and contacted me and said, “I’m going to make a commitment.”  I
brought together the American automobile industry and they agreed on an
ambitious goal: 50 percent electric vehicles by — sales by the year
2030.”   
  
That’s the commitment they made.  I didn’t make it for them.  They made
it, because they realized what the future is.   
  
I saw it when I drove Ford’s all-electric 150 pickup truck, which, I
might add — this was disappointing — is faster than my Corvette. 
(Laughter.)  Now, you think I’m kidding.  It’s a (inaudible).  You know,
although I did suggest if I’m out of office and they had the first
electric Corvette, I want to buy it.  (Laughter.)  But at any rate, you
know — and my — when I — I drove the electric Jeep Wagoneer around the
South Lawn of the White House.   
  
You know, to date, automakers have announced investments of more than
$100 billion in EV manufacturing — $100 billion.   
  
That’s along with us setting ambitious standards to cut pollution in
cars and trucks to boost fuel economy standards, which we’re going to be
announcing very soon, upping the mileage requirement that — for the
minimum mileage requirement.   
  
But that’s not all.  The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law — which the folks
behind me are the reason why that occurred — I signed provides billions
of dollars for a nationwide network of 500,000 charging stations —
500,000.    
  
And will — and with electric school buses — by the way, I went down to
North Carolina.  You should see the factory down there.  These buses —
they have electric vehicles.  It has a platform, folks, from me to you,
about that thick; weighs about six zillion pounds.  No engine.  Nothing
else.  That’s it.   
  
And — but it’s all electric.  All electric.  And guess what?  We’re
going to eliminate tens of thousands of diesel school buses, which
pollute the air and pollute the lungs.   
  
And, look, industry — this industry and union workers are all stepping
up.  And there’s a lot more.  
  
Here in Washington State, you’re going to triple the federal commitment
to your Link — we’re going to triple the federal commitment to your Link
Light Rail system, speeding progress on the largest transit — (applause)
— as my colleagues in the Senate will recall, I was referred to as “Mr.
Amtrak.”  I’ve taken over 1,200,000 miles in Amtrak commuting —
commuting every single day — you think I’m joking — for 36 years every
single day when the Senate was in session to go home and see my
kids.    
  
And — but the folks — you know, it’s a simple proposition.  Most people
don’t realize it.  Given a choice to go from point A to point B and rail
— electric rail — or drive your automobile, if you can get there fast —
as fast or faster on rail, you take the rail.  The estimates take — will
take millions of vehicles off the road.  The largest transit
construction project in the country that runs entirely on clean
energy.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides $66 billion — it’s passed —
$66 billion for freight rail; $39 billion for public transit; $10.6
billion for clean electric buses; and $2.5 billion for clean ferries on
my coast of Delaware and out here for you all.   
  
This will take millions of cars worth of pollution off the road and get
people to places quicker.  
  
You know, look, I think one Amtrak train carries as many passengers — I
know this statistic — as six lanes of a major interstate highway. 
That’s how many passengers it carries.   
  
Look, it matters.  
  
We saw new standards — we set new standards.  We slashed methane and
brought over 100 nations together when I was at the — at the big meeting
we had in Europe.  A hundred nations around the globe.  And I got them
to — I — there’s two things I was able to accomplish.  One, I got a
pledge — a pledge from a hundred — I think it was 144 of them — that
they would eliminate methane and do the same thing we’re doing to keep
it.  It’s the most damaging of all the pollutants that are going up.    
  
We also set new standards for super-polluting HFC emissions.  Remember
the big fight we had?  I know it, because when I almost lost an election
because the DuPont company makes — long story.  Anyway.  (Laughter.)   
  
But, look, we set new standards for cleaner cement.  You say, “What the
hell are you talking about, Joey?”  This is probably the only audience
to understand — cleaner cement.  Cement is an incredible pollutant — an
incredible pollutant.  And it matters because cement is responsible for
8 percent of the global climate emissions.  Cement.  I got to admit to
you, as long as I’ve been involved in this, until two years ago, I
didn’t know that.  And we’re delivering across the country.    
  
Lots of folks have promised it, but my administration is actually
delivering and revitalizing communities across Appalachia.  
  
Look, folks, I come from Scranton, Pennsylvania, where I was raised. 
The reason I got to Delaware is coal died.  My dad was not in the coal
mines; he was in sales — but the whole economy died.  And, you know, you
can understand why in places like West Virginia and Southeastern
Pennsylvania, why people were worried about doing away with coal.  You
know, but it’s their jobs; they wonder what they’re going to do.   
  
But guess what?  In the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill, the law is going
to help us cap and seal abandoned mines — thou- — there’s thousands of
abandoned mines — cap and seal them.  They’re no longer going to see
pollution in the air or the water.  The laws putting abandoned mine
workers to work at the same salary they were working digging the mines
in the first place.  There are several thousand of these wells that have
to be capped.  And they have to harvest the energy.  And they’re going
to get paid.  
  
So, we’ve provided alternatives.  They are manufacturing and installing
solar panels where they once dug for coal.  
  
Look, here out — out here in the West, we are repowering retired power
plants and clean ener- — clean hydrogen and advanced nuclear, making
them economic hubs again.  
  
And in the Heartland, in fields that feed our country, we’re planting
cover crops to pull carbon out of the air and out of the atmosphere. 
You know, they’re becoming carbon sinks.   
  
Look, across the country, we set the first-ever national conservation
goal and protected more land and water than any other administration on
record in our first year, because we can do it.  And now the farmers are
beginning to realize, “If I put things in conservation, I get paid for
putting cover crops down that absorb carbon.  It makes sense to me.”  It
keeps the land open, and it makes the environment much better.  And they
get paid for it.  And they should get paid for it.  It’s their land.    
  
We’re protecting natural wonders and cultural treasures, national
monuments.   
  
I remember a little girl came up to me with her — I don’t know where —
how it happened, but I was walking outside and a woman came up with her
little girl and said — she said, “Mr. Pwesident, please protect Bears
Ears.”  I said, “I beg your pardon, honey.”  She said, “Please protect
Bears Ears.”  I said, “Bears Ears?”  She said, “Yes.”  And I knew what
Bears Ears was because I’ve tried to take my kids to almost every
national park.  And I said, “Okay, honey.”  She said, “Pwomise me. 
Pwomise me.”  (Laughter.)    
  
And we did.  Bears Ears.  Forests like the Tongass Forest. 
(Applause.)   
  
And, by the way, we got some of the conservative Republicans to support
it in their state.  We got some support for it.   
  
And now we’re working to restore the salmon runs here in the
Northwest.  
  
Look, we’re putting America on the cutting edge.  We’ve approved the
first commercial-scale offshore wind project in federal waters, which
has already broken ground with U.S workers and U.S. steel, who are going
to be building these facilities.  
  
By the way, I was up in — in Colorado and looking at the facilities we
have there.  You know, we now have — we now have windmills that the
blades on those windmills — 102 yards long.  You hear me?  102 yards
long.  They can be placed way out in the ocean.  And, you know — and, by
the way, I made it clear to my friends up in Nantucket and that area, “I
don’t want to hear anymore about you don’t like looking at them.” 
(Laughter and applause.)  They’re pretty.  
  
But seriously.  It’s incredible the breakthroughs that we’re making. 
Once you tell a nation that “We can do this, go do it,” it’s amazing
what happens.  It’s amazing what happens.  (Applause.)   
  
We’ve launched the first-ever commercial flight powered by 100 — 100
percent sustainable aviation fuel.  It lifted off with fuel grown here
in America.  Grown in America.  
  
We set the first net-zero commitments for U.S. steel companies, and now
we’re rewarded for clean air — clean production through our first-ever
international carbon-based trade deal, which makes clean American steel
cheaper to buy than dirty steel from other countries.  And we’re making
it clear to the rest of the world that’s what we’re going to do.   
  
We’ve put environmental justice at the center of what we do, addressing
the disproportionate health, environmental, and economic impacts that
have been borne primarily by communities of color — places too often
left behind.  
  
I grew up when — when coal died in Scranton, I moved — we moved to
Delaware, where my dad had grown up.  We moved to a little steel town
called Claymont, Delaware, which was right at that arch that goes up
into the Pennsylvania area there.  And it’s near a place called Marcus
Hook, where there were more — at the time, more oil refineries than in
Houston — in Houston.  Because of 10 million people in the Delaware
Valley up there.  
  
And I — we — I went to the small little school that was about a mile
from the apartment complex we lived in, and — a little school called
Holy Rosary.  And I — you couldn’t walk to school because, although it
was a four-lane access highway, it was just too dangerous to cross some
of the streets.  
  
And my mother would get — and when it came spring — I mean it became the
fall — this is the God’s truth — and you’d get in the car, there’s a
little frost on the window, turn on the windshield wiper, there’d be an
oil slick.  Not a joke.    
  
I have asthma, and 80 percent of the people who, in fact, we grew up
with have asthma.  That’s what you call a fenceline community.  I
understand what it’s like.  I — we only lived there — I went to school
there for 12 years.  But I didn’t live there that whole time.    
  
My generic point is: If you take a look, my state used to be — thank God
it’s no longer — had the highest cancer rate of any state in the nation
because we have fenceline communities going down Route 9, and going down
along the Delaware River — major facilities, oil plants, and the like. 
And the people that get hurt are the people who live on the other side
of those fences.   
  
I made a commitment: They’re the people who are going to get helped as
we move this.  They’re the people where the money is going to go to help
their neighborhoods.  They’re —  
  
And this Bipartisan Infrastructure Law gives communities the money they
need to get forever chemicals — PFAS — off — out of their water. 
They’re deadly, deadly.  And a lot of it’s responsible because we, the
government, and the fe- — and the military has engaged in activities
that we didn’t realize how it was dangerous, over the years.  But we’re
going to get rid of it all.   
  
We started replacing 100 percent — 100 percent of all the lead pipes and
poison — that poison our water in America.  Four hundred thousand
schools and daycare centers — their kids can’t turn on that water
without getting — or worried about there’s lead in that — in that
water.  Ten million homes in America and here in this city and this
state.  
  
Because every American and every child should be able to turn on a
faucet and drink clean water, which will also create thousands of
good-paying jobs for plumbers and pipefitters and others.   
  
Look, look — all you got to do is look around: Cities and states are
acting, businesses are acting, I’m acting.  We need Congress to act as
well.  And the people behind me are pushing Congress hard.  (Applause.) 
They are pushing Congress hard, calling them to pass new investments and
tax credits aimed directly at lowering costs for families.   
  
Look, you talk about, you know, a couple — there’s only two senators
that occasionally don’t vote with me.  That’s right, right? 
(Laughter.)  Literally, 48 — they talk about the split in the Democratic
Party.  There’s virtually no split in the Democratic Party.  We just
happen to have 50 presidents.  (Laughter.)  You know, you have 50
senators and 50 Democrats and 50 Republicans.  I mean, any one can
change the dynamic.  Right?   
  
But all kidding aside, 48 percent of my Democratic colleagues in the
Senate vote with me 94 percent of the time.  So it’s not like we have a
split, but we don’t have — we have virtually no Republicans.   
  
There’s some.  We get up to as many as seven or eight will vote.  This
ain’t your father’s Republican Party.  Not — not a joke.  All you got to
do is look what is being played on — played this morning about the tape
that was released.    
  
Anyway.  (Laughter.)    
  
You know, but all kid- — kidding aside, this is the MAGA party now. 
It’s — you know, you got the senator from Texas and others.  These guys
are a different breed of cat.  They’re not like what I served with for
so many years.   
  
And the people who know better are afraid to act correctly, because they
know they’ll be primaried.   
  
I’ve had — I won’t mention any of them; I promised I never would, and I
won’t — but up to six come to me and say, “Joe, I want to be with you on
such and such but I can’t.  I’ll be primaried.  I’ll lose my race.  I’ll
lose my race.”     
  
So, folks, we got to — this is going to start to change.   
  
Look, that bill that we talked about that is the infrastructure bill,
there were two pieces of it.  And it was one bill initially.  And that
bill had about 800,000 — $800 million in it for environmental-related
issues.   
  
Well, the one that didn’t pass — the part that didn’t pass yet is the
one that has $531 million for environmental.  But we got lot done though
in the bill that passed, called the Infrastructure Bill, that has to do
with the environment, including tax credits for purchases of electric
and fuel-cell vehicles now — new or used.   
  
But you’re going to save a typical driver about 80,000 — 8 — $80 a month
from not having to pay gas at the pump.  Tax credits for folks to buy
solar panels and heat pumps and more efficient windows, saving each an
average of $500 a year to do this — just making your home tighter so you
don’t leak the heat and leak the air conditioning going out.  
  
You know, and my pen is ready.  My pen is ready to sign.  I’m anxious to
sign these.  Get some of these bills to my desk.  
  
And we can’t forget — (applause) — we can’t forget that achieving our
ambitious climate goals is going to require nature itself to play a
role.  
  
You know, if you compare the map of North America in 1620 — and we have
some of these maps — with America today, you’ll see much of our devas- —
how much we’ve devastated our forests.   
  
I mean, it used to be — if you’d look, from the Atlantic Coast almost to
the Mississippi River was heavy forests, and we took it all down over
those years.  
  
That’s why today I’m signing an executive order to conserve our forests
that do so much to protect us.   
  
You know, our forests are our planet’s lungs.  They literally are
recycling and cycling CO2 out of the atmosphere.  That’s what they
do.   
  
By the way, more the — I spent time down in the Amazon and in Colombia
and in Brazil, and guess what?  More carbon is taken out of the air in
the Amazon — that carbon sink — than every bit of carbon that is
generated on a daily basis in the entire United States from every
source.   
  
So what we should be doing and I’m trying to get done — and they’re not
going to maybe like this — we should be paying the Brazilians not to cut
down their forest.  We got to cut ours down.  We got to cut ours down. 
We got the benefit of it.  Because we’ve got these third-world countries
— not third world; some are — in Africa and in — and in South America —
we got to — the industrial countries have to help.  
  
Scientists estimate that the protection and restoration of our natural
lands and waters can provide more than one third of the solution to
climate change, just — just that, if we did nothing else.   
  
So today, I’m about to sign an executive order to strengthen our forest
on federal lands and make them and the local economies they support more
resilient in the face of wildfires.   
  
I’ve flown over every major wildfire in this country with FEMA since —
not every; a couple I didn’t, but the vast majority of them — and it’s
devastating.  I’ve seen it from helicopters with FEMA just flying over
here and Idaho.  I didn’t get to go to Oregon, but California.  It’s
absolutely devastating.   
  
So we’re going to work with state and local and Tribal governments to
map, catalog, and then conserve old-growth forests on our public
lands.   
  
These are the forests — (applause) — we’re going to do this.  These are
the forests that store, sequester incredible amounts of carbon, and help
us fight climate change.  The forests that are — are home to majestic
trees, like the ones here in the — this park’s “Magnificent Forest.”   
  
You know, the executive order I’m going to sign is going to make good on
the international forest protection commitments from the proposal I made
in Scotland, at <s>Glasgow</s>\[COP\] 26.    
  
I got 140 countries to sign up and say that, together — and we represent
90 percent of the world’s forest.  And this includes our own effort to
crack down on trafficking of illegal logged wood and prod- — and
products like the ones illegally deforesting areas around the world.    
  
In addition to that, I put in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill a —
that we’re going to plant 1.2 billion trees — 1.2 billion trees across
this country to begin the vital work of reforesting America.  It makes
sense and it also makes a big difference — (applause) — including in our
cities and on our city streets.   
  
The executive order also recognizes that when it comes to protecting our
communities from floods and storms, nature can help us as well.  For
example, when it comes to stopping flooding, sometimes a wetland is more
effective than a seawall.  I live along a state where it’s only — the
average — three feet above sea level — the state of Delaware, the
Delaware River, the Delaware Bay, and the Atlantic Ocean.   
  
Well, you saw what happened, by the way, down on the Gulf.  You saw what
happened in Louisiana when they had that — you know, it matters whether
that — there’s a wetlands.  They’re significantly more consequential
than seawalls.    
  
In order to help bring more of those nature-based solutions into our
planning, we have to move quickly.  
  
And with this executive order on Earth Day, we’re also showing this
moment of maximum threat and urgency can also be a moment of enormous
hope and enormous opportunity.   
  
You know, that we — you know, that we carry “in heart and mind the image
of the ideal place, the right place, the one true home, known or
unknown, actual or visionary.”  
  
I know you all feel it.  And you wouldn’t be sitting here in the cold
with your coats not on if you didn’t.   
  
So I’m now going to sign this executive order.  And I think we’re going
to make — I just think this is the beginning of a new day.  And we’re
going to just have to overtake the opposition on this.  I really mean
it.    
  
So thank you all for being here.  I’m going to sign this executive
order.  (Applause.)   
  
“Strengthening the Nations Forests, Communities, and Local Economies”. 
And that’s all about planting about 1,200,000,000 trees.   
  
So — and, by the way, anybody bring their shovels?  (Laughter.)  All
right.  
  
(The executive order is signed.)   
  
Is this a state park or is this a city park?  
  
GOVERNOR INSLEE:  City.   
  
MAYOR HARRELL:  City park.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Mr. Mayor?   
  
MAYOR HARRELL:  Yes, sir?  
  
SECRETARY HAALAND:  On Tribal land!  (Laughter.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Let me give you this.   
  
GOVERNOR INSLEE:  Right here.  Right here.  He’s right behind you.   
  
(Signing pen is handed to the Mayor.)  
  
MAYOR HARRELL:  Thank you.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  There you go.   
  
And, by the way, notice who runs the Department of Interior now. 
(Applause.)  
  
All right.  Well, thanks.  (Applause.)  
  
11:37 A.M. PDT
