---
date: '2022-04-28'
modified_time: 2022-04-28 13:14:25-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-28 13:14:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/28/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-request-to-congress-for-additional-funding-to-support-ukraine/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Request to Congress for Additional Funding\
  \ to Support\_Ukraine"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

11:13 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody.  Good morning.  I just signed a
request to Congress for critical security, economic, and humanitarian
assistance to help Ukraine continue to counter Putin’s aggression and —
at a very pivotal moment.

We need this bill to support Ukraine in its fight for freedom.  And our
NATO Allies, our EU partners — they’re going to pay their fair share of
the costs as well, but we have to do this.  We have to do our part as
well, leading the Alliance.  
  
     The cost of this fight is not cheap, but caving to aggression is
going to be more costly if we allow it to happen. 

We either back the Ukrainian people as they defend their country or we
stand by as the Russians continue their atrocities and aggression in
Ukraine. 

Every day — every day, the Ukrainians pay for the — a price with — and
the price they pay is with their lives for this fight. 

So, we need to contribute arms, funding, ammunition, and the economic
support to make their courage and sacrifice have purpose so they can
continue this fight and do what they’re doing.

It’s critical this funding gets approved and approved as quickly as
possible.

You know, long before Russia lost i- — launched its brutal invasion, I —
I made clear how the United States would respond.  I predicted they
would invade, and they surely did.  
  
     We said we’d not send U.S. troops to fight Russian troops in
Ukraine, but we would provide robust military assistance and try to
unify the Western world against Russia’s aggression.  
  
     I said I would impose powerful sanctions on Russia and that we’d
destroy and develop — we’d destroy this myth that somehow they could
continue to move without the rest of the world acting; that we’d deploy
additional forces to defend NATO territory, particularly in the east,
along the Russian and Belarus borders.

That’s exactly — that’s exactly what we said we would do, and we did.

But despite the disturbing rhetoric coming out of the Kremlin, the facts
are plain for everybody to see.  We’re not attacking Russia; we’re
helping Ukraine defend itself against Russian aggression.

And just as Putin chose to launch this brutal invasion, he could make
the choice to end this brutal invasion.

Russia is the aggressor.  No if, ands, or buts about it.  Russia is the
aggressor.  And the world must and will hold Russia accountable.

Russia’s continued assault on — is yielding immense human costs.

We’ve seen — we’ve seen them leave behind horrifying evidence of their
atrocities and war crimes in the areas they tried to control.

And as long as the assaults and atrocities continue, we’re going to
continue to supply military assistance.

  
     And I might note, parenthetically: You know, there’s a dinner this
weekend to celebrate the press.  Think of what the American press has
done — the courage it has taken to stay in these warzones, the courage
it has taken to report every single day.  
  
     I’ve always had respect for the press, but I can’t tell you how
much respect I have watching — watching them in these zones where
they’re under fire, risking their own lives to make sure the world hears
the truth.  
  
     Imagine if we weren’t getting that information.  It’d be a
different world.  It’d be a different circumstance.  
 

In the past two months, Russia launched its brutal attack and has moved
weapons and equipment to Ukraine at — we’ve moved — we’ve moved weapons
and equipment to Ukraine at record speed.

Thanks to the aid we’ve provided, Russian forces have been forced to
retreat from Kyiv.  It doesn’t mean they’re not going to try to come
back, but they’ve retreated thus far.

We’ve sent thousands of anti-armor, anti-\[air\] missiles, helicopters,
drones, grenade launchers, machine guns, rifles, radar systems, more
than 50 million rounds of ammunition.  The United States alone has
provided 10 anti-armor systems for every Russian tank that is in Ukraine
— 10 to 1.

We’re providing Ukraine significant, timely intelligence to help them
defend themselves against the Russian onslaught.

And we’re facilitating a significant flow of weapons and systems to
Ukraine from our Allies and partners around the world, including tanks,
artillery, and other weapons.

That support is moving with unprecedented speed.

Much — much of the new equipment we’ve announced in the past two mon- —
two weeks has already gotten to Ukraine, where it can be put to direct
use on the battlefield. 

However, we have almost exhausted what we call — the fancy phrase — the
“drawdown authority” that Congress authorized Ukraine — authorized for
Ukraine in a bipartisan spending bill last month.  Basically, we’re out
of money.

And so, that’s why today, in order to sustain Ukraine as it — as it
continues to fight, I’m sending Congress a supplemental budget request.

It’s going to keep weapons and ammunition flowing without interruption
to the brave Ukrainian fighters and continue delivering economic and
humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainian people.

This so-called supplemental funding addresses the needs of the Ukrainian
military during the crucial weeks and months ahead.  And it begins — it
begins to transition to longer-term security assistance that’s going to
help Ukraine deter and continue to defend against Russian aggression.

This assistance would provide even more artillery, armored vehicles,
anti-armor systems, anti-air capabilities that have been used so
effectively thus far on the battlefield by the Ukrainian warriors. 

You know, and it’s going to deliver much-needed humanitarian assistance
as well as food, water, medicines, shelter, and other aid to Ukrainians
displaced by Russia’s war, and provide aid to those seeking refuge in
other countries from Ukraine. 

It’s also going to help schools and hospitals open.  It’s going to allow
pensions and social support to be paid to the Ukrainian people so they
have something — something in their pocket.  It’s also going to provide
critical resources to address food shortages around the globe. 

Ukraine — Ukraine was one of the world’s largest agriculture producers. 
It typically grows 10 percent of all the wheat that’s shipped around the
world. 

Putin has asserted sanctions are blocking food from Ukraine and Russia
getting on the market — the sanctions we’ve imposed on Russia.  Simply
not true.

Putin’s war, not sanctions, are impacting the harvest of food and
disrupting the movement of that food by land and sea to nations around
the globe that need it.

This funding is going to help ease rising food prices at home as well,
and abroad, caused by Russia’s war in Ukraine.

It’s going to help support American farmers produce more crops like
wheat and oilseed, which is good for rural America, good for the
American consumer, and good for the world.

And this supplemental request will use the Defense Production Act to
expand domestic production and reserve — and the reserve of critical
materials — materials like nickel and lithium that have been disrupted
by Putin’s war in Ukraine and that are necessary to make everything from
defense systems to automobiles.

And I hope Congress — I hope Congress will move on this funding
quickly.  I believe they will. 

I want to thank Congress — Democrats and Republicans — for their support
of the people of Ukraine.

And next week, I will be in Alabama to visit a Lockheed Martin plant
that manufactures the Javelin anti-tank missile we’ve been sending to
Ukraine, and to thank the American workers — thank them — for producing
the weapons that helped stop Russia’s advances in Ukrainian cities like
Kyiv.

Their hard work has played a critical role in ensuring Putin’s strategic
failure in Ukraine, and they should know that we know it. 

In addition to this supplemental funding, I’m also sending to Congress a
comprehensive package of — that will enhance our underlying effort to
<s>accommodate</s> \[hold accountable\] the Russian oligarchs and make
sure we take their — take their ill-begotten gains.  Ha, we’re going to
“accommodate” them.   We’re going to seize their yachts, their luxury
homes, and other ill-begotten gains of Putin’s kleptoc- — yeah —
kleptocracy and klep- — the guys who are the kleptocracies.  (Laughs.) 
But these are bad guys.   

This legislative package strengthens our law enforcement capabilities to
seize property linked to Russia’s kleptocracy. 

It’s going to create new, expedited procedures for forfeiture and
seizure of these — of these properties.  And it’s going to ensure that
when the oligarchs’ assets are sold off, funds can be used directly to
remedy the harm Russia caused in their help — and help build Ukraine.

Additionally, yesterday, Ru- — Russia threatened two of our Allies with
a cut-off of energy supplies. 

While America has ended all Russian fossil fuel imports because we are
able to use our vast support — supply of power in our country, some
European countries have faced more challenges in reducing their reliance
on Russian fuel.

Russia has long claimed to be, quote, “the reliable source of energy”
for the world.  No matter what the differences are, their customers are
always going to be — be in good shape. 

But these actions prove that energy is not just a commodity that Russia
sells to help meet other countries’ needs, but a weapon it will use to
deploy against those who stand against their aggression.

So, let me be clear: We will not let Russia intimidate or blackmail
their way out of these sanctions.  We will not allow them to use their
oil and gas to avoid consequences for their aggression. 

We’re working with other nations — like Korea, Japan, Qatar, and others
— to support our effort to help the European allies threatened by Russia
with gas blackmail and their energy needs in other ways. 

Aggression will not win.  Threats will not win. 

This is just another reminder of the imperative for Europe and the world
to move more and more of our power needs to clean energy. 

In the United States, we’re doing that right now.  Last year, we
<s>developed</s> \[deployed\] more solar, wind, and battery storage than
any year in our history — enough to power 56 million American homes.

Earlier this month, we acted to bolster the — our reli- –the reliance on
our nuclear energy facilities, which generates more than half of our
carbon-free power.  And we’re just getting started.  I look at this as a
serious problem, but also an enormous opportunity — an opportunity. 

Bottom line: All these actions we’ve been taking are about the truth —
this truth: Investing in Ukraine’s freedom and security is a small price
to pay to punish Russian aggression, to lessen the risk of future
conflicts.

You know, throughout our history, we’ve learned that when dictators do
not pay the price for their aggression, they cause more chaos and engage
in more aggression.  They keep moving.  And the costs, the threats to
America and the world keep rising.

We can’t let this happen.

Our unity at home, our unity with our Allies and partners, and our unity
with the Ukrainian people is sending an unmistakable message to Putin:
You will never succeed in dominating Ukraine.

Finally, we’re going to continue to deliver critical support to
Ukraine.  We must also not let our guard down in our fight against
COVID-19 at home and abroad.  That’s why I’m, again, urging Congress to
act on my request for $22.5 billion in emergency resources so the
American people can continue to protect themselves from COVID-19.

The reason we were so successful in the past is because I was able to
work with drug manufacturers to order significant quantities of material
we needed ahead of time to get in the front of the line.  Without
additional funding, we can’t preorder the amount of vaccines we need,
and we risk losing our spot in line for vaccines that target multiple
variants. 

We’re running out of supply for therapeutics like antiviral pills that
we desperately need. 

Without additional funding, we’re unable to purchase the lifesaving
treatment for the American people.  We’ve donated more vaccines and
treatments to the world than all other nations in the world combined. 
If the U.S. won’t do it, no one else is really going to step up and do
it. 

Without additional funding, the United States won’t be able to help stop
the spread around the world and close off ongoing suppor- — sources of
the supply chain disruptions.

Look, let’s get both of these critical tasks done.  No delays, no
excuses, just action now.  Now. 

Thank you all.  Thank you.

Q    Mr. President, what’s your message to refugees on —

Q    Mr. President, how worried are you — how worried are you by — go
ahead.  No, you go.

Q    Okay.

THE PRESIDENT:  Watch your head, man.  You’re going to get hurt.  He’s
turning that camera. 

Q    I’m in a tight spot here, Mr. President.

Q    He’s a gentleman.  Mr. President, I wanted to ask what your message
is to Ukrainian refugees on the southwest border and those that are
trying to flee Ukraine from the violence.

THE PRESIDENT:  We have made a direct means by which they can get from
Europe, from Ukraine, directly to the United States, without going
through the southern border.  In the meantime, in the southern border,
we’re trying to work through and make sure they — it’s an orderly
process, they’re able to get in. 

But just so you know, we have said there’s no need to go to the southern
border; fly directly to the United States.  We set up a mechanism
whereby they can come directly with a visa.

Q    Mr. President, thank you.  How worried are you by a growing number
of Russian comments in the media and amongst some of their officials
painting this conflict as actually already a conflict between NATO, the
U.S., and Russia?  And they’re painting in very alarmist terms, talking
of nuclear weapons, saying it’s a life-or-death struggle, et cetera. 

And just separately — well, connected to that: Lavrov himself self says
it’s already a proxy war — not a direct war but a proxy war.  So are
either of those two things true?  And do they worry you, those things?

THE PRESIDENT:  They’re not true.  They do concern me because it shows
the desperation that Russia is feeling about their abject failure in
being able to do what they set out to do in the first instance.

And so, it — I think it’s more of a reflection not of the truth but of
their failure.  And so, instead of saying that the — the Ukrainians,
equipped with some capability to resist Russian forces, are doing this,
they’ve got to say — tell their people the United States and all of NATO
is engaged in — in taking out Russian troops and tanks, et cetera. 

So, it’s — number one, it’s an excuse for their failure.  But number
two, it’s also, if they really mean it, it’s — it’s — no — no one should
be making idle comments about the use of nuclear weapons or the
possibility that they’d use that.  It’s irresponsible.

     Q    Mr. President, back on the border, Title 42.  A number of your
Democratic friends are pressuring the White House

to maintain that policy.  Can you give us a straight answer on whether
you’re going to — whether you’re going to heed that request or you’re
going to get rid of it?

THE PRESIDENT:  I can give you a straight answer.  We had proposed to
eliminate that policy by the end of May.  The Court has said we can’t so
far.  And what the Court says, we’re going to do.  The Court could come
along and say we cannot do that, and that’s it.

Q    Mr. President, you say that this is not a proxy war, but Russia
clearly disagrees.  They say that war means war.  So how concerned are
you that they may start to act accordingly, even if you disagree?

THE PRESIDENT:  We are prepared for whatever they do.

Q    What options do you have to ensure Poland and Bulgaria have
sufficient supplies of gas?

THE PRESIDENT:  First of all, as you know, Poland has indicated they
have significant reserves of gas that they have planned for, as does —
not as much, but as does Bulgaria.  And we have worked with our allies,
from Japan on, to say that we may divert our sale of the natural gas
that we’re sending to those countries and divert it directly to Poland
and Bulgaria.

So, I — you know, that’s the most I can tell you right now.

Q    Sir, how concerned are you about a recession, given the GDP report
today showed a contraction of 1.4 percent in the first quarter?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m not concerned about a recession.  I mean,
you’re always concerned about a recession, but the GDP, you know, fell
to 1.4 percent. 

But here’s the deal: We’re also had — last quarter, consumer spending
and business investment and residential investment increased at
significant rates, both for leisure as well as hard products, number
one.

Number two, the — we are — unemployment is the lowest rate since 1970. 
A record 4.5 million businesses were created last year.  We’re in a
situation where the — you know, we have a very different view than
Senator Scott and Republicans that want to raise taxes on the
middle-class families and want to include half of small-business owners
in that. 

So, I think we’re — what you’re seeing is enormous growth in the country
that was affected by everything from COVID and the COVID blockages that
we — occurred along the way.

Now, you always have to be taking a look.  And no one is predicting a
recession now.  They’re predicting — or some are predicting there may be
recession in 2023.  I’m concerned about it, but I know one thing: that,
you know, if our Republican friends are really interested in doing
something about dealing with the economic growth, they should help us
continue to lower the deficit, which we’ve done last year — over $350
billion. 

They should be willing to work with us to have a tax code that is
actually one that works and everybody pays their fair share.  And they
should be in a position where you shouldn’t be raising taxes on
middle-class folks.  You should be raising taxes on people who everyone
acknowledges — and the vast majority of Republicans — aren’t paying
their fair share.

I’ve said it a hundred times: You have — you know, 50 major corporations
of the Fortune 500 companies made $40 billion last year and didn’t pay
single penny.  No one under our proposal making under $400,000 a year
will see a penny in their taxes go up.  Not one penny.

Q    What do you think about tying COVID aid to Ukraine aid?  Do you
think COVID aid and Ukraine aid should be tied together in legislation?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I don’t care how they tie — how they do it.  I’m
sending them both up.  I mean, I — they can do it separately or
together.  But we need them both.

Q    Mr. President, Majority Leader Schumer said yesterday that you’re,
quote, “getting closer” to using executive authority to cancel up to
$50,000 in student loan debt.  Can you confirm that?  What exactly are
you looking to — plan to do here in the coming —

THE PRESIDENT:  You mean my spokesman said that?

Q    Majority Leader Schumer.

THE PRESIDENT:  Look, number one, one of — the first thing we did was
reform the system that was in place that didn’t work for anybody that
allowed people to write off debt if they engaged in public service. 
We’ve almost a million — seven hundred and eighty-five — don’t hold me
to the exact number; I’ll get the number — seven hundred and some
thousand have had debt forgiven — their whole debt forgiven because of
their work working in –either as teachers or other means by which they
qualify.  And we continue to make that easier.

Secondly, I am considering dealing with some debt reduction.  I am not
considering $50,000 debt reduction.  But I’m in the process of taking a
hard look at whether or not there are going to — there will be
additional debt forgiveness, and I’ll have an answer on that in the next
couple of weeks.

Thank you.

11:33 A.M. EDT
