---
date: '2022-04-05'
published_time: 2022-04-05 16:51:10-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/05/remarks-by-president-biden-vice-president-harris-and-former-president-obama-on-the-affordable-care-act/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden, Vice President Harris, and Former President Obama\
  \ on the Affordable Care\_Act"
---
 
East Room

1:44 P.M. EDT  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Good afternoon.  Indeed, it is a good
afternoon.  Good afternoon.  Please have a seat, everybody.  Please have
a seat.  Thank you.  It feels good, doesn’t it?  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.)   
  
President Biden, President Obama, members of Congress, and my fellow
Americans: On March 23rd, 2010, the Affordable Care Act was signed into
law.  (Applause.)  
  
In the 12 years since, the ACA has delivered high-quality,  
affordable healthcare to more than 30 million Americans –(applause) —
yes.  And those Americans are working parents and young children,
college students and older Americans — millions of people who had never
been able to afford coverage before or who had been denied coverage
altogether, often because of a category of denial called “pre-existing
conditions” — conditions such as cancer, diabetes, hypertension, or even
asthma.   
  
The ACA is the most consequential healthcare legislation passed in
generations in our country.  (Applause.)   
  
And it is something more.  The ACA is a statement of purpose; a
statement about the nation we must be, where all people — no matter who
they are, where they live, or how much they earn — can access the
healthcare they need, no matter the cost.   
  
You know, when I served as Attorney General of California, it was that
purpose that led our office and 10 other state attorneys general to
submit a brief to the United States Supreme Court in defense of the
ACA.    
  
And it is that purpose that brings us all together today to continue to
expand affordable healthcare and its coverage to families across our
nation, and to call on Congress to take action to pass legislation that
simply allows Medicare to directly negotiate prescription drug prices
with pharmaceutical companies.  (Applause.)  
  
And if there’s any question why, I’ll explain.  More than 60 million
Americans are enrolled in Medicare.  That would give Medicare
significant bargaining power to negotiate prices for all those
Americans.  So instead of forcing individual patients to negotiate by
themselves, to require them to pay whatever price the drug companies
set, they would have that kind of representation to stand there with
their fellow Americans and negotiate those prices so that they would
just simply be fair.  
  
So, today, we also call on Congress to make permanent the ACA subsidies
that are included in the American Rescue Plan — (applause) — subsidies
that are currently lowering insurance premiums for millions of Americans
and which are set to expire in December.  And more must be done.   
  
Currently, there are 12 states in our nation that refuse to expand
Medicaid for no reason other than petty partisan obstruction.  As a
result, 4 million people in our country are locked out of coverage, and
that comes at a cost.   
  
For example, women who do not have healthcare coverage and are,
therefore, less likely to have access during pregnancy, or before or
after, to pelvic exams or vaccinations, prenatal check-ups, postpartum
depression screenings, and all the other essential care they need to be
safe and healthy before, during, and after birth.   
  
We know that expanding Medicaid coverage significantly reduces the
number of mothers who die as a result of pregnancy.  (Applause.)  So the
sooner coverage is expanded in those 12 states, the more lives we will
save.   
  
Protecting the health and wellbeing of the people of our nation should
not be a partisan issue.  Every person in our nation should be able to
access and afford the healthcare they need to thrive — not as a
privilege, but as a right.   
  
And that is why our administration will continue to use every tool at
our disposal to strengthen the ACA.  
  
And with that — (applause) — it is now my great pleasure to introduce
the man whose vision and leadership led us to this day, whose unwavering
commitment to the people of our nation laid the foundation for this
groundbreaking legislation; a leader who showed us the way forward on
this important issue.  
  
Please welcome President Barack Obama.  (Applause.)  
  
PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, everybody.  Thank
you.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)  Thank you, everybody.  Have a
seat.  Have a seat.  Thank you.  
  
Vice President Biden, Vice President — (laughter) — that was a joke. 
(Applause.)  (President Obama hugs President Biden.)  That was all set
up.  (Laughter.)   
  
My President, Joe Biden; Vice President Harris — (applause) — our dear
friend, Madam Speaker, Nancy Pelosi — (applause) — all the members of
Congress who are in attendance today, the members of the Cabinet: It is
good to be back in the White House.  (Applause.)  It’s been a while.   
  
I confess I heard some changes have been made — (laughter) — by the
current President, since I was last here.  Apparently, Secret Service
agents have to wear aviator glasses now.  (Laughter.)  The Navy Mess has
been replaced by a Baskin Robbins.  (Laughter.)  And there’s — there’s a
cat running around — (laughter) — which I guarantee you Bo and Sunny
would have been very unhappy about.  (Laughter.)   
  
But coming back — even if I have to wear a tie, which I very rarely do
these days — (laughter) — gives me a chance to visit with some of the
incredible people who serve this White House and who serve this country
every single day, a lot of times out of the limelight.  They make this
government function, and they help people in ways big and small.   
  
And — and from the outside, sometimes people don’t understand just how
grueling this is and how many sacrifices people make, because those of
us who are in front of the cameras oftentimes get the credit.  But it’s
a lot of people who are devoted day in, day out to making this country
better that matter, and a lot of them are represented here.  And that’s
not just in the West Wing, by the way.  It’s also in the Residence. 
There were a lot of people who looked after our families that I will
always be grateful to.   
  
So, it’s wonderful to be back to say thank you to all of you.  But most
of all, coming back here gives me a chance to say thank you and spend
some time with an extraordinary friend and partner who was by my side
for eight years.  
  
Joe Biden and I did a lot together.  (Applause.)  We helped save the
global economy, made record investments in clean energy.  We put
guardrails on our financial system.  We helped turn the auto industry
around.  Repealed “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.”  But nothing made me prouder
than providing better healthcare and more protections to millions of
people across this country.  (Applause.)   
  
So — so when President Biden said he was not going to just celebrate the
ACA, but also announce actions that would make it even better, I had to
show up.  (Laughter.)  
  
I think it’s been well documented just how difficult it was to pass the
ACA.  (Laughter.)  There — there’s — you can get a lot of testimony
here, in case folks haven’t heard.  
  
As a country, we had been talking about reforming healthcare for 100
years.  Unlike almost every other advanced economy on Earth, we didn’t
have a system that guaranteed access to healthcare for all of its
citizens.  Millions of people didn’t have health insurance, often
because their employers didn’t provide it or because it was too
expensive.  
  
But despite the fact that our healthcare system didn’t work well, it was
hard to change.  Healthcare represents about one-fifth of our economy;
that’s trillions of dollars that are involved.  So there were a lot of
different economic interests that were vying to maintain the status
quo.  
  
And because the majority of Americans did have healthcare, some people
naturally worried that they’d lose what they had.  The media was
skeptical of past failures.  There was a lot of misinformation, to say
the least, flying around.  And it’s fair to say that most Republicans
showed little interest in working with us to get anything done. 
(Laughter.)  That’s fair to say.  
  
But despite great odds, Joe and I were determined, because we’d met too
many people on the campaign trail who’d shared their stories, and our
own families had been touched by illness.  
  
And as I said to our dear friend Harry Reid, who is missed — wish he was
here today, because he took great pride in what we did — I intended to
get healthcare passed even if it cost me reelection — which, for a
while, it looked like it might.  (Laughter.)    
  
But for all of us — for Joe, for Harry, for Nancy Pelosi, for others —
the ACA was an example of why you run for office in the first place, why
all of you sign up for doing jobs that pay you less than you can make
someplace else; why you’re away from home sometimes and you miss some
soccer practices or some dance recitals.  
  
Because we don’t — we’re not supposed to do this just to occupy a seat
or to hang on to power.  We’re supposed to do this because it’s making a
difference in the lives of the people who sent us here.   
  
And because of so many people, including a lot of people who are here
today, made enormous sacrifices; because members of Congress took
courageous votes, including some who knew that their vote would likely
cost them their seat; because of the incredible leadership of Nancy and
Harry, we got the ACA across the finish line together.  (Applause.)   
  
And the night we passed the ACA — I’ve said it before — it was a high
point of my time here, because it reminded me and it reminded us of what
is possible.  
  
But, of course, our work was not finished.  Republicans tried to repeal
what we had done — again, and again, and again.  (Laughter.)  And they
filed lawsuits that went all the way to the Supreme Court three
times.  I see Don Verrilli here who had to defend a couple of them. 
(Applause.)   
  
They tried explicitly to make it harder for people to sign up for
coverage.   
  
And let’s face it: It didn’t help that when we first rolled out the ACA,
the website didn’t work.  (Laughter.)  That was not one of my happiest
moments.  (Laughter.)  
  
So, given all the noise and the controversy and the skepticism, it took
a while for the American people to understand what we had done.  But lo
and behold, a little later than I’d expected, a lot of folks, including
many who had initially opposed healthcare reform, came around.    
  
And today, the ACA hasn’t just survived; it’s pretty darn popular.  And
the reason is because it’s done what it was supposed to do.  It’s made a
difference.  
  
First, 20 million and now 30 million people have gotten covered thanks
to the ACA.  (Applause.)   
  
It’s — it’s prevented insurance companies from denying people coverage
based on a pre-existing condition.  It’s lowered prescription drug costs
for 12 million seniors.  It’s allowed young people to stay on their
parents’ plan until they’re 26.  It’s eliminated lifetime limits on
benefits that often put people in a jam.  
  
So, we are incredibly proud of that work.   
  
But the reason we’re here today is because President Biden, Vice
President Harris, everybody who has worked on this thing understood from
the start that the ACA wasn’t perfect.  To get the bill passed, we had
to make compromises.  We didn’t get everything we wanted.  That wasn’t a
reason not to do it.  If you can get millions of people health coverage
and better protection, it is — to quote a famous American — a pretty
“big deal.”  (Laughter and applause.)  That’s what it is.  (Applause.) 
A big deal.  
  
But there were gaps to be filled.  Even today, some patients still pay
too much for their prescriptions.  Some poor Americans are still falling
through the cracks.  In some cases, healthcare subsidies aren’t where we
want them to be, which means that some working families are still having
trouble paying for their coverage.  
  
Here’s the thing: That’s not unusual when we make major progress in this
country.  The original Social Security Act left out entire categories of
people, like domestic workers and farm workers.  That had to be
changed.  In the beginning, Medicare didn’t provide all the benefits
that it does today.  That had to be changed.  
  
Throughout history, what you see is that it’s important to get something
started, to plant a flag, to lay a foundation for further progress.  
  
The analogy I’ve used about the ACA before is that: In the same way that
was true for early forms of Social Security and Medicare, it was a
starter home.  (Laughter.)  It secured the principle of universal
healthcare, provided help immediately to families.  But it required us
to continually build on it and make it better.  
  
And President Biden understands that.  And that’s what he’s done since
the day he took office.  As part of the American Rescue Plan, he lowered
the cost of healthcare even further for millions of people.  He made
signing up easier.  He made outreach to those who didn’t know they could
get covered — make sure that they knew; made that a priority.   
  
And as a result of these actions, he helped a record 14.5 million
Americans get covered during the most recent enrollment period. 
(Applause.)   
  
That, ladies and gentlemen, is what happens when you have an
administration that’s committed to making a program work.  (Applause.)  
  
And today — today, the Biden-Harris administration is going even further
by moving to fix a glitch in the regulations that will lower premiums
for nearly 1 million people who need it and allow 200,000 more uninsured
Americans get access to coverage.   
  
I’m a private citizen now, but I still take more than a passing interest
in the course of our democracy.  (Laughter.)  But I’m outside the arena,
and I know how discouraged people can get with Washington — Democrats,
Republicans, independents.  Everybody feels frustrated sometimes about
what takes place in this town.  Progress feels way too slow sometimes. 
Victories are often incomplete.  And in a country as big and as diverse
as ours, consensus never comes easily.   
  
But what the Affordable Care Act shows is that if you are driven by the
core idea that, together, we can improve the lives of this generation
and the next, and if you’re persistent — if you stay with it and are
willing to work through the obstacles and the criticism and continually
improve where you fall short, you can make America better — you can have
an impact on millions of lives.  You can help make sure folks don’t have
to lose their homes when they get sick, that they don’t have to worry
whether a loved one is going to get the treatment they need.  
  
President Joe Biden understands that.  He has dedicated his life to the
proposition that there’s something worthy about public service and that
the reason to run for office is for days like today.  
  
So, I could not be more honored to be here with him as he writes the
next chapter in our story of progress.  I’m grateful for all the people
who have been involved in continuing to make the ACA everything it can
be.    
  
And it is now my great privilege to introduce the 46th President of the
United States, Joe Biden.  (Applause.)   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you, thank
you.  Please.  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.  Please.  Tha- — (applause.)  Please.  Thank you.  Thank
you very much.  Please.  
  
My name is Joe Biden, and I’m Barack Obama’s Vice President.  (Laughter
and applause.)  And I’m Jill Biden’s husband.  (Laughter.)  By the way,
the only reason Jill is not here today: She’s working.  (Laughter.)
 She’s teaching.   
  
PRESIDENT OBAMA:  I hear you.   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  And so I just want you to know that’s why she’s not
here.  
  
Good afternoon, everyone.  Mr. President, welcome back to the White
House, man.  It feels like the good old days.  (Applause.)  Being here
with you brings back so many good memories.  We just had lunch together,
and we weren’t sure who was supposed to sit where.  (Laughter.)   
  
Look, it’s fitting that the first time you return to the White House is
to celebrate a law — a law that’s transforming millions of lives because
of you.  And I say “because of you.”  We had a lot of help — the staff
and I helped a little bit — but it was because of you.  A law that shows
hope leads to change.  And you did that.  You did it.  
  
Let’s be honest: The Affordable Care Act has been called a lot of
things, but “Obamacare” is the most fitting.  (Laughter and applause.)
“Obamacare.”  It’s true.   
  
I can tell you all how much Barack Obama cared about getting this done. 
Throughout the countless hours of negotiations and the relentless
political attacks, he never, ever, ever gave up.  And I guarantee you
that.    
  
If I had time, I could tell you all the times when he’d say, “Should we
compromise, should we do…”  And I’d say, “Well, we ought to think about
that.”  “No, if I do that, then so and so won’t get covered.  This group
of people won’t get covered.”    
  
And whether it was after meeting or — or during our weekly lunch — and
we met every single day — he’d remind me why we were doing this in the
first place.  
  
We were doing this, in the first place, for people who needed it and
deserved to be treated with dignity.  Dignity.  The idea that when you
can’t afford health insurance for your children, for your spouse, male
or female — it doesn’t matter: Not only are they in trouble, but you’re
deprived of your dignity.    
  
Barack, you talked about the idea that it was important that we make
sure that you couldn’t outrun your insurance.  I can remember there with
— with Beau, thinking to myself, “What would I do if they walked in and
said ‘You’ve outrun your time here,’ and there was still 35 days to
live?”  The things that change people’s lives.   
  
We both understood the Affordable Care Act wasn’t about a single
president or the presidency.  It was about the countless — countless
Americans lying in bed at night, staring at the ceiling, wondering, “My
God — my God, what if I get really sick?  What am I going to do?  What
is my family going to do?  Will I lose the house?”  Discussions we had
in my house with my dad when he lost his health insurance — “Who’s going
to pay for it?  Who’s going to take care of my family?”    
  
You know, in America, healthcare — as we all three said, will have now
said — healthcare should be a right, not a privilege.  
  
And — (applause) — with — with the help of members of Congress,
especially Nancy, and the advocates for families who are here today, 12
years ago last month — 12 years ago, we made a good effort toward that
proposition — that it should be a right.    
  
When — and, Barack, when you signed the Affordable Care Act into law, it
became the most consequential piece of health insurance — most
consequential piece of legislation, in my view — since the creation of
Medicare and Medicaid in 1965.  It made a difference in people’s lives
every day.   
  
You just talked about where we were before the Affordable Care Act and
what happened in the past 12 years to make life a lot better for
people.  
  
Well, I’d like to talk about where we go from here, because — because we
knew back then, as Barack — as the President said, we knew that we had
to keep strengthening this legislation.  
  
Look, that’s why I ran for President and I promised to protect and build
upon the Affordable Care Act.  
  
As soon as I entered office, that’s exactly what Kamala and I did and
what our administration and the Democrats in Congress here today did. 
We passed the landmark American Rescue Plan, which not only helped us on
the COVID-19 — get it under control and our economy back on track, it
got millions more people insured under the Affordable Care Act.  
  
It made it easier for people to sign up for coverage in the middle of a
pandemic.  It opened a special enrollment <s>people</s> \[period\] and
gave millions and millions of Americans more time to enroll.  It
quadrupled the number of navigators out there in the communities helping
people to sign up for coverage because it was confusing to people.  It’s
confusing.   
  
The President has heard me say when we worked together — you know how
they’d say, “Well, Biden and Obama are doing great on foreign policy.” 
I said, “You want to do something difficult?  Try healthcare.” 
(Laughter.)  Not a joke.  Not a joke.  
  
So we continue to expand Medicaid.  Missouri and Oklahoma became the
37th and 38th states to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act. 
(Applause.)    
  
And as has been mentioned, over 31 million people now have health
insurance through the Affordable Care Act.  Four out of five Americans
can find quality coverage for under $10 a month.  
  
The average family — (applause) — the average family is saving $2,400 a
year on their premiums.  That’s $200 every single month available for
other needs in their lives — from gas to groceries, to other basic
necessities.  
  
The bottom line is this: The Affordable Care Act is stronger now than it
has ever been.     
  
And today — (applause) — and I’m not even talking about what your former
Chief of Staff is doing to make sure healthcare is available to all our
veterans in the way he did.  (Applause.)  
  
PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Yeah.   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  And today, we’re strengthening it even further.  In a
moment, I’m going to sign an executive order building on one of those
that I signed last year.  
  
It directs federal agencies to continue doing everything in their power
— everything in their power to expand quality and affordable healthcare
coverage: making it easier for people to enroll in and keep their
coverage; helping people better understand their coverage options and to
pick — to be able to pick the best option for that family; taking steps
to strengthen benefits, lower costs, and expand eligibility; protecting
Americans from low-quality coverage that can lead to a mountain of
medical debt.  
  
And, folks — and, separately, it’s time to fix what we refer to as the
“family glitch.”  Now, the family glitch, to all — everybody in this
room probably knows what it is.  (Laughter.)  But it’s a common issue
facing 5 million Americans who can’t get financial help to get coverage
under the Affordable Care Act.  
  
And here’s the problem: Under the current rules, a working mom is told:
As long as she can afford employer-based coverage for herself, she can’t
qualify for premium subsidies to afford coverage for her family.  It’ll
cover her, but not her family.    
  
But we’re going to change that.  Once today’s proposed rule is
finalized, starting next year, working families in America will get the
help they need to afford full family coverage — everyone in the family. 
(Applause.)   
  
As — as a redult \[sic\] — as a result, families will be saving hundreds
of dollars a month.  With this change, it’s estimated that 200,000
presently uninsured Americans are going to gain coverage.  
  
Nearly 1 million Americans will see their coverage become more
affordable.  This is considered one of the biggest things my
administration can do: lower costs and expand coverage.  And we’re
taking steps today to get that done.   
  
So, look, folks — but we need — we need to keep up the fight.  Our
Republican colleagues, as they say in southern Delaware, “They haven’t
changed a whole hell of a lot.”  (Laughter.)  Good folks, but they
haven’t changed a lot.  They continue to attack the Affordable Care
Act.  They’re unrelenting.  Unrelenting.  They haven’t stopped.  
  
Mr. President, since you signed the law, they haven’t stopped for one
second.  Multiple court challenges, you mentioned.  Sabotage from the
previous administration.  Over 70 attempts to repeal the law by
Republicans in Congress.   
  
In fact, just last month, the distinguished senator from Wisconsin said:
If Republicans get back in power, they should try to repeal the
Affordable Care Act again — again try.  
  
Today, 12 years later, Republicans have not stopped their attacks on
this lifesaving law.  
  
So, pay very close attention, folks: If Republicans have their way, it
means 100 million Americans with pre-existing conditions can once again
be denied healthcare coverage by their insurance companies.  That’s what
the law was before Obamacare.   
  
In addition, tens of millions of Americans could lose their coverage,
including young people who will no longer be able to stay on their
parents’ insurance policy to age 26.  Premiums are going to go through
the roof.   
  
Well, I got a better idea: Instead of destroying the Affordable Care
Act, let’s keep building on it.  (Applause.)  Let’s extend it.  Extend. 
(Applause.)   
  
And because of all the — all the folks in this room, the members of
Congress, the American Rescue Plan subsidies — subsidizes that are
lowering premiums — subsidies are lowering premiums and extending
coverage.   
  
And I got a little practice when you gave me that other act, you know,
when we were President — when you were President and I was with you. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Look, close the Medicaid coverage gap that locks nearly 4 million
Americans out of coverage just because their state has refused to expand
Medicaid.  Lower prescription drug costs, which was mentioned already,
by allowing Medicare to negotiate prices for drugs that are on the
market.  
  
We can do this.  We should do this.  We have to do this.  
  
But let me close with this: Twelve years ago, at a bill signing of the
Affordable Care Act, President Obama said, quote, “We’re a nation that
does what is hard, what is necessary, and what is right.”  That’s
exactly what he did.  Exactly what he did.   
  
And, folks, that’s what we have to do.  It’s what we do as Americans. 
You know, it’s what all of you did here in making the Affordable Care
Act possible.  I really mean it.   
  
We just keep it — we just got to keep it going and keep building on it. 
We need to keep the faith.  And we need to remember: We’re the United
States of America, and there’s simply — literally — nothing beyond our
capacity when we’re united and do it together.   
  
So, God bless you all, and may God protect our troops.  And now I’m
going to sign an executive order.   
  
And, Barack, let me remind you: It’s a hot mic.  (Laughter and
applause.)  
  
I have to admit one thing I haven’t gotten down — Barack Obama could
sign his name using nine different pens.  (Laughter.)  But I’m going to
use one.  
  
(The executive order is signed.)  (Applause.)  
  
2:22 P.M. EDT
