---
date: '2022-04-06'
modified_time: 2022-04-06 17:40:04-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-06 17:40:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/06/remarks-by-president-biden-at-north-americas-building-trades-unions-legislative-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at North America\u2019s Building Trades Unions\
  \ Legislative\_Conference"
---
 
Washington Hilton  
Washington, D.C.

12:58 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  It’s good to be home!  (Applause.)  Whoa.  

AUDIENCE:  Joe!  Joe!  Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.

AUDIENCE:  Joe!  Joe!  Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you,
thank you.  You better stop; I’ll start believing it.  (Laughter.) 
Please, have a seat if you have one. 

It’s good to be home!  (Applause.)  You know, I look out there and I see
an awful lot of you who — as they say in Claymont, Delaware — “who brung
me to the dance.”  And I — no, I really mean it.  There is no
exaggeration: I’d not be standing here without labor, without union —
union labor.  (Applause.) 

Folks, as we used to say when I was a senator, “If you’d excuse the
point of personal privilege” — before I turn to my main remarks, I’d
like to — I have to briefly address the horrifying reports of the
atrocities taking place in Ukraine and the steps the United States is
taking to respond in close coordination with our Allies and our
partners.   

And I’m sure you’ve seen the pictures from Bucha and out — just outside
of Kyiv: bodies left in streets as Russian troops withdrew, some shot in
the back of the head with their hands tied behind their backs; civilians
executed in cold blood; bodies dumped into mass graves.  The sense of
brutality and inhumanity left for all the world to see
unapologetically.  There’s nothing less happening than major war
crimes. 

Responsible nations have to come together to hold these perpetrators
accountable.  And together with our Allies and our partners, we’re going
to keep raising the economic cost and ratchet up the pain for Putin and
further increase Russia’s economic isolation.  (Applause.) 

Folks, the steps we’ve already taken are predicted to shrink Russia’s
gross domestic product by double digits this year alone.  Just in one
year, our sanctions are likely to wipe out the last 15 years of Russia’s
economic gains.  And because we’ve cut Russia off from importing
technologies like semiconductors and encryption security and critical
components of quantum technology that they need to compete in the 21st
century, we’re going to stifle Russia’s ability and its economy to grow
for years to come.  (Applause.)

Folks, this is the United States, and we’re taking additional steps in
lockstep with our Allies and partners to raise the economic pressure on
Putin.  

First, the United States will impose full blocking sanctions on
Sberbank, by far the largest financial institution in Russia, and Alfa
Bank, its largest private bank.  We’re locking down any accounts, any
funds that those banks hold in the United States.  They’ll not be able
to touch any of their money.  They’ll not be able to do any business
here. 

And, second, I’m going to sign an executive order that’s going to ban
any new U.S. investment in Russia — more than 600 private sector
companies.  (Applause.) 

Folks, corporate America is stepping up, a change.  From McDonalds to
Exxon, they’ve left the Russian market on their own accord — 600 of
them.  Think about that.  The private businesses choosing to leave
Russia rather than risk being associated with Putin’s brutal war. 

And this ban on investment is going to make sure that new money cannot
come in to Russia to replace what’s left so that the Russian economy
doesn’t feel the loss — and the loss of these businesses for the long
term.   

Third, we’re adding more critical state-owned enterprises to the list of
fully blocked Russian companies.  These companies are major revenue
generators owned by Russia and the government, which Putin uses to fund
himself and enable his war in Ukraine. 

They’ll also be cut off from doing any business with the United States. 
They will not be able to access or use any assets they have in the
United States.   

And, fourth, we, along with our European allies, are adding the names to
the list of Russian elites and their families that we are sanctioning. 
Did you see these yachts we’re — that are being picked up? 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Yeah!

THE PRESIDENT:  No — no, think about it.  Think about the — the
incredible amounts of money these oligarchs have stolen.  These yachts
are a hundred — millions and millions of dollars.

Look, these oligarchs and their family members are not allowed to hold
on to their wealth in Europe and the United States and keep these yachts
worth hundreds of millions of dollars, their luxury vacation homes,
while children in Ukraine are being killed, displaced from their homes
every single day.

And, finally, we’re continuing to supply Ukraine with the weapons and
resources to defend their country.  Last Friday — (applause) — last
Friday, we announced millions in funding to procure new equipment for
Ukraine — advanced drones, laser-guided rocket systems. 

Yesterday, I signed another package to send more Javelins missiles —
those shoulder-mounted missiles that can take out tanks and armored
vehicles — (applause) — to keep getting an uninterrupted supply to the
Ukrainian military. 

You know, we won’t be able to advertise every piece of security we give
because our Allies and partners are supplying to Ukraine through us, but
advanced weapons and ammunition are flowing in every single day.  

And as you may have seen yesterday on television, when the Secretary of
Defense was being cross-examined by one of our — how can I say it? — our
congresspersons — (laughter) — saying, “What have you done?”  And he
basically looked at him and said, “What the hell do you think we’ve
done?  Why do you think they’re able to fight?  We’ve trained them and
we’ve given them the weapons.”  That’s what’s happening.  (Applause.)

Look, thanks to the bravery, the grit, and the fight- — the fighting
spirit of the Ukrainian people, Russia has already failed in its initial
war aims.  Russia wanted to take Ukraine’s capital city of Kyiv and
topple its democracy and elected government.  

Today, Kyiv still stands, and that government still presides.  This
fight is far from over.  (Applause.) 

And here’s the point: This war could continue for a long time, but the
United States will continue to stand with Ukraine and the Ukrainian
people in the fight for freedom.  And I just want you to know that. 

And, by the way, if I got to go to war, I’m going with you guys. 
(Applause.)  I’ll tell you.  (Inaudible.) I mean it.

I want to talk about — (applause) — I want to talk about what I’m here
today to talk about: You women or men in the American union movement
remember, you know, when the Fair Labor Standards Act was first passed,
everybody said you “can” have unions.  It didn’t say that.  It says we
“should” have more unions.  We should.  American labor of the Building
Trades Unions.  (Applause.)

President McGarvey.  And, by the way, Dad, Jack — where are you, Jack?

PARTICIPANT:  Right in front there.

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll tell you what, Dad, as they say in southern
Delaware, “You done good with this boy.”  (Laughter and applause.)

And, you know, I just know Jack is a Philadelphia guy.  You know why? 
He — I just asked Sean.  I said, “Where is…”  He said, “Well, he’s down
the shore.”  Now, if you’re from Philadelphia or Jersey, you go to “the
shore.”  If you’re from northern Delaware, you go to “the shore.”  A
little bit further south, you go to “the beach.”  (Laughter.)  You go to
the beach.   You can always tell where someone is from. 

And, Dad, I asked whether or not — whether or not you — like my wife
Jill, who is from Philly — still talks about “Broad Street.”  The Broad
Street Run, you know?  And — and, you know, “Jeet, yet?”  You know? 
(Laughter.)  You know, I — I had to learn to speak Philadelphian when I
got married.  (Laughter.)

But, Dad, it’s an honor to meet you from a distance here.  Thank you.

MR. JACK MCGARVEY:  Thank you very much.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  (Applause.) 

Look — it’s good to be with you all, and I mean that. 

You know, there’s an old expression, as I said earlier: “You go home
with them that brung you to the dance.”  And you all — you folks brought
me to the dance.  And the people that brought me to the dance were union
workers — not just workers, union workers: IBEW, Ironworkers,
Boilermakers, Teamsters, Laborers, Bricklayers, Masons, Plumbers and
Pipefitters, Painters, Plasterers, Roofers, Operating Engineers, Steel
Metal Workers.  You’re all represented in this room — and so many more
who are not in the building trades that are union members across the
country.

I want to thank you for what you did to support my election this last
time out. 

I remember going to a guy sitting down here a little further to the
right when I refused to — I wasn’t going to introduce my — my climate
plan until I decided I was going to speak a guy from the IBEW because I
wanted to make sure you all knew what I was doing and why it not only
was good for the environment, but good for labor.  And I sat down with
that guy right there.  And he thought about it, and he went out and he
talked to other people, and you all stepped up.  

And I mean it sincerely: You’re probably the biggest reason why I’m
standing here today.  I’ve never forgotten not only what you’ve done for
me but, more importantly, what you’ve done for this country.  

You’re the ones who literally built this country, and that’s not
hyperbole.  And you heard it a thousand times when I was running for
office, that we’re going to build this economy not from the top down
anymore, but from the middle up and out.  That’s how you build America. 

Because we know that when the middle class does well, the poor have a
way up and the wealthy are just fine.  And that’s exactly what we’re
doing.

And, by the way, the reason there is a middle class is because of
unions.  Unions.  (Applause.)  Fact.  Unions.  That’s a fact. 
(Applause.)  

That’s true.  And look, it’s not only to provide a good living but what
you do more than anything else — what my dad used to say — you allow
people to have dignity — the dignity of their work, to be treated with
respect.

When it comes time to rebuild the economy — before I did anything, as I
said, I talked to you.  I laid out my plan for economic growth.  I
talked with a lot of the folks sitting behind me here and others in the
union movement.  And with your help, it was a darn good plan. 

And look at the results: Our economy created 431,000 jobs in March —
(applause) — 7.9 million since I became President.  More jobs in 14
months than any President in the history of America has ever created
because of you.  

Unemployment is down to 3, 6 — 3.6 percent from 6.4 when I took office —
the fastest decline in unemployment from the start of a term of a
President ever recorded because of you.  And the economy grew 5.7
percent last year — the fastest growth in 40 years. 

I know people are still hurting.  I’m not — I’m not unaware of it.  As
my dad would say, every time that price of gas went up at the pump,
guess what?  It was a conversation at our kitchen table that mattered. 
It’d affect outcomes.  It affected what we did.

But in the process, we were able to cut the deficit by $360 billion last
year.  And it’s been a long, tough stretch, but Americans are back to
work.  Our economy has gone from being on the mend to being on the
move.  

It started with the American Rescue Plan.  When I took office in the
midst of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, you all
remember the lines of cars stretching for miles, waiting for a box of
food to be put in their trunk — not just poor folks, folks across the
board waiting for that box of food.  

Because of the American Rescue Plan — helped 41 million Americans put
food on their table.  Because of the American Rescue Plan, we helped
keep a roof over the heads of 4 million people.  (Applause.)

When you helped get that plan passed, 4 million people were on the verge
of being evicted from their homes and apartments.  That’s a fact, not a
joke.  Four million.  

The Rescue Plan put money in the pockets of hardworking Americans who,
through no fault of their own, were in trouble, giving families what my
dad used to call “just a little bit of breathing room.”  “Just a little
bit of breathing room.” 

Because of the Rescue Plan, we had the best year of state and local job
growth in 20 years, adding back 467,000 jobs; and the educators,
firefighters, police officers who were laid off got back on the job.  We
made a — you made a gigantic difference. 

In addition, because of the Rescue Plan, 320,000 construction jobs last
year.  (Applause.)  320,000.  You’re building America again! 
(Applause.)

I meant what I said.  We’re the only nation in the world that’s come out
of every serious problem we’ve had stronger than when we went in. 

And there are now more construction jobs today than we had before the
pandemic. 

A leading financial firm, Moody’s, from Wall Street, estimates that
because of the Rescue Plan, 4 million more jobs were created and
unemployment is 2 percent lower than it would have been had we failed to
act.  

But, look, that wasn’t all we did to the Rescue Plan.  We also included
the law called the Butch Lewis Act — (applause) — you know what it is;
most people don’t — to ensure that as we rebuilt America, we upheld a
promise — a promise to secure a dignified retirement for millions of
workers and retirees all across America, protecting pensions you all
worked so damn hard for, you sacrificed to secure.

And it didn’t stop there.  Because we can’t compete for the jobs of the
21st century if we don’t fix our infrastructure.  That’s why it was so
important to pass the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  You know, and now
not only is it “Infrastructure Week” finally arrived, it’s
infrastructure decade.  Infrastructure decade.  (Applause.)  No, for
real.   

Already — already, as all of you know, we’ve announced nearly $5 billion
to improve 3,000 airports across 50 states this year.  We’ve announced
$5 billion, including $615 million this year alone so Lonnie Stephenson
and the IBEW can get to work building a national network of electric
vehicle charging stations — 500,000 across the country. 

We’ve announced $4.7 billion to cap and plug hundreds of thousands of
orphaned wells and gas wells spewing methane into the air, creating jobs
as good as the jobs the folks who dug those wells got paid in the first
place.  Same folks. 

Folks, nearly $17 billion for ports, waterways, and dams; 700 projects
already announced across 50 states; $52.5 billion for highways and road
repairs this year; $5.4 billion for bridges this year.  The I-5 Bridge
over the Columbia River in Washington State.  (Applause.)  The I-95
Bridge in West Haven, Connecticut.  The Jefferson Highway, U.S. 61 in
East Baton Rouge Parish in Louisiana.  The list goes on. 

And not only that.  We’re getting rid of poisonous lead pipes in 10
million homes and 400,000 schools and childcare centers — (applause) —
so kids and families can have drinking water that doesn’t poison them.

Look, folks, this is America — the United States of America.  We’re
investing $65 billion to deliver affordable high-speed Internet
everywhere in America — urban, rural, suburban, and Tribal communities. 
You can’t be a country where a mother has to pull, with her child, up in
her car to a McDonald’s parking lot to connect to an Internet so the kid
can do their homework. 

I mean, think about that.  It’s the United States of America. 

Look, this law puts an end to that and creates thousands of jobs doing
it — good-paying jobs.  (Applause.)

And, look, what this means for all of you is jobs — good-paying union
jobs; jobs you can raise a family on; jobs you — can’t be outsourced. 

This is about more than rebuilding our infrastructure.  It’s about
rebuilding our middle class.  I’m so sick and tired.  I was raised by a
dad — not a joke — who, when things would go bad — I remember we lived
in a — we weren’t poor, but we lived in a three-bedroom, split-level
house with four kids and a grandpop living with us.  And I — looking
back on it, we thought it was great, but I wonder how my mom and dad
thought about it.  (Laughter.)

Because — and I remember one night — true story — I remember on my — my
headboard with a bunk bed I was in.  We had two sets of bunks in my — in
our room.  And one was up against the wall that divided between my mom’s
bedroom and ours.  And I could tell my dad was restless; I could hear
him.  And I asked my mom the next morning what was the matter.  She
said, “He just found out he lost insu- — we lost our insurance, honey. 
We lost our insurance.”  

Well, guess what?  You — you are the ones who keep millions of people
from losing their insurance.  Unions built the middle class.  We have to
rebuild the middle class.  

That’s why we made sure that the Infrastructure Law included significant
labor protections.  For example, overwhelming — the overwhelming
majority of the funds included in this law are subject to Davis-Bacon
requirements.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, as you may remember, when I — the — President Obama
asked me to do the Recovery Act back in our administration, the previous
one, we didn’t do anything you guys didn’t do.  If they wanted the
money, they had to show me that they were doing it and prevaying \[sic\]
— paying a prevailing wage.

As you know, that means folks who are rebuilding the country are going
to earn a prevailing wage now.  And, by the way, the Labor Department,
led by a proud former president of the Laborers’ Union 223, Marty Walsh
— (applause) — good man.  If I’m in a foxhole — if I’m in a foxhole, I
want Marty next to me.  (Laughs.)  Look, he recently proposed a new
regulation to strengthen prevailing wage. 

Another thing the law does is help expand registered apprenticeships. 
Wasn’t it wonderful when businesses said, “Don’t worry, we’ll do the
apprenticeships”?  Wasn’t that a great, generous thing for them to do
early on?  Well, come on, man — union partnerships that allow workers to
earn while they learn, that matters. 

Because laying a strong foundation for the future of this country is
about more than having strong roads and bridges, ports and airports that
can compete with any in the world.  It’s also about making sure that
here, in America, folks who work hard and live their lives, they have an
opportunity to live it with dignity and respect.  That’s what unions are
about, in my view — about providing dignity and respect for people who
bust their neck.

That’s why I created the White House Task Force on Worker Organization
and Empowerment to make sure the choice to join a union belongs to
workers alone.  And, by the way — (applause) — by the way: Amazon, here
we come.  (Applause.)  Watch.  Watch.    

Well, it’s why I’ve called on Congress to finally pass the PRO Act and
send it to my desk.  (Applause.)

And that’s why we’re strongly encouraging grantees who get
infrastructure funding to use — use what we know as the project labor
agreements — you know what they are; the vast majority listening to this
won’t know — which helps ensure that people building major projects are
well-trained, highly-skilled workers who have a voice on the work site. 

Look, you all know why this matters.  Union members get higher wages and
benefits like healthcare and insurance and paid leave; protections
against discrimination and harassment; safer, healthier workplaces.  

But there’s another reason — the basic American reason: Workers who join
a union gain power — the power over the decisions that affect their
lives. 

When you’ve got a union, workers’ voices are heard and heeded.  Unions
provide, in one word, democracy in the workplace.  Organizing, joining a
union — that’s a democratic and democracy action — in action.  

Unions aren’t just good for the workers who join them.   Rebuilding
America with union labor is smart for business and the American public
and for our entire country.  

Union workers — and I’m not just saying because you’re sitting there,
but giving you my word — you’re the best in the world at what you do —
highly skilled, highly trained.  You’ve got a voice in the workplace, a
sense of ownership in the project. 

When union workers are on the job, projects are completed efficiently
and they’re completed professionally.  That’s good for the American
taxpayer.  It’s good for families in every neighborhood where
infrastructure projects are underway, and —

So we’re going to keep investing in you and your families.  We can and
we must do more. 

For example, there are nearly 1.2 million extremely qualified women who
haven’t returned to the workforce.  There’s a simple reason: There’s no
affordable childcare for them.  (Applause.)  Many families pay up to —
in this city and other major cities, they pay up to $14,000 a year for
one child. 

When I got to the Senate, as some of you know, right after I got elected
in November 17 — in December 18th, after that election, I got a phone
call saying my wife and daughter had just been killed.  A tractor
trailer broadsided them, and my two boys weren’t al- — weren’t supposed
to make it.  My boys did make, thank God. 

But the point was, everybody thinks I commuted every day because I was
this good

father wanting to go home.  That’s true.  But — but I couldn’t afford
daycare.  So I had my mom and my sister and my brother — I had to do it
from home.  I had no choice.  And I was making a good salary.  I think,
at the time, we were making $42,000 a year, which was a fair amount of
money.  I couldn’t afford childcare.  And these women can’t afford it
either. 

If you capped childcare, as I have proposed, at 7 percent of a family’s
income making less than 125 grand a year, it could cut co- — in half the
costs of childcare, saving thousands of dollars and freeing so many
people to be able to go back to work, particularly these women who are
totally qualified but have no alternative but to stay home.

Or take prescription drugs, like insulin.  Many of you know people who
have Type 1 diabetes — another reason for insulin.  Do you know how much
it costs to make that vial of insulin?  Ten dollars — T-E-N.  Ten
dollars.

But you see families paying, on average, over $641 a month for that
insu- — up to $1,000 a month.  Think about those 200,000 kids out there
— maybe some of your children — who have Type 1 diabetes.  Two hundred
thousand.  

And think about what it does to a parent who looks at their child,
doesn’t have insurance, doesn’t have the cash, and wonders, “My God,
what am I going to do?  I have no idea how we’re going to pay for what
we need so desperately.” 

It not only puts the child’s life in jeopardy, it strips you of your
dignity.  How can you look at your child, knowing they need this but
there’s no way?  You don’t qualify for it because you’re making some
money, but you don’t have enough money to pay for that monthly bill.

It’s easy.  We can cap insulin at $35 a month.  They’ll still make 350
percent profit. 

Look, there’s so much more we can do if we let Medicaid be able to do
what they do.  Those of you who are veterans, they negotiate — Veterans
Administration negotiates with Medicare for the pri- — for the price
they charge.  It’s a big deal.  They still make a lot of money.

But what’s going on now — we can do it all without adding to inflation. 
You don’t have to believe me that — about that.  Seventeen Nobel
laureates in economics within the last six months wrote to me
independently and said, “Guess what?  If you do what you’re talking
about, it will not only not increase inflation, it will reduce the
impact on inflation.”

We can do this without raising a penny in taxes on anyone making under
$400,000.  We have to do it.  All we have to do is ask the wealthiest
Americans among us and major corporations to pay their fair share — just
a little bit more.  (Applause.)  Really.  Not a joke.  It’s not a joke.

I made a commitment: No one making less than $400,000 in my administra-
— while I’m President will pay a many — a penny more in taxes.  That’s
why I held up the passage of the — of the Infrastructure Bill.  They
wanted to add a fee for highways.  I said, “No.  People — ordinary
people are going to be paying for that.  I’m not for that.”  We got to
have everybody chip in and pay their fair share.

Look, folks, there’s no reason why someone making $10 million a year
should pay a lower tax rate than a married couple who are a firefighter
and a schoolteacher.  But that’s how it works.  (Applause.)

I mean, for real, there’s no reason why, in 2020, the 55 of the
companies — Fortune 500 companies paid zero in federal income tax and
they made $40 billion.  Zero.  Zero.

Look, I’m a capitalist.  If you can go out and make a million or a
billion dollars, go at it.  But for God’s sake, chip in and pay your
fair share.  (Applause.)

I think — you know, a lot of my friends are registered Republicans
living out there.  They think that too.  I mean, it’s just so
outrageous.  That $2 trillion tax cut, the last guy — what was his
name?  Anyway, the last guy.  (Laughter.)  I forgot it.  He never showed
up for the inauguration, but anyway.  (Laughter and applause.)

But all kidding aside — I shouldn’t kid.  But that tax cut basically
went to the top one tenth of 1 percent of the American public.  And it
didn’t grow the economy.

Look, the bottom line is this: The United States is in a position to
outcompete the world once again.  If we can keep coming together to
invest in the backbone of America, there’s no limit to what we can
achieve.

When I — I wasn’t going to run again, as some of you know. Some of you
are my friends.  But when I finally decided to run — and my kids
encouraged it because — anyway, I won’t go into that.  (Laughter.)  But
I finally decided to run.  And the fact of the matter is I made a
judgment that we just had to — there’s no reason why we have to keep it
the way it’s been. 

When’s the last time trickle-down economy has trickled anybody you
know?  (Laughter.)  No, I’m serious.  I’m not joking.  I’m not joking.

So, look, I said I was running for three reasons back then.   One, to
restore the soul of this country.  And by that, I meant decency and
honor and honesty and what we’re going to do to.  And two, to rebuild
the backbone of America.  (Applause.)  To rebuild the backbone of
America, which is the middle class and working people.  And two — and
three, to try to unify the country.  That’s been the hardest thing so
far.  Not a joke.  But we’re going to get there, because you can’t have
a democracy function unless you can generate consensus.  You ultimately
have to unify it, as angry as I sometimes get. 

So, look, America — this is a fact: America has always counted on union
workers.  And given just half a chance, you have never, ever, ever — not
a — you’ve never let the country down.  We’re counting on you again. 
And you can count on me to keep fighting for you, I promise you. 
(Applause.)

And, folks, let’s continue giving working families a fighting chance. 
Let’s face the challenge ahead.  And let’s keep building a better
America.  (Applause.)

And one last thing.  We’re announcing today an investment through the
Infrastructure Law — the largest investment in public transit in
American history: $20.5 billion.  (Applause.) 

It’s going to accomplish two big things: create more good union jobs
using products made in America and reduce pollution at the same time,
while making it safer and easier for folks to get to work.  

Let’s keep going.  Let’s keep building.  Let’s keep it on the way. 
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  May God bless you. And may God protect
our troops.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

1:30 P.M. EDT 
