---
date: '2022-04-04'
published_time: 2022-04-04 19:09:45-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/04/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-public-school-infrastructure/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Public School\_Infrastructure"
---
 
*Thomas Elementary School  
Washington, D.C.*

5:18 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you all.  Thank you.  Please, have a seat. 
Thank you.   
  
Thank you, Ms. Trina.  (Laughter.)  
  
I am so happy to be surrounded by our young leaders.  I am telling you,
this is — a highlight of being Vice President is to be around all of our
young leaders.  I’m so happy to be with you all today, and I’m so proud
of you.  
  
Good afternoon, everyone.   Good afternoon.  
  
It is good to be here at Thomas Elementary and to be introduced, of
course, by a graduate of Thomas Elementary.  
  
And today we are joined, as you know, by extraordinary leaders: our
Secretary of Energy, Jennifer Granholm; our Administration’s National
Climate Advisor, Gina McCarthy; and our Secretary of Education, Miguel
Cardona, who began his career as an elementary school teacher.  
  
And we are also joined, of course, by the Chancellor of  
D.C. Public Schools, Lewis Ferebee, and by a number of labor leaders and
advocates for the future of our country: “they” being the children of
our nation.  
  
All — all of you are truly indispensable as partners to our
administration.  And I bring you greetings on behalf of the President,
Joe Biden.  
  
So, it is an honor to share the stage with so many of you and with so
many extraordinary young leaders.   
  
You know, I will tell you that when I look out at who’s here and I spent
some time quickly with the principals who are here, the teachers who are
here, I just love our teachers.  I love our educators.  I love our
principals.  (Applause.)  I really do.  I really do.  
  
And I will tell you: My first-grade teacher — my first-grade teacher
attended my law school graduation.  Mrs. Frances Wilson — God rest her
soul — attended my law school graduation.  There are many things that
have contributed to me being here at this very moment as Vice President,
and that is one of them.   
  
So, I thank you all — the educators — for what you do every day, because
I know this work is personal to you.  And you are raising and helping to
raise, along with the parents and the community, the future of our
nation.  
  
And over the past two years, you have faced incredible challenges, in
particular.  You have responded with incredible resilience and
strength.  I was talking with Madam Principal earlier, and we toured
through the school.  What dedication this has required, in particular
these last two years, doing everything that you can in your power to
ensure that your students have been learning and growing.  And you have
continued to fight to ensure all schools receive the resources they need
— in the midst of all of that and before.   
  
And we might not be here today making these exciting announcements were
it not for your longstanding advocacy.   
  
And the President and I are deeply grateful for all you have done and
all you continue to do.  
  
So, about a year ago — I was talking to the Secretary of Education —
about a year ago, we took a trip to Connecticut, and I met a young
student by the name of Galya, and she was five years old.    
  
And from the moment I walked into her classroom,  
she was glued by my side.  And she was something.  She was absolutely
something.  Charming, energetic, intelligent.  
  
At one point, I bent down and I said to her, “Galya, you can be anything
you want to be.”  
  
And she looked me in my eyes, and she said, “Well, I want to be
everything.”  (Laughter.)  Yes, she did.  She — and she — and she will
be.  And she will be.   
  
And that ambition, that aspiration is extraordinary.  And it is not
uncommon.  
  
In every classroom, in every school, in every community  
of our nation, there are young people like Galya, like these young
leaders behind me who see so much, who are so smart, who have such
bright and creative ideas, and who will be the future of our nation and
are currently leaders in their own right.  
  
These young people who dream of becoming scientists and doctors and
engineers and teachers.  Young people filled with so much passion and
purpose.  
  
And our future will be determined, I know that, by these young
leaders.  
  
And our nation, therefore, has an obligation to ensure nothing limits
their ability to learn, to grow, and to thrive.  
  
     So, today, our administration is releasing the Biden-Harris Action
Plan for Building Better School Infrastructure.  This Plan contains a
number of initiatives that will improve the learning environment for
public school children across our nation.  And today, I’ll provide a few
examples.   
  
For decades, our country has chronically underinvested in our public
schools.  (Applause.)  And far too many of our school districts have
gone without important repairs and upgrades to buildings and to
classrooms.  For example, upgrades to heating, to ventilation, and air
conditioning systems, known as HVAC systems, which was highlighted, as
we know, during the course of the height of the pandemic.   
  
In schools with outdated HVAC systems, classrooms are often  
too cold in the winter and too hot in the spring and approaching the
summer.  And, of course, that harms our students and their ability to
concentrate and perform all year round.  And it threatens the health and
wellbeing of students, of teachers, of staff, and administrators.  
  
One school, for example, in St. Paul, Minnesota, that I’ve been told
about had to pass out wet towels and water bottles in the days before
summer break because classroom temperatures were pushing 100 degrees.  A
dozen students had to be sent to the nurse’s office.  
  
Schools with inadequate HVAC systems are also more likely to have poor
indoor air quality.  Studies have shown that breathing such air, day in
and day out, can of course trigger allergies and asthma attacks.  
  
And we know that schools in low-income and minority districts are more
likely to have dangerous indoor air quality. This is just simply
unacceptable.  Unacceptable.  
  
Today, the Department of Energy, therefore, is launching a $500 million
grant program, funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, to enable
public schools to invest in energy upgrades.  (Applause.)  And these
grants will be — can be and will be used on a number of the issues that
we have just discussed, such as improving school HVAC systems, similar
to what happened right here at Thomas Elementary with the help of Mayor
Muriel Bowser and the Representative who is here — Eleanor Holmes
Norton, who’s here and has been a leader for so long.   
  
I — I cannot thank you enough for all that you do.  I just — want to
just take a point of personal privilege, if I may.  And if we can just —
(applause) — Eleanor Holmes Norton has been fighting for the children of
D.C. for as long as I can remember.  I looked up to you in your role of
leadership when I was a student here at Howard University.  And so many
of us look to you always as a voice of conscience for what our country
deserves and what the children and the people of Washington, D.C.,
deserve.  Thank you so very much.  I’m so glad to see you. 
(Applause.)  
  
And these Department of Energy grants can also be used to install
energy-efficient windows, solar panels, and better insulation.  And they
will, of course, prioritize undeserved \[sic\] — underserved, excuse me,
districts.   
  
These grants will also save schools money.  In most school districts,
the second-largest yearly expense after salaries is the energy bill. 
These grants will help schools reduce their energy costs significantly —
savings that can be reinvested in the school to hire more teachers, to
make long-needed repairs, or to invest in new technology to support
learning.   
  
And at the same time, these projects will create good-paying union jobs
for electricians and carpenters and painters and more.   
  
Every public school in the country is eligible to apply for these
grants, and I encourage them to do so.   
  
Now, we know that the school day does not start when students set foot
on school grounds.  It starts when they get on the school bus or on
their bicycle or when they lace up their shoes and walk out the door. 
And that is why our administration is working to ensure students are
safe and healthy when they are on their way to and from school.  
  
For example, through the Department of Transportation’s Safe Routes to
Schools, we are providing funding for schools to invest in safer walking
and biking routes.  And — (applause) –and, again, because our theory of
the case — and I don’t have to tell anyone here: Their school day starts
from the time they wake up, which — don’t have me started about what
that means in terms of all of the responsibilities that we have as a
society to understand that if we want to care for, protect, and support
the children of our nation, we must do that in the context in the
families in which they are being raised and address the needs of that
family as well to be able to provide the best that we can for those
young people.  (Applause.)  
  
And for those students who take the school bus, we are investing in a
program that is especially close to my heart.  Yellow school buses are
our nation’s largest form of mass transit.  Yellow school buses.  Every
day, millions of children ride on diesel school buses, breathing toxic
fumes that can harm their health.   
  
When I was senator, I introduced the first bill to electrify our
nation’s school buses.  And I’m proud that the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law invests $5 billion dollars in the EPA’s Clean School Bus program to
help school districts electrify their fleet of buses.   
  
To all students — (applause) — to all the students who are watching
today: You are the leaders of today and tomorrow.   
  
And as we take on the challenges of the future — and I’m looking at our
students — we need your help.  Okay?  (Laughter.)  We need your ideas. 
We need your intelligence.  We need your ambition.  And I want you to
always have ambition.  And we need your aspiration.  All right?  Thank
you.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
And in that way, our world — our nation and our world will be all that
it can be.  And I will make this promise to our young leaders: that we
will continue to fight to ensure that you have every opportunity to not
only succeed, but to thrive.   
  
We are counting on you.  And when I look at you, each one of you, I know
our future is bright.  Thank you very much.  Thank you all. 
(Applause.)  
  
END                      5:31 P.M. EDT
