---
date: '2022-04-20'
modified_time: 2022-04-20 15:05:05-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-20 14:58:18-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/20/remarks-on-a-modern-american-industrial-strategy-by-nec-director-brian-deese/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks on a Modern American Industrial Strategy  By NEC Director Brian\_\
  Deese"
---
 
*Economic Club of New York*

*As Prepared for Delivery*

1.  **Introduction**

Good afternoon, everyone.  Thanks to Barbara Van Allen and the entire
team at the Economic Club of New York for hosting me today.  It’s great
to be here.

In the early days of the Republic, Alexander Hamilton prepared a series
of reports to Congress that laid the intellectual foundations for the
young American economy.  The first report was about securing the public
credit.  The second was about establishing a national bank.  And the
third—his 1791 *Report on the Subject of Manufactures*—offered a vision
for a strong industrial system in America.

In the United States, he argued, “the public purse must supply the
deficiency of private resource.  In what can it be so useful as in
prompting and improving the efforts of industry?”

That imperative has a contested history in American economic policy.
 For much of the last half-century, even uttering the words “industrial
policy” was met with something between derision and concern.  But our
economy has changed, and the world has changed, too.

My core point today is this: it is a critical and urgent imperative for
the United States to chart and implement a *<u>modern American
industrial strategy</u>*.

Properly conceived and implemented, an industrial strategy *is* an
economic resilience and capacity strategy.  Investments in our
industrial capacity will leave our economy better positioned to weather
future shocks—and to help all Americans thrive.

Ten months ago, I proposed the idea of a modern American industrial
strategy to describe what animated President Biden’s approach to
strengthening the economy.  The turbulent, historic economic events of
the last year have underscored the case.  The question should move from
“*why* should we pursue an industrial strategy?” to “*how* do we pursue
one successfully?”

When the pandemic began, our economy suffered its sharpest contraction
since the end of the Second World War.  Job losses were the worst since
the Great Depression—with communities of color and young people hit
hardest.

President Biden came into office and set the nation on a new course,
taking immediate action to fight the virus and deliver economic relief.
 History will judge the virtues of our crisis response—there’s room for
debate.  But there’s no question the President’s strategy helped
generate the strongest recovery in modern history—with the fastest
economic growth in nearly four decades; the strongest labor market
recovery ever recorded; and record progress for Black and Hispanic
Americans, the long-term unemployed, and others often left behind in a
slow-growth economy.  

Yes, our economy faces significant challenges.  Our convulsive,
pandemic-constrained recovery has produced high inflation globally and
domestically.  The pandemic exposed structural vulnerabilities—resulting
from decades-long underinvestment in our industrial strength—that have
continued to generate supply-chain bottlenecks across the economy.  And
now, Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine has compounded these
challenges—exacerbating supply constraints, pushing up prices, and
straining the post-Cold War world order.

Even so, the United States retains a stronger economic position than any
other major country in the world, based on economic growth, job growth,
consumer spending, and household balance sheets—even taking inflation
into account.

What we have now is an opportunity, amid historic uncertainty.  We
should seize it—with an economic strategy that matches the moment. 

1.  **Reviewing Our Progress**

Today, I’d like to take stock of how far we’ve come and reassess the
case for an American industrial strategy going forward.  For the past
year, we’ve centered on two core principles:

***First***, strategic public investment must serve as the backbone to a
strong industrial base.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is a case in point.  Yes, it will make
our supply chains more durable and reduce price pressures.  Yes, it will
connect more people to more places, create jobs, and push innovations
from laboratory to market.

But it also represents the most significant effort in the last
half-century to make a sustained, long-term public investment in
America.  This year, for the first time in two decades, America’s
infrastructure investment will grow faster than China’s.

We need to build on this model.  We’re within reach of passing the
Bipartisan Innovation Act, which will help reclaim America’s leadership
in semiconductors; authorize historic investments in basic R&D; advance
our leadership in technologies like artificial intelligence, 3D
printing, telecommunications, and biotechnology; and spur innovation in
places previously left behind.

The economic and national security threat of industrial weakness is
accelerating.  Congress urgently needs to send this legislation to the
President’s desk so we can get to work rebuilding our industrial
strength without delay.

**S*econd***, we need to identify sectors where private industry, on its
own, has not mobilized toward our core economic and national security
interests—and lay the foundation for investment.

There’s a longstanding critique of industrial policy that it amounts to
government picking “winners and losers.”  There’s wisdom in this
concern.  Ill-conceived government interventions in private markets can
produce inefficient and, worse, corrupting outcomes.  But allowing this
critique to reflexively hold back action misses the current global
moment. 

To make critical goods, American companies need access to key inputs
like raw materials.  They need secure and reliable supply chains that
the private market won’t deliver on its own—and potentially *cannot*
deliver if geopolitical dynamics prevent them from accessing those
inputs.  These gaps can have major security implications.

Individual companies will rise and fall on their own merits.  But it’s
incumbent on us to support an ecosystem that enables American businesses
to stand at the vanguard of solving these problems.

That’s what we have sought to do.  Last June, we published a first-ever
diagnosis and prescription for our most acute supply-chain
vulnerabilities.  Earlier this year, we released detailed resilience
strategies across sectors like defense, public health, IT, and energy.

Consider critical minerals.  Lithium, nickel, and cobalt are building
blocks in everything from computers to appliances to electric vehicles
and other clean-energy technologies—and demand is set to skyrocket.

Yet the United States depends heavily on foreign sources for many of
these critical minerals.  China, for instance, is estimated to control
85 percent of refining capacity for rare earths. 

So far, private investment has fallen short of our national needs.  But
through strategic coordination, we can open channels for companies to
invest. 

That’s why President Biden invoked the Defense Production Act to support
domestic production and address immediate security risks, consistent
with our values.  That’s why the Defense Department contracted with a
Nevada-based company to establish the first end-to-end domestic supply
chain for “permanent magnets”—with capacity to power 500,000 electric
vehicles per year.  And that’s why the Department of Energy is poised to
invest nearly $7 billion to strengthen our end-to-end domestic battery
supply chain. 

We’re seeing companies respond.  They’ve announced more than $200
billion in critical manufacturing investments in the United States. 
Manufacturing has seen its strongest job growth in three decades.

1.  **Re-underwriting the Case for Our Industrial Strategy**

We can be proud of this progress.  But the global economic landscape is
evolving rapidly.

Russia’s unconscionable invasion of Ukraine is imposing a global supply
shock on an already supply-constrained global economy.  And COVID
remains an acute risk to global supply chains, particularly in places
like China.

Given this evolving landscape, how do we re-underwrite the case for a
modern American industrial strategy?  I would offer four reflections.

***First***, we need to make our economy more resilient while working to
lower price pressures across the economy today and over time.

Given the supply and inflationary pressures we’re facing, some may argue
that investing for resilience and industrial strength tomorrow could
push pricing higher today.  This critique counsels caution, but misses
an important point: ignoring resilience is ultimately more expensive.

The pandemic laid this bare.  Our supply chains were put to test, and
the allure of “just in time” turned into a cacophony of disruptions,
long lead times, complexity, and massive costs.

Companies are confronting this reality.  They’re recognizing that when
disruptions happen, well-prepared companies can bounce back and even
gain market share over competitors.  Yet investments in resilience
require time and resources up front, when the whole economy is
supply-constrained.

We recognize this.  It is why we’re aggressively working to make our
global logistics supply chain more fluid and lower price pressures right
now across the economy.  These actions create space for longer-term
investments in industrial resilience and capacity to take root.

We’ve worked to move our ports to 24/7 operations and reduce container
dwell times, which are down 50 percent.  We’ve also worked to recruit
more truck drivers and improve the quality of trucking jobs; and
trucking employment is up 35,000 over pre-pandemic levels.

Looking ahead, we need to bring our supply-chain logistics capabilities
into the twenty-first century.  We are now working to develop a reliable
*digital* infrastructure to make our supply chains more agile.  We
should consider stress-testing private-sector supply chains to future
shocks.  The pandemic has underscored how major physical shocks can be
both impulsive and inexorable, and we know climate change will only
exacerbate them. 

***Second***, we need a modern American industrial strategy that expands
and enhances international economic engagement.

I hope this point rings clear: You are not witnessing an American
retreat from the global economy.  Rather, you’re witnessing a new stage
in how and why we engage—which will better serve the American middle
class and American workers, while prioritizing our key global partners. 

For America and the world, economic concerns are becoming more tightly
linked to national security and national interests more broadly.  In
this environment, any thoughtful industrial strategy should prioritize
partnerships with countries that respect fundamental norms and
values—countries we can rely on—around transparency, open and fair
rules-based trade, worker’s rights, and equity and opportunity.

This modern industrial strategy is centered on the reality that it’s
neither feasible nor advisable to produce everything domestically.  We
need to *both* build resilience and capacity at home *and* forge more
effective partnerships abroad.  The Administration has sought to show
that this clear-eyed approach to global economic ties can work—that we
can assemble broad coalitions that amplify our own domestic strength.

This is what we’ve done in renewing our economic relationship with
Europe, including the world’s first carbon-based sectoral deal on steel
and aluminum trade.  It’s also what we did—in bold and serious
terms—when we led an historic global tax agreement with 136 countries to
halt the race-to-the-bottom on corporate taxes. 

And it’s what we aim to do in the Indo-Pacific region, with an economic
framework for sustained collaboration on everything from data flows to
supply chains to clean energy.

We should consider the full scope of tools for cooperation—whether it’s
strengthening a partnership with one trusted ally, reaching a broad
multilateral agreement, or, as Secretary Yellen recently said,
constructing a network of “plurilateral” trade arrangements.

We also need to reexamine existing barriers—whether that’s through
additional “tariff exclusions” processes or other warranted steps, to
make sure our trade policy serves American economic priorities.

***Third***, a modern American industrial strategy needs to demonstrate
that America can build—fast, as we’ve done before, and fairly, as we’ve
sometimes failed to do.

Core to rebuilding our industrial base is exactly that: *building*.  We
need to unpack the many constraints that cause America to lag other
major countries—including those with strong labor, environmental, and
historical protections—in delivering infrastructure on budget and on
time.

At the same time, past efforts to build fast often entailed
discrimination and subjugation—running roughshod over already
disadvantaged communities and places.  Our generation must do better. 

We’ll need to confront complex, multilayered challenges that lack easy
answers.  For instance, building more affordable housing is vitally
important, but it doesn’t happen instantly.  It requires action by many
stakeholders.  It involves changing norms, incentives, and activities in
highly localized ways. 

The good news: the solutions don’t map onto traditional political,
economic, or geographic divides.  And the federal government can lead by
example:

-   We can establish coordinated federal decisions on permitting,
    instead of siloed agency actions, so projects can move forward with
    confidence, without sacrificing our values.

<!-- -->

-   We can make the most of federal incentives, like conditioning
    transportation grants on land-use policies that help us build more
    efficiently and equitably.

<!-- -->

-   We can pursue place-based policies—and build in geographies that may
    not only cost less but also have greater impact. The pandemic’s
    fundamental, structural disruption to how and where we work offers a
    unique moment to broaden the geographic aperture of economic
    opportunity in America.

Most building will be carried out by state and local partners.  The
federal government will need to build capacity; demand progress over
inertia; and learn from local innovation.

From the transcontinental railroad in the nineteenth century to the
interstate highway system in the twentieth, Americans have shown their
capacity to build great things.  One powerful example stands a few
blocks from here: the Empire State Building.  It was constructed in just
over a year.  Nearly a century later, it remains an icon of American
ambition and ingenuity.  That’s the drive we’ll need to bring to our
generation’s challenges.

One ***last*** reflection: these priorities are overlapping and
reinforcing.  There’s no clearer example than building resilience to
energy shocks.

The global market for hydrocarbons is not a free market.  It’s
influenced by the geopolitical impulses of petrostates, some of which
don’t share our interests or values.  At the same time, the latest U.N.
climate panel report confirms we have a narrow window to avoid the most
devastating impacts of climate change.

In these two realities lies an opportunity: an industrial strategy for
true energy security will reduce our reliance on volatile commodities
and protect against the costs of the climate crisis.  As the President
said recently, “We need to choose long-term security over energy and
climate vulnerability.”

By enacting long-term, technology-neutral incentives to generate
zero-carbon energy and innovation, we can lay the foundation for more
American-made clean-energy technologies and bolster domestic supply
chains.  We can partner with allies to expand our collective capacity to
produce clean energy, while opening new export markets for American
products.

And we can do it in a way that lowers immediate costs for Americans,
keeps our affordable-energy advantage, and accelerates growth in energy
communities transitioning toward industries of the future.  Congress
urgently needs to act here as well.  

1.  **Conclusion**

From Delta and Omicron, to supply-chain disruptions, and now to Russian
aggression—our economy has shown striking resilience over the past
year.  But our most important work lies ahead.

What people will remember fifty years from now is whether we as a nation
met this global moment.  Did our economy emerge more resilient?  Did it
set the pace for generation-defining technologies?  Did our alliances
emerge more cooperative and unified in purpose?

In his *Report on Manufactures*, Hamilton argued that expanding American
industry would be “favorable to national independence and safety.” 
America had just achieved independence, but building a strong industrial
system would truly secure it. 

The American economy has been transformed many times over since then. 
Yet this economic and national security imperative endures.

Hamilton had one more insight we should heed today.  “To increase the
total mass of industry” in a country, he wrote, “is ultimately
beneficial to every part of it.”  We must ensure the gains are shared
broadly by all Americans.

And we need the business community to step up and join us in this
national renewal.  If we strike the right balance, the American
economy—and our democracy—can emerge more vigorous, more prosperous, and
more resilient to whatever challenges come our way.
