---
date: '2022-04-29'
modified_time: 2022-04-29 21:09:10-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-29 21:08:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/29/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-virtual/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Virtual Meeting with Caribbean\_Leaders"
---
 
*Via Teleconference*

4:36 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.  Thank
you all for joining us today for this very important meeting.  I am
Kamala Harris, and I’m pleased to welcome you all to this conversation
and this convening.  
  
As a neighbor in the Western Hemisphere, the United States shares a
common bond with the nations of the Caribbean.  As neighbors, we know
our partnership is key to our shared prosperity and security.   
  
We also know that we have common challenges.  And that is why I’ve
convened this meeting: to strengthen our partnership and chart a path
forward together.  
  
As we all know, our nations have extensive people-to-people ties. 
Millions of Americans have Caribbean heritage.  Millions of Americans
travel to the Caribbean each year for vacation, to visit friends and
family, and to engage with the richness of that history.  
  
From South Florida to New York and beyond, Caribbean culture has become
a meaningful part of American culture.  And we are all grateful for
that.   
  
At the same time, we recognize that we find ourselves collectively in a
challenging time.  The pandemic has upended so many aspects of our lives
and the lives of our people.  And economic recovery has been difficult
and uneven for so many in this region.   
  
There is also an existential threat we collectively face in the climate
crisis, and we are acutely aware that the world’s emissions have an
outsize impact on the Caribbean.  
  
In light of this, I want to be clear: The United States is committed to
you, our neighbors, and we will take on these challenges
together. Convenings like this haven’t happened very often.  So, today,
as a demonstration of our administration’s commitment, I propose this be
an annual meeting.  
  
We have, of course, today, a lot to discuss.  And there are three areas
in particular that I will ask us to focus on — areas that I know are a
priority for many of you: economic recovery, security, and climate and
energy.  
  
On the issue of economic recovery, the United States is the Caribbean’s
biggest economic partner.  This partnership benefits the economy of the
United States just as it benefits your economies.  So we will explore
today how we can strengthen that economic partnership.  
  
On the issue of security, I know for many of you that you are
particularly concerned about the trafficking of drugs and guns, and the
associated violence.  That is why today’s agenda includes a discussion
of additional funding and other support the United States can offer to
reduce violence in the region.  
  
And third, we will discuss the urgent issue for our entire planet: the
issue of the climate crisis.  In particular, we will discuss ways to
strengthen your climate resilience and to accelerate the transition to a
clean energy economy.   
  
Your input will help guide the United States’ effort in the days and
months ahead.  
  
To each of you: I thank you for being here, and I thank you for the work
we have done and will continue to do together.  I look forward to our
discussion today and to our gathering in Los Angeles at the Summit of
the Americas in June.   
  
Thank you to the members of the press who are watching these opening
remarks.  We will now proceed with the rest of our meeting.  Thank
you.  
  
                             END                4:41 P.M. EDT
