---
date: '2022-04-28'
published_time: 2022-04-28 17:17:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/28/remarks-by-president-biden-before-meeting-with-small-business-owners/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Meeting with Small-Business\_Owners"
---
 
2:08 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  We’re joined today by five
small-business owners who are helping power America’s economic recovery.

And I want — I want to welcome the Administrator of the Small Business
Administration, Isabella Guzmán.  Nice to have you, kiddo. 

ADMINISTRATOR GUZMÁN:  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  And these enterprises and entrepreneurs know that an
American economy is strong because America’s small businesses are
strong.

Small businesses typically account for more than 40 percent — people
don’t realize it — 40 percent of the gross domestic product of the
United States.  They create two thirds of all new jobs.  And they employ
nearly half — nearly half of all the private sector workers.

And today, thanks to the economic strategy, more — more small businesses
are being created, and small businesses are creating more jobs faster
than ever before.

Thanks in large part to the American Rescue Plan, last year, Americans
applied to start 5.4 million — 5.4 million new businesses, 20 percent
more than any other year on record. 

We saw businesses with fewer than 50 workers create 1,900,000 jobs for
the first three quarters of 2021 alone.  That’s the highest rate of
small-business creation ever — ever recorded in a single year.  And we
have some of the folks right here who did it. 

We have every indication that this trend is going to continue.  The
reason for that is because we’re giving people financial security to
take a risk and pursue their small-business dreams.

This boom has been particularly strong for entrepreneurs of color.

Hispanic entrepreneurs started new businesses in 2021 at a faster rate
in more than a decade, 23 percent faster than the pre-pandemic levels.

And, you know, the five folks that join me today exemplify what a
difference it makes when — when everyone gets a fair shot.

Jennifer was — was able to start growing her engraving business last
year because of the Child Care Tax Credit and the small-business support
of the Small Business Administration.

Jeff and Nicolas are master coffeemakers — roasters — who were able to
open their first brick-and-mortar café last year.

And Eddie and Daniel were able to turn their food truck into a
brick-and-mortar company of their own.  (Laughs.)  That must feel pretty
good, huh?

And they’re just some of the folks driving this economic recovery and
reminding us that everything — that anything and everything is possible
in America.

And my administration is working tirelessly to open doors for more
outstanding entrepreneurs.  You know, unfortunately, Republicans have a
different approach.

The Republican plan, led by Senator Rick Scott of Florida, Chairman of
the National Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee, would tax half of
our small-business owners an extra $1,200 a year on average.

Not only do they oppose making big corporations pay their fair share,
they want middle-class families and small-business owners to pay more.

Our administration estimates that the Republican proposal would raise
taxes on 6.1 million small-business owners, including 82 percent of
small-business owners who earn less than $50,000 a year.

That just doesn’t — that’s — that’s just not right.

Our administration wants to make it easier to start a business, easier
for a small business to succeed.  And our plan is to, one, expand access
to capital for small businesses; make historic investments in technical
assistance programs to help entrepreneurs thrive; and direct hundreds of
billions of dollars in government contracts to small businesses in every
community; and level the playing field — and I mean level the playing
field for small business, making sure the largest corporations in
America begin to pay their fair share.

And now I’m looking forward to discussing my plan and hearing from these
remarkable entrepreneurs.  Thank you for being here.

2:12 P.M. EDT
