---
date: '2022-04-19'
modified_time: 2022-04-19 20:18:32-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-19 20:18:31-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/19/remarks-by-president-biden-on-investments-in-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-law/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure\_\
  Law"
---
 
New Hampshire Port Authority  
Portsmouth, New Hampshire

2:53 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mr. Mayor. 
(Applause.)  Please, take a seat if you have one. 

I once, several years ago, said, “Everybody take a seat.”  There were
about — it was an evening — there were about 2,000 people out in the —
in a football field, and it was towards the end of a campaign.  I said,
“Have a seat.”  And they all looked at me like, “We’re standing — all of
it.”  (Laughter.)  I couldn’t see.    

But anyway, thank you very, very much.

Look, it’s great to be here in Portsmouth with your senator, Maggie
Hassan, who’s been one of my friends for a long, long time, and to talk
about investments we’re making to modernize this port and create jobs
and bring down the cost for families in this region in everyday life. 

Maggie was a key player in the Infrastructure Law.  And it’s making a
difference here in New Hampshire and, I might add, around the country. 
She made the case for high-speed Internet everywhere in New Hampshire
and, you know, protecting New Hampshire’s coastlines from rising sea
levels and extreme storms, and for the investments in New Hampshire’s
roads and bridges, ports and waterways.

And, Representative Chris Pappas, thank you for a passport into your
district.  Chris, where are you?  Is Chris over here?  Well, thanks for
the passport, ole buddy, into the district.  I appreciate it. 

And he’s a member of the committee that got this bill across the finish
line.  Getting big ideas into an actual bill is hard work, requiring
getting into the nitty-gritty details and without losing the big
picture.

(A baby babbles.)

I agree.  I agree completely.  (Laughter.)  By the way, kids are allowed
to do anything they want when I speak — at all.  (Laughter.)  So don’t
worry about it. 

And — but, Chris, thank you for all the work you did.  And you did a
hell of a lot of work to get this done, and always making the economic
case for how clean water, access to the Internet, rebuilding a bridge,
investing in this port matters to your lives, the lives of your
families, and, quite frankly, to the entire region. 

And Representative Annie Kuster, an old good friend of mine — it’s good
to see you as well, Annie.  Thank you for everything.  (Applause.)

Annie and I have talked a lot about what we need to do to support New
Hampshire’s parents and give them just a little bit of breathing room
because sometimes things get tight. 

And even though she can’t be here, I also wanted to recognize Jeanne
Shaheen, who is well represented today by her husband Billy and the
family.  Billy, where are you?  (Applause.)  If I can only have one guy
in the foxhole with me, I’d pick Billy.  (Laughter.)  Good to see you,
Billy.    

And — and I want to thank — because she’s sitting next to her.  She
doesn’t hold any office but a really good friend of mine.  Her mom used
to be a significant political figure up here.  It’s great to see you,
kiddo.  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you for being here.  (Applause.) 

I also want to thank Chris and Maggie and Jeanne and Annie for all they
did to prove that America can do big things when we work together.  You
know, we — we can build a better America. 

We’re the only country in the world that, I believe, that has come out
of every crisis we’ve faced stronger than when we went in — literally
stronger than we went in.  That’s the history of the journey of this
country.   

And this port is a perfect example.  A lot of important things come into
these terminals and particularly this one — from salt to de-ice roads,
to 85 percent of the home heating oil used in this state.

And a lot of important things go out of this port as well, like the
massive reactor assemblies for nuclear power plants that are
manufactured by Westinghouse Electric here in New Hampshire.

Recently, this port has been an important link to more construction
equipment and materials for a $2.3 billion project that I’ve authorized
in Portsmouth Naval Shipyard — 2.3 billion.  (Applause.)  But it
wouldn’t happen without you all and what you’ve done. 

Now, I know they say the port is in Maine, but I’ve always thought it
was in New Hampshire.  But — (applause) — that’s what Billy taught me. 
And where the Navy’s nuclear-powered attack submarines are built as well
and are stationed. 

Look, all in, this port supports over 2,300 jobs — 2,300 jobs; adds $275
million to this region’s economy, and that’s not even counting the more
than 6,000 civilian contractors and jobs here at — over at the Navy
yard.  Jobs in Maine, New Hampshire, and all around the region.

But this port has even more potential than that.  Until recently, the
area in the harbor called the “turning basin” was only 800 feet long and
often meant that pilots had to turn around a 765-foot ship in 800 feet. 
I call that tough parallel parking, man.

But seriously — and it meant that, you know, to be safe, some of the
ships could only come in or sail out on high tide, they could only sail
at night, or when there was — they couldn’t sail when there was too much
wind.  They couldn’t — and — because they’d get knocked off course.

And that — here’s why it matters: When you keep a ship in dock after the
cargo has been delivered, it can cost $90,000 a day when that ship is in
port.  And those costs get paid on — get passed on to you, consumers —
whatever it happens to be. 

It also has been a problem for decades.  But with an $18 million
investment from the Army Corps of Engineers and the help of Maggie and
Chris, the port — and union labor — we widened that turning basin to
1,200 feet.  We got it done.  (Applause.)

Now it’s easier, faster, and cheaper, and safer for ships to get in and
out.

And the port can welcome larger ships with more cargo, like the massive
towers and hubs needed to — for offshore wind farms.

Look, we’ve also announced an additional $1.7 million investment to
dredge — another tricky part of a shipping channel where the sands build
up.

Without that dredging project, the port might need more restrictions on
what ships can and can’t pass through this harbor.

Instead of turning away business, we’re sending a message: This port is
open for business and will be for a long time.

And we’re sending the same message with our investments in roads and
bridges here in New Hampshire.

Back in November, Maggie, Chris, and Annie were with me when I visited
Pemi — the Pemi bridge in Woodstock — a couple of hours just northwest
of here.

The bridge opened in 1939.  Not a big bridge, but it solved big
problems.  Local businesses depended on it.  School buses crossed it
every day.  Without the bridge, the trucks on the other side of the
river would have to take a 10-mile detour to get around to the other
side of the river.

Folks, when fires and emergencies — every single mile matters and counts
how long it takes to get there.

Right now, there are nearly 200 bridges deemed deficient

in New Hampshire alone.  There’s about 315 such bridges in Maine.  And
many of these are fast-track — fast — less-trafficked bridges that are
essential to small towns and rural areas, for farmers and small
businesses.

Let me give you an example.  I was just in Pittsburgh not long ago — I
guess over — a little over a month ago.  And I got there the morning
that one of its bridges collapsed.  The bridge was built in 1939, if I’m
not mistaken, and had been put on a list of being dangerous.  It was
about a 12-story drop from the middle of that bridge down to a small
creek.  And it was in a — but it was a ravine that covered about 300
yards.

Had it not been — had it not been a snow day before, there would have
been a lot of school buses on that bridge.  A lot of kids would have
been killed.  I’m not joking.  You probably saw it on the front page of
every paper in America.

Well, guess what?  It’s happening all over the country.  Fortunately, it
didn’t happen there.  Fortunately, there was no one on the bridge. 
There were — actually, there were four vehicles.  No one got killed.

And, you know, I was — when I was doing the Recovery Act in our last
administration — Obama-Biden — I was in Pittsburgh — excuse me, in
Pennsylvania, in Western Pennsylvania, in a small town.  And in the
process, I looked at a bridge, and they couldn’t — their fire department
was on one side of the bridge, and, literally, from here to that holding
tank outside here, was — on the other side there was a shopping center
and a school.  Well, guess what?  Their fire — you couldn’t get across
the bridge; you had to go 10 miles to get around, go up over the bridge,
if — could work, and get back down.  People dying in that 10 miles of
the fire truck getting there in the middle of a fire.

This matters.  So we’re making a historic investments in fixing these
bridges.

This year alone, we’re delivering $45 million to fix your bridges here
in New Hampshire.  This year alone.  (Applause.)

You know, the last fella who had this job kept talking about
“Infrastructure Week” for four years.  (Laughter.)  Well, we not only
took Infrastructure — we have “Infrastructure Decade.”  (Applause.) 
This is going on.  It’s a billion 200 million dollars.

You know, we used to have the finest infrastructure in the world.  We
now rank number 13 in the quality of our infrastructure.  China is ahead
of us.  So many other countries have moved. 

Folks, this matters.  It matters to our safety, our security, our
health, and a whole range of other —

Not only that, about 700 miles of highway in New Hampshire are in poor
condition.  It’s estimated that the driving on those roads — those 700
miles — roughly 700 miles — that need repairs costs New Hampshire
drivers at least an average of $476 a year extra in gas and repairs and
longer commute times.  That’s a $476 hidden tax on New Hampshire
drivers.

Look, thanks to the Infrastructure Law, we’re making the most
significant investment in modernizing our roads and bridges

since the Interstate Highway System was built with Eisenhower.

We’re also going to start to replace the 100 percent — all 100 percent
of lead water pipes and service lines going into our homes and our
schools.  (Applause.)

There are 10 million homes and 400,000 schools and preschools and
daycare centers that have lead water pipes bringing the water in.  Many
of that causes mental illness, brain damage.  It’s really important. 

We’re also going to address what they call PFAS; it’s a dangerous
forever chemicals that are a threat to drinking water

here in New Hampshire and other states — something that Senator Shaheen
has championed.

Look, every American and every child should be able to

turn on a faucet, drink clean water, which will also create thousands of
good-paying jobs for plumbers, pipefitters, and the folks digging those
channels.

And, by the way, thanks to the American Rescue Plan, New Hampshire is
already seeing $150 million being put into drinking water, wastewater,
and storm sewer projects in this state as I speak.  (Applause.)

Maggie, Chris, and Annie, we share a core belief: High-speed Internet is
essential — essential — to success in the 21st century.

But even today, 1 in every 10 people in New Hampshire — every 1 in 10
households don’t have high-speed Internet.  That’s a lot of place where
there’s no broadband or — infrastructure at all in New Hampshire.

It’s not just New Hampshire families, but for New Hampshire businesses
as well.

This law is going to make high-speed Internet affordable and available
everywhere in New Hampshire, Maine, and the region — urban, suburban,
rural.  And it’s going to create jobs.  Thousands of union techni- —
thousands of union technicians are going to be laying down these
broadband lines.

And never again should a parent have to sit in their car in a McDonald’s
parking lot — literally — so that their child can get access to
high-speed Internet to do their homework over the Internet. 
Literally.   
  
     Folks, look, the law also builds up our — our resilience to extreme
weather.

Fifteen years ago this week, this state experienced its second 100-year
flood in the space of 11 months.  Cars submerged.  Thousands of
evacuations.  People lost everything they owned, twice.

Our infrastructure law upgrades stormwater management systems and builds
new transmission lines and towers so fewer will be flooded out of their
homes or lose power days and weeks because of these storms.   
  
     There’s so much more in this law.  I’m not going to bore you with
the rest of it.  But it’s — it’s significant.

Look, we’ve made a lot of progress, and we have an incredible
opportunity ahead of us.  But we know what families are still struggling
with higher prices.  I grew up in a family where the price of gasoline
went up at the pump, it was a discussion at the kitchen table.  Because
my dad — he was a good man, made a decent living, but always on the
margins.  Everything mattered.

So let’s be absolutely clear about why we have such high prices now. 
There are two reasons.  First was COVID.

The way the global economy works: If a factory in Vietnam makes computer
chips and shuts down in Vietnam because of a COVID outbreak, it causes a
ripple effect to slow down manufacturing in Detroit where they need
those — those semiconductors to build the automobiles.

So because of the pandemic, we had disruptions in our supply of
important materials, so prices went up.   
  
     As I said, just look at automobiles.  Last year alone, they
accounted for one third of all the inflation in America because the
price went up, because so fewer — fewer were being made.  Automobile
companies couldn’t get the computer chips, and the price of automobiles
skyrocketed.

So I’m calling on Congress to pass the bipartisan Innovation Bill to
make more of these chips here at home and speed the supply.  
  
     Intel came to see me — the chairman of the board of Intel.  He
said, “I want to be able to invest $20 billion to build a computer chip
factories in — just west of Cleveland.”  
  
     If, in fact, we get this other piece of legislation, which is in —
passed one House and not the other, we’re going to — he’s going to
invest another $100 billion — $100 billion.  
  
     You know what the average job of — over 7,000 construction jobs and
3,800 full-time jobs.  Average salary of the full-time jobs — and there
— many of them are blue-collar jobs — are $126,000 a year.  Things are
changing.

And the second big reason for inflation is Vladimir Putin.  Not a joke. 
Putin’s invasion of Ukraine has driven up gas prices and food prices all
over the world.   
  
     Two major breadbaskets of wheat in the world were Ukraine and
Russia.  The United States is number three and Canada number four.  
  
     Well, we saw the most recent inflation data.  Last month, about 70
percent of the increase in inflation was a consequence of Putin’s price
hike because of the impact on gas and energy prices.

I’m doing everything I can to bring down the price to address Putin’s
price hike.  That’s why I authorized the release of 1 million barrels
per day for the next six months for our st- — from our Strategic
Petroleum Reserve.   
  
     And I know the press is always asking me, with good reason, why I’m
always on the phone talking with other world leaders, trying to keep
them organized.  Well, one of the things I did — I went out and got a
lot of other countries to agree that they would release petroleum from
their oil reserves.

So, we worked with the U.S. oil producers to ramp up the production —
(applause) — and we coordinated this release with partners and allies
around the world.  And shortly after I made the announcement, another 30
countries agreed to 60 million additional barrels a day on the
market.   
  
     So now we have 240 million barrels a day for the next six months. 
That’s the largest collective reserve release in history.  Nations
coming together to help deny Putin the ability to weaponize his energy
resources against American families and families in Europe and around
the world. 

But there’s more that needs to be done.  And Americans should already be
seeing the savings.  Although it’s only gone down about 18 cents, the
savings are starting.

Beyond gas prices, I’ve called on Congress to move immediately to lower
the cost of family utility bills, prescription drug bills, and more,
while lowering the deficit and reducing inflation.  That would make a
big difference for families.  We can do a lot of these things without
raising a single penny on taxes of anyone making less than $400,000 a
year.  Nobody making less than $400,000 will see a single penny in their
taxes raised.

It’s the best way Congress can address inflation right now.

And, folks, look, the fact is that we are in a situation where the war
in Ukraine is going to continue to take its toll on the world economy. 
It’s going to take its toll on energy, and it’s going to take its toll
relative to food. 

When I was running for office — you heard it a thousand times from me:
that we’re going to build an economy around you.  I’m so tired of
trickle-down economics.  And I never found that trickle down on top of
my head very much.  I was listed — I was — had the great pleasure of
being listed as the poorest man in Congress for 36 years.  I still had —
making a hell of a lot more money than anybody else because I was
getting a senator’s salary.  No kidding.  I didn’t think you should make
money while you’re in office. 

But, at any rate, the point of it is this: An awful lot of people are
hurting.  It makes a big difference.  It makes a big difference.  The
cost of a dozen eggs, the cost of a gallon of gasoline, it matters.  It
matters. 

So I concluded, when I ran this last time, that we’re going to build
this economy from the bottom up and the middle out, because when that
happens, everybody does well.  The wealthy do very well and the poor
have a ladder up, and the middle class has a little bit of breathing
room. 

I grew up in a household where we lived in a split-level home — three
bedrooms, four kids, mom and dad, and a grandpop who lived with us.  And
I remember one night, you could — you know, the walls were kind of
thin.  I can — my dad was restless.  The next morning, when he went to
work, I asked mom what was the problem.  She said, “He just noticed his
company just said no more — they’re not going to — not going to cover
health insurance anymore.” 

It matters.  These things matter to people.  They matter to ordinary
people.

We can, in fact, provide for anyone who has Type 1 diabetes or a child —
or 200 million — 200,000 kids who have it.  They need that insulin every
single day.  Average cost is six hundred and forty-seven thou- — $647 a
month, sometimes as low as $90 and as high as $1,000, depending on where
you are.

You know how mu- — made — how much it costs to make one of those vials
of insulin?  Ten — T-E-N — dollars.  Not a single change has been made
in that insulin since it was first discovered.

And so, we could set that price at maximum of $35.  They still make a
significant profit.  And what they — what in God’s name are we doing?

Look, I’m a capitalist.  I think people should be able to go out and
make millions of dollars, even a billion if you can make it, but at
least pay your fair share.  Pay something.  (Applause.)  Pay something. 

By the way, I’m being deadly earnest.  You know, it’s just — you know,
there are — I come from the corporate capital of the world, Delaware. 
More corporations are incorporated in the state of Delaware than every
other state in the nation combined — combined.  And I survived winning
seven Senate elections in that state. 

But here’s the deal: The fact is, folks, that, you know, there are 50
Fortune — there are 50 of the top 500 corporations in America last year
that made a total of $40 billion in profit.  They didn’t pay one single
penny — not one.  The average percent that billionaires pay of the 790
of them is about 3.8 percent. 

Just pay your fair share.  We can do all these things. 

And, by the way, one last thing: You know, the budget I submitted — my
first budget that passed and became law, it cut the federal deficit by
$350 billion.  We cut the deficit $350 billion.  (Applause.)

And the budget I proposed this year, if it comes to total fruition, it
will cut the deficit by one trillion three hundred billion dollars. 
(Applause.)

So when my Republican friends start talking about “big spenders” and the
reason why there’s inflation, take a look. Take a look.  We’ve cut the
deficit drastically. 

So, look, we’re making progress.  Over the course of my presidency, our
recovery so far has created 7.9 million new jobs — (applause) — more
jobs — more jobs created over the first 14 months than any President
ever.  Over 420,000 manufacturing jobs. 

Unemployment rate is at 3.6 percent, down from 6.4 percent.  In the
state of New Hampshire, you’re down from — I think it’s 4.2 percent to
3.2 \[sic\] percent.

Folks, in Maine you’ve added 28,000 jobs, and unemployment has dropped
from 4.4 to 3.6. 

New Hampshire, 26,000 new jobs.  Dropped from 4.2 — I was — misspoke —
to 2.5 — 2.5 percent. 

Last year, as I said, we cut the deficit by more than 350 thousa- —
billion dollars.  This year, we’re on track for $1.3 trillion in cuts. 
And look, that would be the largest debt reduction in American history.

And it’s particularly important now we ask ourselves: How are we going
to reduce pressure on inflation?

Maine, New Hampshire, and America have gone on the mend.  They’re on the
— they’re not on the mend any longer; they’re on the move.  And we’re
coming to — at our challenges from a position of strength. 

But I’m more optimistic about America today than I’ve ever been in my
whole career, because I see the future that’s within our grasp.  We
can’t be afraid though.  We’re the only nation on Earth, as I’ve said,
that has always turned every single, solitary crisis we’ve had into an
opportunity.  And that’s exactly what we’re going to do today if we do
it together.

It’s about being together — the United States of America.  When we do
that, there’s not a single thing we can’t do.

But God bless you all, and may God protect our troops.  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.  (Applause.) 

3:18 P.M. EDT
