---
date: '2022-05-11'
modified_time: 2022-05-11 16:35:47-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-11 16:35:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/11/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-the-u-s-asean-special-summit%ef%bf%bc/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on the U.S.-ASEAN\
  \ Special\_Summit\uFFFC"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:04 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And thanks, everyone, for joining.  So this call
is on background.  It is attributable to a “senior administration
official.”  And the contents of the call are embargoed until the end of
the call. 

For your awareness and not for reporting, our speaker on the call today
is \[senior administration official\].  So I’m going to turn it over to
you to give some remarks and we can take some questions.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, guys.  And thank you all for
joining.  And I’m sorry to be a couple of minutes late.  We’re trying to
balance, you know, 10 delegations here in Washington, so it’s
substantial.  And I’m grateful to \[moderator\] and her team for
arranging this. 

So I’d like to do a couple of things today.  I’d like to explain and
give you some background for the ASEAN Special Summit, which will be
taking place here in Washington, D.C. — at the White House, at the
Willard, and at the State Department — on Thursday and Friday.  And then
just preview quickly — and we’ll do more of this next week — the
upcoming travel of the President to South Korea and Japan.

So, just quickly, I think as you know, President Biden very much looks
forward to welcoming the leaders of ASEAN to Washington, D.C. — again,
on Thursday or Friday — for full days of discussions the 12th and 13th
for what we are calling a U.S.-ASEAN Special Summit.  

And this is the first time in its 45-year history that ASEAN leaders
will be welcomed together to Washington, D.C.  We’ve had summit meetings
before in the region, and also during the Obama administration, there
was a meeting in Sunnylands.  But this is the first time they’ve
gathered together in Washington, D.C.

So just by way of background, guys: So, you know, we think this is
important for obvious reasons.  You know, there is a daily urgent set of
demands as the West, the transatlantic community is engaging deeply on
what’s going on on the battlefield in Ukraine.  And that obviously takes
an enormous amount of time, focus, energy, and resources currently of
the senior leadership. 

But it is also the case there is a deep recognition that fundamental
long-term challenges are playing out in the Indo-Pacific.  And the
United States is committed and determining to ensuring that our
engagement in the region is broad, is broad-based, and is sustained. 

So part of that will be the hosting of the summit.  Part of it will be
the trip to South Korea and Japan.  And as part of each of those stops,
there’ll be a range of engagements, including the fourth Quad meeting at
the leader level in just over a year.  That will be hosted by Prime
Minister Kishida in Tokyo on the 24th of May, next week or the week
after next.

So for the U.S.-ASEAN Summit, the program is as follows:

On Thursday, tomorrow, Speaker Pelosi and other senior leaders from
Capitol Hill will welcome the ASEAN leaders to the Capitol for a
bipartisan working lunch.  And, obviously, this is important because,
for many years, one of the most important areas of engagement for
Capitol Hill was in Southeast Asia, and that continues.

And so, it’s important that the leaders from the region see the
bipartisan commitment to the Indo-Pacific that we certainly have seen
over the course of the last year and half.

After that, the ASEAN leaders will move to the Willard, where they will
meet senior American business leaders and CEOs to discuss ways of
strengthening economic cooperation between one of the most dynamic
regions on the planet and the United States.

They will be joined by a variety of folks, including Secretary of
Commerce Raimondo and U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Tai.  There
will be discussions at this session about key challenges ahead in
technology, post-COVID recovery, issues associated with climate and
energy.  The desire is to have these senior — these senior business
leaders from across the United States engage and think about how to
engage more directly going forward, given the dynamism in the region as
a whole.

After that, President Biden will be hosting the ASEAN Leaders for an
intimate dinner in the White House, for an opportunity to listen to the
leaders about their aspirations for where they want to take ASEAN and
how the United States can help in that in the period ahead.

Day two: Vice President Harris and Secretary of State Blinken will host
ASEAN leaders for a working lunch at the State Department, and it’s
focused primarily on — the lunch — on maritime cooperation, pandemic
recovery, and health security.  

Vice President Harris will also host a discussion with ASEAN leaders and
other Cabinet officials from across the interagency regarding climate
action, clean energy, and sustainable infrastructure.

Let me just take a moment here that — I think part of the ambition of
this summit is to broaden and deepen not only the level of engagement in
the U.S. government but in certain key parts of the government like the
State Department, the White House, and DOD, but to broaden it across
every element of our government.

So we are seeking discussions and programs on education, on maritime
domain awareness, on forestry across the board.  So the idea here is to
make sure that the ASEAN leaders see the breadth and depth, again, of
the U.S. commitment to ASEAN as a whole.

And as you know, this is building on an area of expertise for — and
interest for Vice President Harris.  She traveled to the region at the
end of last year, and she’s interested and excited to engage with the
leaders about opportunities for U.S. — enhancing U.S. ties with
Southeast Asia going forward.

And then, later in the afternoon, President Biden will host a discussion
with ASEAN leaders on how to deliver directly for people in the region
and beyond.

So, you know, I think the desire here is to have an intense set of
discussions with, again, all our senior officials who will all be
present and business leaders to indicate how seriously we take the
relationship between the United States and ASEAN.

And I think you can expect to see the United States taking steps to
deepen our longstanding cooperation in a whole host of areas.  We’ve got
some ideas for how to pursue new avenues of dialogue.  I think we’re
going to be thinking about how to invest in our countries and work on
driving inclusive prosperity.

And I think it is also clear that the United States will also focus on
efforts to promote respect for human rights, the rule of law, and good
governance.  And we will together address the ongoing crisis and
challenges in Burma.

On the President’s — so I’ll just take a minute, \[senior administration
official\], really quickly — the President’s travel.  He will be going —
he will be going to South Korea to meet the new President who has just
been sworn in.  And he will then be proceeding to Japan. 

We’ll have more details on the travels as we get closer, but I just want
to understand that — you know, I want you to understand that, really,
since the President’s inauguration, we’ve done a lot in the region. 

I’ll just give you a couple of examples for background in your stories. 

So, we’re the first administration that has taken the Quad — that’s the
United States, Australia, India, and Japan — to the leader level.  We’ve
had a number of meetings, and they all — again, as I’ve indicated — they
will meet in Tokyo on the President’s travel.

We have decided for the first time in seven decades to share sensitive
nuclear submarine technology with another country.  We launched AUKUS
that binds and bonds Australia, Great Britain, and the United States in
a fundamental endeavor to deliver on the promise of nuclear-powered
submarines. 

But this partnership will also include more areas of technology
cooperation with other countries.  We’ll have more to report on that as
we go forward.

I think what we have also seen is substantial engagement in the
Pacific.  It’s — clearly, the Indo-Pacific is a broad region, and too
often we speak a lot about Southeast Asia, Northeast Asia, India.  But
it’s equally important to focus on the Pacific, and you will be seeing
indications of that going forward.

We’ve also broadened and deepened our discussion with Europe and Asia
about each other.  And we’ve seen unprecedented Indo-Pacific cooperation
in the challenges that Europe has faced since the invasion — the Russian
invasion of Ukraine, more generally. 

So, I think it’s a multifaceted approach.  The President and our team
will have more to say on details on the Indo-Pacific Economic Forum,
some of the details of what we hope to accomplish in the Quad, a number
of other initiatives that are in the works.  

And I think the sum total of the next couple of weeks is intended to
send a concerted message that we are following through on the strategy
of investing at home, working with top partners and allies, and laying
out clearly what our goals and objectives in the Indo-Pacific are. 

I’ll stop there.  I’m happy to take a couple of questions.  But that’s
sort of the background about where we are.  Okay. 

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you, \[senior administration official\].  That
was a really helpful laydown of what’s to come in the coming days. 

So, Operator, could you please give us the directions on how to ask the
questions?

Q    Hey, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks a lot for doing
this.  I just wanted to —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, John.  Thank you.

Q    — (inaudible) — yeah, thanks.  Is it true the President is not
going to be doing any bilateral meetings with the ASEAN leaders in
town?  You probably saw the remark from the Cambodian minister who said
that the U.S. hosts “should be more generous to guests.”  I’m just
curious if you think that’s a fair criticism.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I had not seen those comments.  I can
just assure you that the United States is bending over backwards to be
the best possible host.  The President will have a quick, private time
with each of the leaders.  We put enormous effort into the program as a
whole. 

I would also just underscore that this is really a meeting with ASEAN as
an institution, and we are in many ways following the recommendation of
individual countries in the region that said that the United States has
to take the necessary steps to bolster our engagement with the
institution, and we’re seeking to do that.

So, we’re trying to balance opportunities for private interaction with
individual countries but a larger engagement with ASEAN as a whole.  And
that’s exactly what we’ve done. 

And so, I would simply say that we have tried very hard to send a very
constructive message of how deeply we want to work with partners in the
region, and we’re grateful that so many countries have decided to join
us in this endeavor.

Q    Thank you.  Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks for
doing this.  I have two questions.  The first one —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure, Patsy.  How are you?

Q    I’m well, thank you.  

I understand that the issue of Russia and Ukraine will be brought up. 
I’m wondering if you can give us some details about how hard would the
President be pushing on Russia.  For example, will you discuss the issue
of secondary sanctions? 

And then, if you could elaborate on your statement this morning that the
U.S. wants ASEAN leaders to play a more deeply engaged role in Myanmar;
I think that was the term that you that used.  Will you be urging
something more towards the enforcement of the five-point consensus or
something beyond that?  Thank you.

Q    So, just on the first question: First of all, I expect that there
will be a broad discussion of Ukraine and Russia.  I think ASEAN leaders
are very interested to hear the American approach, both where things
stand in terms of next steps.  And I don’t want to get ahead of what is
to come in terms of anything beyond that, but I expect that there will
be a fulsome discussion on Ukraine, on Myanmar — on Burma.

I think, obviously, we’ve had substantial consultations with countries
in the region and interested parties who are deeply focused and,
frankly, frustrated by what we’ve seen take place inside the country.

I think we saw some of the initial steps that the ASEAN had taken.  I
think some of those steps have stalled, and we’re looking for an
indication that ASEAN and, perhaps, the help from other countries
supportive of ASEAN will take the lead in basically determining what are
the appropriate next steps for the institution with respect to its
demands and expectations inside the country.

Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks — thanks for doing
the call.  I know that you said that you’ll release more details on the
Indo-Pacific Economic Framework coming up soon, but what degree — to
what degree do you expect to discuss that framework with the ASEAN
leaders here?  And maybe you could detail for us which ASEAN country you
are aiming to get to join the framework, if at all. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So, look — and I very much
appreciate the question.  And I will say we are engaged in very
substantial conversations with ASEAN countries and engaged in, you know,
close deliberations on the way forward.  

And as I indicated, we will have more to say on this.  But this is a
subject of deep conversation not only between the leaders but expert
groups that are meeting around the edges of every meeting currently.

Q    Hello.  Radio Free Asia would like to know specifically, like, who
is from — who is representing Myanmar, and is the National Unity
Government involved in this summit in any way.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, again, we’ll have more to say on
this tomorrow.  We have had diplomatic engagement with the government in
exile.  We are in discussions about the best way to represent what has
transpired in Burma and how to represent that in the meeting.

I think one of the discussions has been to have an empty chair to
reflect our dissatisfaction with what’s taken place and our hope for a
better path forward. 

I think we’ll have more to say about that.  And, clearly, Burma will be
a subject of intense deliberation in all of our meetings.

MODERATOR:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\].  And thanks,
everyone, for joining. 

As a reminder, this call was on background, attributable to a “senior
administration official,” and the contents of the call are embargoed
until the end of the call. 

If you did not get your question in or have more questions, please feel
free to reach out to me and we’ll get back to you for sure. 

Thanks, everyone. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much, \[senior
administration official\]. I really appreciate it.  Thank you.

3:24 P.M. EDT
