---
date: '2022-05-31'
modified_time: 2022-05-31 23:51:18-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-31 23:51:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/31/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-members-of-bts-and-national-economic-council-director-brian-deese-may-31-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, Members of BTS, and\
  \ National Economic Council Director Brian Deese, May 31,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:37 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my goodness.  Wow.  Hello, everybody.  Good
afternoon.  So much excitement!  I know, it’s the Fed Chair meeting.  
  
Q    It is.  It is the Fed Chair!  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I know.  We have (inaudible).  
  
Q    Brian Deese.  We’re all here for Deese.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Deese.  I mean, yeah.  Forget about me.  I know.  It’s
not about me.  
  
Q    Brian, you’ve never been in such demand.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, today, on the final day of Asian American,
Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, I’m excited to
welcome some special guests to the briefing room today — pop phenom,
BTS!

Q    Woo-hoo!  (Applause.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  While many of you may know BTS as Grammy-nominated
international icons, they also play an important role as youth
ambassadors, promoting a message of respect and positivity.  
  
After this briefing, they will join President Biden in a discussion
about Asian inclusion, representation, and diversity, as well as
addressing an anti-Asian hate crimes and discrimination.  
  
As many of you know, the President has led a historic
whole-of-government approach to combat racism, xenophobia, and tolerance
\[sic\] — intolerance facing AANHPI communities, beginning his first
week in office when he issued a presidential memorandum leveraging the
power of the federal government to stand against this hate.

The President also signed the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act into law; signed
an executive order to reestablish the White House Initiative on Asian
Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders; and funded critical
research to prevent and address xenophobia against AA and NHPI
communities. 

So, without further ado, I will — I will let the band take it from
here.  They’re going to each speak. 

We have an interpreter somewhere here.  There you go.  Good to see you. 

So, they’ll each speak first, and then the interpreter will come back up
and interpret what they just said.  They’re not going to take any
questions.  They’re just going to come here and give some — give some —
some words.  And then we’ll start the briefing. 

Thank you. 

Go ahead, guys. 

RM:  Thank you, Karine, for your kind words.  And hi, we’re BTS.  And it
is a great honor to be invited to the White House today to discuss the
important issues of anti-Asian hate crimes, Asian inclusion, and
diversity.

MEMBERS OF BTS:  (Speak Korean.)

RM:  And lastly, we thank President Biden and the White House for giving
this important opportunity to speak about the important causes, remind
ourselves of what we can do as artists. 

Once again, thank you very much.

INTERPRETER:  I will provide an interpretation in Korean and English. 
(Speaks Korean.) 

Jin said: Today is the last day of the AANHPI Heritage Month.  We join
the White House to stand with the AANHPI community and to celebrate. 

Jimin said: We were devastated by the recent surge of hate crimes,
including Asian American hate crimes.  To put a stop on this and support
the cause, we’d like to take this opportunity to voice ourselves once
again.

J-Hope said: We are here today thanks to our ARMY — our fans worldwide,
who have different nationalities and cultures and use different
languages.  We are truly and always grateful. 

Jungkook said: We still feel surprised that music created by South
Korean artists reaches so many people around the world, transcending
languages and cultural barriers.  We believe music is always an amazing
and wonderful unifier of all things. 

Suga said: It’s not wrong to be different.  I think equality begins when
we open up and embrace all of our differences. 

V said: Everyone has their own history.  We hope today is one step
forward to respecting and understanding each and every one as a valuable
person. 

(Speaks Korean.)

Q    What does it mean to you to come to the White House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to go — we’re going to go –they’re not
going to take any questions, but thank you so much, guys.  Thank you.

Q    Which of us is your favorite?  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, guys.  Thank you.

Q    When is the world tour coming?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, guys.  Thank you.

All right.  Okay.

Q    Hell of a warm-up (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  (Laughter.)

Brian, I don’t know how you’re going to — (laughter).

Okay.

Q    Brian, is the economy (inaudible)?  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t know, I’m excited to hear what Brian has to
say. 

Okay.  Next up, we have Brian Deese, our National Economic Coun- —
Director of National Economic Council, who just came out of the meeting
with the President and the Fed Chair and Secretary Yellen.  And so, he
is joining us today.

So thank you, Brian, for making the time. 

MR. DEESE:  Thank you.  Okay.  (Laughter.)

So, I get to go home and tell my kids that BTS opened for me. 
(Laughter.)  I did not expect that when I woke up this morning. 

And I know that you’re all here to talk about trimmed mean inflation and
you’re as excited about that as you are for them.  So, thank you for
hanging in here. 

So, I just wanted to provide a little bit of context to the economic
focus of the day.  As you all know, the President just concluded a
meeting with Chair Powell, along with Secretary Yellen and myself.  It
was a very constructive meeting focused on the outlook for the U.S. and
the global economy. 

And I won’t go into detail of the private meeting, other than to
reinforce that the President underscored to Chair Powell in the meeting
what he has underscored consistently, including today — that he respects
the independence of the Federal Reserve and will provide the Federal
Reserve the space and the independence that it needs to tackle
inflation. 

Also, today, the President published a op-ed in the Wall Street
Journal.  And I will just give you a little bit of context for that
piece and how we are thinking about economic priorities here. 

So, four quick points:

The first point is there is no question that the global economy right
now faces a range of significant challenges.  Inflation is first among
them.  It is a global challenge.  We learned, for example, today that
inflation in the Euro area, hidden annual rate of 8.1 percent.  And it
is a challenge that the President understands is hitting American
families and creating anxiety and also economic hardship.  As he said,
he gets this. 

The second point is that as the — as the President is making fighting
inflation his — his top economic priority, it is really important that
we recognize that we can take on inflation from a position of relative
economic strength.  That is true if we look in the global context; few
countries are better positioned than the United States to make this
transition and navigate this transition that the President talked about
today from historically strong recovery to more stable, resilient
growth. 

If you look, the reason why we have those economic strengths is the
strength of our recovery — the historically unique strength of our
recovery.  At the center of that is the labor market.  You all know the
statistics; I won’t belabor them.  But suffice it to say we have the
strongest labor market in modern history, which is not only creating job
opportunities, opportunities to move into new — new careers with hi- —
better pay for millions of Americans, but it is also pulling more people
into the labor force. 

And in fact, we’ve seen the most — the rapid — most rapid labor force
participation rebound among prime-age workers of any of the last four
recoveries. 

And we’re also seeing that in terms of the strength of household balance
sheets as well.  Savings is up.  Debt is down.  Bankruptcy filings
remain near pre-pandemic lows.  Eviction filings are 30 percent below
their pre-pandemic levels.  All of these are sources of economic
strength from which we can now focus on bringing prices down. 

The third point — this was an important piece of this — which is that
the President is talking about this transition and growth.  As we move
through this transition, our economic growth should look different than
it — it has in the historic recovery phase. 

We have — we’ve run this first leg of the race at a very rapid clip. 
That has put us in this strong position, relative to our peers.  But
this is a marathon, and we have to move and shift to stable, resilient
growth.  And that’s why the President is outlining the plan that he
wrote about today, which is something that he has been focused on here
for some time now. 

Core to that are the three elements that he flagged.  The first is
nominating quality people to the Federal Reserve.  He has done that — he
got an opportunity to speak with Chair Powell today — a strong,
incredibly credentialed bipartisan group.  And we are hopeful that the —
that the Senate will move to confirm the last of his nominees, Michael
Barr, without delay. 

And giving the Fed the independence to operate, which is critically
important — particularly at a moment where inflation is elevated — but
cannot be taken for granted, which is why the President is reinforcing
it publicly today. 

The second is lowering costs: How we can we make things more affordable
for typical families during this transition period? 

And the third is lowering the federal deficit, which will help to ease
price pressures in the economy. 

That is — on those second and third, that is the focus — the President’s
economic focus, the focus of our economic team.  Many things — many of
the steps therein are things that we can do on our own with executive
action.  There are also places where we need Congress’s help and to work
with Congress. 

But that is our overarching focus when it comes to the economy right
now. 

So, that is the context I want to provide.  I’m happy to do whatever
Karine tells me to do.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks so much.  Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Brian, one thing that may — one tradeoff to cutting or fighting
inflation may be a change in the unemployment levels.  What level of
increase in unemployment does the White House see as acceptable in order
to obtain lower inflation?

MR. DEESE:  Well, I think that one of the — one of the things about this
transition — and we are in this transition — one of the things about
having the strength of the labor market recovery that we have had to
date is that we are uniquely well positioned to actually move toward
more — a more stable labor market gains or gains more — more consistent
with periods where we’ve had this level of unemployment in the past. 
And we can — we can actually take on inflation without having to
sacrifice all of those — all of those gains. 

And so, you see that, for example, in the — the high rate of available
jobs per — per worker.  That can — and you’ve seen that start to
moderate somewhat.  So, one of the ways that, for example, businesses
can reduce — reduce their demand, if that is necessary, is to — is to
bring down the number of open jobs they have available. 

But that is — you know, I think that the bottom line is we have a very
strong labor market, and that is not only a source of strength for
millions of people who are getting jobs — who are getting jobs at higher
wages, it has helped to strengthen household and family balance sheets
as well. 

So, part of the reason why we have seen savings elevated and we have
seen credit card payments and other debt service payments come down to
historically low levels is because of the strength of the — the labor
market.  So that positions us relatively — you know, relatively well
going into this period of transition.

Q    Just one follow-up.  He — the President emphasized and you just
emphasized his respect for the Fed’s independence.  Is he happy with
what the Fed is doing?

MR. DEESE:  Consistent with “respecting their independence” is
respecting their independence. 

So, what I would say is that he is — he has confidence in the people
that he has nominated.  He is grateful to the Senate to confirming four
of his five nominees.  And he is a — he is focused on actually giving
them the space to make those independent judgments. 

It certainly is the case that the President has identified inflation as
his top economic priority.  And he — he agrees with the assessment that
the — that the team at the Federal Reserve is making and that Chair
Powell is making as well. 

But the — but part of providing that independence is to — is to stay out
of the business of commenting on tactics, timing, or otherwise on the
monetary policy side, so you can expect that from us going forward.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kaitlan.

Q    A follow on that.  If he’s confident in the team that he’s put
there, is he confident that they will be able to deal with this enormous
challenge, which is taming inflation and not putting the economy into a
recession?

MR. DEESE:  Well, I think that what — what we are — what the President
is and what we are very confident in is that we can approach this
challenge and we can focus our efforts on bringing inflation down
without having to sacrifice all of the economic gains that we’ve made
because of the unique position of strength that we are in.  Because of
the progress that we have made over the course of the last 15 months, we
are now uniquely well positioned to do that.

Q    Does the President think that the Fed needs to revise or review its
modeling and forecasting techniques, given that they’ve pretty badly
misjudged that inflation was not actually transitory?

MR. DEESE:  That falls squarely into the category of things that we will
— we will leave to the independent judgment of the Fed.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Phil, in the back, and then Kelly.

Q    Thank you, sir.  You noted that inflation remains the President’s
top priority.  I’m wondering a little bit about the intersection of that
priority and the President’s plan to forgive as much as $10,000 in
student debt relief for families making as much as, you know, $300,000. 

Some analysis says that this would cost taxpayers as much as $250
billion.  And, of course, that money is not going to be dumped into the
economy all at once, but I’m curious how you see this affecting consumer
spending, because presumably some of these folks, rather than servicing
their loans, might go buy a new phone or decide to buy that car or go on
a vacation.  So are you confident that that student debt relief program
would not have a negative impact on inflation?

MR. DEESE:  Yes, so I’d say a couple of things about that.  The first is
that, con- — notwithstanding some of the reporting, the President hasn’t
made any decision on that policy, and so I won’t get ahead of any
decision or any — any particular program or plan that has been
speculated about.

Broadly speaking, if you look at those who — who hold student debt, they
are principally people who went to public colleges; principally people
who, when they were going to college, had — two thirds of which their
family income was less than $50,000 per year; and — and many of whom are
struggling economically in a position of having to repay that debt. 

When you look at the question of the macro- — macroeconomic impact, I
would say two things.  One is, it is a function of a number of those
policy design parameters, including the repayment.  So today, there was
a moratorium on repayment of student loans, and so the resumption of
payments would interact with any potential debt cancellation from a —
from a macroeconomic perspective — number one.

And number two, if you looked at the impact of almost any proposal,
because of the point that you made, notwithstanding the — the cost of
any — any proposal, is — the economic impact of any proposal would be
across the course of years or a couple of decades.  And so, the impact
on inflation in the near term is likely to be — is likely to be quite
small. 

But, again, because the President hasn’t made any decision and we’re not
talking about a specific plan, I won’t speculate specifically.  But I
think most of the analysis suggests that the near-term impact would be
pretty small.

Q    As you’re putting together, sort of, this outreach today with the
op-ed, with the message that you and other colleagues have been putting
out there, is implicit in that sort of acknowledgement that you have not
been telling the story of the economic picture in a way that has been
satisfactory to the President?

MR. DEESE:  I think what this underscores is actually a ongoing
commitment by the President to both train his focus on what is the most
important thing for the economy and to communicate that as well.  So, I
would, you know, point you back to the President’s State of the Union,
where the President said that: My priority is lowering costs and
lowering the deficit.

And I think what — what this President has tried to do in every stage in
this historic and unique economic recovery is to effectively communicate
to the American people where we are, to give it to people straight, but
also to lay out clearly his plans, his priorities in terms of what he
wants to see done. 

And so, we are — we are now moving into a phase which is really a
transition — that transition that he spoke about.  And so, what he has
been doing for the last couple of weeks, what he will continue to do is
try to help make sure that we’re communicating clearly to the American
people what that means and also what his plans are and also that he is
prepared to work with anybody — Democrat and Republican — to try to make
progress on that but also highlight that there are differences between
his approach and others.  And that’s important for the American people
to understand as well.

Q    So, what is the expectation today — as you advise the President —
or his expectation about how long prices will be in — at these high
levels — 40-year levels; how long inflation will be here?

MR. DEESE:  Well, you know, the — there is uncertainty, and I will leave
the predictions to forecasters.  I think you and others have seen most
major forecasters out there and their projections, most projecting that
we will see moderation in inflation over the course of the year.

What I can say and is important with respect to, for example, the op-ed
that the President wrote today is that the President has a clear
approach and priorities with respect to tackling inflation.  And the
more progress that we can make on that plan, the more progress that we
can make in lowering costs and making things more affordable for
families right now, the more progress we can make in building on the
historic deficit reduction we’ve already seen this year, then the better
off we’ll be, the better position we’ll be to actually see that
moderation happen more quickly.

So, that’s our focus.  Our focus, when we’re thinking about policy,
particularly fiscal policy, is how can we make more progress on that
front.  Understanding that, you know, there are — there are a lot of
predictions out there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Just a couple more. 

Josh?

Q    Thanks, Brian.  Chair Powell has said there are limited tools that
the Fed has to deal with supply shocks, like what we saw from Russia’s
invasion of Ukraine, the lockdowns in China over the coronavirus.  Given
that limitation, do you believe the U.S. is well-insulated and protected
against future supply shocks that could cause prices to rise as we’ve
seen with gasoline?  Or do you think additional action is needed with
Congress in order to provide that protection?

MR. DEESE:  Well, I would say a couple things.  The first — the first
point that I made and underscored is we do face serious global
challenges right now.  And the supply chain disruptions — the ongoing
supply chain disruptions emanating from COVID and China, most recently,
are significant.  Likewise, the energy — the implications on the energy
market of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine are significant and ongoing.

And so — so, absolutely, those are significant global challenges.  They
are affecting — they’re affecting energy prices and food prices
globally.  They’re affecting supply chain distribution systems
globally.  That is point one.

Point two is, we, in the United States, are better positioned to
actually navigate through those challenges than almost any other
country, in part because of the, as I’ve said already, the strength of
our economic recovery; in part also because of the work that we have
done, for example, on the supply chain side over the last nine months of
consistent, focused effort working with all different parts of our
supply chain. 

We now see, for example, the fluidity — what’s known as, you know, how
fast, you know, containers can move through ports, for example, and get
from a ship all the way to the end — that we are — have seen significant
improvements in that fluidity across time, which puts us in a better
position to navigate potential new supply shocks.  But they pose ongoing
challenges.

Third, there are places where we could absolutely use Congress’s help,
and we could use it urgently.  And so, when you think about some of the
core challenges we have respect — with respect to supply chains, they
circle back to the issue of semiconductors.  And we remain extremely
vulnerable to the supply chain fragilities associated with
semiconductors.

Notwithstanding everything we have been through in this pandemic crisis,
we still don’t have a dedicated supply chain strat- — office within the
federal government that is funded adequately to actually take on, map,
and aggressively go at these challenges.

Now, we’ve made historic progress notwithstanding that, but we could use
Congress moving to provide the resources and the funding and the
authorities that are in the Bipartisan Innovation Bill that is now in
conference. 

So, that’s — that’s one place where we are hopeful, working very closely
with — with Congress in an effort to try to get that done.  And that
would give us more tools to keep building our resilience to these types
of global shocks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Josh, Catherine, and then in the back. 

Q    Okay.

Q    Thank you.  Since you were in the meeting, can you say whether the
President expressed any view about what the Fed path is right now? 
Chair Powell was talking about 50 basis points, each, in the next two
meetings.  Did President Biden weigh in at all on whether he thinks the
Fed needs to go faster, slower, just about right, at all in the meeting?

MR. DEESE:  So, I’m not going to read out any specific components of the
meeting other than to underscore that the President did, in private as
he did in public, underscore that his commitment to giving the Fed the
space to conduct monetary policy independently without political
interference.

Q    Does he think that the Fed has moved too slowly?  By saying it’s
their responsibility, they’re — the implication, of course, is that
they’re holding the bag for the fact that inflation is at the highest
that it’s at.

MR. DEESE:  I think by saying it’s their responsibility, what the
President is doing is acknowledging and underscoring the — the pivotal
role that the Fed plays institutionally and that monetary policy plays
in the process of bringing prices down.  That’s the — that’s a core
mandate that the Fed has and that he respects — not only respects but is
willing to underwrite that that independence matters and being insulated
from political interference matters. 

That’s not — that’s not an approach that that the previous president
took to this issue.  It has not been an approach that presidents in the
past have taken.  And this President has underscored and is underscoring
that he will — he will do that, and I think that that’s what you should
take away from — from his acknowledgement of the responsibility that the
Fed has.

Q    And did tariff reviews come up at all?  Or can you give us the
latest on that?  There have been calls, of course, that easing of
tariffs on imports of particular countries could be one measure that
would cool inflation here in the U.S.?

MR. DEESE:  I know it’s an issue in discussion.  I don’t have any update
to share today.

Q    To the back?

Q    Just following up on the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Catherine.  And we have somebody in the
back..  Go ahead, Catherine.

Q    Following up on Josh’s question on tariffs, is there any timing you
can give us on a decision specifically on the China tariffs?

MR. DEESE:  Not — nothing — nothing specific on tariffs today.

Q    I wanted to ask you about budget reconciliation.

MR. DEESE:  About the what?

Q    Budget reconciliation.  What do you view is the right
revenue-to-spending ratio to combat inflation?

MR. DEESE:  Well, I think what the — the President has — has said and is
underscoring today is that we have a real opportunity to lower costs and
to lower the deficit, and that we can actually do those two things
together in a way that will create a more competitive economic
environment and actually increase incentives for businesses to invest in
the United States by pairing tax reform with measures to lower costs for
families.

So, I’m not going to get into the specifics of the conversations around
reconciliation, other than to say the President really does believe that
the right approach here is to focus on measures that would lower costs
and help to make things more affordable right now for families and to
lower the deficit.  And that he believes that that’s the right way to
address inflation and that that’s probably the most significant thing
that Congress could do right now to actually help to accelerate the
process of bringing prices down, to Kelly’s point.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Last question, because he has to go.

Q    About a year ago, you stood here at the podium, along other
officials, talking about inflation as “transitory.”  Now a lot of the
focus from the White House and the broader administration is on
messaging.  As Kaitlan and Kelly pointed out earlier, was it a mistake
to use that phrasing?  And do you think it gave Americans a false sense
of how long these rising prices would be here for?

MR. DEESE:  Look, I think that this has been an uncertain and unexpected
and — and — recovery period, historic in many ways.  And so, I think
that our focus right now is on what is the right policy to bring prices
down without sacrificing all of the economic gains that we have made.

And I think that one thing that is unambiguously the case is that, over
the course of this 15 months, the strength of this recovery that we have
had in the United States has not only helped millions of people and
millions of families across the country, but now positions us well to
address what is a global issue. 

And when you look out across the world right now, there is also no
question that inflation is a global challenge.  The 8.1 percent figure
that I cited for the Euro area — if you look back over the last six
months, headline Euro area inflation is 9 percent. 

And that is because we know that, principally, the drivers of that are
the convulsions and the convulsive impact of having to shut the economy
down and restart the economy, and compounded now by the supply effects
that Josh asked about with respect to Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.

So, that’s our focus.  That’s where we’re focused now.  And we think
that the policy choices that we make here going forward will be
consequential in how quickly and effectively we can navigate through
this next period.

Q    But that’s actually about — mostly about the structural factors. 
And, I guess, when you talk to Americans, when you look at polling, they
say their biggest concern is raising prices — which, I think, part of
that stems from the prolonged period that we’ve been in.  And so I’m
wondering: As you focus on the messaging, do — have you learned lessons
from that where you discussed it as transitory and now, 15 months later,
we’re still here?

MR. DEESE:  Look, I think that the — what the President has done with
respect to communications has been — is been to consistently explain to
the American people where we are and where we need to go.  And that
continues to be the way that — that he approaches this issue and very
much from the perspective of what it feels like to sit around a dining
room table or a kitchen table in — in this country, because that is —
that’s his lived experience and that’s the way that he approaches these
economic policy questions.

And so, he understands that right now the top issue on people’s minds is
prices — prices at the gas station, prices at the grocery store.  And
he’s made very clear and he’s communicating very clearly that that’s his
top economic priority and that we can address this from a position of
strength, and that we can make this transition to stable growth without
sacrificing all of those gains if we make the right decisions going
forward.

And so that’s — that’s what he will continue to do.  It’s certainly what
we’ll continue to do in serving him.

Q    Brian, if I could quickly follow up.  If the President is
communicating effectively, how do you explain and make sense of his low
poll numbers?

MR. DEESE:  Look, I — I will — I will — I will just say this: that the
President always tasks us to focus on what are the right policy
decisions and the right policy choices to try to advance an economy that
has been his animating — his — his animating feature of what he wants to
get done for years, which is how do you build an economy from the bottom
up and the middle out, where working families have more opportunities.

We’ve made historic progress in that direction.  We have made historic
progress in that direction because of some of the hard and difficult
policy choices that this President has made.  But we now have to address
this issue of rising prices.  The President has been focused on that for
some time.  We need some help in working with Congress on some of the
issues that we just discussed. 

And I think that, you know, as — if we can deliver — I think what the
American people are mostly — mostly want to see is that we can actually
move the ball forward and that we can actually make some progress in
things that matter in their daily lives.  And it’s why you’ve seen the
President — it’s why you’ve seen the President so focused on things like
reducing the cost of Internet, building more affordable housing to
reduce the cost of housing — because we get that those are practical
things that are impacting people in their lives. 

And the more progress we can make on that front that, you know — that
pe- — that’s what people want to see.  That’s what people want to see —
is progress.  And so, that’s where we’re going to keep our focus.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

MR. DEESE:  Thank you all. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, Brian.  Come back soon. 

All right, that’s all I have for — (laughter) — for the topper.  Oh, we
can leave.  No. 

Go ahead, Josh.  Why don’t you kick it off — kick us off here.

Q    Great, thanks.  Just one sec.  Two subjects.  First, could you
offer some clarity on what President Biden meant when he said we’re not
sending Ukraine rockets systems that could strike into Russia, since
even short-range missiles could fly over the border if they’re fired
nearby?  And is the White House concerned that sending a rocket system
could be considered escalatory?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me first say that the systems — the system —
those systems continue to be under consideration, so I don’t have
anything to preview on anything specific there.  But as the President
said, we won’t — we won’t be sending long-range rockets for use beyond
the battlefield in Ukraine.  And right — but right now, I don’t have
anything to preview for you today.

Q    Secondly, could you update us on the status of where Mexico’s
president stands on going to the Summit of the Americas?  It’s the first
time we’ve hosted since 1994.  And what does this controversy say about
the U.S. relationship with Mexico?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — again, I don’t have anything to share or
anything to confirm about anyone’s attendance.  We don’t have a final
list.  Once we have a final list, we’ll be sharing that. 

Look, you know, the President is looking forward to hosting, as you just
said, the first one in a long time.  It’s the ninth Summit of the
Americas in June — just a few days away — and values the opportunity for
leader-to-leader, civil society, and private sector engagement to
advance our goals and find common ground. 

He views the summit as an important opportunity for leaders and key
stakeholders to come together to address the core challenges facing the
people of the — of the hemismere \[sic\] — hemisphere.  No other part of
the world impacts the security and prosperity of the United States more
directly than the Western Hemisphere.  And we are joined not just by
geography, but by — also by economic ties, democratic principles,
cultural connections, and familial bonds. 

I — I don’t have a list to confirm or any — any invites or decisions
that’s been made.  That’s up to, clearly, the per- — the individual
leaders. 

Q    Hello.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.

Q    Happy Tuesday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I feel like it’s been a long time.

Q    It has.  Just to follow up on that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — has everyone who’s going to be invited to the summit been
invited?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re still working through some of the invites.  We
just don’t have a final list.  And we have said once we have a final
list, we’ll share that.

Q    Can you elaborate on the President’s promise earlier today to meet
with lawmakers on new gun laws — when or how that would happen, and
whether there were any preconditions on when or how he’d meet with them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President is — is — look, he’s been calling for
action for some time.  What we have seen these — in particular these
past two weeks with these mass shootings in Buffalo — and we saw the
President go to Buffalo and grieve with the family there.  We saw the
President, just — and the First Lady — just this past Sunday, go to
Texas to grieve with the parents there.  And it is heart wrenching what
we’re experiencing.  This is a epidemic — the gun violence that we’re
seeing across the — across the country.  And we have to do something and
we have to — we have to continue to make efforts to act to protect our
kids, to protect people going to the grocery store. 

The President has made this one of his priorities from the first day
that he walked in — into this — into this administration, and now he’s
calling on Congress to act.  And so, he is hopeful.  He wants to make
sure there’s action.  Our — the White House — we have our White House
team that is in constant communication with Congress on an array of
issues, including this one — because, again, this is a priority.  And he
wants to make — continue to make sure that he continues to voice his
concern and what needs to be done next.

Look, the President has done everything that he can from — from the
federal government.  We are looking at other executive actions that we
can possibly do.  This President has done more executive actions at this
point than any other president.  But it’s not up to him alone.  He
cannot do this alone.  This is what you heard him say to Kelly O.
yesterday.

And so, Congress needs to act so we can have federal law — legislation
on the books so we can stop this epidemic that we’re seeing across the
country.

Q    What other executive actions would be under consideration if, you
just said, he’s done everything he could do?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he — we’re looking to see what else can be do- —
can be done, to be clear.  We have done — as you’ve heard us say, we
have done the gun — the ghost guns.  The stemming of the flow of ghost
guns is something that the President has done through executive action. 

If you look at ghost guns, it is — they are not — they’re — they are not
regulated.  There’s no serial number connected to them.  They are the
weapons of choice when it comes to terrorists and criminals. 

This is something that we have seen more and more pop up across the
country.  And so, he put out an executive order through the Department
of Justice to make sure that we do everything to stem — to stem that —
to stem ghost guns being out there. 

He’s done more — taken more efforts to take on gun traffickers and make
sure that they held — they are held accountable.

He used the American Rescue Plan — which, by the way, no Republican
voted for — to make sure that we put police officers back in the streets
who, many of them, lost their jobs during the COVID pandemic. 

And so, there’s $10 billion that we announced that cities have used to
make sure that they are — they are using that funding or said they have
used that funding for gun violence.

These are the actions that this President has taken.  And now, he’s
calling on Congress to take action.  He’s calling on Congress to take a
vote so that we can protect families and communities. 

Q    But he’s had no — nothing scheduled yet?  Nothing official?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — I don’t have anything more to preview.  He
said yesterday himself that they are looking at other options on
executive actions.  But, again, he’s done more than any President at
this time.

Q    One other thing I wanted to just clarify from you, something he
said on Friday during his address at the Naval Academy.  The President
was born in 1942, graduated from the University of Delaware in 1965.  In
his address, he said he was appointed to the Naval Academy in 1965.  Was
he?  Was it in 1965?  Can you clarify?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — oh, I did not hear that part of the speech, so
I would have to —

Q    Right at the beginning of the speech.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I did — I — I missed —

Q    And there’s been a lot of writing about it since.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — no, I hear you, Ed.  I hear you.  I have not — I —
I need to read it myself and just go back and see what you’re talking
about exactly.  I can’t speak to it right now.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Canada is making it impossible to buy, sell,
transfer, or import handguns anywhere in that country.  Would President
Biden ever consider a similar restriction on handguns here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, we’ll leave it up to other countries to
set their policy on gun ownership.

The President has made his position clear: The United States needs to
act.  As I just laid out, he supports a ban on the sale of assault
weapons and high-capacity magazines, and expanded background checks to
keep guns out of the — dangerous hands.  He does not support a ban on
the sale of all handguns, to answer your question.

Q    Okay.  Thank you.  In some places in this country now, a gallon of
gas costs more than people on the federal minimum wage are making in an
hour.  What does the White House want these people to do — to stop
driving to work?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President understands what it feels like. 
Deese just spoke — spoke about this.  Brian Deese was just here and
talked about how he understands what it means for people who are sitting
at their kitchen table and see gas prices go up.  He understands that
feeling personally.  Or seeing prices of grocery store — of grocery — of
groceries go up in the grocery store. 

This is something that he is inherently aware of, and he is doing
everything that he can, as Deese — Brian Deese, who was just here — his
economic adviser — one of his top economic adviser — laying out what he
is planning to do or continue to do to make sure that we lower costs at
the gas pump.

He also said — Brian also said that we are dealing with an unprecedented
time with global challenges that we have never seen before.  And that
includes, clearly, the pandemic; that includes Putin’s tax hike that
we’re seeing this past couple of months that has had an effect on
gasoline prices — $1.50 went up since Putin has amassed his troops on
the border of Ukraine.  These are real, real, you know, global issues
that has led to this moment.

But the President is doing everything that he can to make sure that we
address this issue. 

Q    And you just mentioned Putin a few times —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — as a reason for recent inflation.  Do you guys think that any
part of inflation this year is because of President Biden’s spending
plans, or is it all Putin’s fault?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, what I can say is we are — and Brian just spoke
to this: We are at a historic place when it comes to the economy, when
it comes to unemployment being at the lowest that we have seen in some
time, when it comes to the President creating more jobs in his first
term — his first year than any other President — eight point — more than
8.5 million jobs. 

Now we’re going to a place where it’s being — we’re going into
transition, where we’re going to see an economy that’s more stable,
that’s more steady.  So that’s because of the American Rescue Plan that
we — that the President signed into law that no Republican signed — or
voted for, I should say. 

And all of that work that he’s done the first year has led us to a place
where there are more jobs out there, more jobs are being created — that
we are in a place where we’re seeing economic growth. 

Now — and also, as I’ve stated, this is an unprecedented time with
COVID.  This is an unprecedented time with the war. And so that — that
Putin has created and started on Ukraine.  And so, we have seen — data
has shown us, since — since these past couple of months — since the war,
we have seen an uptick on gas prices.

Q    So, I guess, the next question would be: Does President Biden take
any responsibility for his policies potentially contributing to
inflation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  His policies has helped the economy get back on its
feet.  That’s what his policy has — his policies has done. 

This — when we talk about the gas prices right now, this is indeed
Putin’s gas hike.  This is what we have seen in the most recent months
of what we’ve seen at the gas pump.  And so, that is a fact.  We have
seen about 60 percent increase in the past several months because of the
amassing and his invasion of Ukraine. 

And so, the President — his goal right now and what he is frustrated
about is what the peop- — what the American people have to go through
and what they are trying to deal with, as they are — as they are around
their kitchen table.  So that is his focus right now. 

Go ahead.

Q    The President has talked about understanding — from his life
experience — those difficulties, economic hardships, and so forth.  Does
he consider it a crisis for American families that prices are at this
40-year high?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He — he’s — he consider- — he understands the hardship
that people are going through.  He understands how difficult it is for
families.  He understands that.  That’s why he has done everything that
he can to — and taken steps in many different ways to make sure that we
lower costs. 

You know, we announced new actions to give farmers the tools and
resources they need to boost production and lower food prices and to —
and feed the world. 

High-speed Internet for tens of millions of Americans — we announced new
steps with the private sector to lower those prices. 

The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found that the deficit fell
by $1.5 trillion this year, and it actually fell even more in most —

Q    How (inaudible) characterize it though?  Is it a problem?  Is it a
hardship?  Is it a crisis? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    What is it that people are facing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, it is — we’re just in a difficult time right
now with this inflation.  That’s why he’s doing everything that he can.

Look, his op-ed — he talks about this explicitly — about how — what he
knows the American people are going through.  And he laid out what it is
that he’s going to do to really fight against inflation. 

So, it is something that he is aware of.  This is clearly — right? — as
President, is something that is a priority to him.  That’s why he made
sure that he rallied allies and partners around the world to release 1
million barrels of oil per day from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and
that has been something that started for six months, in addition to an
additional 60 million barrels of oil from — from other country
reserves.  That’s for gas to help — to help with gas.

The administration has allowed E15, which uses homegrown biofuels to be
sold this summer to help as well. 

And — and also, he announced administration actions to save hundreds of
thousands of families hundreds of dollars per month by fixing the
Affordable Care Act’s “family glitch.” 

So these are the things that he is continuing to work on and make this a
priority.  And that’s why one of the reasons he wanted the American
people to hear directly from him, hence the op-ed that came out.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Back on the issue of gun reform.  So you mentioned the
limitations that the President is facing.  He also has been blunt —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, he said this yesterday himself.

Q    — that there is only so much that he can do, that much of this is
in the hands of Congress.  But in Texas, over the weekend, the President
came face to face with a crowd that was demanding that he act, chanting,
“Do something.”  And the President said, “We will.”  Given the
limitations that he is facing, how can he make that promise?  What makes
him so confident that this time around will be different?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, as I’ve said, our team is in close
contact with key members of Congress on negotiations.  And when the
President is — when it’s helpful, he will certainly engage. 

But look, this — what we’re talking about is — is popular, is something
that the constituents want.  Right? 

When you think about 88 percent support background checks on all gun
sales, just 8 percent oppose.  When you think about 84 percent support a
ban on fire- — firearm sales to people reported as “dangerous” to law
enforcement, just 9 percent oppose.  Sixty-nine percent of support
banning high-capacity magazines, just 22 percent oppose.  Sixty-seven
percent oppose \[support\] banning assault-style weapons, just 25
percent oppose.  This is from a poll last week from Politico/Morning
Consult. 

Reuters had a poll as well on that same day: 84 percent support
background checks for all firearm sales; 74 — 70 — 70 percent support
red flag laws. 

So these are things that if you think about, these — the senators and
congressional members — these are things that their own constituents
support.  And so, what the President is going to continue to do, as he’s
done from the first day that he wa- — first few days that he walked into
office, is to ask Congress to act. 

And so, we’re going to continue to have those conversations.  He’s going
to do everything that he can to make that happen.  We have to stop this
gun violence epidemic that we’re seeing.

Q    But these measures have been popular for some time.  I mean, that’s
not new to this most recent massacre.  So, what is the President seeing,
if anything, that makes him confident that this time will be different? 
I mean, we’ve heard him say that he thinks everyone is getting more
rational about this.  What has he seen from Republicans that gives him
that gives him that sense?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, right now, as we know, there are bipartisan
negotiations happening today.  It may have happened already.  I know
there was supposed to be a Zoom call that was being led by Chris Murphy.

And so, you know, it is important.  That’s what we want to see.  We want
to see steps being taken so that we can get to a resolution — a solution
here. 

We cannot continue having this epidemic that we’re having, which — gun
violence.  This is not okay. 

And what we’re asking Congress to do is to vote.  Vote — again, I said —
I just said this: Vote to protect our communities.  Vote to protect our
children.  Vote to protect our teachers.  Vote to be able — so that
people can safely go into a grocery store and not worry about being
killed.

And so, the President is going to continue to speak to this.  He’s going
to continue to use, you know, the platform that he has.  But, again, he
has done more on executive action in his first year than any other
president has, in particular at this point.

Q    How would you gauge his level of confidence that that vote is
actually going to happen?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’re going to continue to try.  I cannot — you
know, I can’t speak to how people are feeling in Congress.  That’s
something that they have to answer — or where they are in the process. 

What we’re going to do is do our job from here in having those
conversations.  As I mentioned, his team is talking to folks on the
other side about negotiations.  And we’re going to continue to call for
action.

Q    Can we come back to the back?

Q    Karine?

Q    I’m right here.

Q    Thank you so much.  I have a BTS question and also a Taiwan
question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, a BTS question?  Okay. 

Q    (Laughs.)  Yeah.  First of all, they’ve been here for a few hours. 
Just wondering if they’re filming a music video on site or anything like
that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.  (Laughs.)

Q    And also, any substantive policy recommendations to the President
about combatting discrimination and hate crime?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, right after — right after they were here, they
did go to meet with the President.  Clearly, I don’t know what
conversation was had.  So, usually we try to keep those pri- —
conversations private.

You heard from them directly about how this — important it was for them
to use their platform to be here to talk about issues that matter to
them, in particular the anti-hate — Asian hate that we have seen across
this country these past few years. 

And so, this was an important moment for them.  I spoke to them before
they came out.  They were — they were thrilled to come out and make sure
that you heard directly from them why they were here. 

I don’t have much more to share.  As you know, they’re having a meeting
right now with the President.

Q    So, moving on to Taiwan, Senator Duckworth is in Taiwan today and
China has sent 30 overflights to Taiwan.  Is this seen as a threatening
move?  And can you just illuminate, you know, what Senator Duckworth is
doing over there, what

the point of this mission is?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I cannot speak for Senator Duckworth.  You would
have to reach out to her office.  I don’t have anything to say on why
she’s there.

Q    On the overflights, is it — is that something you see as
threatening?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s something that we’re monitoring.  I don’t have
any comment on that at this time, but clearly these are things that we
keep an eye on.

Q    Karine, can I ask you a question from the back?

Q    Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you so much.  The President said yesterday that he believes
Senator McConnell is a “rational Republican.”  Senator McConnell said
today that the group of lawmakers that are talking about guns in the
wake of Uvalde are talking about the problem, which is quote, “mental
illness and school safety.”  Does the President agree that that’s the
problem here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, when the President said that — he believes
that there are some rational Republicans in the Senate who can come
together and work on a bipartisan bill.  And Mitch McConnell is one of
those — is one of those folks.

He does not believe — and we’ve talked about this, he’s talked about
this: You know, we are the only country that is dealing with gun
violence at the rate that we’re dealing.  And other countries have
mental health issues.  So, what’s the problem here?

And so, the problems is — the problem is what — with — is with guns and
not having — and not having legislation to really deal with an issue
that is a pandemic here in this country.

And so, you know, that is — that is not his focus, obviously.  And when
it comes to — when it comes to schools — and I don’t know what he said
specifically about schools.  I know there’s been conversation about
hardening schools; that is not something that he believes in.  He
believes that we should be able to give teachers the resources to be
able to do the job that they’re meant to do at schools. 

And this is something that he’s been focusing on since he was Vice —
Vice President.  So, those are two things that he does not agree on.

But look, he thinks there’s a way to potentially have — potentially come
— for senators to come together and Congress to come together.  They
should.  They need to act.  And that’s what he’s going to continue to
call for.

Q    Even though he disagrees with the top Republican in the Senate on
what the problem is here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I think that what the President is going
to continue to do is call for Congress to take action, is to call for
Congress to move forward and deal with this epidemic that we’re seeing
across this country.  And — and so he’s going to leave it up to Congress
to do that.  He’s going to step in when needed.

But again, our office — our office here is in regular contact on
negotiations.

Q    And you just said that the President will get engaged with Congress
on these talks when he believes it’s helpful.  Does he believe it’s
helpful right now for him to be involved directly in these negotiations
or no?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  When the time comes, he will get involved.  He spoke
to this yesterday.  What we’re going to continue to do is call on
Congress to act. 

And again, our office — our offices here, our different departments here
are in constant communications and — with the negotiation process that’s
happening.

Q    Karine, can you confirm that the President’s Chief of Staff, Ron
Klain, is leaving his position after the midterms? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Q    Can you confirm that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No. 

Q    Can I ask you a second question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  A follow-up on the long-range rockets
question.  Does the United States not want Ukraine to launch attacks
into Russian territory, despite the fact that Russia is obviously
launching attacks on it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the President spoke to this yesterday.  I
don’t have anything more to add. 

First of all, we don’t have — it’s being — it’s under consideration.  I
don’t have anything more to say to that.  But again, you know, we won’t
be sending long-range rockets for use beyond the battlefield in
Ukraine.  So, the President answered that yesterday.

Q    Switching gears to gun control and to the meeting with the New
Zealand Prime Minister today, the President mentioned what New Zealand
has done on this issue.  What does he think or what does the White House
think the United States could learn from New Zealand on guns?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — I think they had a very good meeting.  They
clearly spoke about gun reform.  In his — in the meeting, he actually
wanted to talk more about what the New Zealand Prime Minister has done
on gun reform in her country. And so, he wanted to hear more about
that.  I don’t have anything more to read out, but it is something that
it — an agenda item that came up in their meetings.  And, you know, he’s
always open to listen. 

But then again, you know, I have to — we have to just remember that we
need to act.  Congress needs to act.  It is the time to act now.  And
that’s what the President is going to continue to call for. 

You know, it is — it is something that he has worked on since he was a
senator, as a vice president, and now as president.  He has taken action
as a president to make sure he can do everything that he can to address
gun violence.  And now he’s calling on Congress to deal with, you know,
banning — the banning of assault weapons and also — and also background
checks — expanding background checks.  Those are things that they can
do.  It’s popular.  I just laid out the polling and what the polling
showed. 

This is what their constituents want them to do, is to act.  And so,
that’s what we’re going to keep calling on them to do.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Following up on Kaitlan’s question about the
President’s involvement: You said he would engage when he found — when
he thinks it would be helpful.  Does he think it would be unhelpful
right now for him to engage in those negotiations?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  What we’re — what he — what we’re trying to say
is that there are conversations happening right now.  Right?  There’s a
Zoom call — a bipartisan conversation — happening right now. 

So, we’re going to let that process go.  We’re going to — but at the
same time, we’re going to continue to call for action.  You know, it’s —
you know, he directed his team to look at additional ways for executive
action.  So that doesn’t stop from us, on our end, but he can’t do it
alone.  And that’s what we keep trying to say here: He — Congress needs
to take their step to make action.

Q    And then just one follow-up — again, on the comment that he made
about there are “rational Republicans.”  As a candidate on the
presidential campaign trail, he often said Republicans would have an
epiphany after Trump was defeated, that they would “come to their
senses,” in his words, and work with Democrats on certain issues.  Many
Democrats that you talk to say that that is an outdated view of the
modern Senate, that the partisanship has increased significantly.  Do
you — does he still believe that there are 10 Republican senators
willing to vote on some measure of gun reform? 

There’s criticism that that is — the view that Mitch McConnell and
others are “rational Republicans” — given Mitch McConnell’s long and
well-documented history of blocking any sort of vote on gun control
throughout his leadership of the Republican Party.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What we’re saying is: That’s what their constituents
want them to do.  That is what — regardless if you’re a Republican or
independent or Democrat, we — you have a bipartisan opinion out there
from constituencies, from American families, from the American public
that wants Congress to act.

Ninety percent of gun owners support universal background checks. 
That’s 90 percent.  Eighty-four percent of Republicans and eighty
percent of NRA members support background checks.  That’s what we know. 
That’s what the data shows us.  That’s what we need to do — is for them
to act so that we can make sure that our communities are protected, that
we save our communities, that our children are not going into — going to
school feeling unsafe.  So that’s what we need to make sure.

Q    So, then what — why is — sorry, what is — what does the President
think the reason is that Republicans are not voting for some of these
bills?  If you’re saying they’re widely popular, what is the — where
does the President believe the disconnect is between the Republican
leaders and the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s for them to answer.  They have to — they have
to answer to their constituents.  Not — I just laid out what the
constituents want to see.  That’s for them to answer.  That’s — that’s a
question that they need to go to their constituents and answer why they
haven’t move forward on commonsense gun violence reform.  That’s what
we’re asking for.

Go ahead.

Q    This is a question I was hoping to get to Brian Deese, but I’m
hoping you can help us understand as well. 

Earlier today, Larry Summers told the Washington Post essentially that a
soft landing seems, you know, in his view, particularly unlikely.  And
we heard Brian suggest, I think, a rather rosy picture of being able to
move out of this inflationary period. 

I guess I want to understand from you all: What makes you so confident
that a soft landing is possible?  And should we be anticipating, as a
public, that there will be a rocky economic period going forward?  I
mean, I guess I just want to understand what makes you all think —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, you know —

Q    What you all —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — and this is what Brian Deese said up here and I think
he would say the same thing to this question, is that we are — we are
doing everything that we can to deal with what the American public is —
currently have in front of them — right? — with these high price — with
high gas prices and inflation.  And we are taking every step that we
can, taking this very seriously to make sure that we bring down
inflation and we deal with inflation in a way that the American public
feels this. 

And we feel that if we are able to do that — continued with the four
steps that the President talked about in his — in his op-ed today — that
we will get to a place that — that — where — that — where the prices can
come down and we can deal with inflation in a real way.

Q    And so, I guess, you know, the outlook, though, is that a recession
— when you look at inflation, historically, at this level — a recession
has naturally followed, you would say, within two years.  And so, why
would this — why would this time be any different?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — you know, as — as we have said, we’re
dealing with a transition.  Right?  We are — we’re — we just have —
we’re coming out of — we’re coming — we’re dealing with a — an economy
that has really bounced back.  Eight — more than 8.5 million jobs have
been created.  We’ve seen unemployment go down.  And now we’re in a
transition period where we’re going to be in a place where it’s more
stable and more steady. 

And so, that is kind of — that is our focus.  That’s where we are
currently, and that’s — that’s what we’re going to be moving forward to.

I’ll take one more question. 

Q    Yeah, thank you.  The gunman suspects in both Buffalo and Texas
were 18 years old.  Would the President support or be open to raising
the minimum age for purchasing a gun to 21 years old?  This is something
that Congressman Kinzinger, a Republican, said would be a “no brainer”
on Sunday.  And so, it seems like something that would have, maybe out
of the gate, some bipartisan support.  Does the President support that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll let the President’s words speak for
himself.  He just — he said last week that an 18-year-old should not be
able to be purchasing a gun, a — an assault weapon that we saw this
18-year-old do in Texas.  And so, I’ll just let his words speak for —
stand for itself.

Q    And so he would sign such a bill into law if it were to pass
Congress?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll just — again, I’ll just let his words stand for
himself — for itself. 

I’ll take — I’ll take one more.  I’ll take one more.

Q    On the rocket systems, can you talk through all that?  How does the
U.S. balance the need to help Ukraine without putting the country at
risk of a direct conflict with Russia?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, again, I — we don’t have anything to announce
at this time.  What the President said — his stance — as of today, I
don’t have anything more.  It’s under consideration.  I just don’t have
more to share on that.

Q    And on guns, Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    On Saturday, gun control advocates are marching in D.C., in cities
around the country.  Will the President take part in these gun control
events in any way?  Will —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait, can you say that again?  I missed the first
part.

Q    March for Our Lives is doing an event —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay. 

Q    — in D.C. and around the country on Saturday.  It will be —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This coming Saturday?

Q    Yes, yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Or it’s Saturday — yes.  Is it Saturday the 11th?  I’m sorry, I
don’t have my dates. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

Q    June 11th.  Doing it on June 11th.  Will the President take part in
this in any way?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to preview for you about his
schedule this — this weekend. 

Okay.

Q    Thanks, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.

3:43 P.M. EDT
