---
date: '2022-05-03'
modified_time: 2022-05-03 17:19:03-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-03 17:18:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/03/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-may-3-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, May 3,\_2022"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Montgomery, Alabama

12:52 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, given I already did an extensive rundown yesterday of
what we will be doing here in Troy, why don’t we just get to your
questions?

Q    So, the President spoke pretty passionately on the tarmac about the
Alito draft being an affront to basic rights.  But he also said he was
not ready to commit to ending the filibuster to codify Roe.  Why?

And is there a disconnect here between the passion and what needs — what
he believes needs to be done?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say the President’s position is that we
need to codify Roe, and that is what he has long called on Congress to
act on.

What is also true is that there has been a vote on the Women’s Health
Protection Act which would do exactly that, and there were not even
enough votes, even if there was no filibuster, to get that done.

So, I would note, in his written statement that we released this morning
— I’m just going to reiterate what he said in this statement.  He said,
“…if the Court does overturn Roe, it will fall on our nation’s elected
officials at all levels of government to protect a woman’s right to
choose” — to do exactly that.  “It will fall on voters to elect
pro-choice officials this November.  At the federal level, we will need
more pro-choice senators and a pro-choice majority in the House to adopt
legislation.”  And that was speaking to exactly where we are with the
votes.

I would note that while we’ve been in the air, Leader Schumer noted that
he had plans to bring this up for a vote. 

Q    Are you surprised that this leaked out?  What do you think about
the leak itself?

MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think this is — because it is unprecedented — or
almost unprecedented, depending on what historian you speak to — there’s
no question that that raises eyebrows for many in the country, including
those of us in the White House. 

But what our focus is on right now, beyond the leak, is — is how we’re
going to protect a woman’s right to make choices about her healthcare
with her doctor — a right that is supported by the vast majority of the
American public.

And some call it a political issue.  It is not.  It is supported by the
majority of the American public.

Q    But when you look at the solutions that you put forward in that
statement or the actions that the White House was considering taking, a
lot of those take time.  So, what is the White House’s message to women
around the country who are waking up today and realizing their daughters
and their — you know, younger women in this country may have less
constitutional rights than they had in their lifetime?

MS. PSAKI:  Let me say first: This law has not changed.  We know that it
was — the Supreme Court has said the draft itself was legitimate, but
they did not say this was the final conclusion.  So, women waking up
today — their daughters still have the same rights they had yesterday. 

But I will note, though, that we have already seen, in a number of
states, actions taken that severely limit women’s fundamental rights
across the country — a right that has been law for 50 years. 

And what we have done already to date is take steps through our Gender
Policy Council to provide and expand access wherever we can with our
capacity. 

So, for example, we created the Dire Need Grant awards, which provide
funding to expand access to emergency contraception and family planning
services, and recently announced $6.6 million in awards made to aid
grantees around the country. 

In addition to immediate legal action by the Department of Justice
against Texas, the Attorney General released a statement in response to
SB 8 that reaffirmed the Department of Justice’s commitment to using
existing federal law to protect the safety of patients seeking access to
reproductive health services, including abortion, pursuant to their
criminal and civil enforcement of the FACE Act. 

That’s important for anybody waking up today and confused about what
their rights are.  They have rights.  This has not changed. 

Finally, the Department of Health and Human Services has announced a
three-pronged, department-wide response to protect patients and
providers in response to the Texas law SB 8.

What I would note and the President also said in his statement this
morning is that he’s directed his Gender Policy Council and the White
House Counsel’s Office to prepare options for an administration response
to the continued and obviously more expansive attack on abortion and
reproductive rights. 

Q    So, since then — since the Texas law banned most abortions and the
White House said that there was going to be a whole-of-government
response to that — so, mostly, it’s just the things that you just read. 
Are there any other actions that the administration did take?

MS. PSAKI:  Those were some of the steps that have been announced.  But
what I would note is that we will continue — and he direc- — he has
directed the Gender Policy Council and the Counsel’s Office to prepare
and to be prepared to respond.

There are things that we know because states have said them, so I would
note that if Roe fails, abortion would probably be illegal in about half
the states.  Up to 26 states — particularly in the South, Midwest, and
West — are poised to further restrict or ban access depending on the
Court’s decision.  And that’s beca- — and partly because 13 states have
trigger laws, which means that they would immediately trigger banning
abortion.

As a result of that, tens of millions of women may lack access to
reproductive healthcare services.  Abortion bans and restrictions will
also dramatically reduce access to reproductive care, particularly for
women with low income, women of color, and women in rural communities.

We know through the data that we’ve already looked at that 75 percent of
those seeking abortion are living at or below 200 percent of the federal
poverty level.  And the majority of patients seeking abortions identify
as Black, Hispanic, and AAPI.

So, it’s important for everybody to understand that the people who would
be impacted the most are lower income, are people who would have to take
off work, are people who would have to find a way to travel, people who
would have to find a way to get childcare.

I would also note that 60 percent of people who seek an abortion are
moms already.

Q    So, is the White House starting to put together a plan just in case
the Supreme Court does overturn Roe —

MS. PSAKI:  That is exactly what the President said in his statement.

Q    To follow up on Jen —

Q    Can you speak to a timeline of the —

Q    Can I follow up on what Jen said, though?

Q    Oh, okay.

Q    To follow up on what Jen was saying, though — that back in
December, you had said in a statement — we’ve heard the President say
this — about the work he would be doing to work with lawmakers on
codifying Roe. 

Can you give us examples, now that we are in early May, from that time
in December of where this has been on his priority list?  How has he
engaged with lawmakers on this?  Anything specific of what he has done
beyond the Gender Policy Council.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s important to note that there has been a
vote on this; it failed.  It did not have even 50 votes, which means
even if the filibuster were overturned, there would have not had been
enough votes to get this passed.  He has stated this many times
publicly.  This is his known position. This is many of — one of many
topics he discusses with lawmakers.

I would note again that Leader Schumer indicated he plans to bring it up
again.  But in the President’s statement, just to reiterate, what he
pointed to is the fact that there needs to be a more — more pro-choice
officials after the elections in November.

Q    Jen, the — if all the polling is correct and abortion rights folks
have public sentiment on their side, why have people continued to vote
for a party that wants to do away with abortion rights?

MS. PSAKI:  That sounds like a question for those people who vote that
way.

Q    May I circle back to Steve’s question on the leak itself?  Does the
President agree with Justice Roberts that this was an egregious act? 
And does he believe that it should be criminally prosecuted?

MS. PSAKI:  This would be a decision made by the Department of Justice,
and we would refer to them.

Q    So, is this a live issue for you to push on the campaign trail this
year, to try to help elect more pro-choice people?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not — I can’t and I’m not going to speak to politics
from this gaggle.  But I would again point you to the President’s
statement, where he very clearly refere- — addressed exactly that
question.

Q    On court packing: Has this raised any more discussions within the
White House about the Supreme Court?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, you know, the President — there’s
a commission that was put together.  The commission put together a
report not on recommendations, but to look at the big legal questions
that have been out there for some time. 

The 30-member commission — member commission, with a diversity of views,
put together a report that the President has been reviewing, so we have
no update on his position on expansion of the Court.

Q    Hey, Jen, I wonder what this says about the state of our democracy
that, you know, abortion is an issue that a large number, a large swath
of Americans agree with, yet we continue to see these consistent
attacks, you know, by a party that represents a minority of Americans. 
Does this say something about the state of our democracy?

MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think the reason that I felt and the President felt
it was important for me to reiterate who this impacts is because, right
now, this is a moment to educate the public on what the impact would
be.  Right?  It is often shorthanded — not by any of us but in public
discourse — as a political issue, as a wedge issue.  It is not a wedge
issue.  The majority of the public supports women’s fundamental
rights.  And the people who would be impacted overwhelmingly are
lower-income and are people of color.  And we need to be clear about
that in how we communicate about it so everybody understands as we — as
this battle begins.

Q    We heard the President talk about other rights.  He talked about
birth control.  He brough up same-sex marriage.  Can you expand on that,
of just the concern at the White House about knowing this is a draft
opinion, not finalized —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — of what this means for other things and the precedent it could
set?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I think what you heard the President say to all
of you under the wing reflects what has been front and center on his
mind. 

Obviously, there’s a lot to say about this leaked report.  And when he
was — last night, his Chief of Staff called him to alert him of the news
and the report, we made the decision to take some time to do a thorough
and thoughtful written statement this morning. 

And obviously, he made the decision to speak to all of you under the
wing.  And what you heard him talk about is a reflection of his time as
Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, as somebody who has read, reviewed,
looked at many Supreme Court decisions, and the fa- — and his concern —
his personal concern, his concern as President of the United States
about the precedent of this or what other fundamental rights, as you
heard him say, could be at risk.

Q    Who told him that the draft was legitimate?  Was it — like, did the
Chief Justice call him, or who informed the President? 

MS. PSAKI:  There were reports about it, and so we let him know that
there had been reports right before he arrived.

Q    So it was a White House staffer —

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    — who telephoned him in the car?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes. 

Q    Okay.  Okay.

Q    You mentioned that the President would, after the midterms, that he
wanted to see more pro-life lawmakers in office.  But will he be —

MS. PSAKI:  Pro-choice.

Q    Oh, pro-choice.  Excuse me.  Would there be — is he making any
effort prior to the midterms to connect with lawmakers to try and
increase the number of votes that could vote for the legislation that
Senator Schumer wants to bring forward?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, you know, this is his publicly stated view, something
that he has made clear privately on many occasions as well.  But I think
it’s also important to note, again, that we did not have the 50 votes.

If there — if there was a bill sent to his desk to codify Roe, he’d be
happy to sign it.  We did not have even 50 votes, even if the filibuster
were overturned.

Q    But does he want to spend some time to try and increase that number
— work with lawmakers; make personal pleas; you know, talk to them about
this?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  And I think you should talk to the lawmakers about
whether their minds are changeable.  I think you saw what the President
said in his statement about what we all have a responsibility to focus
on in the coming months.

Q    Is there anything that the White House thinks that there is enough
votes for before the midterms? 

MS. PSAKI:  Like what?

Q    On anything related to abortion.  And —

MS. PSAKI:  I can’t, in this moment, make an assessment of that. 
Obviously, codifying Roe is something the President would strongly
support and would be happy to sign into law.

Q    Jen, on this visit today to Alabama, is there any concern that
going and visiting the factory that is being used to make the munitions
that are destroying the tanks in Russia right — or not in Russia, but in
Ukraine — Russian army tanks — that it’s kind of bragging about what
we’re doing and it will only escalate? 

MS. PSAKI:  The President is visiting this factory today to showcase
American manufacturing, American ingenuity, and the power of the
American military and capacity to support the Ukrainians as they’re
fighting a war against Russian aggression.

And so, no, he does not have that fear.  In fact, he feels this is an
opportunity to thank the American people for their support in our effort
to support the Ukrainians.

Q    On Brittney Griner — can I ask you on that? 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Now that the U.S. government considers her to be wrongfully
detained by the Russian government, in practical terms, what does that
new distinction mean in terms of what the administration will be doing
to try and secure her release?  Will the White House talk about her case
more now that it has shifted to this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, that is a determination we’d make in coordination with
the hostage negotiator and the — and the State Department.  So,
<s>Richard</s> \[Roger\] Car- — <s>Richard</s> \[Roger\]? — yes —
Carstens would now be engaged in this.  So this was a determination made
by the State Department and — and released, obviously, last night.  
  
But typically — and I don’t believe this will change — in order to — to
leave the space to have an outcome we all want and desire — which is to
bring her and any American detained or unjustifiably detained home — we
typically don’t talk about it extensively.  
  
Q    Are you expecting Ru- — look, just one — one more Ukraine thing. 
Are you expecting Russia to try to annex areas of eastern Ukraine on —
by May 9th or on May 9th?  
  
Q    And officially declare war by May 9th?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any predictions of exactly what President Putin
or the Russian military will do by May 9th.  But I think you saw a State
— the State Department go out yesterday and make clear that we did
assess that one of the considerations — and — and we have a valid reason
to believe this, that would be straight out of Russia’s playbook — would
be for them to organize sham referrals — referenda in Crimea, in
Luhansk, in Donetsk, and in other places to try to del- — delegitimize
democratically elected leaders and impose fake people’s councils
essentially made up of the Kremlin’s puppets and proxies.  
  
We’ve seen them do this before.  And so, what they went out yesterday to
— to announce was based on our assessment — a highly credible
assessment.  But in terms of the timeline, I don’t have any update on
that for you.  
  
Q    On — sorry about that.  On Javelins, you made the point yesterday
they’ve been very effective, but there’s been quite a substantial
drawdown — both of the Javelins and the Stingers, which has also been
effective.  Are we now at a point where the Javelin and the Stinger is
going to be put on a pause in what can be shipped to Ukrainians until
both Lockheed and Raytheon can backfill the orders on these?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say, first, the biggest challenge we have is the
funding — right? — because we have a limited amount of drawdown funding
left, as you know, which is why the President is also going to talk
about the urgency of getting the supplemental package through.  We have
about $250 million left, as you know. 

But we — our Defense Department assesses, of course, ensuring that we
have the capacity and the ability to not only deliver what we promised
but also to — to backfill our needs, which is part of what we’ve
requested in the — in the funding moving forward.  
  
Q    On the threats from Russia about nuclear weapons or the loose talk
about nuclear weapons, what kind of diplomatic efforts the do the — do
we, the United States, have right now to talk them off of that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, we find their rhetoric to be completely
unconstructive and inconsistent with what many Russian officials have
said many times in the past, which is that there is no winning a nuclear
war.  So, we have not made any changes in our assessment right now of —
our

substantive assessment of what is happening on the ground.

But, again, we continued to encourage them to and call on them to reduce
the rhetoric, given we all know that a nuclear war cannot be won.

Q On student debt, what does the administration think are adequate
income caps for any of the student forgiveness programs?

MS. PSAKI: Well, the President talked, back on the campaign, about
taking steps or looking at steps to help people making less than
$125,000 a year, so that is the frame through which he’s considering —
making considerations at this point.

And it’s Roger Carstens. Sorry, I butchered his name, and I didn’t mean
to. He does very important work for the government.  Remarkable work. 
Maybe some of the most important work.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, everyone.  
  

1:08 P.M. EDT
