---
date: '2022-05-05'
modified_time: 2022-05-06 00:29:45-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-05 00:04:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/05/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-may-5-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, May\_5,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

5:16 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Hi, everyone.  It’s been a bit of an exciting day
around here.   
  
So, before I get to the briefing, I just want to start by — I’m going to
cry.  Okay, whew.  I want to talk about my friend Karine.   
  
You’ve got to come up here.  (Ms. Jean-Pierre goes up to the podium.)  
  
So, I just want to take the opportunity to celebrate and congratulate my
friend, my colleague, my partner in truth, Karine Jean-Pierre, the next
White House Press Secretary.  
  
Now, many people in this room have known her for some time, but for
anyone who does not know her, I want to provide a little bit of a primer
for you, so settle in.   
  
First, as you all know, she will be the first Black woman, the first out
LGBTQ+ person to serve in this role, which is amazing, because
representation matters.  And she is going to — she will give a voice to
so many, and allow — and show so many what is truly possible when you
work hard and dream big, and that matters.  And we should not — we
should celebrate that.   
  
But I also want to make clear what all of her qualifications are, what a
remarkable person is.  She got her start in New York City politics.  She
comes to this job with decades of experience, even though she looks very
young.  We’re both in our 20s.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  That’s right.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Having served in communications and political roles on many
campaigns, in the Obama-Biden administration, and for both of former —
Obam- — President Obama’s campaigns.    
  
She’s a longtime advisor to President Biden and Dr. Biden — they are
partners — having served in senior roles for him and for both of them
back to when he was Vice President.   
  
And she’s worked for a number of advocacy organizations, fighting for
issues and justice for so many Americans.  
  
And I just want to say: I will have a lot to say about how grateful I am
for being — for the trust the President and the First Lady and the whole
team have given me and entrusted me in the last 15 months, but this day
is about Karine.  And we’re — I want to celebrate her.

And on a personal note: I want to say that one of the first
conversations we had when we both found out we were —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Yes.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  — getting these jobs was about how we wanted to build a
drama-free — on your best days — place, workplace where everybody worked
hard; where we, on our best days, we’re rebuilding trust with the
public.  And I am just so grateful to have had Karine by my side for
this over the last 15 months, and I just can’t wait to see her shine at
the podium.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, Jen.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, congratulations.  And I can’t wait to see you bring your
own style and brilliance to this job.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  Love you, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Love you.    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I promised not to cry again.  So that’s it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Doing a lot of crying for all of us.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We already cried.  We already cried.    
  
Okay, with that note, this is going to feel like an abrupt turn but I’m
going to give you an update on a Russian oligarch’s yacht that was
seized that you may have seen.  (Laughter.)  It’s not meant to be funny,
but I did want to note and make sure everybody saw it.  
  
Today, the Department of Justice announced that the Fijian law
enforcement executed a seizure warrant freezing the motor yacht Amadea,
a 348-foot luxury vessel owned by sanctioned Russian oligarch Suleiman
Kerimov.  The yacht is worth approximately $300 million or more.  
  
This was done with support and assistance from the FBI, and Fiji acted
at the request of the Department of Justice following issance \[sic\] —
issuance of a seizure warrant from the U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia.  Fijian authorities executed the request,
obtaining a domestic seizure warrant from a Fijian court.  
  
As you know, the President has made clear we will go after Russian
oligarchs and their ill-gotten gains using every authority we have to
hold them accountable.   
  
Oh, and here is the yacht.  Look at that.  (Photo shown on television
screen.)  I wanted to really go out with a bang so we got a yacht, just
to make the point about oligarchs.    
  
Also just wanted to note: As you know, the President nominated Steve
Dettelbach to lead ATF to end our nation’s fight against gun crime just
a few weeks ago.  And just today, he was endorsed by a group of over 140
former high-ranking federal prosecutors and DOJ officials, including
more than 30 Republican appointees, two former AGs, and six former
Deputy Attorney Generals.  
  
Last note for you: As you know, the President is going to be traveling
to Cincinnati tomorrow where he’ll meet with manufacturing leaders, see
new additive manufacturing technologies at work, and discuss his plan to
make more in America by passing the Bipartisan Innovation Act.   
  
Since he took office, we’ve created 473,000 new manufacturing jobs,
which is more manufacturing jobs on average per month than any other
President in the last half a century.  And we’re building on that
progress through the Infrastructure Law, of course.  And with the
Bipartisan Innovation Act, we can help lower prices by strengthening our
supply chains and domestic manufacturing.  
  
With that, I promised we will not make it a marathon today.  I know it’s
5:20.  So, why don’t you kick it off, and we’ll get around to as many
people as possible.  
  
Q    Excellent.  Congratulations to both of you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.  
  
Q    First, will the President and/or White House officials participate
in any way in the May 14th abortion day of protests?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any schedule, plans to preview for you at this
point in time.  We are certainly aware of the protests, but our focus
right now is on overseeing and running a policy process to do everything
we can to protect a woman’s right to make choices about her own
healthcare.  
  
Q    And secondly, Senator Minority Leader McConnell today, again, made
clear that he wants to see a clean Ukraine bill.  Considering that, what
other options is this White House looking at to secure money for
therapeutics, other COVID-related needs, as it seems that Congress is
unlikely to prove any more money soon?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, as we look at recent data — and we’ve seen, obviously,
the growth of some subvariants, BA.4 and BA.5 — what it makes clear is
that we are in dire need of being able to plan ahead and take steps to
ensure that we are able to be ahead of the rest of the world in ordering
the supply we need, especially if there are better vaccines, if there
are better boosters, et cetera.  
  
So, we’re going to continue to advocate, continue to sound the alarm on
what the impact will be if we don’t get funding.   
  
In terms of the exact vehicle, which I think is kind of what you’re
asking, I don’t have any update on that for you.  We are continuing to
have conversations with Congress.   
  
Obviously, the President sends up both together because he feels it’s
essential.  If we don’t get this funding, we will have fewer vaccines,
treatments, and tests.  We’ll watch others around the world have the
best lifesaving tools.  Americans will literally die.  Businesses will
be hurt.    
  
There is not a plan B here.  We need Congress to pass this funding so we
have this funding to continue to prepare and continue to fight the
pandemic.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    First of all, congratulations to both of you.  And this is not your
last one, though, right?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No.  Don’t worry.  I’m still here through next week.  
  
Q    Got it.  There have been concerns and there’s stepped-up monitoring
among law enforcement across the country for potential violence around
this draft majority opinion and the ultimate decision by the Supreme
Court.  The justices have had to see their security stepped up in the
last few days.  
  
Just curious what the President would make of that, if he’s aware that
that’s had to happen; what the message might be to those who are upset
by this and are contemplating the unthinkable.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say the President — for all those
women, men, others who feel outraged, who feel scared, who feel
concerned — he hears them, he shares that concern and that horror of
what he saw in that draft opinion.  It’s not a final opinion.  What it
has prompted is a redoubled effort across the administration and with
Congress to take every step we can to protect women’s healthcare.  
  
What he — his message directly would be to anybody out there who is
feeling that frustration, is participating in peaceful protest, is:
Ensure it’s peaceful; have your voice heard peacefully.  We should not
be resorting to violence in any way, shape, or form.  That’s certainly
what he would be conveying.  
  
Q    And the other day, you hinted there might be plans for the U.S. to
join Ukraine or other European allies in some kind of May 9th
commemoration as Russia holds its holiday.  Any update on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update.  I will note that what I — what our
plans are that are in the works: We are working to finalize a G7 call
that will likely happen in the coming days.   
  
What our effort and our focus is on is continuing to emphasize unity but
also lift up the unit- — that unity as we look and face Russian
aggression.   
  
But in terms of what we will do to mark Monday, I don’t have anything to
preview for you at this moment.  We’ll have more as we — time
proceeds.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, and congratulations.  In the Senate, they are moving
forward with plans to vote on a bill that would codify the principles of
Roe v. Wade.

Right now, that bill seems doomed to fail.  But there are these two
Republicans who do support legislation that would guarantee a woman’s
right to an abortion — Senator Murkowski and Collins — but they oppose
the current bill because they feel it’s too expansive and too broad. 
So, would the President like to see legislation that is perhaps more
narrowly focused, just on guaranteeing the right to an abortion,
codifying Roe v. Wade, if it was able to get more Republicans on
board?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  The President, as you stated and I’ve stated a number
of times, absolutely supports and would love to sign a bill into law
codifying Roe.  What he said in his statement the other day, as you
know, is that there will be a need — and his sense is there will be a
need for additional members who would support that in the Senate in
order for that to happen.  
  
We are in a range of discussions with leadership in Congress, with a
range of members in Congress about the path forward and what’s possible,
but I just don’t have the details of what that might look like, and so I
can’t speak to it at this point in time.   
  
Q    But might he encourage Democrats to take a more targeted
approach?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any details to preview at this point in time. 
We’re having a range of conversations.  
  
Q    And you have said, you know, that the administration is
considering, of course, additional options and steps that you may be
able to take to support women’s reproductive rights.  I know — you know,
you haven’t wanted to get into the details of what those options may be,
but are you confident that there are additional executive actions that
you can take, options that can have an impact, that can withstand legal
scrutiny?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, yes.  I mean, I would point to the fact that after
Texas and S.B. 8 passed, we did take steps.  And we did take steps to
secure funding, to secure grants.  Obviously, the Department of Justice
made clear — in response to Texas S.B. 8, they reaffirmed the Department
of Justice’s commitment to using existing federal law.  We also created
a grants program, and the Department of Health and Human Services
announced a three-pronged department-wide response.  
  
I think what’s important to remember here, in part, is who will be
impacted across the country.  And we are mindful of that as we are
planning and thinking about what our policy options are.  
  
We know that 75 percent of people who are having abortions or pursuing
an abortion are under 200 percent of the poverty level.  We know that
the majority are — are women of color.  And we know that there are 13
states that have trigger laws and a total of 26 states, including those
13, that have indicated plans to put in place more restrictive abortion,
more — restrict abortion more.  
  
And so this is not — there are states who’ve also affirmed that they
would — they would take steps to protect.  
  
So, we are mindful of all of this, what the impact could be, if this
draft opinion or a version of this draft opinion becomes the final.  And
we are thinking about that — the Gender Policy Council, the Department
of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, and all of us
working with — with Congress as well to see what actions we can take.  
  
Obviously, codifying Roe is a way to protect.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  President Biden just met with organizers — labor
organizers from Amazon and Starbucks and others.  Could you just talk a
little bit about what — what was discussed, and if he offered any
specific commitments to, perhaps, support the Amazon labor union or the
— you know, the different unionization drives that are underway?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has long been a supporter of the rights
of workers to organize, the rights of work- — of collective bargaining. 
And he dropped by this meeting to simply offer his support for those
efforts.  But he is not engaging — we don’t engage or get directly
involved in individual labor disputes, obviously, but he certainly
supports the rights of workers and we’ve seen that take place across the
country in a range of cases.  
  
Q    So should this then be viewed as his support only for the labor
movement and not necessarily for Amazon?  Or is that — I mean, that has
to be a part of it, right?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We don’t take — we don’t weigh in on individual labor
disputes.  Those are up to the workers and the organizers.   
  
But throughout his career, for decades, he’s always been a supporter of
organized labor, of the rights of workers to seek collective
bargaining.  And certainly we’re seeing that across the country.  
  
Q    And one quick question on the Senate Judiciary earlier today
passing a bill from Senators Klobuchar and Grassley that, essentially,
exposes OPEC to lawsuits for colluding to raise prices of crude oil. 
Given, sort of, the inflationary environment that we’re in, and, you
know, how big a concern inflation is for this administration, does the
White House support that piece of legislation?  Is the President, you
know, looking at it?  If you can talk about that.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  It’s called “NOPEC,” which is creative, even if you
don’t like what the outcome is of the legislation, I will say.  
  
The President has been clear that strong competition policy is essential
to ensuring fair markets and lower prices, as is evidenced by the
actions we have taken, like the President’s executive order to support
the promotion of competition and innovation by firms large and small.  
  
I don’t have an official position on this legislation right now, but we
do believe that this potential — the potential implications and
unintended consequences of this legislation require further study and
deliberation, particularly during this dynamic moment in the global
energy markets brought about by President Putin’s invasion of Ukraine. 
So, we’re taking a look at it and certainly have some concerns about
what the potential implications could be.  
  
Q    Are those concerns perhaps tied to this idea that analysts are, you
know, talking about, which is, you know, if you actually go after OPEC
in that way, they could either potentially refuse supplies to the U.S.
or maybe flood the oil market?  I mean, is that what the concern is
broadly?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Without detailing it further, obviously our objective is
ensuring the supply in the oil markets meets the demands.  OPEC has a
role to play there.  We’ve obviously been working with them and have had
a great deal of engagement with them even prior to President Putin’s
invasion of Ukraine.  And that is what our overarching objective is.  So
we’re taking a look at what the implications and impact would be.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    One area that’s come into focus in the abortion debate is the use
of medication abortions.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.   
  
Q    The FDA relaxed some of the federal regulations tied to that,
allowing them to be sent by mail.  But does the White House feel like
they have other viable options to possibly expand the access to these
abortion pills?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We are looking at a broad range of options.  As we detailed
earlier this week when this leaked document came out, I would expect we
wouldn’t have more to preview before there’s a final opinion issued.   
  
Q    And U.S. intelligence assessments have shown that North Korea may
be ready to conduct underground nuclear tests within the coming months. 
Are there concerns from the White House about that, and also
specifically related to the President’s travel, given that he will be in
the region later this month?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say we certainly always assess security, as we
do with any of the President’s travel.  But that has not been a concern
as it relates to his travel coming up in just a few weeks.   
  
There’s no question that North Korea is going to be on the agenda when
he visits South Korea and Japan.  I can give you a little bit more of
the pre- — I know that some asked this yesterday, so I got a little bit
more on the trip.  So let me venture to do that as well.    
  
While he’s there in South Korea and Japan, the President will hold
bilateral meetings with his counterparts: newly elected President of the
Republic of Korea and Prime Minister Kishida of Japan.  The leaders will
discuss opportunities to deepen our nat- — our vital security
relationships and enhance economic ties.  They’ll also discuss climate
change, COVID-19, and other shared challenges.   
  
In light of North Korea’s destabilize — continued destabilizing actions
in the region, including the test launch of multiple intercontinental
ballistic missiles, President Biden will make clear that our commitment
to security of the Republic of Korea and Japanese allies make —
reiterate our commitment, I should say, including our extended
deterrence commitments, is ironclad.  
  
So that will certainly be a part of the discussion.  Naturally, they
will also be talking about joint efforts to support the people of
Ukraine, hold Russia accountable.  And you’ve seen South Korea and Japan
join us in the unprecedented sanctions and export controls we’ve imposed
so far.  
  
While in Tokyo, the President will also meet with the leaders of the
Quad — grouping of Australia, Japan, India, and the United States.  The
administration has made history already by establishing, for the first
time, the Quad meeting at the leader level.  So this will be a
continuation of that.   
  
So North Korea will certainly be discussed, of course, given the — the
importance role that South Korea and Japan both play in security in the
region.   
  
Go ahead.    
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Sorry to see you go.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Are you?  (Laughter.)   
  
Q    Yes.  And you’ve always been a good sport.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.  As have you.  
  
Q    So on behalf of everybody, thank you for everything.     
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.  Thank you, Peter.   
  
Q    And I can’t wait to see you up there, Karine.  (Laughter.)  
  
So, you guys had some time yesterday talking about what you think are
the extreme wings of the Republican Party.  Do you think the progressive
activists that are now planning protests outside some of the justices’
houses are extreme?    
  
MS. PSAKI:  Peaceful protest?  No.  Peaceful protest is not extreme.   
  
Q    But some of these justices have young kids.  Their neighbors are
not all public figures.  So would the President think about waving off
activists that want to go into residential neighborhoods in Virginia and
Maryland?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Peter, look, I think our view here is that peaceful protest
— there’s a long history in the United States and the country of that. 
And we certainly encourage people to keep it peaceful and not resort to
any level of violence.    
  
Let me tell you what I was referring to and what the President was
referring to yesterday.  
  
Q    Not about yesterday, though — just about moving forward.  These
activists posted a map with the home addresses of the Supreme Court
justices.  Is that the kind of thing this President wants to help your
side make their point?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think the President’s view is that there’s a lot of
passion, a lot of fear, a lot of sadness from many, many people across
this country about what they saw in that leaked document.  We obviously
want people’s privacy to be respected.  We want people to protest
peacefully if they want to — to protest.  That is certainly what the
President’s view would be. 

Q    So he doesn’t care if they’re protesting outside the Supreme Court
or outside someone’s private residence?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have an official U.S. government position on where
people protest.  I want it — we want it, of course, to be peaceful.  And
certainly, the President would want people’s privacy to be respected.  

But I think we shouldn’t lose the point here: The reason people are
protesting is because women across the country are worried about their
fundamental rights that have been law for 50 years.  Their rights to
make choices about their own bodies and their own healthcare are at
risk.  That’s why people are protesting.  They’re unhappy.  They’re
scared.  
  
Q    The President’s position on choice has evolved over time, so just
checking for his official position.  Does he support any limits on
abortion right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Peter, the President has spoken — has talked about his
position many times.  He supports the right of a woman to make choices
about her own body with her doctor.  
  
Q    But I know that one of the Democrats that he endorsed and — who won
their primary this week, Tim Ryan, said yesterday that he does not
support any limits on abortion.  Is that where the President’s thinking
is now?

MS. PSAKI:  The President has stated his view many times.

Q    So does the President support abortion up until the moment of
birth?

MS. PSAKI:  The President has spoken about this many times, Peter.  And
I would refer you to his own comments about abortion and a woman’s right
to choose and make decisions about her body with her doctor, which is
what any of those women would do.  

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, does President Biden support Leader Schumer’s strategy to hold
a vote next week on abortion rights, even though the votes are not
there, that it’s doomed to fail?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We certainly are working in lockstep and closely with Leader
Schumer.  Obviously, we have stated, and the President’s statement the
other day made clear, that he did not feel we had the votes at this
point in time.  But certainly, providing a moment for people to voice
their view and voice their strong opposition to overturning Roe v. Wade
is something we support Leader Schumer doing.

Q    I guess the fact that there are only so many moments, obviously,
that exist right now and only so much political capital in this moment —
so, I mean, doesn’t it highlight divisions within the party?  A not too
dissimilar vote back in February had only 46 votes.  Are there any
concerns about that?  

Is this the best use of time for this administration, given all the
urgent needs on COVID funding, the Ukraine funding that you’re looking
for, and beyond?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly, we think that Congress should act fo- —
move forward on all of those objectives.  But having a vote and allowing
people to voice their view and voice their support for the protection of
a woman’s fundamental rights is something we also support.  

Q    Let me ask you: Yesterday, you were asked — I know that you guys
have been heav- — that the White House has been heavily focused on the
substance, obviously, as it relates and has the biggest impact on
Americans broadly. 

But you were asked about the leak itself.  And given the historic nature
of the leak, which was so unprecedented, as you acknowledged, you said:
“I don’t think we have a particular view on that other than to say that
we certainly note the” historic — or “unprecedented” — excuse me —
“nature of it.”  

Why wouldn’t the White House condemn this leak?  Are there any concerns
— do you have concerns about the, sort of, further politicization of one
of the branches of government?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Have you ever reported anything that’s been leaked to you?  
  
Q    I am — and you guys have criticized leaks before as it’s been
provided.  So, I’m ask- — you’ve criticized in the past.  Why not
criticize this leak?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, because I think what is happening here, and what we
think is happening here, is there’s an effort to distract from what the
actual issue here —

Q    Can’t both — can’t both be true, though?

MS. PSAKI:  — which is the fundamental rights — I don’t think they’re at
the same level.

Q    Fair enough.

MS. PSAKI:  We don’t think they’re at the same level.

Q    So they’re not at the same level, but would you agree that it’s
still worthy of condemnation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, I think there has been a call for an
investigation by leaders of the Supreme Court.  Decisions on that and
how it will be pursued will be made by the Department of Justice and
others.  And that’s certainly their space and right to — to make that
decision in government.  That’s how government is set up.  

But at the same time, what we’ve also seen, Peter, is many Republicans,
who are trying to overturn a woman’s fundamental rights, try to make
this about the leak.  This is not about the leak.  This is about women’s
healthcare and women having access to healthcare and making choices with
their doctors.    
  
Q    Understood.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  And we are not — we are working not — to not allow that to
be the distraction.  
  
Q    Understood.  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.  

Go ahead.

Q    Is the President planning on meeting with abortion providers or
activists at all next week?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything about his schedule quite yet to
preview.  Obviously, we are deeply engaged with a range of healthcare
officials and experts from the government — both from the Department of
Health and Human Services, from our DPC team here — and we will continue
to maintain that engagement.  
  
Q    But, I mean, you’ve said a few times that this is obviously a
priority for the President.  Just any — a sense of what he is doing
specifically on this issue, you know, would be good for us to know, just
given how much of a priority you’ve said this is for him.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s important for everybody to know —
including the American people, of course — that the President, of
course, oversees the whole of the government.  He has launched a
whole-of-government effort to look at options and pursue options from
every department — whether it’s the Department of Justice and what they
do, the Counsel’s Office, the Department of Health and Human Services,
the Domestic Policy Council — to take — put together a range of steps we
can take to protect women’s fundamental rights.  And that is what his
focus is on in reviewing those and considering those.  And obviously,
he’s spoken to this over the last several days multiple times, and I
think he will continue to.

Go ahead.

Q    The Prime Minister of Italy is coming to Washington on Tuesday. 
Italy, like Germany, has done a U-turn on its Russia policy.  How much
has the U.S. taken note of this?  And does it elevate Italy in the eyes
of the U.S. in terms of being a key interlocutor in Europe?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s really important to note in that there
were a number of countries, some you noted, where the world, and
journalists who have covered this closely, were skeptical that they
would remain as unified and take steps as aggressive as they have to
stand up against Russian aggression.  This is an example of that.  

Certainly, there’s a lot we work with Italy on and we’ll continue to,
and the meeting will have a range of topics discussed.  But of course,
we’ve taken note of the efforts they have — and their leadership in
standing up against President Putin and Russian aggression.  

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Congrats to you.  And thanks for your words.  

I wanted to ask Karine, though, if she could share some words about what
this means to her — what this means to you, Karine.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    And — and if you could talk a little bit about the historic nature
of what you’re about to —

MS. PSAKI:  Come on up.

The good news is the podium height is the same because we’re both very
short.  (Laughter.)  So, go — go ahead.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wow.  Thanks for your question.  I first want to —
want to take this opportunity, while I have it, to thank Jen.  She has
been just a wonderful colleague, a friend, a mentor during this past
year and a half.  And I don’t think I would be here without so many
people, but including her.  

And she is just — just a true, solid, amazing person.  And so, we were
very lucky to have her here this past year and a half.  So, I wanted to
make sure I had the opport- — since I have the opportunity —

MS. PSAKI:  I’m going to give you another hug.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to say that.  We were doing a lot of crying —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — so I’m trying not to do it now.

Wow.  I am still processing it because, as Jen said at the top, this is
a historic moment, and it’s not lost on me.  I understand how important
it is for so many people out there, so many different communities that I
stand on their shoulders and I have been throughout my career.  

And so, it is an honor and a privilege to be behind this podium in about
a week or so, when Jen is ready.  And that — that is something that I
will honor and do my best to represent this President and this First
Lady the best that I can, but also the American people.  

And so, it is — you know, it’s a very emotional day.  That’s probably
the best way that I can explain it: a very emotional day.  And I just
appreciate this time and this moment.  And I hope that I make people
proud.  
  
Q    And, Karine, I mean, there’s a lot of folks who questioned when
this day would happen.  I mean, what is your message to those?  And,
like, what — what is the message to — to young girls, to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And young boys, too.

Q    — minority communities.  Young boys, too.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Yeah, young girls and young boys.  Let’s not — you
know, I think this is important for them to see this as well.  

You know, I used to — I used to teach college students.  I had the
pleasure of doing that for about six, seven years.  And they would ask
me, you know, this — a similar question, like, “How did you get to where
you got to?”  And I would say to them — and it took me a little bit of
time to figure this part out that I’m about to share with you, which is:
Follow your passion.  Follow what you believe in.  And — and just, you
know, keep that — keep that focus, because that matters.  

I think if you are passionate about what you want to be or where you
want to go and you work very hard to that goal, it will happen.  And,
yes, you’ll be knocked down and you’ll have some tough times.  And it
won’t be easy all the time, but the rewards are pretty amazing,
especially if you stay true to yourself.  

And so that’s what I would tell them.  And I see them from time to time,
and they always mention those words that I just shared with all of you. 
And so that’s what I would say.

And, you know, there are people who support them, people who will lift
them up when they’re down.  And so, I think that’s really important to
know.  And, you know, I think so many of them as well — they are
standing on shoulders, on folks who came before them, and are creating
these opportunities that I currently have and will, you know, take that
on the best as I can.

Q    Congratulations.

Q    Karine, have you ever doubt — being a woman of color, have you ever
doubt be in this position one day?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, not at all.  I just worked hard towards it.  But I
understand how hard it is.  I do.  We all do.  But just keep working
hard towards it.  

I’m going to give it back to Jen.  Thanks, everybody.  
  
Q    Jen, can I ask a question?  A Catholic church was just vandalized
with pro-abortion slogans in Colorado.  It just happened recently.  Is
the White House aware of that, first of all?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ve not seen that report.  Obviously, we don’t condone
vandalism.  We condone peaceful protest, and that’s something certainly
we’re encouraging with everybody who feels passionate —  
  
Q    What would you say to those vandals going after — targeting
Catholic churches, especially when it involves Roe?  That’s what they’re
basically focusing on.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, we don’t condone vandalism.  We condone peaceful
protest.  
  
I think it’s important to note that 60 percent or 70 percent, depending
on the poll you look at, of the American people do not want Roe to be
overturned.   
  
I’m going to move on.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Will the President respect the High Court’s final decision on Roe
(inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think we’re moving on.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen —  
  
Q    This is a follow-up question.  That’s all.  Just like everyone else
gets.  
  
Q    A coalition of racial justice advocates sent a letter to the White
House asking Biden to issue an executive order about reparations.  Has
Biden seen the letter?  Has he read the letter?  Is there a response to
the letter?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not aware of the letter.  I’d have to take a look at it.
 And we can see if there’s more of a substantive response to you after
the briefing.  
  
Q    Okay.  And just to follow, on executive actions, is — you know, as
things get, sort of, harder to pass through Congress, is there a sense
of whether or not the White House is looking more at executive actions
as a means of getting things that are not able to get through
Congress?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, you note that there are a range of executive actions
we’re currently looking at.  Right?  We’re looking at one on police
reform.  The President is certainly looking at steps he can take on
student debt.  And there are others we’re looking at as well.   
  
But at the same time, we’re also looking to get the Bipartisan
Innovation Act through.  We’re looking to see what can be done on a
range of issues where we feel there is bipartisan support.  And we’re
continuing to engage closely with Democrats in Congress about a
reconciliation package to lower costs for the — for the American
people.  
  
So, we’re doing both, and we’re pursuing both paths.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the — on the police reform executive order, we reported in
January —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.   
  
Q    — that there was a draft of that executive order that was shared
with stakeholders.  It seemed like it was getting near to being issued;
it’s now May.  Can you just explain what the delay is and what exact
work is being done?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  Sure.  I would say it was some good reporting on your
part.  And it was an early part of the process, and it takes months to
get executive orders through the full legal and policy process.  But it
is still something the President has every intention of doing.  We just
haven’t finalized it yet.  
  
Q    So is — there’s — can you specify what work is still being done on
that executive order?  What needs to happen at this point?  Or is it —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Policy and legal review process.  
  
Q    It doesn’t have anything to do with not wanting to issue it before
the midterms?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No.   
  
Q    And on — you were asked earlier this week — I think it was Monday —
that — on the President’s phone call with  
López Obrador.    
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, yeah.   
  
Q    You were asked about whether or not he asked for an increase in
troops on the Mexican and southern border.  And you said there — there’s
going to be ongoing conversations.  I just wanted to follow up on that:
Did the President ask anyone in the Mexican government or in that
conversation for an increase of troops on the southern border?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No.  
  
Q    He has not?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No.  He did not and did not on that call.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    So, yesterday — going back to executive orders —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — yesterday, the President met with a group of Democratic senators
to discuss immigration.  And Senator Menendez said today that one of the
things they discussed was looking into executive actions that the
President can take to provide relief to some immigrant families.  

I guess, what are those actions?  Can you give us a little bit more
details on, like, what that meeting was like; what actions are there —
you know, is the White House looking into; and, kind of, is there a
timeline for that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a timeline to preview for you.  I would say
that the President met with Senator Menendez and a group of senators,
members of the CHC, yesterday, as a continuing part of his engagement
with different caucus groups from Congress.  And there’s a range of
topics that’s often discussed in these meetings — of course,
immigration, but they discuss a range of issues typically.  And it’s an
opportunity for the President to hear, to listen, to understand what
there is an opportunity to move forward, what there is not an
opportunity to move forward.  
  
And we’ve said before, and he reiterated during this meeting, that we
are certainly open to and looking at what executive actions could be
taken on immigration and on that front, even though, obviously, passing
a law through Congress would ensure that it was permanent.   
  
Q    And going to that, there is a group of bipartisan lawmakers that
met today to discuss immigration reform.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Has the President been in contact with them at all?  Has he
discussed, kind of, you know, what would he like to see in a bipartisan
immigration legislation?  I know he introduced his own, kind of, outline
of what he would like to see in immigration legislation, but has he
talked to any of these senators?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s talked — well, he met with the CHC yesterday, and he
met with the House CHC — House CHC members just a couple — in the last
couple of weeks.  And certainly, he’s discussed with those pivotal
members recently what he would like to see and his interest in moving an
immigration bill forward.  
  
I would say the bill he put forward on his first day in office he very
much thinks could be a bipartisan bill.  It includes smarter security —
something everybody should support.  It includes efforts to fix our
asylum processing system, to protect DACA recipients.  Those are all
steps and components that have had bipartisan support in the past, so he
continues to see that as a model.  
  
Q    But has he reached out to any of — any Republican senators —
Senator Tillis, Senator Cornyn — on this topic?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any individual calls or engagements to read
out.  I would just tell you that the fact that he put forward this bill
his first day in office shows you how important he thinks this issue
is.  And he is open to working with anyone who — who wants to play a
constructive role in fixing the broken immigration system.   
  
Go ahead, Karen.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Our ABC poll with the Washington Post this week found
that in the states where abortion restrictions have been passed in
recent years, only 30 percent of residents in those states were actually
aware of the restrictions.  What role does the White House have in
raising awareness of those specific state restrictions?  And what will
you do about that in the coming months?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know, Karen, I’m not sure that’s the White House role,
right?  We obviously are in this moment now where the world — the
country is tuning into the fact that women’s healthcare and women’s
basic rights — fundamental rights that have been the law for 50 years —
could be at risk.  And that will likely alert many Americans to that as
well as state laws in their own states, because there’s more reporting
and there’s more talking about it.  And, certainly, that’s something we
fit into and we engage with.  But it will also be leaders and elected
officials in these states that will continue to educate their public
about this as well.  
  
Q    And just on a different topic: The country is closing in on a grim
milestone of a million deaths from COVID.  We saw the White House mark
the 500,000 deaths in February.  How will the President mark that
milestone?  Will he, at the White House?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He certainly will.  We look at the CDC as well as Johns
Hopkins data.  I know different media organizations track it
differently, so just so you know how we track it from here.  And once we
hit this milestone, the President will certainly mark this incredibly
somber moment.    
  
This moment will call on all of us to remember the tragedy of this
number and the importance for all of us to act.  That’s what the
President has done: standing up a historic vaccination program,
investing in lifesaving treatments and tools for the American people. 
And Americans have acted too by getting vaccinated and boosted.   
  
But we have more to do.  More — and more — and we can honor — and we can
honor — also honor those who have lost.  
  
I don’t have anything to preview at this point in time, but he certainly
will be marking it here.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you so much.  Sweden has said that they have gotten security
guarantees from the United States in case they decide to apply to join
NATO.  Can you maybe offer a comment and tell us whether those
guarantees would apply to other countries willing to join NATO?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, our militaries have worked together for years, and we
are confident that we could find ways to address any concerns either
country may have, if — about the period of time between a NATO
membership application and the formal accession to the Alliance.  We,
obviously, strongly support NATO’s open-door policy and the right of
each country to decide its own future, foreign policy, and security
arrangements.   
  
And both Sweden and Finland are close and valued defense partners of the
United States.  So we’ve worked with them for years, and we are
confident we’ll be able to work with them to address any concerns either
country may have.  But those are ongoing discussions.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Hi, Jen.  In the wake of the draft Supreme Court decision —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — Texas Governor Abbott indicated that Texas may seek to overturn
the 1982 Supreme Court decision that found that states were required to
offer free public education to all students, including the children of
undocumented immigrants.  Does the White House have any response to
those comments from  
Abbott?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s ultra MAGA right there, as the President talked
about yesterday.  We’re talking about — I think, just to restate that —
denying public education to kids, including immigrants to this country. 
I mean, that is not the main — a mainstream point of view.    
  
What I will tell you is the President has looked at and reviewed — since
you referenced the draft opinion, and he’s talked about this a little
bit, but just to re- — build this out a little bit more for you.  He’s
talked about how it raised the alarms for him how and the draft decision
would endanger other American rights, in addition to the basic right of
every woman to keep her personal healthcare decisions between herself
and her doctor.   
  
Obviously, there are decisions like that out — way out of the mainstream
that Governor Abbott has announced.  But it’s also — if you look at Roe,
Roe is the precedent.  Right?  It’s the precedent for the right to
privacy.  And that — and that has — that decision has been upheld
numerous times since, and everybody doesn’t make the connections between
what Roe has been the basis of.  
  
So let me just spell it out for you, and this is what’s on the mind of
the President: The right to privacy has been the basis for other
landmark decisions that safeguard our basic rights as Americans,
including who we choose to marry, with whom to have romantic
relationships, and whether to use contraception.  

For example: I mentioned Griswold vs. Connecticut yesterday; Eisenstadt
vs. Baird, which ensured that the right to use contraception was
protected; Obergefell vs. Hodges, which protects the right to marry;
Lawrence vs. Texas, which stopped government from preventing sexual
relationships between consenting adults.  
  
This — the basis for the draft decision would cut against decades of
precedent and throw millions of lives into turmoil.  And when he talks
about this — and when he talks about privacy and when he goes back and
talks about the fight against Bork, he’s talking about this as a
precedent for a lot of these decisions that have enormous impacts on
people’s lives.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yesterday, the House Whip, Clyburn, appeared alongside Congressman
Cuellar.  He’s facing a primary challenger who supports abortion rights;
he doesn’t.  Does the President think that Democratic leadership should
be standing behind a member of Congress who is part of the Democratic
Party who opposes abortion rights at this time, especially in Texas,
which has a trigger law?

MS. PSAKI:  I certainly understand your question.  I’m just not going to
get into political — politics or political primaries from here.   
  
Go ahead.    
  
Q    Oh — on —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.  Do you have another question?  Go ahead.   
  
Q    I thought you might say that.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.    
  
Q    On the —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  The Hatch Act —   
  
Q    — the confirmation process —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — it is the law.  It is the rule.  I don’t make the rule.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    There’s been a lot made of what the — Justices Kavanaugh, Gorsuch,
Barrett said during their confirmation hearings about Roe versus what we
assume they would have — where they would have come down in this draft
opinion.   
  
Obviously, the President was the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee for
a long time, and we’ve seen senators on the committee now say that this
is just more evidence that, you know, we’re not — these aren’t
informative or productive process if they’re not willing to answer these
questions.  What does the President make of the — of this kind of debate
happening right now between the utility of the confirmation hearings?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think the President — we have not seen a final
opinion.  And I don’t think the President is going to weigh in on that. 
He may not even weigh in on that afterwards.  But obviously, they will
all be judged by what their comments were.   
  
Now, at the same time, the President — no one is questioning, including
certainly not the President — as you noted, former Chairman of the — of
the Ju- — Senate Judiciary Committee — checks and balances or the
legitimacy of the Court.  We are certainly not from here.  
  
As a former Chair of the Judiciary Committee who has been steeped in
these issues for decades, he disagrees with the reasoning behind this
draft opinion profoundly because it would throw the healthcare for
millions of families into turmoil and would also threaten protections,
as I noted.  And that goes back to the precedent for a number of
important cases that have determined who people have the right to marry,
the privacy over contraception.    
  
Remember, it used to be that you would have to — you wouldn’t have the
privacy of deciding to get contraception with your husband.  Imagine how
crazy that is.  That’s what we’re talking about right now: these type of
rights that the American people have.   
  
And he may strongly <s>agree</s>\[disagree\] with the outcome or the
final opinion of that, but he — but, you know, he, of course, believes
in the legitismy \[sic\] — legitimacy of all three branches of
government.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, thank you.  Yester- — I — first of all, congratulations to
both of you and Karine.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I appreciate I’m getting congratulations.  (Laughter.)  I
guess it’s so that I can sleep and read books.  And I’m taking all of
the recommendations.  Huge congratulations, really, to Karine.   
  
Q    Surviving (inaudible) months.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  Thank you, though.  Yes.   
  
Q    I have two questions.  The first is: Yesterday, you were talking
from the podium — the Fed Chair during his press conference as well —
about the strength of the economy —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — the possibility for a soft landing.  Today it’s a little bit of a
different story.  The stock market is down more than 1,000 points.  A
CNBC survey shows 80 percent of small-business owners see a recession in
the next 12 months.  So I’m wondering if the White House took note of
the market route today and what, if anything, it signals about the
health of the underlying economy.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we don’t judge the economy by the daily movement of
the stock market.  And that is true — has been true of most Presidents
and most White Houses in the past.  We look at Main Street and not just
Wall Street.    
  
I would note, just for facts’ sake, that since President Biden took
office, the stock market is up approximately 9 percent.  I still think
that’s true as it closed; you can check me on that.    
  
But our focus and the focus of many economists who look at this question
of whether we’re headed toward a recession is on fundamental economic
data, including the number of jobs that have been created, the growth of
— of the GDP.  Obviously, we have the unemployment rate at 3.6 percent —
the biggest single-year drop in U.S. history.  Household balance sheets
are strong, and businesses are investing in the United States.   
  
And we even saw the invest- — the high level of investment, even with
the GDP numbers that we saw earlier this week — last week? — we still
saw high levels of business investment.    
  
So, that’s all the data we look at.  That’s the data most economists
look at.  We certainly understand that in terms of consumer confidence. 
And I don’t know what this small-business data looked at; it may be that
people see costs, they see the stock market.  We understand that when
people are — when you’re measuring people’s emotions or people’s
reaction, that’s what that captures.  But we’re still looking at the
basic fundamentals, as are many economists on the outside, including
Jason Furman and others.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, I have one more question, which is just about the — Operation
KleptoCapture.  You talked about the yacht that was seized —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — at the top of this.  What does the U.S. do with all the assets
that it’s getting?  I mean, where do these yachts go?  What are you
using all of the money for that you’re obtaining from these oligarchs?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there is actually legislation that we’ve proposed and
that we’re working with Congress on, on where some of this could go, but
I can check on that for you.  And where they — where the yacht is parked
right now, I’m now very interested in that question as well.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Just a quickie for you.  Can you tell us your
plans now that you have a successor?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I have — I have nothing to announce on my plans other than,
as I said earlier, to sleep, to read books.  
  
Q    Will we keep seeing you on TV?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  If there’s anything I should stream on Netflix or wherever —
Hulu, other places — I’m happy to do that.  I take recommendations.   
  
So, I’m — I’m, today, obviously just celebrating Karine.  And I will
have a lot to say about my team, the President, Dr. Biden, all of you —
I’m just kidding; it will be nice things about all of you — next week,
but nothing to say or announce about what’s next.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    A question —

Q    Quick follow-up.  Is anyone in the administration —   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, last — last one.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    — looking out for the unborn child?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sir — sir —  
  
Q    Is anyone in the administration looking out for the unborn child?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think I’ve taken two questions from you —  
  
Q    No, no, no.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — so I’m going to take a question over here.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  
  
Q    When does the President believe life begins?  Thank you.  
  
Q    Let me just first also say congratulations to you and also to
Karine.  I’m so excited to have you as a new person in this position.   
  
Just two quick questions.  My colleague before talked about what Texas
is doing.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    But in D.C. tomorrow, there’s going to be a new bill introduced by
a councilmember that would prohibit the city from cooperating with any
other state’s investigation into someone who’s gotten or performed an
abortion.  And the states are trying to scramble what to do.  Is that
something that you would even see the administration kind of getting
behind as we’re seeing all these things pop up in different states?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  So, if I understand it correctly, it’s to protect
people’s rights so that they can’t be investigated?  
  
Q    Right.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Right.  So the Department of Justice — I’d have to check
with them and Counsel’s Office on this.  But one of the things they
reiterated when we saw S.B. 8 in the Texas law is people’s rights.    
  
And I think it’s important for people to remember now, even in this
moment, that this has not been overturned at this point.  The final
opinion has not been out.  People across the country still have
fundamental rights to make choices about their own healthcare.   
  
And so, that sounds to me like it’s an effort to protect people’s rights
and those who support them.  That’s something the Department of Justice
has spoken out agains- — agai- — to make sure people understood that.  I
can certainly check on this specific law.   
  
We’ve got to wrap it up because it’s six o’clock.  But anyone going to
Cincinnati: It’s going to be great.  (Laughter.)  Okay, thanks,
everyone.  
  
6:03 P.M. EDT
