---
date: '2022-05-09'
modified_time: 2022-05-09 18:34:56-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-09 18:34:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/09/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-may-9-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, May\_9,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:29 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay.  A few minutes ago, you heard the
President mention — talk about Victory Day — Victory in Europe Day,
which the world commemorated this weekend as a celebration of the end of
World War Two and a victory for the United States and the Allied forces
over the scourge of fascism and aggression in the defense of freedom and
democracy.  
  
While President Putin and the Russian people celebrated Victory Day
today, we are seeing Russian forces commit war crimes and atrocities in
Ukraine as they engage in a brutal war that is causing so much suffering
and needless destruction.   
  
This day is supposed to be about celebrating peace and unity in Europe
and the defeat of Nazis in World War Two.  That is what is celebrated
every year in Russia as well.  And instead, Putin is perverting history,
changing history to try — or attempting to change it, I should say — to
justify his unprovoked and unjustified war, which has brought
catastrophic loss of life and immense human suffering.  
  
We’re continuing to do what we can to provide support for Ukraine at
this pivotal moment — flowing security, economic and humanitarian
assistance.  Today, the President signed the Lend-Lease Act into law,
which adds to our suite of tools as we provide Ukraine with the weapons
and equipment they need.  
  
Yesterday, as you all know, the First Lady visited Ukraine in a historic
visit to meet with the First Lady of Ukraine.  She did that purposefully
on Mother’s Day to be there and recognize the sacrifices of so many
mothers during this time in Ukraine and send an important message of
solidarity.  
  
And our chargé on the ground led a group of diplomats temporarily
returning to Kyiv to demonstrate our unity with the people of Ukraine on
Victory in Europe Day as they fight to defend their freedom and their
democracy.  
  
President Biden also spoke with our G7 partners yesterday and President
Zelenskyy about our collective response to President Putin’s brutal
war.    
  
And we announced a new round of actions to ratchet up the pain on
Putin.  This includes banning U.S. services that help Russian elites and
companies build wealth and evade sanctions, additional restrictions on a
broad range of inputs and products like bulldozers and industrial
engines that Putin needs for his military, and sanctions on big
executives at Russia’s largest banks and Russian military officials.  
  
The United States also sanctioned the top three most-watched TV stations
in Russia that bolster Putin’s war by spreading his propaganda.  
  
And for the first time ever, the G7 agreed as a whole to ban or phase
out Russian oil.  
  
We will keep building on our unprecedented sanctions that are enacting a
heavy toll on Russia’s economy, with GDP expected to collapse by double
digits.  Our export controls with more than 30 other countries have
throttled Russia’s access to critical technology it needs to maintain
its military.  
With that, Will, why don’t you kick it off.  
  
Q    Thank you.   We have the Prime Minister of Italy, who’s coming on
Tuesday, and there’s some pressures on the European bond market.  I’m
wondering: Does the Biden administration believe that the European
economy is facing recession solely because of the effects of Putin’s
war, or are there other factors at work?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve seen the impact of President Putin’s invasion of
Ukraine here in the United States.  We’ve seen, in our own economy, how
inflation and an inflationary data over the last several weeks or even
months has been impacted a great deal by energy prices.  And a great
deal of that is because of President Putin’s invasion.  
  
I don’t have an assessment from here on the European economy other than
to say we know — if we look at the past several months, even before the
invasion — that the GDP here and our economic growth here was higher
than the rest of the world, including Europe, because of the strength of
the steps the President took earlier last year.  
  
So, you know, we — they will have a range of topics to discuss,
including ongoing efforts to hold President Putin and the Russian
leadership to account, to continue to put in place crippling sanctions,
to continue to support Ukrainians as they bravely fight this war against
the Russians.  
  
And they will, of course, also discuss our close cooperation on
promoting economic prosperity, increasing Europe’s energy security, and
combating clima- — climate change — all topics that we expect to be part
of the preparations and on the agenda for the G7.  
  
Q    Can I do one more on another topic?  You suggested that peacefully
protesting outside the homes of judges and Supreme Court justices is
part of freedom of expression and part of, sort of, what we do in the
United States.  But there’s a law of Virginia that actually prohibits
protests outside private residence, even when done peacefully.  So I’m
wondering if any sort of demonstrations outside of private homes might
run afoul of that law and other laws like it in other parts of the
country.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re certainly not suggesting anyone break any laws.  I
would note that the President’s view has long been — and I tweeted this
earlier this morning and repeated — and made a number of these comments
last week as well that violence, threats, and intimidation have no place
in political discourse.  
  
Yes, we are a country that promotes democracy, and we certainly allow
for peaceful protest in a range of places in the country.  None of it
should violate the law; no one is suggesting that.  And it should never
resort to violence, to threats, to intimidation in any way, shape, or
form.  But that is what our position is and the President’s position
is.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  On abortion, Republican Leader Mitch McConnell has said
that a national ban on abortion could be possible, depending on the
votes.  Without court intervention, just how at risk does the
administration believe the U.S. is to completely outlawing abortion?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think we’re at serious risk.  You heard — you noted Mitch
McConnell and other Republicans in Congress are talking about a national
ban on a woman’s right to choose.    
  
There were a number — I think it was something — I can get the exact
number here — but dozens and dozens of Republicans in Congress signed on
to the — to the Mississippi court case and — advocating for severe
restrictions on a woman’s right to choose and a woman’s right to make
choices about her own body.   
  
And we’ve seen in other places in the country — just yesterday, the
governor in Miss- — of Mississippi said directly whether that — just
yesterday, the governor said directly whether they would — wouldn’t say
whether they would directly go after the right to use contraception,
meaning that’s another area where —  
  
So, as the President has said over the course of the last nearly week,
his concern is about, yes, a woman’s right to make choices about her own
healthcare, about what this final opinion could be.  It’s also about
what choices could be made that go beyond that.   
  
I’d also note that Louisiana legislators advanced a bill to classify
abortion as homicide, which would allow women who terminate their
pregnancies to be charged with murder and potentially criminalize in
vitro fertilization and forms of birth control.  
  
So, in some ways, yes, you’re seeing an outcry by the nearly two thirds
of the public, many of them peacefully protesting, who are concerned
about what this opinion will say.  But you’re also seeing a number of
Republicans in states and some in Congress double down on this potential
to overturn a law that has been the law of the land for 50 years.  
  
Q    You mentioned, though, the Mississippi governor and his comments on
the possibility of banning certain types of contraception.  Is the
administration planning to take steps to try and preemptively safeguard
access to contraception?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say there’s a range of considerations that are
underway — both by our Counsel’s Office, by the Department of Justice,
led by the Gender Policy Council — to take every step we can to protect
women’s fundamental rights and protect rights beyond that.  
  
I would note that — and the President talked about this a little bit
last week — but when we’re talking about Roe, Roe has been the precedent
for a number of other laws passed by the Supreme Court that impacts
people’s fundamental lives — their basic rights, their freedoms, their
privacy, and their protections — including if you look back, Griswold v.
Connecticut; Eisenstadt v. Baird, which ensured the right to use
contraception was protected.   
  
That is law now, but we are clear-eyed about this being a precedent for
that and what could come next.  
  
Obergefell v. Hodges, which protects the right to marry; Lawrence v.
Texas, which stopped government from preventing sexual relationships
between consenting adults.   
  
For 50 years, Roe has been the basis for a number of these decisions
that have impacted and changed people’s lives — in our view, for the
better.  
  
Q    You mentioned — again, I mean, obviously, you’re discussing next
steps here.  You’ve said before that you’re not going to detail what’s
sort of on the table, especially until the final ruling comes down.  But
why not?   
  
I mean, especially when states have trigger laws, sort of, why not
communicate at least what the options are to try and get ahead of some
of this, give women some assurances as we see, you know, obviously
growing concern across the country?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure, Mary.  Well, what I’ve talked about a little bit in
here in the past, which people can look to as a model for what we’re
trying to do, is what we’ve done in response to S.B. 8 in Texas.  Right?
 We created the Dire Need Grant awards to provide funding to expand
access to emergency contraception and family planning services.   
  
In addition, you also saw the Department of Justice and the Attorney
General released a statement in response to Texas S.B. 8 that reaffirmed
their commitment to using existing federal law to protect the safety of
patients seeking access to reproductive health services.  
  
The Department of Health and Human Services has also been implementing a
three-pronged, department-wide response to protect patients and
providers.    
  
We’ve also talked in here a great deal about the fact that we know that
26 states have indicated their plans on — on a different varie- —
varying levels, I should say, of overturning women’s fundamental
rights.  Thirteen have trigger laws.  And what we’re looking at — and
some states have also taken steps — Connecticut, California are two of
them; others are also examples — to protect women’s rights.    
  
What we’re looking at here is nearly half the country potentially not
having — allowing women to have access to choices about their own bodies
and their healthcare that has been the law of the land for 50 years.   
  
So — and we know who that will impact, because 75 percent of people
seeking abortions make less than 200 percent of the poverty level.  We
know the majority of people seeking abortions are women of color.  So,
we’re keeping — taking into account all of that as we look at
options.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just to follow up on all that.  Mary asked what I would, for the
most part.  (Laughter.)  But when are we going to hear —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look at that collegiality at play.   
  
Q    When are we going to hear from the President on this issue?  We’ve
heard from just about every other Democrat.  You’ve clearly come
prepared with all the details today.  Do we have to wait until the court
ruling is official, or might he speak out beforehand?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say he spoke multiple times last week, and I expect
you’ll continue to hear him speak about this issue.  
  
Q    I mean, he spoke on the tarmac; it was noisy.  (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Does that not count?  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Well, I’m just wondering if there’s going to be something slightly
more prepared and thoughtful to try to, you know, make use of the
presidential bully pulpit the way he can.  When he wants to, he can draw
attention to issues.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You’re right.  And I — and what I was pointing to, Ed, is
that obviously this was in his mind and front and center for him last
week, because he spoke multiple times to this, unprompted in some
cases.  Some — some prompted by questions, of course.  And I expect he
will continue to do that.   
  
What I don’t expect he will do is speak to an opinion that is not yet
final, that has not yet been released.  But certainly, speaking to the
protection of women’s fundamental rights, of their rights to make
decisions about their own healthcare.  And certainly, his concern —
which he’s talked about for decades — about privacy and privacy
protections, which he said last week was the basis of his leading the
fight against the Bork nomination.    
  
So, I expect you’ll continue to hear him talk about that.  And there’s —
hopefully, there will be more opportunities for you all to ask good
questions.  
  
Q    Two other, if I could, real quick.  Tomorrow, he’s giving a speech
on inflation.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    I’m wondering if you can give us some sense of what more he’ll get
into.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I would note that, as we — as we announced and
previewed a little bit, the President will be speaking to his plan — his
continued plan to continue the fight to address inflation in the coming
months.  There’s a lot of work that has been done to date on this front,
whether it was the steps he’s taken to address energy crisis, the
release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, additional steps he’s
taken on that front, or whether it was steps he’s taken even in recent
weeks to fix the family glitch, to help more people have access to
healthcare, or steps he announced in the last couple of weeks to make
E15 available to thousands of people at gas stations across the
country.    
  
But what you will also hear him talk about tomorrow is the contrast —
and the contrast that his plan, and the plan he has been implementing
for months now, draws with those on the other side of the aisle, who has
not — who have not put forward any plan to lower costs for the American
people.  So it will be his opportunity to lay that all out together.  
  
Q    And there is growing concern about a persistent supply issue with
infant baby formula.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    There’s about 40 percent shortage right now.  Major retailers
having to limit how much people can buy — especially acute in places
like Tennessee, Missouri, Iowa.  This is partly an FDA issue, but it
could be a Biden administration issue.  I’m just wondering if you guys
are planning on taking any steps to help remedy that.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say, as you know, but — the FDA issued a
recall to ensure that they are meeting their obligation to protect the
health of Americans, including babies — who, of course, were receiving —
or taking this formula — and ensure safe products are available.  That’s
their job.   
  
Ensuring the availability of these products is also a priority for the
FDA, and they are working around the clock to address any possible
shortage.    
  
(Playback of press briefing audio is heard on a cellphone.)  
  
Okay, that is — that is like hearing your name — your voice on the
answering machine, which I know — that’s a very outdated reference, but
we’ve all been there.  (Laughter.)    
  
Okay, so what the FDA is doing — which, while they are independent, they
are part of the administration — is taking a number of steps to
address.  That includes working with major infant formula manufacturers
to ensure they’re increasing production, because part of this issue is,
of course, making sure there is stock on the shelves — right? — and
working with the industry right now to optimize their supply lines,
product sizes to increase capacity, and prioritizing product lines that
are of greatest needs.  Because, obviously, as someone who — my child
has long been out of formula, fortunately, but it’s close enough that I
remember when you were trying to go to the store and get the specific
kind of formula for your age child or whatever their needs are.  So they
are — they are taking steps with that in mind.   
  
They’re also exercising flexibility and expediting review of
notifications of manufacturing changes that will help increase supply,
particularly in the case of specialized formula — so that applies to
that as well — for medical needs.   
  
And they’re also trying to streamline import entry review process —
processes for already-notified infant formula products coming from
notified foreign facilities.    
  
So what they’re trying to do — in the shorthand of it — is increase
supply by working with a range of manufacturers in what their capacity
is to ensure that the kinds of formula that is — was recalled is — where
they’re able to help ensure it’s on the — on the shelves.  
  
Q    It isn’t something that’s kept in a national stockpile — do you
know?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t believe there’s a national stockpile of baby
formula.  But the FDA does — it is not just their responsibility, in
their view, to ensure that we are meeting our obligations to protect
Americans.  It is also their obligation to take steps to ensure supply
can be met when they take these steps.  So that is what they’re very
focused on.   
  
Q    What’s an answering machine?  If you could — (laughter) — no, I’m
just kidding.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Since you’re 25, I’ll explain it to you after the
briefing.   
  
Q    Could you say — just give some general reaction to Putin’s speech
this morning?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I tried to do it a bit at the top.  But what I will
say is that what we saw President Putin do is give a version of
revisionist history that took the form of disinformation that we have
seen too commonly as the Russian playbook.   
  
Now, what is fortunate is that we are all aware — reporters around the
world are aware, Europeans are aware, Americans are aware — of the
disinformation factory that President Putin and the Kremlin seem to
be.   
  
But su- — the suggestion that this war that was prompted by — directed
by President Putin was prompted by Western aggression or Western plans
is patently false and absurd.   
  
And otherwise, I would say: You know, our view is that we should
remember — and this is why I did this at the top — what this day is
actually about, which is something that we have all celebrated, which is
the defeat of Nazis in — after World War Two, something that Russians
have celebrated in the streets for many years.   
  
Q    Quick question on a totally unrelated topic.  Biden has blamed
large meatpackers for the run-up in meat prices.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And today, Tyson Foods have another record — or very good earnings
out that showed its average prices for beef had climbed nearly 25
percent compared to the same quarter last year.    
  
I wondered if you all have any reaction to that.  Is this the sort of,
you know, price gouging that the administration is seeking to stop?    
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any reaction directly to one company’s
earnings.  But what the President’s concern is and what Secretary
Vilsack, who’s been here a number of times, is concerned about is that
the meat industry — the conglomerates are so small, they’re so — I mean,
not small; they’re very large — but they’re so dominant that they are
elbowing out, of course, smaller producers and that they have this  
capacity and ability to jack up prices and pass those on to consumers
when they should not.   
  
But I don’t have any direct reaction to one company’s reports.  I am not
aware of this issue and our concern being addressed, though.  So, it’s
an ongoing concern.    
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just a little bit more on the Victory Day speech.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Given that he didn’t really point to specific victories and he also
didn’t signal, you know, some kind of upcoming massive escalation —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — or some pathway to ending the war, I’m just wondering if there
were any takeaways for U.S. officials specifically related to the
trajectory of the war from that speech.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say, what we’re watching closely is what we’re
seeing on the ground.  And what we’re seeing on the ground is, you know,
the — right now, a great deal of the war, as you all know and my
colleagues at the Department of Defense have briefed on this even as
recently as this morning, has obviously moved more to the east, and that
terrain is very different.   
  
The Donbas is a lot more flat.  It’s little small villages.  It’s very
different from what we were seeing in Kyiv. That is a terrain that the
Ukrainians know well.    
  
And what we look at as we look to the totality of the country and if we
go back to mid-February, when President Putin was giving speeches
basically declaring he was going to subsume Ukraine, take over the
country — the territorial integrity of the country — and go beyond that,
is that is exactly not what’s happening today.   
  
President Putin and the Russians are not marching through Kyiv.  They
are struggling to fight in other parts of the country.  And the
Ukrainians are bravely and courageously fighting every day.    
  
So, we look at what’s happening on the ground, though it is important to
note and to call out the revisionist history that we saw in this speech
and the fact that any such statement that we saw — we’ve seen for months
from President Putin that the war was prompted by the West is just
patently false and inaccurate.  And we can’t state that too often.  
  
Q    And on the First Lady’s trip to Ukraine.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Is there anything more you can share?  You’ve talked a little bit
about —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — why she wanted to choose Mother’s Day to travel into Ukraine.  In
terms of, sort of, the security concerns, which you’ve talked about a
lot, how were you all able to get to a point where you could feel
confident, the President could feel confident that she would be totally
safe?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to get into behind-the-scenes security
concerns or considerations.  Obviously, she would not have gone if we
did not feel comfortable with the security arrangements.    
  
I will note that she went there, as you said, because to — she wanted to
go on Mother’s Day because she was thought — thought it was important to
show the Ukrainian people that the war has to stop, that the war has
been brutal, and that the people of the United States stand with the
people of Ukraine.  That’s why she went yesterday, to show that the
hearts of the American people are with the mothers of Ukraine.    
  
She also, of course — you know, she’s been back now, and she’s had an
opportunity to speak with the President and has conveyed — and she said
this publicly directly to him — what she saw on the ground: the need to
support the people of Ukraine.  She saw the horrors and the brutality
that the people she met had experienced.  And, you know, that was
something she conveyed directly to him.    
  
But in terms of security, obviously we have a range of security
considerations we make.  And, you know, I’m not going to get into those
— detail those from here, though.  
  
Q    Just had a quick COVID question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    The warning about the 100 million potential COVID infections by the
fall and winter if new COVID funding isn’t approved —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Dr. Jha has said that this is based on a range of internal and
external models.  Could the White House point us to which specific
models were used to get to that number?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There are a range of, as he said, internal and external
models well within that range — is that number.  It would hi- — the
point he was making is that we know what we need to do.  We have put out
an entire playbook to address the pandemic to help — a preparedness plan
to ensure Americans are protected and that we stay on the front foot in
our fight against COVID.  
  
If we do not take action, we also know that there are — we know that the
virus is going to continue to evolve.  And without us staying vigilant
and prepared — like not having access to lifesaving vaccines, testing,
therapeutics — it’s — it is going — it has the ability to upend our
lives.  
  
So, he is a doctor himself, as you know — a very experienced one.  He
talks to a range of experts internally and externally.  There’s a range
of models that are out there, and this is well within that range.  And
the point he was making is about the impact if we do not act, if
Congress does not act.  
  
Q    Would the White House be able to make public —  
  
Q    Jen, can we spread out the questions a little bit?  Can you yield
to your colleagues, please?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I — I would be happy to, but I think it would be polite if
you let —  
  
Q    Just a quick follow-up —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — MJ finish her question.  
  
Q    Seriously?  Polite?  
  
Q    She’s had several.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Can she yield to her colleagues, please?  
  
Q    Could — could the White House make public the range of models —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    — so that we’re able to see how we got to that 100 million
infections warning?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re — I’m happy to see if there’s more specific data we
can make available.  But what I can assure you of is that Dr. Jha is a
very experienced public health expert. He talks to a range of officials
internally and externally. And that’s what he’s basing it on.   
  
Let me go to the back.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    (Speaks in Japanese.)  That means: Many in Japan are welcoming the
upcoming visit.  And two quick questions.  One, Japan has a populace of
130 million but only 39,000 deaths from the virus.  I’m wondering if the
administration is aware of that and maybe some best practices can be
studied while we’re there.   
  
And second, the — will there be a reaffirmation of the security treaty,
especially about the Senkaku Islands?   
  
And then I have one quick follow-up.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, what I can tell you is that we will certainly
be doing a formal preview of the Asia trip — probably early next week, I
would expect, before the President departs.  
  
While he is there, as you know, he’s going to be holding bilateral
meetings, including with his counterpart from Japan, and certainly
discussing the ongoing COVID pandemic.  And the global fight to address
the global — the pandemic will be on the agenda, and we’re grateful for
Japan’s contribution to that.  
  
They’re also going to discuss a range of security issues, enhanced
economic ties, climate change.  There are a lot of topics that are on
the agenda for this meeting.    
  
And, of course, in light of North Korea’s continued stabilizing ac- —
destabilizing actions in the region, including the test launch recently
of multiple intercontinental ballistic missiles, the President will also
make clear that our commitment to the security of Republic of Korea, and
our Japanese allies as well — range of topics.  And we will have more, I
promise, too.

Go ahead.

Q    Just to follow up — I brought this up before, but many of us who
were embedded during the wars, we have a lot of personal relationships
with people — Afghanistan as well as —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — Iraq.  We have one family — the Ashu family — that have — still
haven’t been able to get out.  Just any update on — it’s been almost
eight months.  And these are, really, people that gave their lives for
us.

MS. PSAKI:  For this specific family?  I’m more than happy to take their
information and check in with the State Department after the briefing.

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Jen, thank you.  Lots of summits and meetings in the next couple of
weeks —

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    — even ahead of the travel.  Do you have any preview on what the
President’s participation will be in the COVID Summit?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  He will be addressing the COVID Summit.  We are, of
course, convening the COVID Summit in order to have an opportunity for
the global community to continue to discuss our fight against the
pandemic.

I would note, just to get everybody up to speed as you’re preparing for
your coverage: We committed to sharing 1.2 billion doses of safe,
effective vaccines with the world; we’re making good on that
commitment.  We’ve shipped over 530 million doses of vaccine to 115
countries around the world — over four times more than our next closest
donor.

But what we expect to be a topic, or what part of our agenda is for this
meeting, is to talk about the fact that those doses are getting harder
to place because countries’ freezers are simply full.  And we have tens
of millions of unclaimed doses because countries lack the resources to
build out their cold chains, which basically is the refrigeration
systems; to fight disinformation; and to hire vaccinators.

And there are actually some good examples of where we’ve had funding,
where we have worked with countries.  So, for example, in Zambia, the
U.S. government programs engaging local leaders in vaccine programs
helped double vaccination rates from 12 to 22 percent.

We know meaningful gains are possible.  But part of this is also going
to be an opportunity to elevate the fact that we need additional funding
to continue to be a part of this effort around the world.

Q    And is it going to be — and is it going to be a problem if, over on
Capitol Hill, they move ahead with the Ukraine aid package and sort of
leave that COVID funding to the side right as this summit is
convening?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s an active conversation, literally as we speak
right now, on Capitol Hill.  So what I will tell you is that the
President is absolutely committed to signing into law both the Ukraine
funding and also COVID funding.  And he will continue to fight for both.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Last week, you mentioned that the administration is
talking to a wide range of people about how to respond to this upcoming
decision on abortion.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    You mentioned business leaders.  I’m just curious if you could
elaborate on that.  What kinds of businesses?  And how do you see their
role in this — you know, in this response?

MS. PSAKI:  I think the point I was making — I don’t have business
leaders to read out for you, and we’re going to keep a lot of these
conversations private.  But I would note that two thirds of the public,
even in Fox News polls, have said that they don’t want to overturn Roe
v. Wade.  

This is a mainstream position for the majority of the public.  I’m not
saying everyone agrees on it.  That’s not — not at all what I’m saying. 
But it is about two thirds of the public.

So there are a lot of stakeholders, a lot of private-sector citizens and
leaders who are concerned about what they could see if this opinion is —
is a — if this is a final version or close to a final version of the
opinion.

And part of our role here is to engage with leaders, whether they’re on
Capitol Hill or they are women’s leaders or they’re in advocacy groups
and, certainly, private-sector leaders as well.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  The President and you have talked about the “MAGA
crowd” or the “ultra-MAGA.”  How does that jive with his desire to be
the bipartisan guy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President’s view is you can do both.  He believes
that there is work we can continue to do together.   We’re actively
advocating for — he was out traveling in — just last Friday on the
Bipartisan Innovation Act.  We believe that needs to move forward; it
should move forward.  And that can be — can build on the nearly 80 bills
that we signed into law last year that are bipartisan.

But he’s also not going to stand by and not call out what he sees as
ultra-MAGA behavior, ultra-MAGA policies that are out of the mainstream
of the country and are not in the interest of the American people,
whether that is efforts to prevent a woman from making choices about her
own healthcare or whether that is Chairman Scott’s policy and proposals
on — that would raise taxes on people making less than $100,000 a year.

He’s going to continue to call that out.  But he believes there is still
a path to move forward on where we have agreement.  
  
Q    And on the First Lady’s trip to Ukraine: Does that change the
calculations at all about the President making a visit to Ukraine, since
this presumably worked?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Their travel is a little bit different — I think you all
know from traveling with the President.  But there’s not a trip
currently planned.  But, again, he would love to go to Ukraine.  I just
don’t have anything planned or anything to preview at this point.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  There are reports now — and you just alluded to this
a minute ago — that Democrats are, in fact, going to bring forth that
Ukraine aid without the COVID funding attached.  And I know you told me
last week that that was something that the White House wanted to see —
them attached.  But we’re being told that the President actually had
said, “Look, the Republicans don’t support that.  Let’s leave it
aside.”  Can you confirm that?  Was there a change in thinking over the
last few days at the White House over how this package should proceed?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, that has been his preference — to get both of them to
— done and done together, which he has thought that would be the most
efficient process.  Since this is actively happening right now, I don’t
have any confirmation of it from here.

I expect we’ll have more.  I’ve — even though I have dwindling days left
here, I’m still not going to get ahead of the President, because, you
know, I want to enjoy those last few days.  But hopefully we’ll have
more to say on where we stand soon.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Does the President plan to condemn the leak of the Supreme Court
draft opinion or the doxing of the justices, now that we’ve seen
violence unfold?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that we have been clear and the
President’s position has long been that we should not see protests that
takes the form of violence, that takes the form of vandalism, and that
threatens anyone.  That has long been his position for his entire career
and continues to be his position.

Q    And, for tomorrow, your office released that —

MS. PSAKI:  But can I say one more thing?  Sorry.

Q    Please do.  Please do.

MS. PSAKI:  We have not seen violence or vandalism against Supreme Court
justices.  We have seen it at Catholic churches.  That’s unacceptable. 
The President does not support that.

We have seen it at some conservative organizations.  That — we don’t
support that.  And we certainly call for — we know the passion.  We
understand the passion.  We understand the concern.  But what the
President’s position is is that that should be peaceful — the
protests.    
  
But continue.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    And as for tomorrow, the President plans to offer, as you said, a
contrast.  And it was written, quote, to “Congressional Republicans’
Ultra-MAGA plan to raise taxes.”

Now, the Washington Post has called that claim false — that there was a
Republican congressional plan to raise taxes.  Why is this statement
still being shared?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Because Chairman Scott’s plan — and we welcome — we know
he’s asked for people to go to his website.  We would encourage people
to do the same thing and check out his plan that raises taxes for people
making less than $100,000 a year.  
  
Q    But Mitch McConnell and this report — there aren’t any other
Republicans signing on to this at this point.  So is it fair to say that
Republicans as a whole are pushing a plan to raise taxes?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s the chairman of the committee.  If Republicans want to
repudiate his plan, they should go do that.  But otherwise, that
continues to be what they’re running on.  So that’s their position, not
ours.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, is the White House satisfied with the legislative strategy on
abortion rights, which appears to be to have this vote on Wednesday,
which will fail, and then make this a midterm issue?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we support Leader Schumer’s decision to get people on
the record on this — on codifying Roe.  And that’s something the
President would be happy to sign into law.   
  
At the same time, we certainly recognize that the votes — we don’t have
the votes.  You can tell me — you cover the Hill closely — you can tell
me if I’m wrong.   
  
We understand that.  But we think it’s important and an important issue
to get people on the record on.  
  
Without getting into politics from here — again, I don’t make the rules,
I just try to follow them — in the President’s statement last week, he
noted that in order to take legislative action, we would need more
Democratic senators, and we would need more pro-choice House members
after the election in November.  So we certainly recognize that, and we
know that’s on the minds of many people across the country.  
  
Q    And then, if I could follow up on that.  One of the votes you don’t
have is probably Joe Manchin’s.  I’m curious, when was last time the
President spoke to him about either this issue or his domestic agenda,
which Manchin has been signaling he’s open to maybe reviving some of
these conversations that basically died in December?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are — we are open to this moving forward as well. 
I will say that just because we don’t confirm conversations happening,
it doesn’t mean they’re not happening.   
  
But the President has asked us not to get into specific details or
confirm the timing or specifics of their conversation, so I’m not going
to do that.   
  
Q    Is it fair to say they’re still actively happening?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I can tell you that we are still in touch with Senator
Manchin.  We certainly are in touch with a range of Democrats about the
need and the importance of moving forward.   
  
And as it relates to the President’s remarks tomorrow, obviously moving
forward with a reconciliation package that would lower costs on American
people — on eldercare, on healthcare, on childcare — would be a step
that would help address how inflation is impacting people across this
country.  
  
So we’re having a range of conversations.  A lot of Democrats are having
a range of conversations with each other.  I’m just not going to detail
them more from here.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, on the sanctions against Russia, what would it take to lift
those if — say if Ukraine agreed to a peace deal?  Is that enough?  Or
would the U.S. want something more?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to negotiate from here on that.  We do know
that an end to this will required — we require a negotiated diplomatic
process.  And we support that.  But we — our role is to continue to
strengthen the Ukrainians’ hands, whether it’s through military
assistance, economic, humanitarian, continuing to keep the world
united.  And we’re just not going to get ahead of the process.   
  
Q    And just real quickly, back on the Rick Scott question: Senator
McConnell did repudiate that — that plan.  So how can you say it stands
for what Republicans —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, he’s the chairman of the committee.  I wouldn’t say
every Republican has repudiated.  If they don’t — if that’s not at all
the plan they’re running on and none of them are for it, then they can
speak for themselves.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, on abortion, this country is about to engage — some states
that don’t have trigger laws are going to decide what they think the
restrictions should be on abortion, and that’s going to be a tough
question in many of these states.  
  
Does the President have a clear belief in what he thinks the
restrictions should be on, or if there should be any restrictions on
abortion?  I know you’ve been asked this before, but I just want to get
a clear answer.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President’s view is that women should be able to make
choices about their own healthcare.  I’m not going to detail it further
beyond what he said in the past from here.  
  
Q    So does that mean no restrictions?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I’m not going to detail his opinion.  He’s spoken to
this a number of times.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  I have one question on ASEAN and one question on
Russia.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    On ASEAN: The rotating Chair of ASEAN, Cambodia, said, prior to the
upcoming summit, that the — it’s normal practice that the host of the
nation to meet with the Chair of ASEAN.  And we know President Biden
actually wrote a letter to Prime Minister Hun Sen.  And will the — will
the President have a bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m very happy to check on that.  The schedule — I know it
feels very close because it is; it’s in a couple of days.  But I will
check and see.    
  
He obviously invited the leaders of ASEAN — from Brunei, to Cambodia,
Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and
Vietnam, as well as the ASEAN Secretary-General — to Washington to
participate in the summit.   
  
But in terms of bilateral meetings, I can check and see if there’s any
on the schedule.  
  
Q    And another question on Russia about the intel leaks by the
American officials.  Thomas Friedman said that he was told that
President Biden “called the Director of National Intelligence, Director
of CIA, and Secretary of Defense to make clear in the strongest and most
colorful language that this kind of loose talk is reckless and has got
to stop immediately — before we end up in an unintended war with
Russia.”  Is that true?  And is the President worried about an
unintended war with Russia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, what I will tell you, without confirming private
internal calls, that the President was displeased with the leaks.  His
view is that it was an overstatement of our role — an inaccurate
statement — and also an understatement of the Ukrainians’ role and their
leadership.  And he does not — did not felt they were constructive.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  “Did not feel.”  That was grammatically inaccurate.  
  
Okay, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Jen.  There seems to be a lot of bipartisan
support for listing Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism.  Is that
something on the Hill you’re talking about?  Is that something being
discussed in the White House?  And if the President is not there, how
would you define the line that would have to be crossed to go there?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I know we’ve talked about this quite a bit in the past.  I
would note that to be named a state sponsor of terror, you — there’s
only about four countries that have been named state sponsors of terror
in the world.    
  
There are a number of actions that are often taken if a country is named
a state sponsor of terror.  A number of those we’ve already taken,
including economic — crippling economic sanctions, sanctions on
individuals, other restrictions for the country.  And obviously, making
the country a global pariah is part of that objective.  Those are all
steps that we have already taken and implemented as it relates to
Russia.   
  
I don’t have anything to preview in terms of a consideration here.  I
can certainly — we’ll see what happens in Congress.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  What’s the White House reaction to Sinn Fein’s gains
in the Northern Ireland Assembly over the weekend?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Let me check with our national security team, and we’ll see
if we can get you a comment on that specifically.  
  
Go ahead, Geoff.   
  
Q    Hey, Jen.  You were unequivocal in condemning the violence.  But as
you know, there’s also some allies who are protesting outside justices’
homes, including Brett Kavanaugh, who — if there’s any kind of a
compromise — conservative ruling that preserves some of Roe, he could be
part of that with Roberts.  So, my question is: Is it appropriate to
protest outside people’s homes?  And is it productive or not
productive?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, I would say, in terms of the productive question,
that’s not for me to speak to.  Obviously, these justices make decisions
as an independent body.  How they are influenced or if they are
influenced is not for me to make a determination of.  
  
We do believe in peaceful protests.  We do not believe in or support any
intimidation of any kind — obviously, the violation or breaking of any
law, as somebody raised before, or threats or intimidation of any
individual.    
  
What we do support is people peacefully protesting.  And they do that in
a range of places.  
  
Q    But you wouldn’t wave anybody off for tactical reasons?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re not here to give tactical advice to protesters.  What
we are here to call for is peaceful protest, for people not to resort to
violence, to vandalism, or certainly intimidation of any kind.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, as we look ahead to tomorrow’s inflation speech, let me ask
you to look back at some of the warnings that were issued last year by
Summers and Rattner and so on.  In retrospect, were they right that some
of the government policies were going to lead to inflation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t say we agreed with them then, and we don’t agree
with them now.   
  
I would note that as a relates to actions like the American Rescue Plan,
the alternative to not putting in place and advocating for the American
Rescue Plan would have been the economy continuing to spiral.  Right? 
We would — we were providing assistance and relief in the form of checks
to people who needed that assistance at the time.   
  
That package also helped fund and prepare for a fight against COVID.   
  
It helped keep schools open.  One hundred percent of schools are open
today, in large part because of the American Rescue Plan.   
  
It helped states and localities support and keep teacher keep — keep
police, keep local authorities, keep local governments open at a time
where that was in question.  
  
So we know, if we look at the recent inflation data, a large — depending
on which data you look at, two thirds to even 70 percent of inflation
data is a result of energy prices.   
  
A large part of that is the result — and Chairman Powell has spoken to
this and Secretary — Secretary Yellen has also spoken to this — is a
result of President Putin’s invasion of Ukraine and the impact on the
goual \[sic\] — global energy markets.  Those are all steps and impacts
that I don’t think anyone could have predicted a year ago.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    So, yeah, thanks, Jen.  So, on that, the economy is signaling some
weakness going forward.  What’s the level of concern?  First of all, is
the President watching the markets and the data coming in?  And what’s
his level of concern there’s a recession in the next 12 months?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, without — as you know, we don’t — we don’t really
speak to or comment on the judgments — ups and downs of the stock market
— or the daily movement of the stock market, I should say.  While it’s
volatile — we’ve seen that, and we certainly monitor it from here — I
would note that since President Biden took office, the market is up
considerably.   
  
When we look at economic data internally and when a lot of external
economists look at economic data, they look at the fact that we’ve
created over 8 million jobs since the President took office; that the
unemployment rate has dropped to 3.6 percent; that GDP grew up 5.7
percent last year, the fastest rate since 1984; and also, that household
balance sheets are strong and businesses are investing in the United
States.   
  
So, we look at that base data — those — that data as we look at the
economy.  And, of course, we continue to monitor as data comes in and as
we see fluctuations.  
  
Q    So what’s his level of concern about a recession?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, we monitor it.  We are continuing to.  We’re not
predicting that at this point in time.  
  
Q    One more thing on the new sanctions that was just announced on
Russia —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.   
  
Q    — but China, last week, cut tariffs on coal from Russia coming in
to zero.  The Chinese have also had record imports last month from China
— from Russia to China.  Fifty-seven percent was the increase.  At what
point is China breaking the sanctions?    
  
And then, when is the President going to stand up and say — and call out
China to stop this behavior in supporting Russia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We clearly will watch closely.  And if that were to happen,
I don’t think we have seen to date a breaking of the sanctions at this
point in time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Thanks.  So, I’d like to ask you first about the
coronavirus and then about a transparency matter.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    On the coronavirus, the CDC data indicate that we are getting
pretty close to the 1 million death mark.  Some outlets say we’ve
already crossed a million deaths.   
  
I was hoping — you know, as we’re talking about potentially rolling back
tariffs on Chinese goods, can you say, you know, where the tariffs
question comes into pushing China to be transparent on the origins?    
  
And can you detail anything that President Biden has done with his
levers of power, be it sanctions or tariffs or anything else to press
for transparency from China?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, there was a lot packed in there, so let me do my best
here.  
  
I would say, first, as you noted at the top — or at the top of your
question — we track the CDC data as well as Johns Hopkins’s data.  And
you are right: We are getting close to a million.  And we will be
marking that from here.  And as we get closer, we’ll have more to mark
from here.  
  
The President has had recent engagements with President Xi, as we have
had at a very high level from a range of national security officials. 
And we always raise transparency in those conversations, but I don’t
have more to read out from those at this point in time.   
  
And what was the third part?  
  
Q    Are tariffs part of — are tariffs — or, I mean, is that part of the
pressure?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There’s an ongoing review.  I would look at it separately
from the COVID deaths or from Russia.  There’s an ongoing review on
Chinese tariffs.  We’ve been looking at those through the prism of how
they’re impacting industries here in the United States.    
  
We feel that a number of them have not been constructive and have hurt —
had a — had a negative impact on a number of industries.  So, we’re
looking at and we’re continuing our review of that, which is being led
by our Ambassador Katherine Tai.  
  
Q    Would tariffs be used to pressure China to be transparent, though? 
I mean, is that part of the consideration at all when considering
rolling them back?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, we consider a range of factors as we look at
the tariffs.  The largest factor is the impact on the economy and a
range of industries.  
  
Q    And the transparency question I have: In 2017 and 2018, the
President routed $13 million of income through S corporations.  There
are some ethics experts who are calling on him to divulge the specific
sources of income in those revenue streams.  Richard Painter, who ran
for Congress for the Senate as a Democrat, has been among those who are
calling for this.   
  
Will President Biden be releasing the sources of income that were in
that three — $13 million, particularly as there’s attention being paid
to his son and whether he earned any money from his businesses?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, the President doesn’t have dealings with his
family members about business.  And he has released decades of tax
returns, which is more than I can say for his predecessor.  
  
Q    But the S corporation, in particular?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask about North Korea.  So, some South
Korean officials are saying that North Korea is likely to conduct
another nuclear test around the time that President Biden goes to South
Korea.  Is the President monitoring this?  And is the White House going
to roll out any preemptive sanctions in the next week or so?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I will say we are — we are certainly monitoring.  And
I would note that when the President goes to South Korea and Japan,
North Korea, especially given the recent tests, will be front and center
in the agenda and discussing security in the region with them.   
  
I don’t have anything to predict or preview in terms of any preemptive
sanctions or actions.  
  
Q    And if I could just ask: The new South Korean President is coming
in tomorrow, and he’s expected to take a much more hawkish stance on
China and North Korea compared to his predecessor, who wanted to really
work closely with North Korea.  So, does the White House welcome this
kind of new hawkish stance against the two countries?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President looks forward to having a conversation with
him about security in the region and, of course, denuclearization of the
peninsula.  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.    
  
Q    Thank you so much.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Last one.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just a few follow-up questions.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    About the Cambodian Prime Minister —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — he’s been in power since 1985, which is the last time answering
machines were a thing.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  (Laughs.)  More recently than that I would say, but
—  
  
Q    He’s been accused of corruption —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    — of violence, of repression.  This is the first time he’s come to
the White House.  How does the White House respond to criticism that by
allowing him in here and meeting with him, you’re legitimizing that?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say that the President has never held back in
raising concerns about human rights when he has conversations with
leaders where that’s relevant.  
  
And this was — this is an ASEAN meeting, where all of the ASEAN member
nations are included and invited.  It’s not isolating.  It’s not doing a
state visit or anything along those lines.  It’s an opportunity to
discuss with leaders in the region a range of topics that we work
together on, whether it’s COVID or econ- — or economic growth or
security in the region. And that’s exactly what will be the focus.  
  
But he has never held back in raising concerns where he has them,
including with countries where we have a range of work we do together.  
  
Thanks, everyone.  We’ll see you tomorrow.  
  
4:17 P.M. EDT
