---
date: '2022-05-02'
published_time: 2022-05-02 17:17:59-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/02/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-may-2-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, May 2,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:43 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay.  Happy Monday.  Just catching up on the
weekend in the second row — see what’s happening.  (Laughter.)

Okay, one item for all of you at the top. 

Tomorrow, the President is traveling to Troy, Alabama, to visit a
Lockheed Martin facility that manufactures weapon systems such as
Javelin anti-tank missiles, which the Biden-Harris administration has
been providing Ukraine and the Ukrainians because they’ve been so
effective — effectively used to defend their country against the Russian
invasion, including to win the Battle for Kyiv.

For those of you who aren’t familiar with Javelin missiles, they are a
lightweight, portable, shoulder-fired anti-tank weapon system that can
hit targets up to 2.5 miles away.  They’re highly lethal and we’ve sent
over 5,500 Javelin anti-armor systems to Ukraine to support the
Ukrainian people’s fight for freedom.

The facility, which the President will be touring tomorrow, has produced
more than 50,000 Javelin missiles over the last 20 years.  In 2021
alone, they produced nearly 13,000 total missiles, and they currently
can produce up to 2,100 Javelins per year.  The President will
underscore the role that the men and women who work at the facility in
Alabama making these weapons have had in the fight — on the fight in
Ukraine.

And at the plant, he will deliver — in addition to touring the facility,
he will deliver remarks about the security assistance we are providing,
highlighting the urgency of the request to Congress to pass funding
quickly to help Ukraine continue to succeed against Russian aggression
and to make sure that the United States and our allies can replenish our
own stocks of weapons to replace what we have sent to Ukraine.

He’s also going to highlight how important it is for Congress to move
quickly to get the Bipartisan Innovation Act to his desk.  Each Javelin
miscil \[sic\] — missile requires more than 200 semiconductors to make. 
And boosting domestic chip manufacturing isn’t just critical to making
more in America or lowering prices, it’s also a vital component of our
national security.

So, passing the Bipartisan Innovation Act means America will stay on the
cutting edge of new technology.  It means stronger, more resilient
supply chains.  It means an out- — outcompeting the rest of the world
for decades to come.

So, that’s a little preview.  Go ahead.

Q    Great.  So, analysts say that Russia’s war in Ukraine has depleted
about a third of the Javelin stockpile in the U.S. and, I think, about a
quarter of the Stinger missile stockpiles have also been depleted.  I’m
wondering if this keeps up, if the U.S. is concerned or if the White
House is concerned that stockpiles for weapons that may be needed in
other parts of the world are going to be depleted.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that the Defense Department
assesses, of course, ensuring that we have what we need to defend
ourselves.  And we’ve been able to transfer equipment from U.S. stocks,
including Javelins, to Ukraine without affecting military readiness.

We, of course, are looking to replenish U.S. inventories and backfill
depleted stocks for ourself and also our allies and partners, which is
why we requested the recor- — resources to do so from Congress through
the supplemental bill. 

But as I noted at the top, really what the trip tomorrow is an
opportunity to do is to remind people in the country of why we’re
fighting, why we’re supporting the Ukrainians in this war; the type of
equipment and the type of assistance we are providing from the United
States, made here in the United States; and why it is urgent to get this
funding across the finish line; and also the Bipartisan Innovation Act,
which I think most people didn’t realize had such a key component for
our defense industry here in the United States.

Q    I got one more, switching topics.  Can you confirm that the
President had lunch with President Clinton and give us some details on
why?  I’m wondering if — did he maybe seek advice on midterms from
President Clinton?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m sure they will have a wide-ranging discussion.  But he
spoke with him a couple of weeks ago.  He’s had a number of
conversations with him over the course of time since his time in office,
and they talked about having lunch just a few weeks ago, so this is an
opportunity to do exactly that.  And I’m sure they will have a broad
conversation.

I’ll also note, which I don’t remember if it was reported publicly, but
if it wasn’t, he had — he had lunch last week with former President
Obama as well.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  On the midterms — speaking of midterms: So, this
report in the New York Times, it says that the President’s pollster is
sounding the — had sounded the alarm about inflation and immigration
becoming political liabilities, coupled with this new polling that is
out today that shows that voters trust Republicans more, believe they’re
more — better — that they are better suited to handle both of these
issues.

So can you speak to how the administration is digesting this data,
including these remarks from the pollster?  And is there a sense right
now that there needs to be some kind of course correction on these two
issues, given that polling in the midterms being just six months out?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that that report was about a range of
polling that goes back to last year, including before a number of events
happened, whether it was the invasion of Russia into Ukraine or even the
uptick of COVID that we saw late in the summer and into the fall —
really, primarily, in the fall.

And what I would note, as you’re looking at that, is that, one, there’s
a consistency with a lot of public polling — a lot of what we’ve talked
about here in this room.  But also, our actions and the efforts that the
President has undertaken from the beginning of this administration —
unrelated to politics, really focused on policymaking — are on addressed
— have been focused from the first day on exactly those issues, whether
it was lowering costs for the American people, making sure we took steps
to address a long-broken immigration system, or, of course, addressing
the pandemic and the continuing fight against the pandemic.

So, in terms of the course correction question, I would say that, as you
look to — while I’m going to be careful about not getting too much into
politics from here, but what I think you can all expect to hear more
from the President in the coming months, and more from other Democrats
as well, is the contrast of what he — what his agenda represents, what
he is fighting for, who he is fighting for, what he is going to do to
lower costs to address inflation, what he would propose to address a
broken immigration system, and the contrast with the other side, which,
in our view, does not have a lot in the cupboard.

So that is more about the time of year that we are approaching, less a
course correction from ongoing policy work that has been done from the
beginning.

Q    But given the situation at the border right now and this pollster’s
warning that immigration seems to be a growing vulnerability for the
President, does the White House believe that to be the case that
immigration could become a very serious liability for this White House
come November?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I believe that a lot of the reporting in that story
dated back to memos from last year as well.  And I would note from many
of you who are in this briefing room, we talked a lot — I’m looking at
you, Peter — a lot about immigration in this room back to last year, in
part because the system is so broken.  It is long overdue to be fixed. 
That’s why the President proposed a bill on his first day in office.

Removing ourselves from the politics on that, we’ve long known that that
was a substantive policy issue that more work needed to be done on.  Not
only did he put forward a bill on his first day in office, he has been a
supporter and advocate for many attempts by Democrats in the Senate to
include it in reconciliation bills.  And we’re going to continue to work
with anyone who is willing and able and open to the engagement on
getting immigration reform done.

Q    Really quick housekeeping.  You had said that the President would
likely be wearing a mask on Saturday while he

wasn’t speaking.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    We didn’t see him wearing one.  What changed?  Was there guidance
from the President’s physician?

MS. PSAKI:  I would say we made decisions based on consultations with
the President’s physician, which I know I noted as well.  He was wearing
a mask for portions of the behind-the-scenes visit to the White House
Correspondents’ Dinner on Saturday evening, and a determination was made
that he did not need to do that while he was on stage.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Finnish local media are reporting that the country
is planning to apply for NATO membership next week.  Is that something
you’re aware of?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve seen some reporting, and I’m not going to speak
for them, of course.  We, of course, support the policy of NATO for
those who are interested in joining to aspire and meet the
qualifications to join, and certainly support any decisions by Finnish
leaders and others to do — to apply.

Q    And just more broadly, what is the President’s personal view about
just the question of NATO enlargement, about whether that’s something
that would be an effective step to address the security challenges that
are posed by Russia or something that would be a provocation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President supports the open-door policy of NATO
and supports those who have aspirations to join to apply for membership
and the role of NATO in making those determinations.

But I would say, broadly speaking, what we all look at — the President,
other European leaders — is the fact that President Putin’s clear
objective at the beginning, prior to his invasion at the beginning of
this war, was to further divide NATO, to further divide the West.  That
is the exact opposite of what we’re seeing here with these reports, and
also just the broad unity across Europe and the United States — the
West.

Q    One other issue.  Amazon told its employees today that they would
be providing a new workplace benefit to allow workers to travel to other
states if they need to for abortion procedures.  I’m curious what the
White House thinks of that, whether that’s something that is appropriate
as there are more restrictions on abortion rights, and whether that’s
something that unions should seek in collective bargaining negotiations?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I don’t have any comment on a decision by a
private sector company.  We — you know our view on the archaic abortion
laws that we’ve seen put into place across the country in some states,
far too many states. I’m happy to check if there’s more we have to say
on it.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Congressman Adam Schiff, who’s part of the delegation
that traveled to Kyiv over the weekend, and House Speaker Pelosi says
that they heard new requests from Ukraine in terms of needs that they
had not heard before and also said they made recommendations to
President Biden afterward. So can you talk about what those needs are
that Ukraine has and what recommendations the lawmakers made to
President Biden?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President spoke with Speaker Pelosi but also the
entire delegation — I believe we put a pool note out about this
yesterday — after their visit to Ukraine, before they went to Poland.  I
believe that was where it took place in their travel.  He is looking
forward to getting a more extensive briefing from them when they return.

Now, the House is out this week, so it may be virtually this week, or it
could be when they return next week.  So I don’t have any more details
to speak to what the Ukrainians requested or asked for in their
conversations.

Q    And nothing on the recommendations from lawmakers either?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, I don’t have anything more to read out from here.  I
would say that, as you know, we have this supplemental funding request
that the President is going to be making a strong case for tomorrow when
he travels to Alabama.  And we are really going to continue to consult
with and rely on the advice of the Department of Defense on what weapons
systems and equipment the Ukrainians need to continue to succeed in the
war.

Q    And given these two high-profile visits that we’ve had — Defense
Secretary Austin, Secretary of State Blinken, now House Speaker Pelosi —
should we expect that it’s only a matter of time before President Biden
goes?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there’s no plans in the works at this time, and
obviously, we’ll continue to assess.  And as you know, we — our
objective is to reopen the embassy, to have our diplomats back there,
not just traveling back and forth but present in the country.  And I
know the President would love to visit Ukraine, but noth- — no plans in
the works at this point in time.

Q    And one more question.  In about a week — in a week from today,
Russia is expected to have its so-called Victory Day.  What is the White
House expecting President Putin to do on that day or in the next seven
days leading up to that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we know that President Putin has emphasized the
significance of this day for him and for the Russian military, but I
don’t have anything to preview or predict at this point in time from
here about what they may or may not do.

And I expect we’ll have more to convey about what we will do in advance
of Monday.

Q    Jen —

Q    Oh, wait.  Just to clarify the last point: You expect you’ll
announce more things that the United States will do ahead of May 9th?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we will certainly mark our support for the Ukrainians
and the Europeans in some capacity, but I don’t have anything more
specific at this point in time.

Q    Jen —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  Go ahead.

Q    Sounds interesting.  (Laughter.)  On Alabama —

Q    Sorry, I was like, “What?”

Q    No, no, that was good.  Yeah. 

Alabama.  The President is the subject of plenty of Republican attack
ads down there, so I’m curious: Is anyone meeting him, of the elected
official variety, when he’s in Alabama tomorrow?

MS. PSAKI:  I expect we’ll have more for you tomorrow on that once it’s
finalized.  Typically, we don’t finalize until the night before.

Q    Did you say 200 semiconductors per Javelin?

MS. PSAKI:  I believe that was in my notes, yes.  I will double check —

Q    Okay.

MS. PSAKI:  — that that’s accurate, but that is my understanding.

Q    So, I mean, given the semiconductor shortage, you know, are there
even enough to make them if that’s what they need?

MS. PSAKI:  There — there continue to be, but that is why we need the
Bipartisan Innovation Act signed and why we need to ensure that we are
not reliant on the whims of others in order to continue manufacturing
here in the United States.

Q    And, of course, the President confirmed a little while ago he’s
meeting with the parents of Austin Tice.  He said Saturday night he
wanted to meet with them.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Is there anything more about how that came together as quickly as
it did?  I mean, obviously, they were here in town, but anything else we
can learn about getting this meeting together so quickly?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, after the President made those comments,
obviously we went into action to work to set up the meeting on Sunday
and see if Debra Tice — Debra and Marc Tice — Austin’s parents — would
be available.  

Since — I would note that since the December meeting with our National
Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, our Principal Deputy National Security
Advisor, Jon Finer, and other NSC officials have met with the Tice
family in person on three occasions, including a meeting just last
week. 

And so, we have been very closely engaged with the family, and,
obviously, meeting with the President is an additional and more
significant step in that regard.  But we have been in close touch with
them as well.

Q    And what is the current U.S. government understanding of Tice’s
whereabouts and status?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any updates to provide to you from here.  But
what the President will certainly convey — and I’m sure we will have a
written readout after the meeting — is that we will continue to do
everything we can to bring him, and as we do with any American, home.

And I would note that, of course, we have a Special Presidential Envoy
for Hostage Affairs, as you know and you have become familiar with
because of our ability to bring Trevor Reed home — obviously, certainly
a different circumstance.  But we have an entire apparatus and effort
through the interagency to work in doing everything we can to engage
with leaders, with countries, even some we certainly do not have
diplomatic relations with, to bring Americans home.

Q    Can you speak to the President’s expectations for the First Lady’s
visit to Romania and Slovakia this week, and what he would hope she
could do on his behalf?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, the President is grateful and looking forward
to Dr. Biden, the First Lady, visiting Europe later this week.  

As was noted in the announcement that was put out, I believe yesterday,
the focus of this trip is to emphasize the U.S. support for the work
they’re doing on behalf of refugees, on behalf of supporting the
Ukrainian people.  

And she is going — and I think the significance of this should not be
lost — over Mother’s Day to really show this support.  And so, the
President is grateful for her willingness to do this and for the
important role she’ll play in representing the United States during her
visit to Europe and through these meetings.

MS. PSAKI:  And as war continues on, the Ukraine aid and the COVID
funding that’s needed, is there any additional insight on the view of
the White House about whether those should proceed only if they’re fused
together, or could they be passed separately? 

I know you’re deferring to Schumer and his plans, but is there any
update on how you see that playing out?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Kelly, you know, the President put them forward
together because that would certainly be his preference. And while he’s
obviously traveling to Alabama tomorrow to emphasize and really make a
strong call for the urgency of moving the Ukrainian — the money for the
Ukrainians forward, it should not be lost on anyone that there is a dire
need for money to continue to fund our needs on COVID. 

And I would note that there were reports, of course, over the weekend
from many of your outlets as well, including this morning, about a range
of new subvariants and — that have been — that have prompted some surges
in different parts of the United States. 

This is a reminder — that is a reminder of how vital it is that we are
prepared, that we are able to purchase in the future, if science and the
magic of science makes it possible, modified or variant-specific
vaccines or treatments to protect the American people as we continue
battling COVID. 

And without additional funding, we’re not going to be able to do that. 
And we will be behind — last in line — behind the world, which is
exactly the opposite of the place we’ve generally been.  

Q    And one last question.  The Vice President tested negative.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    I understand she will be returning to work.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Obviously, the President has some travel.  But even with her
negative test and a plan to wear masking, are they going to resume their
in-person contact, or is the President’s physician going to suggest a
little more time for the two of them to be apart until she clears any
further period?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Let me check on what they might have scheduled.  She
will be wearing a mask through the 10 days, which is what our protocols
are here.  And we, as noted, try to socially distance in meetings with
the President, even as the Vice President.  But I will check and see if
there’s any meetings that she would be participating in.

Go ahead, Peter.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  So, the DHS Secretary is now talking about people
on the terrorist watchlist crossing the border into the U.S.  And he
says, “We know where those 42 are.”  Why isn’t he saying, “We know where
those 42 are; they’re in jail”?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Peter, I would really point you to the Department of
Homeland Security to get more follow-up details on his comments.  I know
he’s spoken extensively at a range of hearings and, obviously, on a
range of Sunday shows — yesterday — including on Fox, I believe.

Q    So, then what is the President’s priority?  Would it be stopping
potential terrorist attacks or letting these migrants come in?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think as we noted just a couple of weeks ago
when there was reporting about the number of individuals who were on the
watchlist being stopped at the border, that that was the Border Patrol
doing their jobs, that was the system working.  And certainly, part of
the role of the Home- — Department of Homeland Security is to keep our
country safe, keep the American people safe.  And I think that’s an
indication of Secretary Mayorkas’s work to do exactly that. 

Q    But — so if it takes 19 people to carry out the September 11th
attacks, what do you guys think 42 people on a terrorist watchlist might
be capable of?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, Peter, our — the number one job of the President of
the United States, the Vice President, and certainly the Secretary of
Homeland Security is to keep the American people safe.  And I think a
lot of this reporting you’re referencing is an indication that they’re
doing their jobs and doing exactly that.

Q    And then, on another topic: Does the President know that DHS is
putting together this Disinformation Governance Board?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Peter, I think I would note — and I’m not sure if this
has been in your reporting yet — but this is a continuation of work that
was done under the prior administration — under the Trump administration
— to take steps to address disinformation, address the use of
disinformation in helping smugglers prompt the movement of more migrants
across — to the border.

I would note that the first example given in the announcement about this
was: DHS has worked to understand how, quote, “misinformation is spread
by human smugglers that prey on vulnerable populations attempting to
migrate to the United States.”

So, for anyone who’s out there who may be concerned about the increase
in migrants to the border: This is the kind of apparatus that’s working
to address disinformation —

Q    But —

MS. PSAKI:  — and, again, continuing the work of the Department of
Homeland Security in 2020, something we’re currently applauding.

Q    But just in terms of what the President wants out of this, does he
want the people on this board to start censoring information that is not
helpful to him? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me be clear on exactly what this board does or
what the work they’re doing does.  And in their announcement, which is
publicly available on the Department of Homeland Security website for
anyone to read, it says, quote, “The primary mission is to establish
best practices to ensure that efforts to understand and respond to
disinformation are done in ways that protect privacy, civil rights, and
civil liberties, and the right to free speech.”

Q    But — okay.  There’s this woman, Nina Jankowicz, who is going to be
in charge of the board.  She has said that she thinks the Hunter Biden
laptop is Russian disinformation.  So, should we look forward in the
future to her censoring Internet traffic about the Hunter Biden laptop? 

MS. PSAKI:  I think I noted exactly what the objective of the board is,
including continuing the work of the prior administration.  And the
woman you noted has extensive experience and has done extensive work
addressing disinformation.  She has testified before Congress, testified
in Europe.  She has done — worked closely with the Ukrainians and has
unique expertise, especially at this moment we’re facing.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Following up on the question about the stockpile and
weapons, some experts tell us the Pentagon has only just begun issuing
the new contracts to replace some of the weaponry sent overseas.  I’m
wondering if the President is comfortable with the pace of contracting
and defense industry production?

MS. PSAKI:  Certainly — look, I think I would point you to the
Department of Defense for any update on the status of contracts and
contract- — and they have quite a bit of experience in contracting and
how they’re navigating that.  

They do assess, of course, as they are making decisions about what type
of equipment and materials we can provide, ensuring that it continues to
allow us to defend and protect our homeland.  And they are confident in
that and the President is confident in that.

I would note that the Defense Department is also working closely with
industry to evaluate the health of weapon systems production lines at
the prime and sub-tier supplier levels and examine bottlenecks in every
component to ensure, if anything can be addressed, we can work to
address that in the manufacturing process. 

And we’re considering a range of options, if they’re needed, to increase
production capacity and improve production timelines of both Javelin —
Javelins, as well as Stingers.  But that’s an ongoing process, so I just
don’t have anything to preview at this point in time.

Q    And one more on inflation.  Has the White House analyzed at all how
much student loan forgiveness would impact inflation?

MS. PSAKI:  I know there’s been outside analysis of that, but I don’t
have any internal analysis at this point to preview for you.

Q    Jen?

Q    Thanks, Jen.  You just said, a moment ago, that the President would
like to see the COVID aid and the Ukraine aid together.  I think, last
Thursday, he said he didn’t really have any kind of preference on how
Congress moved it.  So, did his thinking change on this?  And if so,
why? 

MS. PSAKI:  That was what he put forward in his letter.  But what I’m
not going to do and he’s not going to do is get into a hypothetical of
what he would or wouldn’t sign. 

Q    Well — okay, but he’s not urging specifically that Congress tie
them together in a single package?

MS. PSAKI:  He said that was his preference in the letter he sent up to
Congress.  But again, there’s a process that needs to be underway.

But the point is: They’re both urgent for different needs and we’re
going to continue to press Congress to move them forward.

Q    And when Congress — I guess, when the full Congress comes back, are
you guys planning to send up officials, as you’ve done in the past, to
urge them to pass this COVID relief?  Is there any kind of like
full-court press that you all are planning on that?

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  I don’t have anything at this point to
preview.  I’m sure as we get later in the week, when we’ll have more
updates on the schedule for next week, we’ll have more to convey.  

But certainly, we haven’t waited for Congress to be back.  Our team has
been in touch with members, with their offices, with teams, making clear
what the urgency is at this moment. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Is the President — or how is the President following
the evacuation of civilians from Mariupol? 

And can you share whether the United States played any role, whether
helping organize, strategize, give advice on the current humanitarian
corridor?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update on the latter part of your question
from here.

We are — the President, of course, met with his national security team
this morning to get an update on a range of issues, as he does on a very
regular basis.  And this, I’m certain, was on the topic of discussion.  

Obviously, there are also a range of news reports that have been
developing throughout the day, as you know, about the challenge and the
delay in moving more civilians and others out of the plant.

So, as much as, of course, it’s positive that 100 civilians were able to
depart, there’s clearly more work that needs to be done.  We continue to
call for it, to press for it.  But beyond that, I don’t have any
behind-the-scenes details to outline for you.

Q    On Title 42, I know you were asked about this on Friday, but did
President Biden asks Mexican President López Obrador to increase troops
on the Mexican border?  Is the United States asking Mexico to increase
troops on either their southern border or northern border? 

And what is the overall message to the region, not only Mexico but the
Northern Triangle, to address Title 4- — the lifting of Title 42 and the
expectation of increased migration? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as part of the conversation — which, again, was very
constructive.  It was neither threatening nor pressing in that manner. 
It was a conversation that was put together, in part, because of the
timeline of the lifting of Title 42 and to discuss ongoing cooperation
and work on the security front, on the economic front, as we prepare for
the lifting. 

But I just don’t have more details beyond what was put in the readout.

Q    So, no details on whether troops — there was a request for troops?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there will be ongoing conversations that will happen
as we coordinate in the lead up to — to the lifting.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  A question on executive actions: The President, as
we’ve talked about, is mulling taking executive action on several
high-profile issues like police reform, student loans.  And several
groups of lawmakers have said that, you know, they want their own —
they’ve made their own executive action request.  So, is it a conscious
strategy of the Biden White House to rely more on executive action
authority going forward in the coming months? 

MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t say that.  I would say it’s — we’re going to do
both.

Look, there are steps that we certainly would like to see Congress move
forward on — or we would have liked to have seen them move forward on in
some cases — police reform, as an example.  

And when the bipartisan process paused, we — we stepped up the process
of considering and reviewing executive action on that front.  And that
is true in a range of areas. 

But the preference is, of course, legislative action, because it’s more
permanent; it’s more lasting.  But we will continue and the President
will contider \[sic\] — consider using his executive authority capacity
and capabilities throughout his presidency. 

But I wouldn’t say it’s choosing between.  We are still continuing to
press for the passage of the Bipartisan Innovation Act for work that we
feel could be done on a bipartisan basis, whether that is on helping
veterans or on health issues or opioids. 

But he will also, of course, continue to consider his options he can
take with his own authorities.

Q    Could you talk more about the timbre of the conversations with
lawmakers?  Is there pushback saying, “You know, you should do your job
and pass laws,” or how do those conversations go?

MS. PSAKI:  I just don’t have more to read out for you.  I’m sure the
lawmakers can speak to you about it themselves. 

Q    Jen?

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  On — following up on the student loan comments —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — the student loan relief comments from last week — the President
was clear that he was not supportive of $50,000 for relief.  He’s
expressed concern in the past about providing relief to — he mentioned
graduates of Yale — Harvard and Yale and Penn.  Does he still hold a
concern that pursuing student loan relief could provide a giveaway to
certain college graduates?  And as a result of that, is there
consideration of having income caps with any sort of student loan
relief? 

MS. PSAKI:  There is.  And he has talked about that back to when he ran
for President.  And I would say, when he talks about the type of
schools, you know, there are a number of schools — some you mentioned —
that have larger endowments than other schools, public universities, and
others.  And so, what he’s referencing is making sure it’s targeted to
those graduates who have the greatest need.

Q    And would that — in the effort to have that target, would the
student loan relief apply to students of both public and private
institutions?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, it wasn’t meant to discriminate.  It’s more meant to
make a point about where the needs are greatest, and that’s why he has
talked about, in the past, having an income cap as well.  

But we’re not at the point where we have a final proposal or a final
executive action or anything along those lines.  And when we do we will
— we will, of course, detail it to all of you. 

Q    And following up as well on the Disinformation Governance Board. 
Reading the announcements — well, two examples are pretty prominent. 
That was — you mentioned combating disinformation from cartels and then
also disinformation from extremist groups.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    Just, in terms of clarifying here, can you help me kind of assess
how this would look —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — for like, the common Ameri- — the person that’s at their computer
right now that sees, you know, disinformation online?  Or for cartels —
it’s usually buying a segment on the radio and saying, “Now’s the time
to come.”  How exactly would this board combat that?  Would it just be
factchecks, publishing guidance, or, you know, what would Americans
actually see when it comes to the work of this board?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, what it’s — again, it’s continuing work that was done
by CISA back to 2020.  So, what this would do is continue that work, and
it would help coordinate internal activities from the department related
to disinformation that poses a threat to the homeland. 

So, you gave some examples there of terrorist threats, of course, but
also — you know, which is different — the smugglers work that they do
pushing disinformation. 

It’s not — the mandate is not to adjudicate what is true or false online
or — or otherwise.  It will operate in a nonpartisan and apolitical
manner.

It’s basically meant to coordinate a lot of the ongoing work that is
happening.  And what their focus is — the focus is on disinformation
that threatens the homeland, as I noted, which things like inciting —
things that would incite violent extremism, you know, human traffickers
and other transnational criminal organizations, any efforts that pali- —
malign foreign influence, anything that would endanger individuals
during emergencies. 

So, a lot of this work is really about work that people may not see
every day that’s ongoing by the Department of Homeland Security.

Q    Would there be something public facing they would see?  Or would
all this happen kind of behind closed doors amongst government officials
—

MS. PSAKI:  Well, they would consider putting out public products that
represents the department’s view on disinformation-related manners, but
that’s their overarching objective, and I don’t have a determination of
what that format would look like at this time.

Q    One more on that.  Just — what will DHS be relying on when
determining what is information from extremist groups?  Will they be
relying on the FBI’s, sort of, you know, lists of groups that could pose
extremist violence?  Or is there some other kind of platform or — just
that DHS is relying on to identify?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I understand your question.  I’m not sure there’s
much detail I can get into from here.  This is, again, ongoing work that
has been happening by CISA, back to 2020.  And I would point to the
Department of Homeland Security if they have more details on any sources
they’re looking at.  
  
Q    So, this is being run through CISA, then?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It was run through CISA for — back to 2020.  It’s continuing
that work and is part of the Department of Homeland Security’s work.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, one more on student loan — student debt forgiveness. 
Republicans have already been setting out to criticize any action that
the President takes as a move to help that is elitist, that helps the
wealthy.  If there are income caps that you just discussed there, would
it be done in a way that preve- — you know, prevents this program from
being a program for the wea- — for college-going wealthy, and one that
would be equitable, in terms of helping kids maybe who need it more or
students who need it more?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s the goal — right? — is to make sure it’s
targeted at people who need help the most.

Q    Okay.  And then, the Washington Post reported that the White House
is in talks of having employees of Starbucks and Amazon who helped the
respective union drives there perhaps visit the White House.  Can you
confirm that?  Is that — does the President want to host those union
workers?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are in regular touch with union workers and union
leaders, in part — in large part because the President has been — long
been an advocate of collective bargaining rights and of the right of
anyone to choose to join a union.  But I don’t have anything to preview
in terms of a meeting at this point in time.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Following up on the question of Speaker Pelosi
going to Kyiv: At that time, it was just Democrats who went with her, no
Republicans.  Is the President disappointed at all that this might have
been a missed opportunity for a show of bipartisan support — not only to
Americans, but to Ukrainians and the Ukrainian President?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I believe her office spoke to this already.  And they
conveyed that they did offer to include Republicans on their trip.  And
as would be standard for security reasons, typic- — they didn’t get into
details about the fact that they would be going to Ukraine; they
conveyed it as a trip to Poland.  And any Republican they reached out to
declined to join the trip.

Q    And one of our ABC/Washington Post polls found that 8 in 10
Americans are expressing worries about a wider war and the possible use
of nuclear weapons by Russia.  And given that Russia has made it clear
that they believe NATO has — has engaged in a proxy war, what’s the
White House’s message to worried Americans right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s an important step to take and a
responsibility of everyone to make clear this is not a proxy war.  I
know that is the Republic- — I mean, the Russian talking point on this,
but it is not a proxy war.    
  
This is a war between Russia and Ukraine.  NATO is not involved.  The
United States is not fighting this war.  So, I think it’s important and
vital for all of us to not repeat the Kremlin talking points on this
front.    
  
I would say that the Russians themselves have, over time, including as
recently as last year, made clear that no nuclear war — a nuclear war
could not be won.  We agree with that.  And that is important for every
country to restate and every elected official to restate around the
country here as well.    
  
So I would note the President’s view, and his position continues to be
that we are not putting U.S. troops on the ground to fight this war. 
And that’s something we will continue to reiterate for Americans.    
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  You just said on May 9 — maybe a follow-up —
that the United States would certainly mark their support for Ukrainians
and Europeans in some capacity.  I was wondering whether you can be more
specific.  Are we talking about a symbolic gesture — you know,
coordinated sanctions with the Europeans, or a concrete announcement of
new aid for Ukraine?

MS. PSAKI:  Not yet.  I have nothing to preview yet.  Maybe as we get
closer to the end of the week, we may be there.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Two questions about President Biden’s upcoming
visit to East Asia.  We know South Korea will be the very first East
Asia or Asia country that President Biden will visit.  Actually, for
nearly 60 years, no U.S. president had visited South Korea first in his
term; they usually put Japan first.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  But many U.S. presidents have visited South Korea over
time.  
  
Q    Right.  But the first has significance.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    So, is this a signal of a change of policy towards East Asia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  In what capacity?  
  
Q    I mean, the U.S. will focus more on, for example, the issue of
North Korea and also maybe have — invite South Korea to join Quad.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there are many ways that we engage with South Korea. 
It’s an impre- — incredibly important partnership, relationship.  But
the Quad will remain the Quad.  We will continue to engage with South
Korea through a range of mechanisms and — and continue to work on our —
the strength of our relationship.  
  
In terms of the order of the trip, I would not overread into that. 
Obviously, we have a strong relationship with Japan, strong relationship
with South Korea.  I’m sure — certain North Korea will of course be on
the agenda — a prominent part of the agenda.  We’ll have more to preview
as we get closer to the trip.  
  
Q    And, actually, President-Elect Yoon — he said he is possibly
reviewing South Korea’s joining of Quad if invited.  Will we see the
invitation from the United States to invite South Korea to join the
Quad?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any prediction of that at this point.  But I
would note that we have an incredibly important, vital relationship with
South Korea.  We work on a range of issues in the region and around the
world.  And that is the reason why the President is going to be visiting
later this month.    
  
Go ahead

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I have a few.  Senator Tim Kaine said yesterday that
the competitiveness bill, COVID funding, and Ukraine aid are “three big
tasks ahead of us in May.”  That’s a pretty tall legislative order for a
four-week time period.  What is the President doing specifically to get
those legislative priorities across the finish line this month?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s going to Alabama tomorrow, that I previewed at the top
of the briefing, to make the case in these remarks about how vital it is
to move this legislation forward.  And he and his team — we have been
engaged already for the last several days — in calls, in outreach, and
engagement — conveying how important it is to move these pieces of
legislation forward.  And certainly they’re all priorities that have a
great deal of urgency.    
  
And I noted at the top of the briefing: Tomorrow is an opportunity not
just to talk about the supplemental package, but also to talk about the
Bipartisan Innovation Act and how important it is to ensure we have
access to semiconductors so we can continue to support not only the
defense industry, but other industries across the country.  
  
Q    I was mainly referring to the four-week time period to get all
three of those things done and whether or not the White House thinks
that that’s likely that you can do it all (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not here to set a timeline.  But I have repeated many
times, and the President has conveyed, the urgency of moving all of
these pieces of legislation forward.    
  
I think you’ve seen, over the weekend, comments from a number of
senators about that as well — echoing that point about the urgency of
moving the supplemental package forward.  The House is, of course, out
this week.  The Senate is not.  They can move.  And hopefully, next
week, we’ll see more activity on the House side.  
  
Q    On student — on student debt: How did the White House get from
“We’ll make a decision on erasing some student debt by the end of
August” to making a decision “in the next couple weeks”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:   Well, “by the end of August” and “in the next couple of
weeks” is the same thing.  So —  
  
Q    So the President isn’t speeding up his timeline for making a
decision because of political pressure from some within his party?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think when we outlined the — “by the end of August,”
what we conveyed is that is the timeline by — through which the pause on
student debt is — goes through.  So it was before that time — unless it
was — unless we — the President decided to extend it — a decision would
be made.    
  
I don’t have any preview of when — when will — there will be any
announcement, and there’s not a final decision about student debt.  But
— but “in advance of that” is what we have said.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Two questions.  One, on the President’s agenda in this
next important period of time, Senator Joe Manchin remains an important
vote in the Senate, of course.  He is saying he wants a package that
includes deficit reduction.  He is someone who wants a balanced budget
amendment.  That is something President Biden supported in the ‘90s. 
What does the President think now?  Does he support a balanced budget
amendment?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President is a huge advocate for deficit reduction.  He
actually reduced the deficit.  We reduced the deficit last year by $300
billion on his watch — something that people often forget.  And,
certainly, his advocacy for — to making the tax system more fair, which
has been part of the reconciliation proposal and process, would help do
that as well.    
  
I haven’t had a conversation with him about a balanced budget
amendment.  I’m not aware of that being — moving through.  I’m happy to
see if there’s more we can update on that front.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  
  
Q    Sorry, if I could — just one more also on, kind of, the midterm
season.  I know you can’t talk to (inaudible) elections and campaigns —
we get all that.  But some of the Republican senators the President has
worked with in the past, like Rob Portman, are retiring.  And I wonder
your thoughts about the tone that you’re hearing from the Republican
Party in places like Ohio and the chances for working across party lines
in the future.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to get ahead of the election.  But what
we’re seeing across the board is even with the former president not on
the campaign trail, we’re seeing quite a few Republicans out there who
are echoing his sentiment.    
  
So, I think that speaks more for where the party is than it does for
anything else.    
  
Okay, I got to wrap this up.  But, Eugene, go ahead.  
  
Q    Last year — excuse me.  Last year, Ron Klain told us that the memo
was being done by the Education Department on whether or not the
President could sign off on those $10,000 of student debt relief.  Is
that memo being done?  Is it done?  Is the President waiting on that to
make his final decision?  Or is — 

MS. PSAKI:  So that’s the policy process — right? —

Q    Right.

MS. PSAKI:  — that’s ongoing.  And then there’s always legal
considerations as it relates to executive orders that — which is in
conjunction with the Department of Education but part here.  And we, of
course, consult with the Department of Justice as needed.

Q    But has the — is that memo — memo been done?  Has the President
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update on the status of an internal memo. 
But I will tell you what the President said last week: that he is
continuing to consider and take a very hard look and close look at
providing student debt relief.  And that’s something that, you know,
hopefully we’ll have more on soon.

Q    Okay.  And one more question.  Does the White House have any
comment on the bipartisan talks on the Hill to make a deal to combat
climate change?  Many Democrats see this as, kind of, smoke and mirrors;
they see it as something that will never actually happen.  Senator
Whitehouse actually put it this way: “There’s literally nothing
happening in the bipartisan effort.”

I’m just curious if the White House has a view of those talks.

MS. PSAKI:  So, there — the bipartisan energy talks that Senator
Manchin, I think you’re referencing, is orchestrating — the President
has long believed that there should be support to move parts of his
agenda forward on a bipartisan basis.  

So, I don’t have any specific critique of it, other than that has long
been his view.  I’m not going to prejudge the outcome of these talks
either, nor is the President.  But we are also consi- — continuing to
engage with a range of Democrats about how to move the reconciliation
effort forward as well. 

Thanks so much, everyone.  We’ll see you tomorrow.

3:26 P.M. EDT
