---
date: '2022-05-20'
modified_time: 2022-05-20 05:40:43-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-20 05:40:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/20/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor\
  \ Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Anchorage, Alaska

(May 19, 2022)

3:35 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Hey, everybody.  Hello, hello.  Well,
heading to Asia.  Okay, I have Jake Sullivan, our National Security
Advisor.  He’s going to just take a few questions, and then we’ll let
him go.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Sure.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, do you guys want to jump in, or do you want me to
give a little bit of a laydown on where we’re going the next couple
days?  I can do it either way.  
  
Q    Can you talk a little louder though, please.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Sorry.  I was just saying: Happy to give a little laydown
of where we’re going, what we’re doing the next couple days, or happy
just to take your questions.  Whatever you prefer.  
  
Q    Jake, can I try one?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Sure.  
  
Q    How concerned are you about a possible nuclear missile or nuclear
test by the North Koreans while — while we’re there?  And what — what
would it mean for the visit?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, we’ve been forthcoming in downgrading and
releasing our intelligence and our analysis that there is a genuine
possibility, a real risk of some kind of provocation while we’re in the
region, whether in South Korea or in Japan.  That could take the form of
a nuclear test — the seventh nuclear test that North Korea has
conducted.  It could take the form of a missile test.  
  
There have been a number of missile tests this year and, of course,
North Korea has a long history — going back decades, at this point — of
missile tests, both to advance their capabilities and to cause
provocations.

We are prepared for those eventualities.  We are coordinated closely
with both the ROK and Japan.  We know what we will do to respond to
that.  We have communicated with not just our allies but also with China
that this would cause the United States only to increase our fortitude,
in terms of defending our allies, and cause adjustments to the way that
our military is postured in the region.

Q    Jake, what — sorry, go ahead.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Just as far as the trip is concerned, I think all it
would do what underscore — it would underscore one of the main messages
we are sending on this trip, which is that the United States is here for
our allies and partners, we are here to help provide deterrence and
defense for the ROK and Japan, we will respond to any threats and any
aggression decisively, and our cooperation with these two countries
bilaterally and the U.S.-Japan-ROK cooperation trilaterally will only
strengthen in the face of any further provocations by North Korea.  
  
And if something does occur, it will only serve to reinforce and
highlight the fact that the United States is going to be engaged in the
Indo-Pacific, is going to be a stalwart ally, and is going to stand up
to and not shrink from any acts of aggression.  
  
Q    Can you say what the administration is doing to get North Korea to
the table for any sort of talks right now?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  We’ve made no bones about the fact that since the very
beginning of this administration, we have reached out to North Korea to
say that we are prepared to sit down and talk, without preconditions, to
discuss a pathway forward to make progress toward the ultimate goal of
the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.  And we have proposed to
do that on an action-for-action basis — that we are prepared to take
steps if they are prepared to take steps in service to that ultimate
goal.  
  
We’ve communicated that directly to the North Koreans through multiple
channels.  We’ve communicated that to our — in coordination with our
allies and partners.  And we’ve also spoken with the PRC about our
willingness to do that.  
  
Thus far, North Korea has not displayed any indication of willingness to
engage in meaningful or constructive diplomacy.  And as long as they
continue to refuse to do so, we’ll continue to stay on the course we’re
on, which is to impose pressure, to coordinate closely with our allies,
and to respond to provocations with clarity and decisiveness.  
  
Q    Have they indicated anything like a meeting between Kim Jong Un and
President Biden as one of the things that they desire for this
communication?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  We’ve not gotten any indication to that effect.

Q    I just want to go back to the historic stuff that was announced, in
terms of NATO this morning.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  What?  
  
Q    The historic announcement with NATO this morning.  
  
So, if Turkey decides that they’re going to block Finland and Sweden
from joining NATO, do you think that an F-16 deal should go through?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I don’t want to answer a hypothetical question,
because our view is that we believe that the Turkish concerns about the
accession of Sweden and Finland that have been expressed by President
Erdoğan and others can be addressed and can be resolved.  
  
And today, when the President met with President Niinistö and Prime
Minister Andersson, the President of Finland and the Prime Minister of
Sweden indicated that they’re both intending to speak directly to
President Erdoğan and their teams are going to engage directly with
senior Turkish officials.  
  
We’re prepared to support that effort in any way, but we think they can
work through, and that ultimately Finland and Sweden will be admitted as
members of NATO.

Q    Have they been addressed yet, do you know?  Have any of the
checklist items that Turkey wants — have they been addressed yet, to
date?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Two NATO aspirants have had initial conversations with
the Turks.  They will have further very high-level consultations with
them over the course of the next days.  And they will work through this
between them.  
  
I don’t want to speak for the Finns and the Swedes.  This is something
that, you know, they feel they want to do as part of their effort to
bring Turkey to a place where they support their membership.  President
Biden was very clear: We’re prepared to support that. 

Also, I’ve spoken with my Turkish counterpart, Secretary Blinken has
spoken with his Turkish counterpart, and we’ve indicated if there’s
anything we can do to be supportive, we will do it.  
  
But fundamentally, this is an issue about concerns that Turkey has
raised vis-à-vis Finland and Sweden.  This is not a U.S. issue, other
than it being a U.S. issue in that we want to see it resolved in a way
that brings these two members in the Alliance.  And we’re confident that
is going to happen.

So, I don’t think we’re going to get to the point where we have to think
about the kinds of hypothetical —  
  
Q    On the — about the security guarantees and what that means, that —
in the interim of this accession, what does that mean?  How do you
guarantee Sweden and Finland’s security?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, we are going to work very closely with Finland and
Sweden to deter any aggression against either of them.  And of course,
we would be prepared to work with Finland and Sweden to respond to any
aggression that occurred.  And that’s on the basis of the very deep
existing partnership that we already have with these two countries.  
  
Our militaries are interoperable.  We exercise together.  We train
together.  And we would be prepared to work with the Turk- — with the
Finns and Swedes and other NATO Allies to respond to any contingency. 

But I’m not going to get into specifics of what that looks like.  I’ll
leave that to our respective militaries to work through.  Just to say,
on both the deterrence and the response side, the United States will be
there for Finland and Sweden, if anything were to occur between now and
the time that they are fully admitted as members of NATO and have the
full Article 5 protection.  
  
Q    Can I just clarify that point?  Because, yesterday, you were still
saying that Article — Article 5 does not kick in until they’re fully
members.  Can you —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  And I just said, before you started asking your
questions before I finished my statement, which is: This is in the
period between now and when they are full members of NATO, where Article
5 applies.  We are prepared to work with them to deter aggression and to
respond. 

And that is different from the legally binding, in our view, security
guarantee provided by Article 5.  But as a practical matter, any
would-be aggressor should be on notice that the United States will be
there for Finland and Sweden in the event that they are attacked.  
  
Q    Are there any plans for the President to engage directly with
President Erdoğan?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Not at the moment, but the President made clear that the
United States is prepared to do whatever we’re asked to do to be
supportive in resolving this issues.  And if that were requested of him,
he would, of course, be happy to do it.

Q    On a slightly different note, CNN reported today that Biden will be
meeting with MBS soon.  Can you confirm that and give us any details?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I cannot confirm that.  No.  
  
Q    Can I ask something about South Korea?  Will you — will the
President be addressing the issue of the $7 billion of Iranian funds —
the unfreezing of that funding during his trip in South Korea?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  You know, on technical and expert levels, we discuss that
issue with the South Koreans on a regular basis.  This is bound up in
the sanctions imposed on Iran’s nuclear program.  I don’t know that it
will be on the agenda of the two presidents.  
  
Q    Can you just clarify the U.S. position on the freezing of those
funds, though?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Our view is that the sanctions should be enforced, and
that as long as Iran continues to advance its nuclear program, we should
be working with our allies and partners to ensure that we are
maintaining the form of economic pressure on them to sharpen the choice
to get them to ultimately to agree to what is a perfectly fair and
reasonable deal on the table for them in Vienna.  
  
Q    Jake —  
  
Q    On Ukraine aid.  
  
Q    Sorry.  
  
Q    Go ahead, Betsy.  
  
Q    On Ukraine aid, presuming that the bill passes the Senate today,
are there plans for the President to sign it while he’s abroad?   
  
And he had said in a statement that there could be — the funding would
run out as soon as today.  Is there any contingency for if there were a
gap?  Are there any consequences in any — even a short gap in funding?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, since we’ve been on the plane, I haven’t actually
seen if the final vote has gone through.  Maybe you all have.  Has it
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It has.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  It’s passed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s passed, yeah.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, the President does intend to sign the bill while he’s
on the road so that he can sign it expeditiously.  The modalities of
that are being worked right now so that he can get it and sign it.  
  
There won’t be a gap for that very reason.  We, today, authorized the
10th Presidential Drawdown — the remaining $100 million — on May 19,
just as we said we were going to do.  
  
That money will be converted into capabilities.  Those capabilities will
flow in the coming days.  And then the next Presidential Drawdown will
be teed up shortly following his signature.  So, we will have the kind
of continuity of support that we asked for.  And for that, we are
grateful to the bipartisan backing that we’ve gotten from the Congress,
who stepped up and did this in a timely fashion.  
  
Q    On China — Jake, can you share your reaction to China saying that
this is becoming a “dangerous situation” with the stance towards
Taiwan?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m sorry?  
  
Q    China was saying that they gave you a warning about how the
situation with Taiwan is becoming a, quote, “dangerous situation”
because of the closeness.  Is that accurate?  Are you aware of that
report — that they issued that warning?  They say that they told you it
was becoming dangerous.

MR. SULLIVAN:  I did not see the specific phraseology of “dangerous,”
but they’ve offered formulas of that sort for months now.  There’s not,
I don’t think, anything particularly new in that statement.  
  
Our view, as we’ve expressed many times, is that we are concerned about
peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait and the ratcheting up of
tensions.  And we believe that China is contributing to the ratcheting
up of those tensions through provocative military activities around
Taiwan and around the Strait.  
  
But we’ve been equally clear that our policy towards Taiwan has not
changed.  We support the One China policy, the Three Joint Communiqués,
the Taiwan Relations Act, the Six Assurances.  And we remain committed
to supporting peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait and to
ensuring that there are no unilateral changes to the status quo.  
  
So, from — from our perspective, our position has been clear and
consistent.  And we believe that it would help if the PRC also dialed
down the actions and activities that we think are contributing to
tensions there.  
  
Q    Follow-up on China.  So, there was a report this morning that China
is replenishing its — or going to replenish its strategic oil reserves
with oil from Russia.  Does that cross the red lines that you’ve laid
down for them in terms of cooperating with Russia on evading
sanctions?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  We have banned Russian oil to the United States, but we
have not imposed sanctions on the sale of Russian oil elsewhere.  And,
therefore, other countries purchasing Russian oil are not contravening
the sanctions that we have laid out.  
  
Now, of course, the Europeans are contemplating their own Russian oil
ban, which we support.  But President Biden made clear, when he issued
the ban that we did, that we are in a particular position given that
we’re an energy producer and so forth, and Europe is in a different
position.

Q    And to your knowledge, is that accurate, though, that that — that
that’s what China is doing with Russia?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we have seen the statements about it, but we have not
yet seen the action taken to that effect.  
  
Q    Two more on China, if you’re willing.  
  
Q    On Ukraine: After overreaching initially, clearly the Russians —
seems to be signs that are settling into more of a stalemate over in
eastern Ukraine.  What — do you think there’s a — there’s a danger that
time — people have assumed that Russia is the one suffering economically
from the sanctions and so on, and even militarily.  But if it says
there’s a stalemate militarily, the West is also suffering from the
sanctions — clearly, right? — it’s having a lot of spillover.

So is there a fear that time could actually end up being on the Russian
side if they just want to settle for a grinding, you know, semi-frozen
conflict in eastern Ukraine, just destabilizing Ukraine, and this goes
on for months and months and months and months?

MR. SULLIVAN:  You know, there — I certainly understand the question. 
There is something tragic in the logic of time being on the side of a
country that is losing young men in large numbers by the day, as Russia
is, and suffering — the people of the country, the economy of the
country — under the weight of these sanctions.  
  
So it’s — it’s hard for me — I can see a certain cynical kind of element
to that logic.  My view is: Time is not on their side because of just
the sheer cost that is being imposed on them in human terms and in
economic terms. 

Moreover, Vladimir Putin bet that Western unity would crack.  I think he
has been surprised by the clarity and resolve of the response of the
free world.  
  
And one thing that every leader that Joe Biden talks to reinforces is
that we’re prepared for the long haul.  And we’ve been saying now for
weeks and months this could go on for a long time.  And our allies and
partners understand that very well — our allies and partners in Europe
and the allies we’re going to see right now — the Republic of Korea and
Japan.  And, in fact, the Republic of Korea and Japan have stepped up in
really significant ways to support this effort.  
  
And I expect that he will walk out of those meetings over the next three
days with a sense of reaffirmation that we’re committed to this for as
long as it takes.  
  
So we feel that this significant asset we have, of unity in the face of
this aggression, is an asset that’s durable.

Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    Can I ask one more question?  
  
Q    Go ahead.  
  
Q    Two different things.  One, if you could lay down a little bit of
tonight — or I guess, tomorrow — on the Samsung visit and what we should
expect on that engagement.   
  
And then, separately, President López Obrador, I guess early this
morning, made some comments suggesting an answer should be coming very
soon on his concerns about exclusion of certain countries.  Can you give
us an update about where things stand there?  Has the President made a
decision?  Do you — are you guys ready to put out an invite list?  And
will you meet his concerns?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We’re having constructive conversations with President
López Obrador.  Senator Dodd, our special representative for this
summit, spent two hours with him on Zoom yesterday.  It was a good
exchange of views.  Ambassador Salazar will be engaged, even today.  I’m
not going to get into the details of what are candid and constructive
conversations back and forth.  And when we have something more to say on
this, we’ll say it.  I don’t have anything to announce today.  
  
In terms of the event tonight, the President will be met by President
Yoon at this Samsung facility, along with leadership of Samsung.  
  
The facility is actually a very similar model to what Samsung will build
in the United States.  And that significant multibillion-dollar
investment that they will be making in the U.S. will mean good-paying
jobs for Americans and, very importantly, it will mean more supply chain
resilience, because it will mean that the United States will be
manufacturing significant quantities of semiconductors necessary as
inputs for a lot of our key industries.  
  
So the President will get a tour and then have the opportunity to speak
to the public and to the press about the investments that Samsung is
making in that semiconductor manufacturing facility, other investments
Samsung is making as well that will help create American jobs and
advance our competitive position.  
  
And then the final thing that he will reinforce is that this ecosystem
of high technology among democracies and free societies is one that
needs to be protected against predation by other countries.  And so he
will have the opportunity also to say: Just as we’re promoting this kind
of investment in advancement, we also need to protect these technologies
from intellectual property theft.  
  
Q    Jake, to follow up on that: On export controls on high tech, are
you expecting any outcomes with South Korea and Japan on this trip, on
export controls on high tech?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I think we’re going to have some very robust discussions
on export controls, as well as investment parameters.   
  
I don’t expect that we’re going to have specific announcements, because
what we’re looking to do is align our approach around a set of
principles and then on a case-by-case basis, as opposed to some new
initiative or some new formula.  And we actually believe that there has
been substantial convergence, which will be on display on this trip, on
this issue in both Korea and Japan.

Q    Jake, can I follow up on China?  You recently — or, a couple of
days ago, you met with Yang Jiechi.  I think you mentioned that —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Spoke by phone, yeah.  
  
Q    Oh, you spoke by phone.  Yes, correct.  And then you mentioned that
you discussed DPRK.  I think you hit on Taiwan too, a little bit.  Is
there anything more that you can share from that meeting?  Essentially,
what kind of message are you conveying to the Chinese ahead of the
President’s trip to Asia?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to say too much because I actually value
the opportunity to engage with Yang in a way that allows for the free
exchange of perspectives back and forth without it all being played out
in the press. 

But I will say that, you know, I was quite direct with him about our
concerns about North Korea’s nuclear and missile activities and our view
that this is not in China’s interests, it’s not in America’s interests,
and that China can — you know, should contemplate taking whatever steps
it can to reduce the possibility of a provocative North Korean act.  
  
And, you know, it was a — we had a good back-and-forth on that subject. 
He shared his perspective, which I won’t characterize.  And, yes, we
covered Taiwan, and we covered some other issues as well.  
  
Q    Can I just follow up on another meeting, Jake?  Did — can you
confirm reports that you also met with a Pakistani spy agency chief and
whether you discussed the issues of counterterrorism in Afghanistan?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Met with him when?  
  
Q    Recently in Washington, D.C.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I did not.  
  
Q    Well, did you have any communications with him recently?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  No, no — I’m not — I’m not being cute.  (Laughter.)  I
met with the head of the ISI a year ago — the previous head — on a visit
to Washington.  But I di- — I have not met the current ISI chief nor
spoken with him.

Q    On the Yang call, just to go back to that, was that partially to
set up another call between Biden and Xi?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  It was not.  Although, I — I wouldn’t be surprised if, in
the coming weeks, President Biden and President Xi speak again.  But
this was not specifically laying the groundwork for a call that is
contemplated.  
  
Q    How come we haven’t — how come the administration hasn’t been
talking to its Chinese counterparts very frequently, especially with
Ukraine and the invasion?  I think it had been two months since you had
talked to Yang.  Can you say maybe why — why isn’t there more
communication with the Chinese?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I mean, I’d have to go back and look at what the rhythm
was in terms of National Security Advisor engagement with their kind of
rough counterpart, like Yang.  But I actually think the cadence is not
unusual.

You know, we spent a whole day together in Rome.  And then, you know,
seven, eight weeks later, we had a good, long conversation yesterday. 
We’ll speak again when necessary. 

So — and Secretary Blinken speaks with the foreign minister, I think, on
a fairly similar cadence to what we’ve seen previously.

We’re certainly not intending to present any notion that we are slowing
or we’re somehow constraining our high-level diplomatic engagement with
China.  We have said all along that we think intense competition
requires intense diplomacy.  And we should stay in close contact.

Q    And just one more on China.  Is the U.S. prepared to levy secondary
sanctions on China for Chinese companies and banks helping North Korea —
just as prepared to levy secondary sanctions on — for that as you are
for China helping Russia?

And then also on that: Do you feel pretty satisfied that China isn’t
helping Russia and that they have heeded your warnings?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We have not seen evidence thus far of China supplying
military equipment to Russia for its brutal war in Ukraine, nor have we
seen evidence that China has systematically worked to undermine Western
sanctions.  But that’s something we continue to track very closely, week
by week. 

I’m not going to make any threats about secondary sanctions in public. 
We have had conversations with China in private about our sanctions
regime vis-à-vis North Korea.  And, you know, the fact is that an
overwhelming majority of North Korea’s economic activity runs through
China.  And so, in the past, there have been instances where Chinese
entities have been part of the sanctions effort. 

And beyond that, I don’t have anything to add. 

Q    Secretary Yellen said yesterday that some of the Trump-era tariffs
imposed on China — that they’ve done more harm on businesses and U.S.
consumers than good.  Is there — if that’s really the case, why not lift
them?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The President has asked his economic team and his foreign
policy team to engage in a consistent review of our trade policy towards
China.  There are discussions now about how best to move forward to deal
with the challenges that China poses to our economy and our national
security with their non-market economic practices, and how to move
beyond the trade approach of the previous administration. 

He will ultimately make a series of decisions on that, following his —
the opportunity to get advice from his team.  And I’m not going to say
anything else in public on that because I don’t want to prejudge what he
ultimately decides.

Q    Jake, could you talk about why the decision was made to skip the
DMZ on this trip?  Is it just too dangerous?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The President has been to the DMZ before.  It’s not that
it’s too dangerous, no.  In fact, we have — senior U.S. government
officials go there on a regular basis. 

But one of those U.S. government officials was then-Vice President Joe
Biden in 2013.  In fact, I was on the trip with him then as his national
security advisor.  And the head of U.S. Forces Korea — the Commander of
U.S. Forces Korea, Scaparrotti, took us by Black Hawk up to the DMZ.  He
had the chance to see the whole thing, do the whole thing. 

And he felt on this trip, rather than repeat that, he wanted an
opportunity actually to see where the rubber hits the road in terms of
U.S. and ROK forces sitting side by side or managing the theater. 

And so, we will do that at the airbase.  It will give him an opportunity
to get briefed on the larger strategic picture in a way that actually
will show him more than going and standing at the DMZ.  It’ll give him a
much larger domain awareness for the security threats to the Peninsula
and the wider region.

Q    Can I ask a non-security aspect of the Quad, Jake?  So, in the
March meeting, I believe, they announced — the Quad announced 1 billion
doses of vaccines, mostly for Indo-Pacific, Southeast Asia. 

Now it seems like that’s not going to be met — that target.  I
understand that the Indian manufacturer has run into trouble; they
haven’t been given the WHO approval.  But also, I think we’re hearing
that experts are saying that it’s not a question of not enough vaccines,
but not enough funding to get them into — shots in arms. 

So, does the Quad see that reality?  And is there — can we expect a
pivot in strategy from the Quad on vaccines?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We are working assiduously to get the necessary approvals
because we think there still is the need for supply. 

But in addition, we haven’t just been standing still waiting for that. 
Okay?  Over the past several months, all of the Quad partners have
worked together to get hundreds of millions of vaccines out into the
world, many of them into Southeast Asia, and have put forward
initiatives to help fund shots in arms.  The United States has been on
the leading edge of that. 

And so, the particular effort to get an Indian manufacturer to be able
to produce and disseminate these vaccines has been constrained by
regulatory efforts, but that has not slowed the four Quad partners from
having a very robust COVID response. 

I do think that coming out of this last COVID-19 Summit, where we got $3
billion in new commitments, that the emphasis on testing, treatment, and
shots in arms, in addition to actual vaccine supply — that that is
something you will see reflected in the collective efforts of the Quad
going forward as well.

Q    Have you had any (inaudible) pandemic funding from the U.S.,
though?  We don’t have any global pandemic response funding.

MR. SULLIVAN:  I mean, first of all, we’ve — I can’t give you the exact
dollar figure, but it is more than any other country has provided in
terms of COVID-19 global funding.  And we are continuing to pursue
efforts, including major initiatives to get shots in arms, with the
funding that has already been allocated. 

Q    Jake, going back to your earlier point about Samsung and the
opportunity to talk about semiconductors and jobs, Hyundai is also
expected tomorrow, in Georgia, to announce a big plant.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yes.

Q    Is the President going to get a chance to engage on that?

And if I could also — just a second question on Yoon and on Prime
Minister Kishida: This is the first really big opportunity for the
President to just spend some time with these two very new leaders.  Can
you just talk to us a little bit of, you know, what he wants to get out
of that and just, you know, sort of finding out who these — who these
two people are and how he can work with them going forward?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah, I mean, you’ve heard the President say before that
— he refers to this Tip O’Neill expression that “All politics is
local.”  He says, “All politics is personal.  All foreign policy is
personal.”  It’s fundamentally about these personal relationships with
leaders. 

And so, in both cases, he’s looking for the opportunity to just spend
time to get to know these leaders so that they have a feel for one
another and that then, when they need to pick up the phone in a crisis
or to respond to a major world event, there’s a baseline of trust,
understanding, and almost like a common operating language as they go
forward. 

He’s already built that, to a certain extent, with Prime Minister
Kishida.  They did meet in Glasgow last year.  They have had the chance
to do extended video conversations.  He has spoken only briefly on the
phone with President Yoon after his election, and he’s only extremely
recently been inaugurated.  So this will be an opportunity to build that
relationship, you know, from — from the ground up. 

In Korea, President Yoon will be there today.  So not just in the formal
bilateral context, but they’ll go through the Samsung tour together. 
He’ll come with the President to Osan Air Base for — for the briefing
event with the U.S. and ROK militaries.  And then they will have a very
small meeting, in addition to the expanded meeting, to be able to get to
know one another. 

And then, with Prime Minister Kishida, not only will they have the
opportunity for one-on-one time, but the Prime Minister will host him
for a very small dinner as well that will give them the chance to just,
you know, talk as humans, as opposed to as world leaders. 

Yes, he will meet with the CEO of Hyundai in Seoul — that will be before
he leaves on Sunday — and will have the opportunity to say thank you for
this significant investment that will occur in the United States. 

And, you know, we like to think that, in part, having this trip and
having this emphasis on the relationship between the U.S.-ROK and
investments in the United States has helped give it momentum and boost
to these announcements you’re now seeing — seeing come out. 

Q    Jake, there was some language in the readout of your call with the
Saudi Deputy Defense Minister that suggested that you talked about the
economic recovery, which is not normally a topic with defense
ministers.  Just curious how oil was discussed on that call, whether you
discussed getting them more and more engaged in helping the economic
recovery by getting more barrels of oil out. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  I actually saw him in person.  He was in town — is still
in town for a series of defense dialogues.  And he’s an important
advisor across a range of issues, despite his formal title being Deputy
Defense Minister.  We did talk about economics, we did talk about
energy, and I’ll leave it at that. 

Q    Can you talk about IPEF a little bit?  Just —

Q    On that, can I just follow up?  I know you said you can’t confirm —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to need to wrap it up, guys.

Q    — that the President is going to the Middle East.  But is it
possible that if he did go to the Middle East, he would meet with MBS? 
Would he meet with the Crown Prince?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I really don’t have any announcements or even speculation
on travel to the Middle East.  And if and when we have any speculation,
informed or otherwise, I will speculate. 

Q    Can you talk about IPEF real quick?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yes.

Q    Because this is something that you’re going to launch, right?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.

Q    So without any kind of free trade component, I think many are
saying, “Yeah, countries will sign on because this is an important
relationship with the U.S., but it’s really not an attractive package to
many countries in the region.”  Can you respond to — respond to the
criticism?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah, I’ll respond to that.  I think you’re going to see
a really impressive display of energy and enthusiasm by a significant
number of countries in the Indo-Pacific for the launch of the
Indo-Pacific Economic Framework. 

It is going to be a wide-ranging and comprehensive set of countries from
across the region, a mix of different kinds of economies.  And that
diversity and breadth of participation, in our view, actually vindicates
the basic theory behind IPEF, which is — you’re right — it is not a
traditional free trade agreement.  And that’s a good thing.  It is a
modern negotiation designed to deal with modern challenges.

So, we’re going to cover supply chains, the digital economy, the clean
energy transformation, significant investments in infrastructure. 

And we think that, at the end of the day, what you’re going to see is a
response to the real-world challenges facing these economies and really
meaningful progress on substance. 

So, I think what’s interesting when you hear some of the “Well, we don’t
quite know.  We’re not sure because it doesn’t look like things have
looked before” — I say, “Just you wait.”  Because I think this is going
to be the new model of economic arrangement that will set the terms and
rules of the road for trade and technology and supply chains for the
21st century. 

And, you know, we’re planting a stake in the ground that we want to be
at the center of that.  And we see a lot of countries signing on with us
to make that a reality, and it’s going to give huge thrust and momentum
to our economic initiatives in the Indo-Pacific.

The other thing is that there’s a certain lagging indicator here.  I
would say, two months ago, there was a lot of, like,

“Well, is this real?  Is it not real?  Is it something that’s meaningful
or not meaningful?”  Week by week, as we’ve built out the substance
working with these countries, they’ve not only come on board, but
they’ve gotten increasingly invested in and motivated by the elements of
it.

So, we think this event on Monday is going to be a big deal and is going
to be a significant milestone in U.S. engagement in the Indo-Pacific.
And at the end of the President’s first term, I think we will look back
and say this was a moment where the U.S. engagement in the Indo-Pacific
got kicked into a different gear.

Q    (Inaudible) is there any kind of capacity building or trade
(inaudible)?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yes, absolutely.  I mean, there’ll be significant
resources around infrastructure, around trade facilitation.  There will
be the opportunity to set — to organize regulatory approaches that will
make trade significantly easier.  And there’ll be the opportunity for us
to set the rules of the digital economy for the 21st century.

There’s a lot in this that people are going to want to be at the table
at.  And the reason we know people are going to want to be at table — at
it — is they’re going to be there.  We’re going to have a significant
roster of countries signing up to this thing and joining us there for —
to be in at the takeoff of this effort.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to just take two more.  Two more, guys. 
That’s it.

MR. SULLIVAN:  There was some intelligence that was declassified
yesterday about — in Mariupol — what sounded like almost torture of city
officials and residents.  But a concern — it sounded like the
intelligence was finding that Russian officials were concerned that the
treatment could backfire.  One, can you confirm that this — that these
reports are correct?  And — and, two, who are these Russian officials,
and what is the sort of broader concern that is going on there?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to speak beyond the four corners of the
information that was released yesterday, other than to say that we
warned, before the conflict began, that we were likely to see brutality
and repression by Russia in occupied areas.  And we are seeing that in
cities and towns across the areas that Russian forces are currently
holding.

What we’re also seeing, increasingly, is the reality of the Ukrainian
populace pushing back against this in these areas and the concern in
Moscow that, in fact, what they had hoped for at the beginning, which is
the Ukrainians would welcome them as liberators or as brothers, is not
bearing out in the first instance.  And the level of antipathy and
animosity will only grow as Russia’s brutality and repression unfolds in
these places.

And we think that’s a dynamic well worth watching, even as so many — so
much of the attention is focused on the fighting on the frontline in the
Donbas.  Because what’s happening in these occupied areas is brave
Ukrainian saying, “We don’t want to live this way.”  And we think that
that is going to impose its own form of pressure on the long-term
Russian effort to occupy these areas.

And this comes back to the question you were asking at the beginning
about whether time is on Russia’s side.  We’ve seen before that military
advances can give way to grinding occupations that bleed a country dry. 
And this is — this is not going to be a circumstance where Russia is
just going to be able to sit on any territory it takes and have these
courageous and brave Ukrainians just say, “Yeah, we’re fine with that.” 
They will not be.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Last question.

Q    Jake, thank you.  Have the North Koreans actually ever responded to
any of the overtures from the Biden administration?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I guess all I will say is that we’ve gotten no
indications from them that they are prepared to sit down and talk.  And
that’s true from the opening weeks of the administration all the way
through to today.

Q    Do you know if they’re still — if Kim is still in touch with the
former President?  There has been reporting that says as such.

MR. SULLIVAN:  I do not know that.  Thank you, guys.

Q    Thanks, Jake.

Q    Karine, can you give us a sense of what’s going to be happening in
Anchorage?  We’re going to be stopping for an hour and a half.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, just a gas — gas refuel.

Q    Will the President get off the plane for any kind of —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t expect him to get off the plane.  Yeah, we’re
just refueling.  That’s it.  If there’s more, I’ll share that with you,
but I don’t know of any more than that.

Okay.  President Biden knows that parents across the country are worried
about finding enough infant formula to feed their babies, which is why
he has directed his administration to do everything possible to ensure
that there is enough safe infant formula in the country available for
families that need it.

Yesterday, we announced two important actions.  As you all know, the
President invoked the Defense Production Act to ensure that
manufacturers have the necessary ingredients to make safe, healthy
infant formula here at home.

Just to give some background on how the DPA works, I thought I’d dive in
with some specific details here, since we’ve gotten so much inquiry
about this.

The DPA is an authority that empowers the government to require
companies to direct their resources to support the national defense. 
That includes supporting critical infrastructure and public health.

Yesterday, as well, the President gave HHS the authority to order
suppliers to direct needed resources to infant formula manufacturers
before any other customer who may have ordered that good.  So, with this
authority, we can direct firms to prioritize and allocate the production
of key infant formula inputs as needed.  This can and will help increase
production and speed up supply chains.

Just an example of how this works: There are a range of things needed to
make formula, from oils and fat blends to labels and cans. 

The company that makes one of those items, like a label, has a lot of
customers, one of which happens to be infant formula manufacturers.  And
they are likely a very small share of the overall market for that good.

By having DPA authority available for infant formula, we make sure
formula manufacturers are at the top of the list for that item and can
maintain the higher levels of production that the companies put in place
in February to address the shortage caused by the Abbott plant being
shut down.

Second, the President also announced Operation Fly Formula to speed up
the important — the important — the import of FDA-approved infant
formula and start getting more formula to stores as soon as possible.

By using DOD-contracted aircraft, we can bypass regular air freightening
\[sic\] — freighting routes and speed up the importation and
distribution of safe infant formula.

This is the same type of action we took to get critical COVID materials,
such as testing supplies. 

These announcements build on previous administration actions that have
increased manufacturing production and are getting more safe infant
formula onto shelves. 

Sorry, my throat is a little dry.  (Clears throat.)  I apologize.

Q    Need some water?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Probably.  I apologize, guys.

Okay, Aamer, you want to kick us off?

Q    On infant formula, does the President agree with criticism from
Senator Wyden and others that Abbott fell short of its corporate
responsibility with its failure to keep up with sanitation upgrades at
its Michigan plant?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the President’s — the President’s goal
right now is to make sure he understands how difficult it is for
families to find, in this — in this particular time, to find baby
formula.  And so he wants to do everything in his power, use every lever
in his power to get that — to get that situation taken care of and to
get us in a better place.

When it comes to Abbott — look, we have told this story.  You guys have
heard us say this.  The FDA stepped in, and Abbott had — had a safety
issue that the FDA flagged for them, and they volu- — Abbott voluntarily
shut down that facility in Sturgis, in Michigan.

And so that is — the number one thing that’s important to us is safety —
safety and health first.

And so, just — I just want to add to — so what we announced yesterday
just builds on what we’re trying to do in order to get things back — to
get things going again. 

So there’s an agreement by the FDA and Abbott Nutrition detailing next
steps to reopen Abbott Sturgis plant and make sure we do it in a safe
way.  FDA guidance is that that will allow major formula manufacturers
to safely import formula that is not currently being produced for the
U.S. market; efforts to cut the red tape and provide consumers
flexibility on types of formula they can buy; and calling on Federal
Trade Commission and State Attorney General — and State Attorneys
General to crack down on price gouging or unfair market practice.

So this is a top priority not just for the President, but clearly for
his administration.  And so we’re going to continue working overtime,
working 24/7.  And that’s — that’s what we’re going to be focused on.

Q    I mean, I get that the FDA was coming in to do the thing — it was
working on safety.  But does the President understand just the outrage
that some people have?  This is while Abbott was doing stock buybacks
and they weren’t keeping up their plant.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, we understand the outrage, right?  We — we see how
mothers and parents are dealing right now in this situation.  As a mom,
who had to deal with getting formula for my child when she was a little
— a little one and was allergic to certain formula, I know how this
feels — trying to make sure your baby is eating healthy and safely.

You know, clearly, I’m not dealing with this in this current form and
what’s happening, which is — which is — you know, which is something
that we’re trying to deal with.

So that’s the focus.  Our focus right now is how do we — how do we do
this safely; how do we make sure that we’re doing everything in our
power, which we have been for the past several months, to get to a place
where families are not struggling to feed their child — their children.

Q    Do you have any sense of how many weeks, after you do all of these,
before it actually makes a difference for parents?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know — so, by invoking — (clears throat) —
excuse me.  Wow, I really have a tickle in my throat.  I’m so sorry.

By invoking — invoking the DPA.  So the President, again, knows how
important this is for families across the country.  That’s why he has
directed his administration to do everything possible to ensure that
there is enough safe infant formula in the country available for
families that are in need.

So, you know, again, this is going to cut the red tape and implement
W-I-C — WIC flexibility so that parents can get any formula when they
walk into stores.  So that’s what we’re building off of: increased
supply on the — market supply is higher than it was before the recall,
so we have seen an increase out there before the recall; fighting
against bad actors — as I mentioned before, with FTC — that may possibly
be hoarding and selling product in unacceptable way — prices.

So work is so far from over, but with every action we take, we are
making serious progress and elevating the shortage. 

But when it comes to — I know folks were asking about picking up formula
from other countries and when that’s going to happen and where that’s
going to happen.  You know, we’re working with manufacturers right now
to identify existing stockpiles of FDA-approved formula overseas, to
arrange pick up by DOD commercial flight.  And we’ll have more details
to share, and we’re hoping that happens soon.

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to take a little bit of water guys, but go
ahead, Nancy.

Q    The Abbott plant — it shut down in February.  Why did it take so
long for the White House to act on the DPA?  And why couldn’t those
actions have been taken months ago?  Like, how long is it going to take
for results to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, as I said — as I just laid out, we’ve
been doing this for months with the — our — the administration.  We’ve
been working on this for several months now.  And the DPA was always on
the table.  We are always examining, trying to figure out the best way
to do this. 

But there are other actions, as I just listed, that we have been doing. 
This is a — building on the DPA.  And the — and the Operation Fly
<s>Over</s> \[Formula\] is just an added addition to the — to items that
we’ve announced just a couple of days ago.

So, we have not been sitting on this.  We’ve been doing everything in
our power to move forward as quickly as possible to really respond to
what’s happening currently, right now, with the baby formula.  

I’m just going to take one (inaudible).  (Take a drink of water.) 
Excuse me. 

Q    On gas prices.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, ma’am.

Q    Today, we saw another record high on gas prices.  Do you have any —
anything you can share with us on what the administration can do about
that?  And is there anything you can share on what the administration is
discussing as you help Europe try to block Russian oil but that would
lead to even more higher prices and — or — for U.S. consumers? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, this is something that’s been also a
priority for the President: making sure that we’re lowering cost for the
American people.  We’ve announced several steps just in general, as we
talk about lowering cost, the past several weeks — whether it’s the
high-speed Internet for tens of millions of Americans or when he went to
Illinois recently to give farmers the tools and resources they need to
boost production and lower prices and feed the world. 

You know, the nonpartisan <s>CBC</s> \[CBO\] found that the deficit fell
by $1.5 trillion this year, putting us on track for the fastest deficit
reduction in any year on record.  And one of the things — the two items
that we did take on recently to address Putin’s price hike at the pump
is the — is rallying our allies and partners around the world and
release that 1 million barrels of oil per day from the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve for the — for the next six months, as you’ve heard us
talk about.  And that’s an additional 60 million barrels of oil from
over the country’s reserve. 

And also, we did — we allowed E15 gasoline, which is homegrown biofuels,
to be sold this summer. 

So, we have — we are doing everything in — that we can as an
administration to make sure we address the high prices at the pump, with
food, with other things that — with other items that the American public
is feeling.  And so, we’re going to continue to do that and make sure
that we focus on what can we do for — from this administration to lower
those costs — price.  It is a priority.  It is also a priority for this
President.

Q    (Inaudible) price caps?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share on any further — kind
of any further items to preview on what we’re doing next.

Q    And does the President have any issues with price caps that are
being talked about in Europe?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have anything to share on that. 

Q    Karine, just — not to beat a dead horse, but —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — you don’t have anything to share right now, but are there — are
there other tools in the famous toolbox here? Because it’s — you’ve used
up a lot of tools, and there’s been no noticeable effect for Americans.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I — you know, again, what we’re seeing
right now, currently, as we’re looking at the gas prices — because, JJ,
that’s — that’s just the question that she started off asking me — it’s
because of Putin’s price hike.  It’s because of what Putin is doing in
Ukraine — his aggression and his war on Ukraine. 

And so, we saw a jump in prices once that happened — about 60 to 70
percent.  So we are doing — that’s why we did the last two things.  The
E15 was one of the most recent items that we pushed forward to try and
help the American public and get the gases — the gas prices to come
down.

So, I don’t have anything to preview, but the President has, as I laid
out, a bunch of steps, has taken this very seriously, and understands
the pain of the American public and what they’re feeling — American
families — and what they’re feeling at the <s>price</s> \[gas\] pump and
with high prices in general.

Q    You and other officials have mentioned Putin’s price hike very
often lately.  Do you believe that this will be an effective message
going into the midterms? 

And in addition to that, I think the President also hits really hard on
other cultural issues.  Like, I think during the AAPI event, he
mentioned — or he condemned people who filled the shooters with crazy
ideas.  He also does a lot of the ultra-MAGA kind of sentiment. 

So, I guess I’m — I’m trying to get a feel of what’s the messaging
that’s coming out of the White House ahead of the midterms. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, let me get back to the — you’re talking about
the “Great Replacement Theory,” which is a conspiracy theory that’s
incredibly dangerous.  And what the President said when he was in
Buffalo in particular, when he was visiting with the families of victims
and the families who lost their loved ones, he was — spoke very clearly
and said that you have to call this out.  It is important to call out
the hatred. It’s important to call out this very dangerous theory.  And
— and white supremacy is poison.  He said this. 

And it’s important for the leader — the leader of this country, of our
country; the leader of — one of the leaders of the — around the globe to
make sure that he sa- — he says that in a very forceful way. 

And so, that is what you saw the President do, and that is important —
and critically important — especially how dangerous that conspiracy
theory is. 

Look, when we talk about Putin’s price hike, it is a fact.  It is a fact
that we want to make sure that we’re communicating very clearly with the
American public as what they are seeing at the — at the pumps and why
we’re in this situation.

So, you know, you asked me about — about the contrast of what we’ve been
doing with Republicans.  I mean, it is true, when you think about what
we’re seeing with, you know, a woman’s right to choose and to decide
what to do with their body, you know, that — that is something that the
President has spoken about and the Republicans are against; when we talk
about the leaked document that we saw from SCOTUS; when we talk about,
you know, what we’re trying to do with the middle class and inflation. 
You know, that is the number one challenge for families, as we’ve been
just discussing. 

There are two potential paths forward.  President Biden’s plan is to
tackle inflation and lower costs for families.  And congressional
Republicans — MAGA — plan to raise taxes on middle class. 

And so, we have to ask the question: Who has — who has their back? 

And so, the President’s plans lowers everyday costs, lowers the deficit,
and ask large corporations and billionaires to pay — pay for their fair
share.  The congressional Republican plan is to increase taxes on
middle-class families and let billionaires and large companies off the
hook as they raise prices and reap record profit.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So this is important that we are able to say, “This is
our plan, and this is what the other side is trying to do.”  And we want
to make very clear and — and speak to the American people about those
things.

Q    Karine, let me stay on gas prices — because now we are going into
the summer traveling season, when demand usually shoots up.  Is there a
role for conservation here?  And should the American public be thinking
about driving less or planning different kinds of vacations to deal with
the higher prices? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So it’s not our place to tell the American public, you
know, how they should spend their summers and what they should do.

We are doing everything that we can to make sure that we lower the
prices.  This is, again, Putin’s price hike — why we made the
announcement on the E15 gasoline, which is going to, you know, have some
long-term effects.  And we’ll see that down the line. 

And so — so we’re going to — again, we’re going to continue to do what
we can, because this is a priority.  This is incredibly important to the
President.  He understands what it means for the — American families,
the American people to — when they see increased prices and how they’re
— we’re trying to make sure that we alleviate that.

Q    Karine, does the President have any reaction or concern about
former President Trump telling Dr. Oz that he should simply declare
victory in Pennsylvania before all the ballots are counted?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I ca- — I don’t — I can’t get into politics
from here, so I’m not going to dive into that at all.  I — you know, I
mu- – I understand my role.  And I actually have not spoken to the
President about that, so I can’t even speak to the question. 

Q    Is he following the (inaudible) counting of these returns since it
might be a close race?  And, you know, obviously, I assume he’s for the
Democrat, Fetterman, in that race.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah — well, yeah, absolutely.  I spoke to that
yesterday — or I can’t even remember; I lost my days.  But when I was
asked about that at the podium.  But I — I’m not going to dive in into
the politics of the midterms or the primary.

Q    Karine, shifting back to formula, Senator Patty Murray says she
gives everyone involved in the response to the formula crisis an “F”
grade.  Does the President share that view? 

And Murray is also calling on the White House to appoint a formula
coordinator going forward.  Is that something you would consider? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, the — the coordinator, I — you know, we
appreciate Senator Patty Murray.  We work with her closely on so — on
many issues.  I do not have anything on the coordinator. 

I — you know, I — look, we understand the frustration of, you know, the
American public.  We appreciate — the American public and the members. 
We appreciate members that have led on solutions to address the
shortage.  And so, we’re going to continue working closely with them. 

Again, this is a priority for the President.  He understands how
difficult this is for working — for families who have children and
trying to make sure that they are, you know, being fed safely.  And that
is our priority as well, which is how we got here.  Right?  We have to
remember how we got here: FDA, you know, told Abbott facility that there
was some safety issues, and they voluntarily shut down. 

And so, safety is key here.  We want to make sure that we’re doing this
in a safe and healthy way.

Q    Can I have one more foreign policy question, Karine? Can you give a
reaction to the report — recent report by the Special Inspector General
for Afghanistan Reconstruction that decisions by both President Trump
and President Biden to pull all U.S. troops out of Afghanistan were the
key factors that led to the collapse of the Afghan military, leading to
the Taliban takeover? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  When — when was that reported? 

Q    This report came out, like, maybe a week or two weeks ago.  And I
actually sent the NSC about — an email about this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have not seen the report, so I would need to see it
in more detail to respond. 

You know how we’ve spoken about the Afghanistan and the operation and
how it was just a non-ending war that we spent billions of dollars on. 

And so, you know, this is something that the President had talked about
— the strategy there and wanting to make sure that we got our troops out
of there.  And so, I don’t have anything more to add without really
seeing — diving into the report.

Okay.  Thanks, everybody.  Thank you.

4:34 P.M. EDT
