---
date: '2022-05-26'
modified_time: 2022-05-26 19:58:51-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-26 20:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/26/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-may-26-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, May 26,\_2022"
---
 
4:10 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, good afternoon, everybody.  Okay, I have a few
toppers, so please bear with me. 

Over the past 15 months, we’ve made tremendous progress in our fight
against COVID, with 220 million Americans fully vaccinated and over 100
million people boosted.

We’ve also moved quickly to ensure Paxlovid, an oral antiviral pill that
reduces risk of hospitalization and death by almost 90 percent, is
widely available.  
  
Importantly, because of all the work the Biden administration has done
on vaccines, boosters, treatments, and more, daily COVID-19 deaths are
down by 90 percent from when the President took office, even as
infections are rising.  
  
So the tools that the administration has made widely available to the
American people are working to prevent serious illness, to keep people
out of the hospital, and to save lives.  
  
And while COVID isn’t over, it’s critical that Americans know that we
now have more tools than ever to protect ourselves.  We can now prevent
most COVID deaths, and that’s ma- — that’s major progress.  
  
To drive further progress, today we announced new federal — federally
supported test-to-treat sites. 

Today, the first of these launches in — launches in Providence, Rhode
Island.  In the coming days, we’ll deploy clinical personnel to help
transform several of Minnesota’s state-run testing sites into
test-to-treat sites.  And in the coming weeks, we will work to open more
in places like New York and Illinois.  
  
These build on the more than 2,500 sites we’ve already set up at local
pharmacies and community healthcare centers.  
  
Yesterday afternoon, the Governor of Oklahoma signed into law the most
extreme piece of legislation to undo a woman’s fundamental right to make
her own reproductive choices since Roe became law.  This law will go
into effect immediately.  
  
Not only does this law ban abortion from the moment of fertilization,
but it also adopts Texas’s — Texas plan to allow private citizens to sue
their neighbors for providing reproductive healthcare and helping women
to exercise their constitutional rights.  
  
This law is the latest in a growing effort by ultra-MAGA officials
across the country to roll back freedoms that should not be taken for
granted.  Roe has been the law of the land for almost 50 years, and it
is under serious threat.  
  
They are starting with reproductive rights, but the attack on our
fundamental rights, including the right to contraception and marriage
equality, is growing.  And these rights are increasingly at risk.  
  
The President believes that women have the fundamental right to make
their own reproductive health choices, and he and the Vice President and
the entire administration are committing to protecting these
constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms.  
  
Today, the Department of Agriculture announced new steps to strengthen
food supply chains, increase competition in the meat processing sector,
and lower prices for American consumers.  
  
The Department is making $200 million available to create a new
processing capacity expansion program, providing $25 million for
workforce training and releasing the first of three planned rules
designed to bolster enforcement of the Packers and Stocks— Stockyards
Act which will increase transparency.  
  
These actions will combat — combat market dominance by a small number of
major meat and poultry processors in key markets, where excessive
concentration and control has led to lower prices paid to poultry
producers and higher prices by consumers.  
  
After the severe and sweeping sanctions on the Central Bank of Russia,
the Department of Treasury issued General License 9 to provide for an
orderly transition so that the bond holders could get paid.  
  
We’ve announced that we will not be renewing the license.  This means
that the — this means that Russia will likely fail to meet its
obligation and face default, an enduring sign of their status as a
pariah in the global financial system.  
  
We expect the impact of the U.S. and the global economy to be minimal
given Russia has already been isolated financially.   
  
That being said, Treasury Department continues to monitor and have
conversations with the global financial community.  
  
I have two scheduling updates.  
  
Next week, the President will welcome Prime Minister of New Zealand to
the White House — another example of our continued commitment to the
Indo-Pacific.  We’ll have more details on this as we get closer.  
  
And as you all saw, we announced that on Sunday the President and the
First Lady will travel to Uvalde to grieve with the community that lost
21 lives in the horrific elementary school shooting.  
  
We — we’ll have more to share as we get closer, but while he’s there,
the President will meet with the community leaders, religious leaders,
and the families of the victim.  
  
The President and First Lady believe it is important to show their
support for the community during this devastating time and to be there
for the families of the victims.  
  
And lastly, on Tuesday, as you all know, the parents of 19 kids did what
so many of us parents do every morning: They gave their kids a kiss,
told them they loved them, and wished them a good day at school.  They
figured their kids would spend their day reading, writing, doing math;
playing with friends at recess.  These kids never came home.  
  
Some of these parents needed to give DNA samples to be able to identify
their own children.  These were elementary school kids.  They should be
losing their first teeth, not losing their lives.  They should be at
little league, softball, and soccer practices this weekend.  These
parents should be planning their kid’s summer, not their child’s
funeral.

As — as a parent, it is unfathomable to me that this happened.  These
kids had their whole lives in front of them. 

Our hearts ache for their families.  Our hearts ache for the family and
loved ones of the teachers who were killed. 

Schools should be sanctuaries of learning, not battlefields.  And
teachers should be there to teach, nurture, prepa- — and prepare our
children for the future, not to be gunned down or asked to sacrifice
their own lives for the kids they love.  But that is what two heroic
teachers did in Uvalde — killed while trying to protect their students.

I’m a parent of an elementary school student.  I know many of you in
this room are as well.  We cannot become numb to this.  We will not
accept this.  A grocery store, a church, an elementary school.  And this
is just in the last few days.  It is unacceptable. 

As the President said the other night, why are we willing to live with
this carnage?  Why do we keep letting this happen?  Where in God’s name
is our backbone?

So I ask, how is protecting our children a partisan issue?  How is
preventing innocent people from being slaughtered controversial?

Commonsense gun safety laws work.  We know this.  They save lives.

As the President said Tuesday night, when the assault weapons ban
passed, shootings went down.  They tripled after it was lifted.

And let’s be clear: The public supports this; they are behind this —
even gun owners.  Ninety percent of gun owners support universal
background checks.  Eighty-four percent of Republicans and eighty
percent of NRA members support background checks.

As the President said this week, it is time to turn this pain into
action.  It’s time for Congress to act.

And with that, Darlene, I will take your question.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Is there any reaction here from — at the White House to
the Senate Republicans blocking the domestic terrorism bill, which was
supposed to open the door for some debate and discussion about gun
safety, as you were just talking about?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’re disappointed that Congress did not move
forward with the legislation that would strengthen our response to
domestic terror incidents like we saw in Buffalo. 

We need Congress to act on that.  And we need Congress to advance
commonsense measures that we know will save lives when it comes to gun
violence.

Q    And secondly, the NRA is opening its convention in Houston
tomorrow, three days after the massacre in Uvalde.  Former President
Trump, Texas Governor Abbott, and others are set to speak there.  Does
the White House think it is appropriate for that convention to move
forward?  Should it be postponed, cancelled, given the events of the
last few days?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So it’s not about the convention.  What is
inappropriate is that the leadership of the National Rifle Association
has proven time and time again that they are contributing to the problem
of gun violence, not trying to solve it.

They represent the interests of the gun industry, the gun manufacturers
who are marketing weapons of war to young adults.  They don’t represent
gun owners who know that we need to take action.  And it’s shameful that
the NRA and their allies have stood in the way of every attempt to
advance measures that will — that will — that we all know will save
lives from gun violence, measures that we know would keep weapons off —
of war out of the hands of people who are terrorizing our community. 

So that is what matters, and it is shameful.  
  
Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Does the President believe that there should be an
investigation into the police response to this school shooting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’ve heard of — (member of the press coughs) —
we’ve — need some water?  You okay?  (Laughs.)  Just let us know.

The President — we’ve — we’ve been watching the reporting on this.  The
President has the utmost respect, as you all know, for the men and women
of law enforcement.  Just days ago, he honored the memory of the former
police officer, Aaron Salter, in Buffalo who was killed bravely while
trying to stop the shooter at the supermarket.

I know that right now authorities are working to piece together more
details of what happened in Uvalde, so we won’t prejudge the results
from here at this time.

It is al- — it is always a good idea to look back and try to find any
lessons we can learn, especially from trag- — tragedies like this, so
that we can prevent them from moving forward, including law enforcement
response.

Q    And is the President considering calling on Congress to stay in
town to work on this issue instead of going home for a week-long recess?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we have been in close touch with Congress — even
before this shooting and, clearly, what we saw in Buffalo — about gun
reform.  This is something that has been a priority from the Pre- — for
the President since day one of his administration.  And we also have
been in close touch and we really appreciate what Senator Schumer and
Speaker Pelosi have been doing.

You know, the President has been very clear that it’s time to act, it’s
time for Congress to act.  The President has long urged Congress to take
action to fight gun violence, including by expanding background checks. 
He supports Leader Schumer’s plan to bring legislation forward.

They — the Congress would clearly handle the mechanics of all of this. 
And, you know, during — as you all may remember, during the State of the
Union, the President asked Congress to pass proven measures to reduce
gun violence, pass universal background checks.  Why should anyone on —
on the terrorist list be able to purchase a weapon?

Those were what — is what he said just a couple of months ago.  So we
have an opportunity to do that right now.  And we encourage Congress to
act.

Q    And then, finally, the average age of suspects at school mass
shootings is 18.  Would the President support raising the age at which
someone can buy a gun to 21?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President was very clear about this just
recently when he said that the — that — in his remarks, just on Tuesday,
that it doesn’t make sense for an 18-year-old to legally buy an assault
weapon.  
  
And so, he made very clear on Tuesday when he — after he landed from
Asia and had to deal with such a devastating news that happened in
Texas.  
  
Yeah, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  There was a bipartisan group of senators — nine
senators — that met today.  Does the White House have any confidence
that this group could reach a meaningful agreement?  And does the White
House plan to get involved with those negotiations?  Would the President
bring that group down while they’re having these talks and meet with
them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything to preview for you as to any
meetings — upcoming meetings that may be happening at the White House
this week or next week or in the coming weeks.  
  
We really, truly, as I said, leave it to — the mechanics up to Senator
Schumer and Speaker Pelosi.  We are confident in — in that they will —
that Senator Schumer will bring this forward.  
  
And again, it is time for Congress to act.  This is what the President
has been calling for since the beginning of his administration, and
that’s what we want to see and that’s what we encourage Congress to
do.  
  
Q    And Senator Schumer has signaled that they have roughly 10 days to
get to a conclusion.  Is that a timeline that the White House wants to
see?  And if at the end of that 10 days there is no agreement, the White
House wants to see the Senate move forward on the two House-passed
bills?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, we leave the mechanics to Senator Schumer.  We
want to see action.  That is what we’re calling for.  
  
And — but again, we leave it to the leadership — the Democratic
leadership to figure out how they’re going to move this forward.  
  
Q    And just one quick one: Can you give us any sense — has the
President talked to other officials in Texas since Tuesday — or who he’s
talked to on the phone about what happened down there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — any calls to preview.   
  
Clearly, the President is very much — and the First Lady — is looking
forward to meeting with the families, community leaders when they’re
there on Sunday.  
  
We have been trying to give the families some time to grieve, as this
just happened two days ago.  But again, he’s going to see them on Sunday
and have that opportunity to offer comfort.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, are you getting any sense that this time is different, that
there’s a different climate on Capitol Hill that might be inclined to do
some — some things?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this, Steve: You know, we have seen two
horrific tragedies in just two weeks.  Hours before the shooting, many
of the 19 kids who were killed in Texas, Uvalde, were being awarded
certificates of the Robb — of the Robb Elementary’s Honor Roll ceremony
as part of the end of the school year.  Today would have been their last
day of school and — for the school year.  
  
In Buffalo, on the same day — on the same day that this happened just
two days ago, 2 of the 10 people who were killed while going to the
grocery store on a Sunday, like many of us do, were being buried and
honored by their families.  I’m talking about Aaron Salter, the security
officer who first responded, and Celestine Chaney, a mother and
grandmother of six, were being buried by loved ones right in Buffalo on
that same day.  
  
So, America has more guns than people in this country.  If more guns
were indeed the solution, we would be the safest country in the world,
but we are not.  
  
And so, the President has been very clear he wants action — he wants
Congress to take action.  He wants to turn this pain into action.   
  
And I hope the Senate, and particularly those who have been unwilling to
act in the face of previous tragedies, will act now.  And that’s what we
are hoping and urging Congress to do.  
  
Q    Is the President considering some unilateral actions on guns? 
There are a number of gun safety advocates who are pushing for things
like a gun czar or a state of emergency declaration.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on your first part, you know, while we’ve been
calling for Congress to act, and the President has done that since the
first couple of days of the White House, he has been waiting, right?  We
have talked about the things — the comprehensive approaches that he’s
taken.  
  
We recently announced how over $10 billion from the Rescue Plan has been
spent or committed on ways to fight gun — gun crime and gun violence. 
The President wants cities and states to use even more.  The department
— the Justice Department issued a tough new rule to stem the flow of
ghost guns, which are increasingly being found at the crime scenes and
which are the weapons of choice for terrorists and criminals.  
  
So, the administration — the administration issued a zero-tolerance
policy for gun dealers who willfully sell guns illegally.   
  
So, this President has done more via executive actions than any other
President during their first year of office.   
  
Now, what we are asking for is for Congress — we are urging them to take
action.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  How does the President view his role in this
moment?  You know, we talked yesterday about changing a dynamic — a
dynamic that’s been entrenched for decades now at this point.  
  
I understand the legislative details are Capitol Hill’s prerogative. 
How does he view his role in trying to change that dynamic?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think he — he views his role has as he has
been doing.  
  
You know, if you think about his remarks on Tuesday, it was — it was
compassion, it was sadness, it — it was outrage.  
  
And you heard that from — from the President of the United States,
basically saying “enough is enough.”  And this is something that he
understands personally.  This is a President who has worked on gun
violence during his Senate years, as Vice President, and has leadership
already from the first couple of days of stepping into this
administration.  
  
So, we have done — we have done our part.  Will there be more executive
actions and will we do more?  We’ll look into that.  We’re always
looking to do more.  But, right now, we need the help of Congress.  We
need them to step in and to deal with this gun violence that we’re
seeing that’s tearing up not just families but communities across the
country.  
  
Q    You were on —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh —  
  
Q    Just one more quick one.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, yeah.  
  
Q    You were on Air Force One.  Can you talk about the President’s
reaction when he got the news, when more details started to come out
over the course of those hours — those final hours on the flight, and as
he prepared for his remarks on Tuesday night, which he echoed on
Wednesday?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  As you said, Phil, I was with the President on
the plane, on Air Force One, because we were coming back from Asia, and
I got to see him right before he delivered the speech.   
  
Honestly, I will — would leave the speech to stand for itself.  You
heard his emotion.  You heard what he said very, very clearly.  And
again, you heard the outrage, which we heard — which we saw from some of
you on TV, from some of you who — some of your colleagues who are in
Texas who were talking to families on the ground, the communities on the
ground — the outrage, the sadness, the grief.  And that’s what you heard
from this President.   
  
And, you know, he said a couple of things that I think it’s important to
reiterate, as we — as we really think about what happened — is that, you
know, there are parents who will never see their child again, parents
who will never be the same.  And the President said, “To lose a child is
like having a piece of your soul ripped away…It’s suffocating.  And it’s
never quite the same.  And it’s a feeling shared by…their family
members, and the community that’s left behind.”   
  
So that is the Pres- — the President’s focus right now.  He’s going to
go, clearly, on Sunday to offer his comfort, to grieve with the family
and the community.  But at the same time, he is going to call on
Congress to take action because it’s been too long.  And now is the time
to act.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Two quick things.  First, apparently the company that sold the
shooter his rifles received a $3 million PPP loan under the last
administration.  Do you know if there’s any effort by this
administration to claw that money back?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I — this is the first I’m hearing about this, so I
would have to go back to the team and look into it.  Do you know the
name of the company?  
  
Q    Yeah, the name of the company is Daniel Defense — D-A-N-I-E-L
Defense.   Apparently, they received a, I think, $3.1 million PPP loan
right at the beginning.  My colleagues have been writing about it
apparently today.  But if — if — assuming that is confirmed, would the
President, do you think, support the idea of trying to claw that money
back?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — honestly, Michael, I need to — to check with the
team and just make sure that is actually factual.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I need to check with the team.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I would appreciate that.  And then —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And we’ll get back to on that.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then just, you know, going back to the question that I’m
sure, you know, everybody has been asking, which is the, sort of “what
is the President going to do and can do,” you talk a lot about the
outrage.  You talk a lot about that he wants Congress to act.  You talk
a lot about the emotion.  I was in this room — I think a lot of the
other people — a lot of people here were too — when the President Obama
cried at that very podium hours after the Newtown — Newtown
shootings.   
  
There have been a million shootings since then, lots of expressions of
outrage, lots of expressions of wanting the — wanting Congress to act. 
They haven’t.   
  
I mean, there are people out there — saw several of them on TV today —
who say this President needs to do more than all of that.  This
President needs to declare a national emergency.  He needs to create
task forces.  He needs to create, you know, a czar of gun things.  He
needs to say he’s not leaving this building, cancel his vacations.  Tell
Congress — you know, members from Congress to get in a room and not —
not leave until they — you know, until they got a solution, and not
accept some of the sort of half measures that, you know, are sort of
being offered.  
  
And I guess the question is: Why — why isn’t he doing of that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on the public health — on the emergency, he has
already done that.  The President has already declared gun violence to
be a — to be a public health epidemic.  He has done that already.  And
he has mobilized our federal departments and agencies, including the
Department of Health Services, to respond.  So that is — has been
done.   
  
Look, this is a President, as I’ve said already, who has been working on
gun violence, gun reform — comprehensive gun reform since he was a
senator.  And he also was there, as you were talking about — you know,
what President Biden — I mean, President Obama had to deal with.  He was
there.  He was his partner in that and took on that — that portfolio of
dealing with gun violence.  He was there at the table.  
  
Q    But isn’t that more of an indictment than it is a plus to say that
the current President has been involved in this for more than — you
know, more than — you know for decades and it’s not being fixed?  These
things are happening over and over again.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But look, Michael, we are frustrated as well.  We are
angry as well.   
  
Look, I said this earlier and I’ll say it again: This is a President who
has done more via executive actions — this is how much of a priority
this is for him, because we’re a year into his presidency — more via
executive actions than any president in their first year.  
  
Q    But many — but many of those are not directly related to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  Which is why —  
  
Q    — the issues of mass shootings.  They —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Which —  
  
Q    — may be directly related —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear you.  
  
Q    — to guns, but — and that’s important — I’m not saying — but —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  
  
Q    — they’re not directly related to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, this is why we’re calling on Congress to act. 
The President is doing what — the President is your — the President is
doing what he can — right? — from here, from the White House.   
  
And now — and he has said he cannot do this alone.  He has been very
clear.  We — he understands we need to do more, but Congress also has to
act.  He has done a comprehensive plan on gun — on gun violence.  We
have listed that out.  
  
Every couple of months, we talk about what he’s doing, what executive
action he’s taking.  And now he is saying, “Congress needs to act.”  And
— but he has been saying that for some time.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kristen.   
  
Q    Karine —  
  
Q    To the back please?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Give me one second, please.  
  
Q    I just — I want to follow up on this idea, because the President
campaigned on a promise to be able to bring Democrats and Republicans
together to get the hard things done.  Why has he not been able to bring
them together to make this a legislative priority to even get a small
measure done when it comes to (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think that’s what Senator Schumer is trying to
do.   
  
Q    Yeah, but why not do that in the early days of his presidency?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we have been talking to Congress before these
two shootings that have been clearly very public and very devastating
and horrific in this past two weeks.  We’re doing it now.   
  
Look, we know that this is not easy.  We’re not saying that this is
easy.  And the President is doing everything that he can to get this
done, but we have — we’re going to continue to call on Congress to
act.  
  
Q    Does this now move to the top of his —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a priority.  
  
Q    — legislative priorities, above Build Back Better —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s —  
  
Q    — above COVID relief?  Does this now need to be the singular focus
of —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ve —  
  
Q    — all of Washington D.C.?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Kristen, I would argue that this has been a top
priority from the — from the time —  
  
Q    But the singular focus for the President and lawmakers?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m not going to list out his — the one, two, or
three of priority.  What I can tell you is this has been a top
priority.  Literally, he — he started working on this the first couple
of days he walked into the — into — into this office.

Q    And you’re getting a lot of questions about the czar.  I guess,
just to ask more spe- — to ask in a different way: Former President
Obama appointed then-Vice President Biden to take control of this
issue.  Are there any discussions — is the President considering tasking
his Vice President with trying to get something done on this issue?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we — we have Ambassador Susan Rice, who is the
President’s domestic policy advisor, as you all know, and she is
coordinating the President’s whole-of-government approach to reducing
gun violence.

She has decades of experience coordinating interagency processes in the
federal government.  There is no one better at bringing department heads
to the table to drive the process. 

She has a team of 12 staff under the Domestic Policy Council who are
working on gun violence reduction, taking an interdisciplinary approach
that recognizes that we need all sorts of expertise at the table, from
mental health to criminal justice to housing to education, to address
the issue.

In addition to the Domestic Policy Council, there’s the Executive Office
of the President, the White House Counsel’s Office, the Office of the
Intergovernmental Affairs, and the Office of Public Engagement.  All are
playing key roles in gun violence prevention, as do several of the
federal agencies, which I’ve listed out already.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, given everything you just laid out, and the President said
yesterday he will use every tool that’s available, I guess, why hasn’t
he stood up a task force — an interagency task force on preventing gun
violence?  He has done it dozens of times on everything from COVID to
unionizing since the start of his presidency.  There’s also an
outstanding request, I believe, from House Democrats over the past year
that he appoint a national director — I guess a czar, as Kristen said —
and start a task force.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I just —

Q    Is that something he is going to consider?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just walked through a whole-of-government approach
that we’re taking — that’s how important this is — across departments
here at the White House and also with several agencies.  We’re talking
about the DOJ — Department of Justice.  We’re talking about HHS.  All
very much involved here on — on how we’re moving forward.

You know —

Q    But, I guess, why not make an official interagency task force?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because we have a whole-of-government approach.  We
have a whole-of-government approach that I just mentioned, that
Ambassador Susan Rice is leading, along with other departments.

And — and with that whole-of-government approach, we have been able to
put forth executive actions at a level that we have not seen from any
other presidents.  We have been able to deal with this in a
comprehensive way.

What we are saying right now is that we need help.  We need assistance. 
The President cannot do this alone.  The Congress needs to act.  They
need to pass legislation so that we can deal with this on a federal
level — legislative level.

Q    Last question: Is the President making any — or is he considering
calling or reaching out to the BORTAC agent who was injured in Uvalde
while he was protecting students during the shooting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — I don’t have anything to preview or
read out for you.  As I — as you know — as you know, he’s going to — on
Sunday, he’s going to be meeting with community leaders, he’s going to
be meeting with victims and family members.  And so, we’ll have more to
share.  I just don’t have anything to share at this time.

Okay.  I’ll go to the back.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  It’s hard to —

Q    I would like to ask you a question about the school shooting.  But
before that, I want to ask you a quick one about the FDA and the baby
formula shortage there.  It’s lasted months, and we’re not just talking
about baby formula, either.  There are infants, children, and adults
with different metabolic disorders who are risking permanent,
irreversible damage the longer they go without special formulas that are
manufactured at Abbott Nutrition.

I’m wondering, does the President have confidence in the FDA’s ability
to deal with situations like this?  And as he’s been monitoring the
situation, does he still have confidence in his FDA director?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  Yes and yes.  So the FDA has an important
mission, right?  It’s to make sure that the infant formula on the shelf
isn’t just available but also that it’s safe.  And as a parent, I
understand the frustration, I understand the fear of not mak- — not
knowing if you have safe and healthy food, baby formula in this case, to
— for your kids.

Unlike, you know, Republicans in Congress and the previous
administration, the President believes that FDA, and particularly its
food division, needs to be well resourced to do its critical work and do
regular annual inspection. 

So we have to just take a little bit of — just give me a second here —
take a step back.

The current shortage exists because Abbott closed, as you — as you know,
a facility in Michigan due to safety concerns from the FDA — a facility
that was a major producer of specialty formula, as you’re asking me
about, right?  And so FDA has an obligation to protect the American
people, and that’s what Dr. Califf is going to be doing at the helm. 

Q    And then the second que- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But — go ahead.  Go ahead.  You have a follow-up.  Go
ahead.

Q    Second question.  We’ve been having a lot of conversations about
specifics when it comes to mass shootings, whether it’s red flag laws or
background checks.  Getting down to, though brass tacks, what does the
President believe, at this point, is the purpose of the Second
Amendment?  And does he think that, given some of the tragedies that
we’ve seen, that there should be a discussion about, you know, its
ultimate purpose and whether or not it’s currently in date?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President has been very clear: What he is
calling for is commonsense gun reform.  That’s it.  He’s calling for
commonsense gun reform to make sure that if you go to a church, you go
to elementary school, you go to a grocery store, that you’re not gunned
down.  That’s what he’s asking for.

It has — we’re not talking about the Second Amendment or — or doing
anything to — to get rid of the Second Amendment.  We’re talking about
making sure — 19 — 19 kids and two teachers died.  That’s the second
major mass shooting that has — has occurred in two weeks.  And that —
we’re not even talking about the crime that we see, the gun violence
that we see across the country on a regular basis.

So we have to make sure that we have gun reform.  That’s why we’re —
we’re calling on Congress to act.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.

Q    Karine?

Q    —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, okay.  Okay.  Go ahead, April.  I’m trying to
stay in the back.

Q    Karine, I want to ask you about an issue that’s been in the news
nationally and internationally: the grains issue.  
  
House Foreign — House Foreign Affairs Committee Chair Greg Meeks is in
Europe meeting with world leaders on the issue.  He says that’s all
people are really talking about right now, is the grains issue.  And as
you know, there’s a blockade of the Black Sea.  Russia’s blocked —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, the export.  Yeah.

Q    — there’s a blockade of the Black Sea for the exports of grain, and
also India is having problems.  So the issue is Russia.

Will this White House look at relenting when it comes to issues of
sanctions against Russia to allow the grains to go out?  Because, right
now, Meeks is saying the issue is starvation, as well as prices in the
grocery store.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I th- — so the question that you’re asking about,
if I’m getting this right, is, like, Russia is — has made a proposal to
us to — to allow exports in exchange for lifting the sanctions?

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And so, you know, we want to be very, very clear here,
because this is very important: This is Russia who is actively blocking
the export of food from Ukrainian ports and is increasing world hunger. 
This is on them.

Russia should immediately cease its war on Ukraine, which is devastating
global food security, and allow the free flow of Ukrainian food.

Before Russia attacked Ukraine in February, Ukraine was the world’s
largest export of sunflower oil; the fourth largest export of corn,
which is what you’re asking about, April, with the wheat; and one of the
largest exports of wheat, this — what you’re asking about.

Now, there are tons of products sitting in se- — in silos in Ukraine and
on ships that are unable to set sail due to Russia’s naval blockade. 

So — and to be clear about some- — something that has been the subject
of Russian disinformation: Sanctions from the United States and its
allies and its partners are not preventing the export of Ukrainian or
Russian agriculture, including food and fertilizer, nor are they
preventing the ordinary transactions that are necessary for these
exports, such as banking or shipping.

Therefore, even according to the terms of their own apparent proposal
that they have presented — presented us, Russia should immediately allow
Ukrainian agricultural exports. 

Q    So there is no —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    — there is no conversation at all about lifting sanctions?  You’re
saying —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Q    — no?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There — there is not.  Remember, again, this is
Russia’s doing.  This is on Russia.  
  
Q    Karine?

Q    Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Oh, my gosh.  
  
Q    On formula?

Q    All the way back.  All the way back.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nadia.

Q    Thank you so much.  I have two foreign policy questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    First, a team from the White House is visiting Saudi Arabia, led by
Brett McGurk.  Is the President still trying to convince the Saudis to
increase the production of oil?  And is this part of preparation for the
President’s visit to Saudi Arabia?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything to preview at this time on —
on a — on a trip or a visit from the President.   
  
I will confirm that Brett McGurk and Amos Hochstein were in the region
to follow up on conversations on a range of — range of issues, including
Iran’s disab- — destabilizing activities, ensuring stable global energy
supplies, and other regional issues.  
  
On your question about oil, you know, it’s — this trip is to review
engagement with Saudi Arabia on energy security, as asking for oil is
simply wrong — that’s the way that we see it — and a misunderstanding of
both the complexity of that issue, as well as our multifaceted
discussions with the Saudis.

OPEC-Plus will make its own decision as it relates to this, the oil, and
as it always has.  We are in consultation with all relevant producers
about market conditions, including Saudi Arabia.

Q    I have one more, please, on Syria.  The head of the Lebanese
intelligence chief have met with people at the White House.  He told me
in an interview that you raised the question of American hostages in
Syria held by the Syrian regime.  Can you update us on the case on —
specifically on Austin Tice and whether his release is imminent?  I know
it’s sensitive because you’re talking to the families.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, this — it’s a very sensitive issue. 
And so, this is not — it’s not something that I want to comment from
here, so I won’t.  I just can’t.  I don’t want to do that just because
of — it’s diplomatic negotiations, and I want to leave it in that space.

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

I’ll come back.

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Has the White House detected any mood shift that makes you
optimistic after this shooting that something is finally going to
happen, that something is finally going to get passed after 19 children
were shot down?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, we don’t have our finger on the pulse of
— on the mood.  What we can do is continue to fight for American
families, for American communities, as we see the violence that has —
especially the two major — major tragedies that we’ve seen these last
two weeks — and call on Congress to act. 

The President, again — and I’ve stated this — he has taken executive
actions over this past year and a half, which is more — again, more than
any President has done in its first term.  And he cannot do this
alone.   
  
And so, he — he is going to leave it to Senator Schumer, who is doing
the — going through the mechanics of what that’s going to look like
moving — moving legislation forward.   
  
And so, we appreciate their efforts.  We appreciate his effort.  We
appreciate the Speaker’s effort.  And we’re going to continue to have
those conversations, as we have been throughout this past year and a
half.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  So, after the President visited with families in
Buffalo, he was asked, “What more can you do on guns via executive
action?”  And he said, quote, “Not much on executive action.”  
  
As Steve said, there are multiple gun safety groups that disagree with
that statement and have pages of — of executive actions that they think
the President can take.  Does the President have any plans to meet with
gun safety advocates?  I know when he was Vice President, he had
hundreds of meetings in the EEOB in his office there with groups.  Does
he plan to meet with them?  And if not, why not?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything to preview.  I’m not — not
at this time.   
  
I — you know, I just talked about Susan Rice and her team, the Domestic
Policy Council.  I’ve talked about the public engagement team and
others, DOJ and also HHS.   
  
And those teams have been regularly talking to outside experts, outside
groups over the course of this past year and a half.  That’s how we were
able to put forward these executive action, comprehensive effort to deal
with gun reform.  So, that conversations — those conversations are going
to continue.  I just don’t have anything to preview for you on this
one.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) on the meetings, but just in terms of that sentiment
where — where the President says there’s not much more on executive
action that he can do.  Does this shooting in Texas change that at
all?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think what he is — I — just to speak to that: Look,
the President has done a lot.  He really has.  The fact that I’m able to
state this historical fact of how much — how much he’s done in his first
year and a half.  
  
But, you know, we’re always looking at what else we can do.  But we have
done — you know, we have done so much.  I just read it out — including
stemming the flow of ghost guns, cracking down on gun trafficking, and
using the American Rescue Plan funds to invest in keeping officers on
the beat to fight gun crime and gun violence.  
  
And so, we’re going to continue constantly looking at additional
executive action so we can move forward.  
  
But the President, again, cannot solve this problem alone.  He needs
Congress to do its job and to act.  
  
Q    On that point: What role do you guys expect Senator McConnell to
play on any sort of bipartisan gun legislation?  Does the President plan
to contact him or speak with him at all?  And what are you hoping for
from the Senate Minority Leader?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look — you know, again, we’re going to leave the
mechanics to how this gets done to the leadership — to the leadership in
Congress, Senator Schumer and Speaker Pelosi.  
  
We have had several conversations before these major shootings that
occurred these last two weeks.  This is an issue that has been a
priority for this President since the moment he walked in — into this
office and, as I mentioned, as a senator, as a Vice President, and now
as President.  
  
So, there’s an array of issues that we talk to Congress on a regular
basis.  And again, we’re going to continue to have those
conversations.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the gun issue, just a quick follow-up: Is one of the concerns of
the White House that moving ahead with executive actions right now while
there are talks in Congress could sink those talks in Congress?  Is that
why you’re holding — one of the reasons you might be holding back on
moving forward with the executive actions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  I mean, we’ve been very clear: It’s time for
Congress to act.  We cannot do this alone.  The President cannot do this
alone.  So, we’re asking Congress to act so we can have federal laws to
actually deal with reforming — reforming — doing gun reform —
comprehensive gun reform.  
  
Q    On the Summit of the Americas, President Bolsonaro of Brazil has
said he plans to attend now.  AMLO, of Mexico, is still making mixed
signals.  Can you say whether those invitations have now formally gone
out to all of those leaders?  And are the governments of Venezuela and
Cuba and Nicaragua going to be excluded?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’re still considering additional invites, and
we’ll share them when — when it — we feel it’s appropriate — when it’s
final.  And that’s when we’ll share them.  I don’t have anything right
now to share as far as a fi- — as a list.  
  
Q    And then just one last one.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    The CBO came out with a report earlier this week that showed
inflation was going to remain above target toward the — well, going down
but still above target to the end of this year and then into next year. 
I mean, has the White House, sort of, painted too rosy a picture on how
quickly inflation is going to go down, given the projections that came
out from CBO this week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  So, as you mentioned, the CBO
report came out yesterday.  It projects stable, steady economic growth
in the year — in the years ahead, as inflation eases, the deficit falls
dramatically this year.  
  
On the deficit, the CBO projects that our deficit this year will fall by
$1.7 trillion, after it fell by $350 billion just last year.  That’s
after the deficit increased every single year President Trump was in
office.  And it is a lower deficit for 2022 than the CBO projected
before passage of the American Rescue Plan.  That means that our econo-
— our strong economic recovery, powered by the President’s economic and
vaccination policies also improved our nation’s fiscal position and
reduced our deficit.  
  
On growth and inflation, CBO projects the economy to grow by 3.1 percent
this year and 2.2 percent next year, with core personal con- —
consumption <s>exemption</s> \[expenditures\] — that’s PCE — inflation
falling to 2.3 percent by the end of next year.  This is the kind of
transition from a historic economic recovery — again, steady, stable
economic growth that works for working families — that President — that
the President’s policies are designed to bring about.   
  
So that’s how we’re — how we’re viewing the CBO report.   
  
Go ahead, you had something on formula you said?  
  
Q    Yeah.  Can you tell us if there are any more flights planned from —
foreign flights for formula?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to — to preview at this time. 
But we will have some more information in the upcoming days.  
  
Q    Is that because you all are working on it and the details are not
there or can we expect more flights?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, definitely, you’ll expect more flights.  I just
don’t have anything to announce at this time.  And, as you know, the
second flight landed in Dulles yesterday.  The First Lady was there to
receive the — the formula and the — and the package that landed.  
  
Q    And then on the FDA question: You said — you brought up the Abbott
plant, and it was kind of put on them.  But Senator Patty Murray —
today, she told the FDA head that she gives the FDA an “F” on not
realizing the warning signs of the crisis.  And she also says that they
have not given her a plan that she’s requested about how to stabilize a
food safety program.  So is there anything the White House can ensure
that the FDA has been in response to Senator Murray and those on Capitol
Hill?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just first say this — this is — they’re
hearing — during the hearing yesterday, Dr. Califf has said, “It’s
important we get to the bottom of what happened with the — with the
Sturgis facility and the root of what has caused the issues we’re facing
today.”  He has designated someone to lead an after-action report.  
  
But we have to take a step back here and look at the dynamics of what
we’re dealing with: We have fau- — four companies that make up 98
percent of the market.  An industry that’s — that’s concentrated means
more vulnerability to the supply shocks and fewer options for
consumption.  
  
And because of Abbott’s vol- — voluntary recall, there have been huge
disruptions to formula supply of a highly concentrated market.  So we
have to fix this.  
  
So, our focus right now is on getting more infant formula supply to
families across the country as quickly as possible, as well running a
historic agenda to diversify markets and grow the number of companies
competing for — for your business.  This is what — this is what will —
will help avoid situations like this in the future.  
  
But he has said it is important to get to the bottom of this and has
appointed someone to do that.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you, everybody.  Thank you.  

4:53 P.M. EDT
