---
date: '2022-05-21'
modified_time: 2022-05-22 06:50:03-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-21 21:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/21/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-previewing-president-bidens-third-day-in-the-republic-of-korea/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official Previewing President\_\
  Biden\u2019s Third Day in the Republic of\_Korea"
---
 
Via Teleconference

8:39 A.M. KST

MODERATOR:  Good morning, everybody.  I hope you all had a very restful
second night in Seoul.  Thanks again for joining us on this background
press briefing this morning. 

As I mentioned on the invite, this call is on background, attributable
to “senior administration officials,” and embargoed until the call’s
conclusion.

Just as yesterday, joining us this morning we have \[senior
administration official\].  We’ll, of course, have some time for
questions at the end, but I will turn it over to \[senior administration
official\] right now.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you very much,
\[Moderator\].  And I want to thank all of you for joining.  I hope that
you’re all having a good trip.

We’ll very quickly go over today’s schedule and then take some
questions.

So I think — you know, to start off with, I think you’ve seen throughout
the trip how our foreign policy and the work that has been done through
— to strengthen and revitalize our alliances delivers for the American
people.

I think, building on that, today President Biden and the Executive
Chairman of Hyundai Motor Group will discuss Hyundai’s decision to
invest in a new electric vehicle and battery manufacturing facility in
Savannah, Georgia.

They will announce more than $11 billion in new investment in American
manufacturing.  And it will be a new commitment of $5.7 billion for
advanced automotive technology and the $5.5 billion investment to open a
new factory near Savannah that will create more than 8,000 new jobs.

I expect that you’ll see the President highlight how clean energy
investments like this will help us reach our climate goals as well as
create good-paying jobs and benefit American workers and businesses.

He will also thank Senators Warnock and Ossoff for their outstanding
work on this effort and their other efforts to bring these jobs to
Georgia.

After this, the President will head to the area near here where he will
greet the Chargé d’Affaires of U.S. Embassy Seoul, Chris Del Corso, and
the Embassy staff.

He will then go to Osan Air Base, where he will visit the Air Operations
Center’s Combat Operations Floor.  This is in Pyeongtaek, Republic of
Korea, and where the President landed on Friday evening.

The President will be joined there by President Yoon, where they will
both engage with U.S. and Korean military personnel while working
side-by-side to secure the Korean Peninsula’s airspace.  It will reflect
the close integration of the U.S. and ROK militaries and demonstrate the
strength of our almost 70-year-old alliance.

I think this is something that really does reflect the truly integrated
nature of the U.S.-ROK relationship.  And I think that people will be
impressed at how closely they work together — our personnel and the
Korean personnel work together.

After that, the President will greet U.S. service members and military
families at Osan Air Base in Pyeongtaek, Republic of Korea.

And then the President and the delegation will take off to go to Japan.

We’re looking forward to a very good day.  I think something that both
highlights the linkages between the U.S. and the ROK economies, that
focuses on the commitment to the future and to bringing the benefits of
both cleaner climate — or for better climate and cleaner energy to
American workers and families, and, at the same time, creates benefits
here in Korea.

So, with that, let me take your questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much, \[senior administration official\].

If anybody has a question, please use the “raise hand” function on the
Zoom interface, and we’ll try to get through as many questions as we
can.

Again, this call is on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials,” and embargoed until it concludes.

Why don’t we start with Aamer Madhani from the Associated Press.

Q    Hey, thank you.  I just wanted to ask — you know, the President on
Friday, in his remarks at Samsung, made a point about encouraging
Samsung and others that are going to be investing in the United States
to hire union workers. 

This new EV plant in Georgia is in a “Right to Work” state.  It seems
unlikely that the union presence will be as great as it may be in other
places.  And I was just wanting to know: What is the President’s
thinking, what is the administration’s thinking on the balance of
pulling in this foreign investment in the U.S., but also his strong
belief that union shops are best for business and best for American
workers?

And then secondly, I was just wondering: Coming out of this trip, is it
time — has a conclusion been made that Korea should be joining the Quad
and the Quad should be expanding?

Thank you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Those are both very good questions,
Aamer.  And let me start off with the first ones. 

So I think that the President is very, very focused on bringing
investment to the United States — investment that creates jobs, that
creates well-paying jobs, and, at the same time, that brings technology
and brings capacity to the United States. 

Obviously, you heard his remarks about his views on the importance and
value of union workforce.  At the same time, I think the President rec-
— you know, I think it’s clear the President believes that very strong. 
At the same time, the President believes that it is really important to
do whatever he can and whatever the administration can to bring
investment and bring jobs to the United States.  So, I don’t think
there’s any contradiction there.  
  
Obviously, his views on unions are clear, and the value of union labor. 
But at the same time, it’s very, very important to do whatever is
possible — and I think you heard his words: He’s encouraging any
investor in the United States to look to have — to look to partner and
work closely with unions.  
  
On your question about the Quad, I think that it’s important not to get
ahead of ourselves.  I mean, you know, as much as it’s significant that
we’re now looking at the fourth leader-level meeting of the Quad — you
know, two have been virtual; one has been in person — and it’s pretty
significant that only 16 months in the administration that you’re
looking at the second in-person summit.  
  
I think it shows the commitment that the President has and the other
Quad leaders have to building out the Quad.  I think it’s important to
recognize this is still a relatively new organization — or it’s not even
— a relatively new grouping that is still figuring out how to best work
together.  
  
It’s a group of likeminded democracies and, in that sense, it’s natural
that — you know, to think about ways in which you can work with other
likeminded democracies.  But I think it’s also important to recognize
that the goal right now is to develop and build out what has already
been laid out, rather than to think about new members.  
  
And I think that down the road, there may be some of that.  But I think
that we have to wait and see what happens as the grouping itself finds
its legs, finds more things to do, finds more ways to bring public goods
to the region, and finds more ways to harmonize the existing efforts,
which are quite significant, of these four countries to make sure that
they’re promoting a free and open Indo-Pacific, promoting resilience,
promoting the ability to work with other countries, and helping other
countries advance their own interests.  
  
So I think that, you know, we’ll wait and see.  And, you know, very
clearly, we’re going to wait and make sure that we have a successful
Quad Summit on Tuesday and then move forward to build things out.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks so much.  Next, let’s go to Andrew Restuccia with the
Wall Street Journal.

Q    Thanks for doing this.  Just two quick ones.  Since the President
is going to Japan today, I was hoping you could kind of look ahead to
the IPEF signing and what that might look like.  And we’re just
wondering if you have a sense of which countries might sign on to that
and if the text has been finalized at this point.  
  
And then could you just update us on the situation on Australia with the
new Prime Minister, Anthony Albanese, and whether that will — whether
he’s for sure attending the Quad Summit and, you know, if that — if the
timing of all of that will get sort of turned upside down because of the
dynamics there in Australia?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, look, I’m going to try and hold off
previewing too much of the Japan stop.  Our focus today is making sure
that we execute a successful Korea stop, obviously.  And we’ve got a
very full program in Japan, both with bilateral engagements as well as,
as you pointed out, the IPEF launch and then the Quad.  
  
I think that our view is that it’s a little premature to be talking
about which countries.  And — but I will say that I think that we’re
very satisfied with the very strong interest throughout the region in
participating in the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework.  
  
And, you know, as you know, I think these things — there’s all — it will
bring very, very bad luck if we say that anything has been finalized at
this stage.  But we’re very confident that we have everything in place
for tomorrow.  
  
I think that — on Australia, I think, first of all, you know, obviously,
we — we look forward to working with Prime Minister-Designate Anthony
Albanese and his government.  
  
You know, the U.S.-Australia alliance is extraordinarily strong, and we
work together on an extremely wide range of issues.  There’s been
partnership and, you know, shared sacrifice going back to World War
One.  I think, as you know, U.S. and Australian troops have fought
together in every conflict since 1918.  
  
And I think that the — we’re very confident that the alliance is in
very, very strong shape, and look forward to working with the Prime
Minister-Designate to further strengthen it.  
  
At the same time, I think it’s important that, you know, as much as this
is significant, it’s always great to see a democracy go through a
successful election, and — it’s also important to note that we send our
very best wishes to Prime Minister Morrison, who was a very, very strong
and able partner.  And the — we’re grateful for the work that he and his
government did to both strengthening the alliance, expand the
relationship, invest in the Quad, and, you know, commend his efforts.  
  
I think we look forward to working closely with the new Prime Minister. 
I don’t want to get ahead of ourselves.  As you know, there is some
process issues in Australia.  But at the same time, I think it’s
significant that Prime Minister Morrison, in his concession remarks,
noted that one of the issues for his conceding was the importance of
making sure that Australia was able to participate in the Quad.  
  
And look, we’re confident that they’re going to participate in the
Quad.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks so much.  Next, let’s go to Geoff Earle.

Q    Hi there.  Thanks for doing this.  I just want to do a Ukraine
question because South Korea has a pretty substantial defense industry. 
Did the President do anything to encourage, you know, this government to
provide lethal support?  
  
And then, as he heads to Japan — I know it’s a different situation given
their constitution, but they’ve been doing what I think we see as pretty
impressive amounts of security — I’m sorry — non-security aid and
economic aid plus, I think, some other stuff.  But does he have an ask
for them to try to get everybody moving in the same direction with more?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, that’s a great question.  And let
me start off by saying that the President and President Yoon obviously
talked about threats to the rules-based international order.  And first
and foremost is Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine.

The President commended the ROK for what they have done.  And I think
you will not be surprised to know the President feels very strongly that
we need to work with likeminded partners around the world to try and do
more. 

I don’t want to get ahead — and, look, I don’t want to get too much into
(inaudible) details.  But I think that the key thing is that the
President made very clear how impressed he is by what the ROK has done
and the fact that the ROK’s actions, I think, have further reinforced
the degree to which key allies in Asia are supporting our efforts and
the efforts of the international community in Europe, in the same way
that in recent years, European countries have (inaudible) much more
attention, shown much more interest in ensuring peace and stability in
the Indo-Pacific.

So for, I think, the President, there’s — the idea that these are two
different theaters I think doesn’t make sense anymore.  These are —
there’s very strong linkages between both.  I think in Japan, I think
that you can expect — and I don’t want to get ahead of our discussion
with him — but I think you can expect that at each stop the President is
going to focus on his concerns about Ukraine and the importance he
places on providing assistance to Ukraine.

MODERATOR:  Thanks so much.  Next let’s go to Kevin Liptak with CNN.

Q    Hey, thanks.  I wanted to ask about the line in the joint statement
about potentially expanding the joint military exercises.  Do you have a
timeline for how those discussions would proceed?  And do you have an
expectation of when you think those expanded joint drills might take
place? 

And as you were coming up with that joint statement, was there any
concern that restarting the full-scale joint military exercises might
forestall the diplomacy that you say you’re looking for with North
Korea?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So those are great questions.  I think
— first and foremost, I think that you saw the line in the joint
statement, obviously.  I think that the view from both the — from the
administration and, I think, from the Yoon administration is we’re going
to leave this to the militaries to work out.  I think that the important
thing is that this is something where there’s clear signals being given
to them that they need to figure out what it takes to best ensure
military readiness and best ensure our ability to work closely together.

I think that in terms of working on the joint statement, I think that —
you know, I would just call your attention to the fact that President
Yoon, during his campaign, was very clear about his views, about the
importance of strengthening the alliance and of ensuring that our
militaries are best able to deter and respond to provocations, as well
as work together to support broader peace and security in the region.

I think that the — you know, from our standpoint, the key things here is
this is part and parcel of a broader effort to step up our ability to
work together, both in the military sphere, but also many others.  And
we’re very satisfied with — and very pleased with the progress that was
made, and, you know, we believe that it was a joint statement that is
particularly impressive, given that it was done in the first 11 days of
a new administration. 

And I think all of you know it is a challenge for a new administration
to come to office and then immediately start engaging in a visit of this
kind to have an extensive and substantive joint statement that covers a
significant number of issues.  This isn’t something that is easy to do.

And so we’re very grateful to our ROK partners.  I think it reflects
President Yoon’s very, very clear guidance and great determination to
strengthen the alliance.  And we’re very satisfied with the outcome. 

MODERATOR:  Thanks so much.  I think we’ve got time for one last
question.  Why don’t we go to Sebastian Smith with AFP.

Q    Oh, thank you so much.  Thank you for taking my question.  So, on
North Korea again: Is there any movement on the sense of whether a
nuclear test could be in the offing?  Because coming into this trip,
both from South Korea and from the U.S., of course, you know, there was
a lot of — it was rather — you know, sounded like it was being built up
into something that could happen pretty much any — any moment.  And now
the President is leaving.  So is that moment of danger passed? 

And my other question.  More — just zooming out, the President, again,
talked yesterday about, you know, he’d be ready to meet — even meet Kim,
you know, under some kind of circumstances.  You’ve said many times
you’re ready to talk without any preconditions.  But are the North
Koreans really in a place where they can be engaged in that kind of
initiative?  Because this has been going on for decades.  And is the
President considering — has he ever talked about making any kind of
outreach, something a little more dramatic, something to break this sort
of stalemate or paralysis that seems to go on for almost forever? 

Yeah, not necessarily what Donald Trump did, but something different, in
other words.  Or is it just going to be more of the same? 

Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, thanks.  Thanks for that
question.  I think that, you know, let’s just look more broadly at the
issue.  I mean, obviously, North Korea, the DPRK, is a very significant
challenge in many ways, both in terms of being a threat to the ROK as
well as its destabilizing activities. 

I think that the President, first of all, was very clear about his views
on North Korea and on the DPRK and on what he believes needs to be
done.  I think that the policy has been very clear.  I would say that it
is worth keeping in mind the challenges of COVID.  And I think that from
our standpoint, we believe that one of the challenges for the DPRK is
that there have been very significant movement restrictions.  And I
think that there’s no question that that has had a big impact inside the
country.  And now the outbreak probably makes it even more significant.

And so that may be a factor in their lack of response to our very, very
repeated approaches on a variety of levels to try and engage and to make
clear our willingness to talk and to talk about a very wide range of
issues. 

The President has said he is seeking serious and sustained diplomacy. 
He’s been clear about — that we stand ready — that we’re deeply
concerned about the COVID outbreak and that we stand ready to work with
the international community to provide assistance. 

But I think we have to acknowledge: Ultimately, these decisions are up
to the DPRK to make.  And I think that our view is that we strongly
encourage them to choose a path of diplomacy.  We believe that our
offers are very — you know, are a sign of how committed we are.  
  
In terms of dramatic gestures, I think that what the President was clear
on is that we’re not looking for gestures, we’re looking for very
serious engagement.  And this is a decision that only the DPRK can
make.  
  
I think that we are — we’re very conscious of the fact that they’re
facing significant domestic challenges.  We believe that engagement
could possibly help address those challenges — with us, with others in
the international community — but that this is their decision to make.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks so much, everybody.  Thanks so much for joining.  As
I said, this call is on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials,” and embargoed until the call concludes, which
will be momentarily.  And we’ll of course be in touch for other calls
over the course of the trip.  
  
Have a great day, everyone.  
  
9:00 A.M. KST
