---
date: '2022-05-18'
published_time: 2022-05-18 19:41:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/18/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-may-18-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake Sullivan, May 18,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:11 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  Sorry we’re starting a
little late.  We had to finish for the President to complete his
remarks, and that was a request that we got from WHCA, so we wanted to
make sure we adhered to it.

As you all know, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan is here.  He’s
going to take your questions, preview Asia.  And he has a hard out at
2:30, so we’re going to try and get him out of here.

Okay, all yours.

MR. SULLIVAN:  And I have 20 minutes of remarks, so — (laughter) — I
hope you guys will bear with me.

I actually do have a number of things to get through because we have
quite a stretch ahead here with respect to the President’s foreign
policy and national security priorities.

Very good to be back with you guys today.

Today, Finland and Sweden submitted their applications for NATO
membership.  President Biden has welcomed those applications, and he
looks forward to working with NATO Allies and with Congress on a swift
accession process. 

(Audio playback of press briefing interrupts.)

Oh, sorry. 

Q    It’s all happening again.  (Laughter.) 

Q    I’m sorry.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Not a problem.

  
Q    We got the audio.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Small interruption of the accession process right there. 
But everything will be on track just fine.  (Laughter.)

Tomorrow morning, the President will welcome the President of Finland
and the Prime Minister of Sweden to the White House to coordinate on the
path forward.  And the three leaders will also have the chance to
compare notes on our united efforts to support Ukraine in its defense
against Russia’s brutal invasion.

They will also have the opportunity to speak to the press and the public
to affirm our shared vision for a peaceful and secure Euro-Atlantic
region.

This is a historic event, a watershed moment in European security.  Two
nations with a long tradition of neutrality will be joining the world’s
most powerful defensive alliance.  And they will bring with them strong
capabilities and a proven track record as security partners.  And
President Biden will have the opportunity to mark just what a historic
and watershed moment this is when he meets with them tomorrow.

After that meeting concludes, President Biden will board Air Force One
for a trip to the Republic of Korea and Japan.  This will be his first
trip as President to the Indo-Pacific.  And it comes at a pivotal
moment.

President Biden has rallied the free world in defense of Ukraine and in
opposition to Russian aggression.  He remains focused on ensuring that
our efforts in those missions are successful.  But he also intends to
seize this moment — this pivotal moment — to assert bold and confident
American leadership in another vital region of the world: the
Indo-Pacific.

That began last week with his hosting of the U.S.-ASEAN Summit here at
the White House, where he welcomed nine leaders from Southeast Asia for
a substantive set of meetings that covered a diverse agenda from
economics and security to technology and energy.

President Biden made a series of significant announcements to show that
when it comes to engagement with ASEAN, we’re not just talking the talk,
we’re walking the walk as well.

This week, the President turns his attention to Northeast Asia.  And on
this trip, he’ll have the opportunity to reaffirm and reinforce two
vital security alliances, to deepen two vibrant economic partnerships,
to work with two fellow democracies to shape the rules of the road for
the 21st century, and to thank his allies in Korea and Japan for their
remarkable and in some ways unexpected contributions to the effort to
support Ukraine and to hold Russia accountable.

In Korea, President Biden will meet with the newly inaug- — excuse me —
the newly inaugurated Korean President, President Yoon, who campaigned
on the platform of strengthening the U.S.-ROK alliance and on improving
relations between the ROK and Japan.

President Biden will engage with technology and manufacturing leaders in
Korea who are mobilizing billions of dollars in investment here in the
United States to create thousands of good-paying American jobs.

He will see American and Korean troops standing shoulder to shoulder in
defense of our collective security and consult on the challenge posed by
the DPRK’s nuclear and missile programs.

And he will highlight the truly global nature of the U.S.-ROK alliance,
from climate and energy and technology to economic growth and
investment.

In Japan, President Biden will meet with Prime Minister Kishida and his
team.  And we believe that the U.S.-Japan alliance, at this moment,
under these two leaders, is at an all-time high.  This visit can take us
even higher.

The two leaders will consult on the broad and deep economic relationship
between our two countries, as well as on a range of regional and global
security issues.  We’ll also cover the DPRK as well as a number of other
security issues both in the Indo-Pacific and more broadly around the
world.

The U.S.-Japan alliance is the cornerstone of peace and stability in the
Indo-Pacific, and Japan’s contributions as a security partner are
rightly growing as the regional security picture becomes more
challenging and dynamic.

President Biden and Prime Minister Kishida will also be able to compare
notes on the G7 agenda as the G7 Summit approaches next month in
Germany.

In Japan, President Biden won’t just have a bilateral program, he’ll
also have the opportunity to participate in the second in-person Quad
Summit, following on the summit he hosted here in Washington last
September.

He will do this alongside the Prime Minister of Japan, the Prime
Minister of India, and the Prime Minister of Australia.  And we believe
that this summit will demonstrate, both in substance and in vision, that
democracies can deliver and that these four nations working together
will defend and uphold the principles of a free and open Indo-Pacific.

While he’s in Tokyo, President Biden will also launch a new, ambitious
economic initiative for the region: the Indo-Pacific Economic
Framework.  “IPEF,” as we affectionately call it, is a 21st century
economic arrangement, a new model designed to tackle new economic
challenges — from setting the rules of the digital economy, to ensuring
secure and resilient supply chains, to managing the energy transition,
to investing in clean, modern, high-standards infrastructure.

President Biden will be joined in person by the Prime Minister of Japan
for the launch of IPEF and virtually by leaders from a number of
Indo-Pacific partners, from Down Under to Southeast Asia to Northeast
Asia.

On security and economics, on technology and energy, on investment in
infrastructure, we think this trip is going to put on full display
President Biden’s Indo-Pacific strategy and that it will show, in living
color, that the United States can at once lead the free world in
responding to Russia’s war in Ukraine and at the same time chart a
course for effective, principled American leadership and engagement in a
region that will define much of the future of the 21st century.

And with that, I’d be happy to take your questions.

Yeah.

Q    Thanks so much.  Can you talk to us about Turkey and what the
administration is doing and what conversations you might be having with
Turkey about their plans to block Finland and Sweden’s applications?  Is
there a deal to be struck with Turkey?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We’re confident that, at the end of the day, Finland and
Sweden will have an effective and efficient accession process, that
Turkey’s concerns can be addressed.

Finland and Sweden are working directly with Turkey to do this, but
we’re also talking to the Turks to try to help facilitate.  I spoke with
my counterpart today; Secretary Blinken is meeting with his counterpart
perhaps as we speak, in New York.  And we feel very good about where
this will track to.

And President Biden will express that confidence as we believe the
President of Finland and Prime Minister of Sweden will express that
confidence tomorrow.

Yeah.

Q    The Korean media is reporting that President Biden will meet with
former President Moon Jae-in during his visit to Seoul.  Is that
accurate?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We don’t have a meeting scheduled with President Moon at
this time.

Q    Have there been any discussions between U.S. officials and Korean
officials about Moon Jae-in potentially taking on a “Special Envoy to
North Korea”-like role?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not familiar with any discussions along those lines.

Yeah.

Q    In the statement today welcoming Finland and Sweden’s application
to NATO, at the very — or almost at the very end, it said that “While
their applications for NATO membership are being considered, the
\[U.S.\] will work with Finland and Sweden to remain vigilant against
any threats to our shared security, and…deter and confront aggression…”

Does that mean that the U.S. is extending, like, the NATO security
umbrella to them while their applications are in process?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Article 5 only kicks in once all 30 Allies have ratified
the accession protocols and they become full-fledged members of the
Alliance.

But the United States is prepared to send a very clear message, as are
all of our European allies, that we will not tolerate any aggression
against Finland or Sweden during this process.  And there are practical
measures that we can take along those lines that Secretary Austin will
coordinate with his counterparts in both Finland and Sweden.  
  
Yeah.

Q    Jake, two questions.  One on the accession and one on your trip.  
  
So, when the initial NATO expansion happened, of course, there was a
huge debate in Washington about whether it was a good idea or not.  I
remember Kennan himself wrote in the New York Times that he wasn’t in
favor of it.  Was there any similar debate that went underway here about
whether or not bringing Finland and Sweden in was a good idea, or
whether it would further corner Putin?  
  
And on the trip, tell us a little bit about what you know on the
evidence that North Korea may attempt either a nuclear test — hard to
imagine what they would accomplish by a seventh test, but — the seventh
test — or a missile launch, and what your preparations are if that
happens during the trip?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  On the first question, President Biden posed the question
to his national security team, to his Cabinet principals who cover
national security, as to whether they supported the accession of Finland
and Sweden, and for them to consider the risks as well as the benefits
of bringing Finland and Sweden into the Alliance.  
  
Unanimously, President Biden’s national security team emphatically
supported the entry of Finland and Sweden into the NATO Alliance on the
grounds that they have already proven themselves as highly capable
security partners.  In the parlance, we say “net security contributors,”
meaning they give a heck of a lot more than they take when it comes to a
security partnership or an alliance.  And that we believe that Russian
aggression has only reinforced the argument for the kind of defensive
alliance that — that NATO presents and poses.  
  
And finally, we have the principle of the open door.  And the open door
says that if countries meet the criteria of NATO membership and display
that they can be net contributors to the Alliance and to overall
European security, they should be admitted.  That is a principle that
President Biden has believed since long before he occupied the Oval
Office.  And Finland and Sweden are two cases that are pretty clear-cut
when it comes to meeting those terms.  
  
With respect to the issue of North Korea, we’ve said from this podium,
we’ve said at the State Department, and we’ve indicated in quite clear
terms that our intelligence does reflect the genuine possibility that
there will be either a further missile tests — including a long-range
missile test or a nuclear test or, frankly, both — in the days leading
into, on, or after the President’s trip to the region.  
  
We are preparing for all contingencies, including the possibility that
such a provocation would occur while we are in Korea or in Japan.  We
are coordinating closely with our allies in both Korea and Japan on
this.  We have spoken with counterparts in China.  I met — I spoke with
my Chinese counterpart this morning and covered this issue of the
DPRK.   
  
And we are prepared, obviously, to make both short- and longer-term
adjustments to our military posture as necessary to ensure that we are
providing both defense and deterrence to our allies in the region and
that we’re responding to any North Korean provocation.  
  
Yes.  
  
Q    Jake, thank you.  Two questions on different topics.  One, could
you update us on the situation with the Russian blockade on grains?   
  
And also, on Haiti: What happens with the Title 42 with the Haitian
migrants and maybe migrants of South America as well in the Caribbean
when it comes to the end of Title 42 on May 23rd, if that happens?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, it is Russia’s war of aggression against
Ukraine and nothing else that is stopping tens of millions of tons of
food from getting out of the breadbasket of Europe — Ukraine — and onto
the world market to feed people in Africa, the Americas, Asia, and
everywhere else.   
  
And that is true in two critical respects: First, Russia is bombarding
Odessa, which is the port from which that food departs on large cargo
ships bound through the Black Sea and then on to the world market. 
Second, Russian ships are engaged in an effective blockade of commercial
ship traffic that would — could leave Odessa Port, were not under this
bombardment, and head out to the world.  
  
So we have publicly called upon Russia to end its attacks on Odessa and
to end the blockade and to permit the traffic — the commercial and
humanitarian traffic of ships into and out of Odessa Port.  
  
We are working closely with both Ukraine and the United Nations on this
issue, as well as other allies and partners.  And we are supporting
efforts to facilitate the delivery of that grain to the world market so
that it can alleviate food prices everywhere.  
  
And we would like to see an outcome in which the facts — not just the
rhetoric — the facts bear out the actual permission by Russia of large
numbers of ships moving through the Black Sea and onto the world
market.  
  
Q    Is Russia responding to that request?  And also the question I
asked you about Title 42.

MR. SULLIVAN:  There are ongoing intensive diplomatic conversations. 
The United Nations Secretary-General is involved in this, the Ukrainians
are involved in this, some of our other partners are involved in this. 
I’m not going to get ahead of those discussions.  I’m only going to say
that the United States stands ready in any way to help facilitate and
deliver on that diplomacy to try to produce an outcome in which food is
getting to the world stage.  
  
With respect to Haiti, we will have to see.  Obviously, there are a
number of issues bound up in the courts right now.  But with the end of
Title 42, the United States has put in place a process by which those
individuals who claim asylum and have legitimate asylum claims can stay
and those who come and don’t will go through the process — the legal
process that exists and has existed for some time.  
  
Even when Title 42 was in effect, large numbers of individuals were not
subject to Title 42; they were subject to the standard legal process by
which we deal with claims at our border for people who want to come and
stay here.

Q    Jake, on Ukraine again: U.S. intelligence chiefs recently offered
assessments that Putin continues to bank on the fracturing of Western
resilience to continue this war.  Is Turkey’s concern about Finland and
Sweden joining up perhaps an example of that?   
  
And what about the, I guess, also congressional pushback, or the growing
congressional pushback, to Ukrainian aid?  What are you guys doing, sort
of, in both regards to make sure that that doesn’t continue to happen? 
I know you’ve described some of it, but it does seem now that there are
examples of these growing concern or criticism resistance.  
  
And then I got one other on another part of the world.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, growing congressional pushback, to me, is a
strange premise for a circumstance in which the House of Representatives
voted overwhelmingly not just in favor of approving what the President
sent up, which was $33 billion, but actually adding $7 billion to it to
make a $40 billion package.  And we expect a similar overwhelming
bipartisan vote in the Senate once the final procedural hurdle — hurdles
are cleared over the next 24 to 48 hours.  
  
So there are some voices against this, but the chorus of voices on both
sides of the aisle, from all sides of the political spectrum, in favor
of standing up in defense of Ukraine’s sovereignty and freedom and
independence — it’s quite powerful and, frankly, in a way, quite
moving.  And it sends a clear message to the world that the United
States can pull together behind the brave people of Ukraine in their
hour of need.

What was your other question?

Q    Well, just Turkey’s continued concern here and whether there might
be others who are going to raise concern about NATO expansion.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, the great thing about the free world — about the
Western alliance, about NATO — is that you’ve got a raucous collection
of states that all have opinions, that all have perspectives, that all
have interests.  But they also know how to and when to pull together and
how to settle any differences.  And I expect these differences will be
settled. 

I expect that NATO will speak with one voice in support of Finland and
Sweden at the end of the day. 

And I think the remarkable unity you’ve seen with respect to sanctions
coming out of the EU, the United States, and our Indo-Pacific partners;
the support that we have provided Ukraine in terms of military and
humanitarian assistance — it’s only grown stronger over the course of
the last 12 weeks, and we expect that that momentum will continue, and
it’s having a major impact on the battlefield.

Ukraine won the Battle of Kyiv.  Ukraine has now beaten Russia back from
Kharkiv.  And Ukrainian defenders are putting the military assistance we
provided to good use in defending territory in the Donbas as well.

Yes.

Q    Just a little bit about the challenges of trying to focus on the
Indo-Pacific — a priority for you all to get-go — given just — I mean,
look, a bulk of the questions even here today have focused on other
parts of the world.

Tomorrow, Finland and Sweden are going.  Just the juxtaposition of what
is going on in the world right now as you all are trying to focus
(inaudible).

MR. SULLIVAN:  And, you know, it’s interesting, we actually don’t regard
this as a tension between investing time, energy, and attention in
Europe and time, energy, and attention in the Indo-Pacific.  We regard
this as mutually reinforcing.

First, look at the Indo-Pacific partners that have stepped up to help
make these sanctions and export controls as effective as they are:
Korea, Japan, Australia, even Singapore.

Second, look at the extent to which European countries are increasingly
invested in the Indo-Pacific, in helping ensure that our vision of a
free and open Indo-Pacific is actually realized.  We see that with the
AUKUS partnership, where you’ve got the United Kingdom alongside
Australia and the United States.  We see it with the way the European
Union has, for the first time ever, put out an Indo-Pacific strategy.

And so, actually, we think that there is something quite evocative about
going from meeting with the President of Finland and the Prime Minister
of Sweden to reinforce the momentum behind the NATO Alliance and the
free world’s response in Ukraine, and getting on a plane and flying out
to the Indo-Pacific not just to deal with security issues, but to unveil
a new far-reaching economic initiative, to host a Quad summit that will
cover climate and cyber and emerging technologies, and to deal with
Korea and Japan on issues that actually affect working people here in
the United States, including major investments that will create jobs in
states across the country.

So, for us, there is a certain level of integration and a symbiosis in
the strategy we are pursuing in Europe and the strategy we’re pursuing
in the Indo-Pacific.  And President Biden’s unique capacity to actually
stitch those two together is, I think, going to be a hallmark of his
foreign policy presidency.

Q    Jake?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yes.

Q    Jake, can you provide an update on when the President will visit
Israel?

And secondly, can you elaborate further on the specific security
guarantees that the United States has made Finland and Sweden in the
interim period?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, on Israel, we are actively working with the
Israelis to fix a date for the visit at some point in the
not-too-distant future.  The President is very much looking to go.  But
unfortunately, I don’t have an announcement of a trip or a timetable for
it standing here today, other than to say the President is excited to
get the opportunity to go to reaffirm the strength of the U.S.-Israel
relationship.

With respect to the specifics on security commitments or assurances or
actions that we will take with Finland and Sweden, those are ongoing
conversations that are happening at an operational and technical level
between our Department of Defense and their ministries of defense, and
also with other NATO Allies and partners. 

And so I’ll leave it in those channels for now — only to say that the
U.S. stands ready to ensure that deterrence and defense for Finland and
Sweden will be there should they need it, even though they don’t get the
full benefits of the Article 5 Alliance until the accession process is
properly complete, as is required, frankly, under our Constitution,
where we need to get advice and consent from the Senate for that treaty.

Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERE:  Last question.

Q    Regarding the trip, to what extent is the message on this trip
going to be like a cautionary tale delivered to China to say, “Look what
happened in Ukraine.  Look how we’ve responded.  Don’t do anything
similar”?  Is that going to be part of the messaging during the
President’s trip?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The message we’re trying to send on this trip is a
message of an affirmative vision of what the world can look like if the
democracies and open societies of the world stand together to shape the
rules of the road, to define the security architecture of the region, to
reinforce strong, powerful, historic alliances.

And we think putting that on display over four days — bilaterally with
the ROK and Japan, through the Quad, through the Indo-Pacific Economic
Framework — it will send a powerful message.  We think that message will
be heard everywhere.  We think it will be heard in Beijing. 

But it is not a negative message, and it’s not targeted at any one
country.  It’s targeted at an audience the world over about what
American leadership, working flanked by allies and like-minded partners,
can deliver for people everywhere.

And we think we go into this trip very much with the wind at our back,
with a strong case to make that we have what it takes to be able to
deliver against the security and economic challenges of our time.

And President Biden will head into the Indo-Pacific with a spring in his
step, and we’re very much looking forward to this visit.

Q    Will the President visit the DMZ, Jake?  Will the President visit
the DMZ?

MR. SULLIVAN:  You can ask Karine.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He will not visit the DMZ. 

Q    He will not.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He will not.  He will not.

Q    Why not?  Why not visit the DMZ?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Just not on this trip.  He will not.  He will go to
South Korea, as you know.  They will have an agenda to talk about a lot
of things, including North Korea.  But he’s not going to the DMZ.

And just to — just to reiterate here is that, as Vice President, he has
been there before.  But on this trip —

Q    But now he’s President, and his predecessor went —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s just not —

Q    — former President Obama went.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But he’s just not going to go on this trip.  He’s
going to go to South Korea.  He’s going to show his support for the
region.  And — but he’s not going to go to South Korea on this trip —
I’m sorry, the DMZ on this trip.

Okay.  We all love Jake.  Thank you so much for your patience.  And I
have one topper, and then we’ll get to it.

Okay.  The Senate took an important step today with the bipartisan
agreement announced by Chair Tester and Ranking Member Moran to advance
their vision of the Hon- — of the Honoring Our Promise to Address
Comprehensive Toxics Act of 2022. 

President Biden has championed legislation to deliver the benefits and
healthcare services that veterans impacted by toxic exposures have
earned.  This historic comprehensive bill will do just that. 

The PACT will not only help deliver more timely access to benefits and
services for veterans and their survivors, it will also ensure that the
Department of Veterans Affairs can act more nimbly to add future
presumptive conditions when the evidence warrants.  And the legislation
will help the VA provide our veterans the level of service they deserve.

President Biden believes that we have a sacred obligation to support
veterans, their families, caregivers, and survivors.  That’s why as part
of this first state of the — of his first State of the Union address, he
identified supporting veterans as a key pillar of his Unity Agenda and
an issue that can unite the country, Republicans and Democrats.

Passing the PACT Act would be a welcome and long-awaited achievement for
the veterans who have served us well.

Darlene, you have the floor.

Q    Thanks.  Thank you.  I wanted to ask Jake this question, but I’ll
ask you.  It’s about the Quad summit.  And there is a possibility that
Saturday’s election in Australia will not produce a winner in time for
someone to go to Tokyo to participate in the Quad summit.  So what
contingencies are there?  Will the one meeting go ahead if Australia
cannot participate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I believe that the Quad meeting will go ahead.  I
don’t have any more specifics than that about the — you know, how that’s
going to affect any further, deeper.

But from what I understand, and even Jake said this, that there’s going
to be a Quad summit.  It’s going to happen.  We can — we can talk more
about the specifics of what will — you know, what it will look like with
Australia.

Q    And then, the First Lady’s Office informed us that Ashley Biden,
the President’s daughter, is positive for COVID.  Can you tell us when
was the last time the President tested negative?  Is he testing today in
preparation for travel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  So, the President tests regularly throughout the
week as part of a cadence determined by his doctor.  As we’ve — as we’ve
communicated, the President is not a close contact with Ashley.  It’s
been several days that they last — he and the First Lady last saw
Ashley; I think about a week is what I’ve been told.

If his testing were to change because of a close contact, we’d let all
of you know.  But his cadence has not changed.  I don’t have when he
last tested.

Q    And then one final question on the church attack in California over
the weekend.  We haven’t seen the President comment on that at all.  Is
he concerned that what happened there could somehow destabilize
relations between Taiwan and China?  Does he have any plans to call or
reach out to Taiwan or China, or anything like that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any calls to preview of — calls with
Chinese and Taiwan as it relates to this particular case. 

Our thoughts are with all those affected by gun violence, including the
incidents — the other incidents that at — that happened this weekend in
Houston, in Milwaukee, in Chicago, and, as we know, in Buffalo. 

Federal law enforcement is supporting as needed.  And the White House
has been in touch with local leaders.  These shootings and, of course,
the one in Buffalo, as the President and the First Lady went to offer —
went to grieve with the community yesterday, as all of you know, are a
sad reminder of how important it is to redouble our eff- — our fight
against gun violence and violent crime. 

And as part of the President’s comprehensive strategy to fight gun
crime, we’re putting more cops on the beat, as you’ve heard us say this
past year and a half; as we’re — talked about a gun comprehensive
approach here, cracking down on firearms trafficking, investing through
the art and community programs to prevent crime. 

But I don’t have any more to share on any calls that may have had
occurred. 

Okay, I’m going to go to people who haven’t asked a question.  Go ahead,
Ashley.

Q    Thank you.  Two questions.  Following up on Darlene, on Ashley
Biden having COVID: She’s in good company in this White House in that
the Vice President had it, the Second Gentleman had it, you had it, Jen
Psaki had it twice, a number of top Cabinet officials had it, a number
of other aides in the West Wing.  And no one so far that I can remember
has been deemed a close contact of the President.  Why are none of these
people close contacts of the President — and his sister, actually —
including family members? 

And also, are there steps that the President is taking beyond the CDC
guidelines that you could lay out?  Are meetings in the Oval being kept
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — under 15 minutes?  Is everyone masked?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’m glad to be — said I was in good company. 
Appreciate that. 

But — so it is — we take extra precautions, to your last question — I’ll
answer that first — here at the White House.  And we’ve said this
before: When we’re in a meeting — I was in a meeting with the President
earlier today.  I got tested first.  I put my mask on, and we socially
distanced. 

Those are the extra protocols that we do take with the President and all
the principals, not just him, just to make sure that we just take that
extra added step there. 

Look, you know, the close contact is as it’s deemed by CDC. And he
hasn’t seen Ashley in several days.  And it’s also — there’s a time
component to how long that person was in the room.  We all wear masks. 

So, yeah, I mean, the way we — if he — if he is — if there was a close
contact or he’s a close contact of someone, we would let you know.

Q    And on guns: Yesterday, when he was leaving Buffalo, the President
said, “I’ve got to convince the Congress that we should go back to what
I passed years ago.”  I just want to confirm that he was referring to
the 1994 assault weapons ban. 

And my question is: You know, when he was the point person for President
Obama after Sandy Hook, Manchin-Toomey — which went far less far than an
assault weapons ban — failed.  What makes him think that he could get
that through when, so far, no meaningful legislation has gone through in
the past decade?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, this is what the President said
yesterday.  Right?  He understands it’s not going to be easy, but he
knows that there’s more to do. 

You know, our country is facing an epidemic that is very real, as we
have seen this past weekend, as gun violence is costing lives every
single day. 

And so, you know, when he was in Buffalo, we saw examples of that.  He
talked to the family — talked to them in a very personal way.  And this
is a top priority for the President, as it’s been throughout his
career. 

As you just mentioned, he mentioned his own legislation that he passed. 
Look, the President continues to urge Congress to act to pass universal
background checks, to keep guns out of the wrong hands, and to renew a
ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines to keep weapons off
our streets.  It’s not going to be easy.  He understands that.  But he’s
going to continue to work very hard to make that happen. 

But I do want to add, Ashley, is that this administration has done more
on gun violence reform via executive action than any other President in
its first year in their administration. So that is the — his commitment
and what he’s — what he’s done just this year and a half.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Jake mentioned his conversation with his Chinese
counterpart.  This morning, the readout you guys gave was pretty sparse,
and so I was wondering if you can give any more details of that
conversation, and particularly, sort of, an update on how the White
House has seen China’s actions towards Russia in light of Ukraine.  I
know that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have any more to read out outside of what
you — what was put out by us earlier today.  I’m just going to keep it
to that readout.  And — and, you know, Jake has spoken to this before,
about China and their relationship with Russia. 

We haven’t seen any evidence of any, like, material that has been
provided to Russia.  That continues to be the case.  I don’t have any
more to add on that.

Q    I wanted to ask about a pair of bills on Capitol Hill right now — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    — both being forwarded by House Democrats.  One is a Consumer Fuel
Price gauging — Gouging Prevention Act, and the other is this domestic
terrorism legislation. 

I haven’t seen statements of administration policy on either, and I’m
wondering how supportive the President is, particularly on the domestic
terrorism legislation.  He kind of — on the tarmac yesterday, he seemed
to say that he didn’t think it was necessary. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on the — the price — the gas price gouging
legislation that you just mentioned: Look, the President welcomes all
ideas to protect consumers and to make sure that oil companies aren’t
taking advantage of Putin’s war and are competing fairly.  He’s been
very clear on that.

President Biden has been also very clear that no company should be
engaging in unfair practices to hike prices on American consumers. 

As the President has said, President Putin’s actions are what is driving
the price increase at the pump.  The President is focused on doing
everything in his power to address the Putin price hike, including the
largest-ever release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, as we’ve
talked about here at this podium, and working around the clock diplo- —
to diplomatically build a coalition of countries for the largest release
in foreign reserves ever. 

We know that there are a number of ideas being suggested by our allies
and in Congress, and look forward to engaging on this issue so we can
get Americans some relief, especially as we’re in this particular time
right now with high prices.

Q    And then one last on the Dow.  It’s down 1,100 points so far
today.  Chairman Powell did an interview with the Wall Street Journal in
which he said he’d push forward on additional rate hikes, even if it
resulted in unemployment coming up.  Also, presumably baked into that is
that the stock market — we’ve seen the stock market do poorly as the Fed
hikes rates. 

So, you know, do you still, I guess, stand behind Chairman Powell’s
vision on rate hikes? 

And broadly, you guys have said that you’re not following day-to-day
market tribulations, but we’re now getting to a point where some of the
gains that defined the President’s tenure are being erased.  And so, is
there a new level of alarm within the White House about the stock
market?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know — and we say this all the time, Josh
— you know, it’s — Justin — the Fed chair –you know, the Federal Reserve
is independent.  We leave them to make their own policy decisions.  We
do not get involved in that.  And nothing has changed on how we see the
stock market. We do not — that’s not something that we keep an eye on
every day.  And so, I don’t — I’m not going to comment about that from
here. 

I do want to touch base on the domestic terrorism and what the President
said yesterday about the — about domestic terrorism.  Look, it’s a —
it’s a growing and evolving threat and one that the Biden administration
has taken very seriously. 

Since our first day in office, we have said we have been studying the
details of different proposals.  And there are a range of ideas that
have been proposed in Congress that could improve our ability to detect
and respond to these threats. 

What the President was specifically referring to yesterday when he was
on the tarmac was the set of existing laws on the — on the books that
provide law enforcement with authorities to investigate and prosecute
domestic terrorism and hold those who commit hate-filled attacks
accountable. 

As part of our National Strategy for Countering Domestic Terrorism, we
increased our support for federal, state, and local law enforcement as
they address domestic terrorism nationwide, including increasing
resources and providing traines \[sic\] — trainings to thousands of law
enforcement entities.

DOJ has made domestic terrorism-related investigation and prosecution a
top priority at the national and local level.  And plus, DOG \[sic\] —
DOJ, earlier this year, announced the creation of a new domestic
terrorism unit with the counterterrorism section — sec- — section of the
National Security Division that will enforce the expertise and
experience on these issues available to federal prosecutors nationwide. 

So, there is a commitment there.  And that’s what he was talking about. 

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    We’re about three weeks away from the Summit of the Americas.  You
got Chris Dodd down in Mexico today —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — trying to convince President López Obrador to come. What’s the
President’s level of optimism that Mexico will attend this Summit of the
Americas?  And, well, is the guest list finalized?  Has the President
decided who to invite?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The guest list is not finalized.  Hopefully that will
happen soon.  And I promise, once we have it, we will share it. 

You know, the President is optimistic.  You know, we don’t have anything
to share at this moment.  Again, once we have it, we’ll be happy to
share it with all of you.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  DHS said today that they’ll be pausing the
Disinformation Governance Board.  Did the White House play a role at all
in perhaps expressing frustration on how it was rolled out or expressed
any — involvement in how it — whether or not it should be paused?

And then also, some experts have said that it was sort of set up to fail
the way it was rolled out.  Do you have a response to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the board has never convened.  It — so that’s — it
never convened, and the board is — yes, the board is pausing in the
sense that it will not convene while former Secretary Chertoff and
former Deputy AG Gorelick do their assessment. 

But the Department’s work across several administrations to address
disinformation that threatens the security of our country is critical,
and that will indeed continue. 

And again, neither Nina Jankowicz nor the board have anything to do with
the censorship or with removing content from anywhere.  Their role is to
ensure that national security officials are updated on how
misinformation is affecting the trea- — the threat — the threat
environment. 

She has strong credentials and a history of calling out misinformation
from both the left and the right.  And that’s — and that’s our focus.

Q    So did the White House — did the White House play a role at all in
whether it should be paused or what should happen with — with the board?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  First of all, like I said, this — this is what’s
happening: There is a pause.  We did not have an involvement in this at
all.

Q    And just another quick question.  Congressman Schrader, who
received a rare endorsement from the President in a Democratic primary,
is on track to lose.  What does that say about the power of the
President’s endorsement?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I — as it comes to — you know, I have to
be careful about what I can say here.  (Laughs.)  But we — you know, the
race in Oregon was focused on just how much each candidate support the
President — supported the President.  That’s what we saw in this
particular race.   
  
His — his counterpart in the race, McLeod-Skinner, ran on a — an agenda
of President Biden’s priorities, including lowering the price of
prescription drugs and tackling climate change and the fossil fuel
pledge.   
  
Her support for President Biden extends back to 2020 election, when she
said, “He’s the guy.  He knows how to choose a great team.”  On the
campaign trail, McLeod-Skinner has sought to tie herself to President
Biden and paused — and praised his presidency.  
  
Even on day one President Biden endorsed Representative Schrader,
McLeod-Skinner wrote, “I respect Biden’s work to tackle COVID-19 and
rebuild our economy.”  In February, McLeod-Skinner praised President
Biden’s effort at diplomacy around the situation in Ukraine.  McLeod
praised President Biden’s plan to lower health and — care costs,
eldercare costs, childcare costs, and prescription drug costs as a
transform- — formative — “transformative investment in the future of
Oregon’s families.”  
  
So, that’s how we see it.  We think it’s both — both sides were very
much supportive of the President.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Karine, just to follow up though, I mean, the question
is — this — both of them had similar platforms, to your point.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  
  
Q    And yet President Biden endorsed one of them, and that candidate is
on track to lose.  So are there concerns within the President — and I
know you can’t speak to politics of this — is the President concerned
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not at all.  
  
Q    — that he doesn’t have enough juice heading into these critical
midterms?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, not at all.  Because, again, both candidates were
running on a platform that supported, embraced the President’s pla- —
the President’s agenda.  
  
Q    Has the President reached out to any of the Democratic winners
overnight, particularly John Fetterman, who is still in the hospital? 
Cheri Beasley?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any calls to read out, but I do believe
the one thing that I can say here is that he spoke — last night, the
President did speak to Gisele Fetterman, and wished the governor —
wished the lieutenant governor a speedy recovery.

Q    Okay.  And the President said of Fetterman’s win and of the
Republicans who were still locked in a pretty tight battle in
Pennsylvania: “\[W\]hoever emerges will be too dangerous, too craven,
and too extreme to represent Pennsylvania” and the United States.  Do
the Democrats run the risk of underestimating the Republican Senate
nominee in Pennsylvania —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look —  
  
Q    — and gubernatorial nominee?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, the President remains really focused on
delivering for the American people.  And what you see from congressional
Republicans and what you see from the GOP is — the plan for American
people is to raise taxes to — in the middle class, to sunset Social
Security and Medicare, and to take away a woman’s right to reproductive
healthcare.  He’s going to speak against that.  He is going to continue
to speak for the American public.  And so, he’s not going to stay
quiet.   
  
And that — and this is something that is incredibly important to make
sure that the American people and — and what he’s doing to — for the
American people is — is — you know, is made sure that it’s — it happens,
right?  What the — what the other side is trying to do is trying to stop
us from trying to lower costs for — for folks, as we — as I just laid
out.

Q    And, just very quickly, Senator Raphael Warnock is saying that he’s
coming to the White House to meet with the President today.  Can you
talk a little bit about that, about student loans?  And is the President
open to increasing the forgiveness rate?  It seems like he’s in the
$10,000 range.  Senator Warnock wants it to be closer to $50,000.  Would
the President come up?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we meet with members of Congress on a variety of
issues.  
  
Q    Is he going to meet with Senator Warnock today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  These are senators who have been leaders on
college affordability and sent- — and student debt.  The President
values their perspective and looks forward to the discussion this
afternoon.  So, yes.  But I don’t have more to read on that.  
  
There’s — we — you know, I’ve said this a couple of times: We don’t — a
decision hasn’t been made yet.  
  
Q    Is there timeline yet for —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a timeline.  A decision hasn’t been made
yet.

Yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  A follow-up to the disinformation board.  Last
week, you guys said that you needed this Disinformation Governance Board
at DHS to make sure that freedom of speech is protected across the
country and that these platforms are not used for forms of
disinformation.  So what changed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the Department of — of Homeland Security, they
began their statement report- — repeating that the board had been
intentionally mischaracterized, which is a little bit of what you were
asking me, and they were explicit about what it does and doesn’t — it
does not do.  
  
It was never about censorship, poli- — policing speech, or removing
content from anywhere.  Its function was to keep Homeland Security
officials aware of how bad actors — including human smugglers,
transnational criminal organization, and foreign adversaries — could use
disinformation to advance their goals.  
  
As Secretary Mayorkas said, he has asked former DHS Secretary Michael
Chertoff and former DO- — DAG Jamie Gorelick to lead a thorough review —
this is the pause that I was talking about — and assessment as members
of the bipartisan Homeland Security Council — Advisory Council.  
  
The board will not convene during that period.  But the department’s
work across several administrations to address disinformation that
threatens the security for our country is critical and will continue. 
So that work is going to continue.

Q    So if it’s pausing because you think the board was
mischaracterized, then the disinformation board is being shut down
because of disinformation?  Is that what’s happening here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I mean, the — the board was put forth for a
purpose — right? — to make sure that we really did — really did address
what was happening across the country when it came to disinformation.  
  
Q    And it’s okay to wait now at 75 days to address —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, no, it’s — it’s just — it’s going to pause. 
There’s been a mischaracterations \[sic\] from outside — outside
forces.  And so, now what we’re going to do is going to — we’re going to
pause it and we’re going to do an assessment.  But the work does — the
work doesn’t stop.  We’re still going to continue the work.  The DHS is
still going to continue the work.

Q    Okay.  There’s a bulletin now that DHS is worried if Roe v. Wade is
overturned, there could be violence against the Supreme Court building
or Supreme Court justices.  Are these threats from pro-abortion
activists or anti-abortion activists?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President is clear on this question.  He
believes the right to peace- — to peacefully protest in this country is
fundamental, but he also believes that violence, threats, and
intimidation have no place in political discourse anywhere.  That is
true whether it is in front of a courthouse or in front of a healthcare
clinic.  
  
And that’s the thing.  I feel — it seems like, to us, it is very
one-sided on what we call out as — as intimidation or as violence.  So
we want to make sure we’re calling out on — on ei- — on both sides of
what is happening and what we’re seeing.  
  
While protests — but while protests have been peaceful to date, the
Department of Justice has U.S. Marshals providing support to support
\[the Supreme\] Court Marshal, and the Pres- — and the President
believes Congress should pass the legislation to fund increased security
for Court and judges as soon as possible.  
  
Yesterday, in reference to this, the Department of Homeland Security
said they are “committed to protecting Americans’ freedom of speech and
other civil rights and civil liberties, including the right to
peacefully protest.  DHS is also committed to working with our partners
across every level of government and the private sector to share timely
information and intelligence, prevent all forms of violence, and to
support law enforcement — enforcement efforts to keep our communities
safe.”

Q    And then, final question, on gas prices: Americans are now spending
$5,000 a year on gasoline.  That’s almost double what they did a year
ago.  Where are people supposed to go to get all that extra cash?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  To get the extra cash to pay for gas?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I mean, one of the things that we’ve been very
clear about is to do everything in our power to make sure that we lower
costs.  You know, it is important — we see it.  The President
understands what the American people is — are — is going through. 

And that’s why we’re doing everything that we can.  We’ve made multiple
announcements in the past several — several months of what we’re doing —
whether it’s just the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, whether it’s the
ethanol 15, to make sure that that — that the American people are not
feeling Putin’s price hike. 

This is where this is coming from.  Sixty to seventy percent of the
current price hike that we have seen has come from Putin’s aggression
against Ukraine.  
  
Q    So, the President announces on March 31st that he’s got all these
steps to lower gas prices, and it’s still Putin’s fault, seven weeks
later?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, because — what I’m saying is, since the war —
since Putin’s war — aggression against Ukraine started back in February
— we did see a spike.  But before then, it had — the price — the — the
price per gallon had fallen down about 10 cents or more. 

And then Putin started his aggression on Ukraine — his violent
aggression on Ukraine — against their democracy, against their — against
their sovereignty.  And we saw about — I mean, the facts show it went up
about 60 to 70 percent.  So it is Putin’s tax hike.  This is what we’re
talking about.

Q    Karine?  
  
Q    On that same subject —  
  
Q    Would you come to the back —  
  
Q    — on inflation —  
  
Q    — at some point?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    The inflation concerns are now rubbing off on quarterly earnings,
reports for a lot of big companies — Target, for example, today says it
missed its estimates because of increased costs of transportation, in
gas.  That’s part of what’s driving this at least 1,100-point drop in
the Dow so far.  What would you say, what does the White House say to
investors and everyday Americans who are concerned that there’s no end
in sight to these price hikes?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, you know, I’m not — again, I’m not going to
speak to the stock market.  But, you know, this is something that is
very important to the President, when it comes to inflati- — inflation
and making sure that we lower costs for the American people.  
  
Last week, we announced new steps with private sector to lower the price
of high-speed Internet for ten — tens of millions of Americans. 

The President traveled to Illinois to announce new actions to give
farmers the tools and resources so — they need to boost production,
lower prices, and — and feed the world. 

The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found that the deficit fell
by $1.5 trillion this year, putting us on track for the fastest deficit
reduction in any year on record. 

These actions build on other actions the President has taken to lower
costs in recent weeks.  Again, you know, this is to — this is to address
Putin’s price hike at the pump. 

The President, as I was saying, and allies and partners around the world
— they came together.  And he was talking about the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve, the 1 million barrels of oil per day for the next six months,
in addition to a — to the 60 million barrels of oil from other
countries’ reserve.  I talked about the E15 gasoline that we have
allowed to happen so that it could be sold this summer. 

The President also announced administrative actions to save hundreds of
thousands of families hundreds of dollars per month by fixing the
Affordable Care Act’s family glitch.  These are the things that we have
been working on — this President has been working on for the past
several months, understanding that it is important to lower the cost of
— the costs for American families.  And we’re going to continue to do
that. 

I’m going to try and go to the back.  Go ahead.  You, sir.

Q    Thank you.  Oh, sorry.

Q    Thank you very much.  Thanks a lot, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, yeah.  Go ahead.  (Laughs.)  Go ahead. 

Q    Can you talk a little bit about President Biden’s long-term
thinking on Ukraine?  There’s a possibility this war could go on for
months or years.  And what is the President’s commitment to supplying
weapons to Ukraine in the long term?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, there is a — there is a
supplemental — there is a funding — a Ukraine funding that’s in the
Senate right now for about $40 billion that we are encouraging the
Senate to pass.  And so, that is going to be part of helping —
continuing to help Ukraine with material, with defense material and
humanitarian aid.

Look, this is something that’s incredibly important to the President,
but also to our partners and allies, that we make sure that Ukraine is
able to defend their democracy.  It is important for us as a country, as
a leader in this — in this world to make sure that we’re doing
everything that we can so that happens. 

What hap- — what is happening in Ukraine — defending their democracy,
defending their territorial integrity, defending their sovereignty —
affects us all.  So, this is something that we are going to continue to
be partners with — with our allies, our partners. 

The — Jake was talking about the NATO Alliance and how strong they are,
how unified, how they’re speaking in one voice in a — in a way that we
have not seen in years.  And so, this is something that we need to be —
continue to be a leader on, and that’s what he believes. 

And it’s important to make sure that we protect our country’s democracy.

Q    What preparations is the President making if Putin escalates after
the — after Finland and Sweden join NATO?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’m not going to go into hypotheticals.  We’re
going to focus on what’s happening here and now. 

You know, again, I think one of the things that we have to remember:
This is a war that Putin started.  This is a war — his aggression, his
violent — very violent war that we have seen. 

The Ukraine — Ukrainians and their government have fought very bravely. 
And we’ve seen that with Kharkiv.  We’ve seen that — what they’ve done
in Kyiv.  It is remarkable what they have been able to do in fighting
back this aggression against their — against their country. 

And so that is going to be our focus, to make sure that they have
everything that they need to be — to have a — to strengthen their — kind
of their table when it comes to hopefully having some diplomacy and
getting to an end of this war. 

But in the meantime, we have to support them.

Q    Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  Okay.  Go ahead, Jonathan.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  In the wake of the Buffalo shooting, there been
several civil rights groups who have expressed some unhappiness at the
lack of outreach from the Biden White House and frustration about a lack
of progress on hate crimes, gun violence, and so on. 

I’ll just read you one: The Reverend Al Sharpton, who has visited the
White House several times, says, quote, “This administration has met
less with civil rights and civil liberty groups than previous
administrations in a formal substantive way.”  He goes on to say that
they even asked for meeting here in the wake of this shooting, and,
quote, “We’ve got no response from the White House.” 

Can you give an update on this?  And will there be a meeting with civil
rights groups?  And can you address his frustrations?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any meetings to read out for you or
any meetings scheduled at this time.  You know, we respect the
Reverend.  He has been here many times before, as you know. 

Are you talking about the letter that the — that the — from gun — gun
rights groups have written?  There were about 40-plus that —

Q    He says —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think it was in your —

Q    Yeah, that — that — there’s that, but —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay. 

Q    — he says civil rights groups have also asked the White House for a
meeting (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, we’ve met with civil rights groups over the last
year and a half.  I don’t have any meetings to read out to you at this
time.

Look, the one thing I do want to say is that, you know, the President
agrees with these groups on the urgency of acting, and he applauds the
work that they’re doing to rally support around the country for a
commonsense agenda to fight the epidemic of gun crime.  He understands
that.  That’s one of the reasons he went to Buffalo — to have that
conversation, to grieve with the family.  And he spoke to them in a very
personal way. 

There’s a couple of things from that letter that I do want to just —
just talk about a little bit, since it was in your publication.  He
agrees that innovative, neighborhood-based crime prevention programs
like community violence intervention need to be at the core of our
toolkit to make our <s>common sense</s> \[communities\] safer.  That’s
why the President has unlocked existing money within the government to
invest in community violence intervention.  That’s why he secured more
than — more money for that in his 2022 budget.  And that’s why he’s
calling for a significance increase in funding in his 2023 budget.  He
is calling for a $5 billion investment over 10 years.

The President also is going to continue to call on Congress — he talked
about this yesterday when he was in Buffalo — to pass commonsense gun
violence legislation that would keep weapons off our streets and keep
guns out of the hands of criminals.  We’re working closely with Leader
Schumer and Speaker Pelosi on this and other issues, and will defer to
their judgment on legislative mechanics, give them space to work on that
and to do that. 

And finally, on the question of a gun violence coordinator — I was asked
that yesterday; I think I was asked specifically about an office.  You
know, Ambas- — we have Ambassador Susan Rice here, who is the Chair of
the Domestic Policy Council, as you all know.  And she is coordinating
the President’s whole-of-government approach to reducing gun violence,
leading a 12-person team that connects violence reduction to broader
resources, like mental health supports, workforce development
opportunities, and more. 

She has decades of experience coordinating interagency process in the
federal government.  There’s no one who is better at bringing
stakeholders to the table to drive progress, and we know that’s so —
that’s important because tackling an issue as complex, and gun vi- — and
gun violence requis \[sic\] — requires a multidisciplinary approach. 
And we’re talking about housing, mental health, community support, all
of the things — apprenticeship — all of the things that are so important
in order to deal with this issue.

I’m trying to — 

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

Oh, my gosh.  I’m trying to call on people I haven’t gotten yet. 

Q    Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, we have to go?  All right, guys, I’m so sorry.  We
have to go.  But we will — we will — hopefully I’ll see some of you in
Asia.  All right. 

Q    Have a good trip.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Bye.  

Q    We’re all the way back here in Siberia.  You can visit anytime. 
(Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I — next time.  Next time, I promise.  I did
call somebody back there.

Q    Thank you.

3:08 P.M. EDT
