---
date: '2022-05-17'
modified_time: 2022-05-17 12:27:26-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-17 11:49:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/17/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-actions-to-expand-infant-formula/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on Actions to Expand\
  \ Infant\_Formula"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(May 16, 2022)

7:34 P.M. EDT

MR. MUNOZ:  All right, good evening.  Happy Monday, everybody.  Thank
you for joining us on this call tonight to discuss some updates from the
administration on efforts to increase the availability of safe infant
formula supply across the United States.

As a reminder, this call will be on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials.”  It will be embargoed until the conclusion of
the call.

At the beginning, we have a few brief remarks and then we can just get
into a couple of questions. 

Joining us on the call is \[senior administration official\] and
\[senior administration official\].  And with that, I will kick it to
\[senior administration official\]. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks, Kevin.  As you know,
getting more safe infant formula onto shelves across the country is one
of the President’s top priorities.  We understand how stressful it is
for parents trying to feed their children — I say that as someone
expecting my second child in June — and that’s why this administration
has been working for weeks to address the infant formula shortage.

It’s important to remember that this shortage exists because one
manufacturer, Abbott Nutrition, closed a facility in Michigan due to
safety concerns from the FDA.  That facility was a major producer of
formula that families in this country rely on.  And you have heard from
us about our ongoing, 24/7 work to tackle the issue. 

I want to provide an update tonight on just a couple of very recent
developments.  First, today, FDA and Abbott agreed on next steps to
reopen the Michigan plant that is currently closed.  This is a critical
step in resolving the shortages that are impacting families across the
country today.

Abbott and the federal government signed a formal consent decree that
outlines the steps to get the facility reopened and produce — and
producing formula again. 

The consent decree requires that Abbott retain an independent expert to
review the facility’s operation and ensure compliance with the law.  It
includes requirements for testing products and for promptly notifying
the FDA should any contamination be detected.

And the consent decree also requires the implementation of a detailed
sanitation plan, an environmental monitoring plan, a new employee
training program.  So a robust document outlining a key series of basic
steps that the parties have agreed to. 

Second, also today, we took another important step with the FDA
releasing guidance under which major formula manufacturers can ask to
safely import formula that is not currently being produced for the U.S.
market.

Companies will need to apply with the FDA, and FDA is prepared to review
applications quickly and respond to them rapidly.  FDA will prioritize
review of applications that are most likely to be successful and will
get the most formula to U.S. shelves as quickly as possible.

FDA is going to be closely evaluating quality and safety and safety
history to ensure that only safe product will come to American shelves.

At the White House, we have alerted embassies and retailers and
manufacturers to identify potential companies that could make use of the
new importation process.  And we’ll continue working with folks as we
get this process moving. 

Third, I want to highlight that throughout the weekend we’ve been
working closely with manufacturers and retailers that are today
producing formula for the U.S. market to identify transportation and
logistical needs to increase the amount and speed of approved formula
that’s being shipped into the country, and to ensure that formula that
is being produced here or coming in from abroad is quickly moving from
factories to retailers.  And we’ve offered logistical support, and we’ll
be, you know, continuing to conduct that outreach and identify ways to
be helpful. 

Fourth, we’ve also continued to engage with pediatricians and parents’
groups and other stakeholders to hear from them and to share information
about resources and (inaudible) during this time.

So, taken together, the steps we’re announcing today should continue to
make a difference for families.  And we’ll be working overtime to get
more formula on shelves. 

So, with that, back to you, Kevin.

MR. MUNOZ:  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  Don’t be shy —
if you have questions, we have some time.  First let’s go to Spencer
Kimball at CNBC.

Q    Hi, thank you for doing the call.  So the FDA said that, you know,
it streamlined the process at ports, and imports have increased 300
percent since last year.  Can you just say where exactly are the imports
coming from — what companies, what countries?  How long does the
administration expect the situation to take until supply is kind of
normalized?

And then also, in the consent decree, the Justice Department said that
products were adulterated.  Abbott has denied that.  So did the FDA find
contaminated baby powder at the facility?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], you
want to take the first part of that? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I can take the piece on the consent
decree.  So, you know, I don’t want to get into a, like, huge
back-and-forth on exactly the findings of facts between the agencies or
between the parties here.

The consent decree reflects that there was a history of, you know,
product disposal at the facility because of concerns about
contamination, and so it’s consistent with that.  But I would refer you
to DOJ and to Abbott for, you know, specifics on the terms of the
consent decree. 

\[Senior administration official\], if you can jump in.  I think you’re
best positioned to weigh in on where are you seeing imports are coming
from.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And if not, I will (inaudible).

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  No, it’s working now.  I had trouble
unmuting my line, so apologies for that. 

You know, when we look at our trade data, the sources of imports for
formula currently include Ireland, Chile, the Netherlands.  You know, as
we look at the kind of countries that have health and safety inspection
systems similar to our own, may be able to meet that quantity and
labeling and nutritional guidance standards that \[senior administration
official\] laid out, we can imagine Australia, New Zealand, the UK also
being countries that, you know, product could be imported from.

MR. MUNOZ:  Great.  Next question.  Let’s go to Alex Alper at Reuters. 

Q    Hi there.  Can you hear me okay?

MR. MUNOZ:  Yep.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We can.

Q    Okay, great.  I guess — you know, you mentioned the importance of
facilitating transportation.  And I was wondering if you could say, you
know, what specific transportation help has the White House offered to
the companies involved. 

And then, just to follow up on something that was mentioned I think late
last week, which was the possibility of invoking the DPA.  And I
wondered if that was still under consideration and how specifically it
could help increase production.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  On the — I can take those
questions.

On the transportation side, you know, we’ve talked to the retailers,
we’ve talked to the manufacturers.  We’ve told them, “Let us know if
you’re having some specific transportation, logistical challenges
somewhere in your supply chain where we could offer some help.”  Thus
far, we’re still working through those requests, and I have no specific
update to report on that side. 

What we have seen generally during this supply chain crisis — because we
have a Supply Chain Disruptions Task Force that the administration has
been running — that, in some instances, we’re able to help improve
communication between all the firms and the logistics industry, and
between suppliers and their customers to help speed up the movement of
goods through the supply chain.

On the question of the Defense Production Act, here we are continuing to
focus on actions we can take to get more supply available as quickly as
possible.  That is, like, our primary goal.  We’re going to continue to
look at every option that is on the table there.  No additional specific
updates to offer you on the DPA there, but I will point you again to the
work that the FDA has done today with their new importation guidance. 
It’s is a really critical and crucial step to quickly increasing supply
in the country.

MR. MUNOZ:  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  Let’s go to MJ
Lee at CNN.

Q    Hi, can you hear me?  Sorry about that.

MR. MUNOZ:  Hey.

Q    Hey, thank you so much for doing this.  I was wondering if you all
could share or know when the last time was that the FDA inspected the
Michigan facility that’s opening up again.  And will FDA officials be
there throughout the reopening process?  And just if you could walk us
through how that would work. 

And then just on the new guidance you mentioned for applying to import
formula, you said that you hope to go through some of these applications
pretty quickly.  Do you have a sense of a general timeline for that? 
Are we talking about days or weeks for approval?  And also just what the
quantity is that you are estimating.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so on the first question, I would
refer you to the FDA.  As you know, they’re an independent scientific
entity that conducts, you know, independent inspections and enforcement
activities.  So I would refer you to them for details on what they can
share about when they have been on site and, you know, the schedule
there.

On the timing for reviewing applications, FDA, you know, has asked
companies to provide them with information that they can review.  FDA
has made clear that they will prioritize applications that stand a good
chance of being successful, that indicate, sort of, clear quality and
safety and nutritional adequacy and all of that, and that have potential
to move significant products into the United States quickly.

You know, we expect — well, the process has been designed to move
rapidly so that FDA, again, can evaluate those applications that have a
clearer chance of success and move forward on those on those quickly. 

But I don’t have a specific timeline or number of days to give you
tonight.

MR. MUNOZ:  Next question, let’s go to Alyssa Rosenberg, The Washington
Post.

All right, Alyssa, we will come back to you.   
  
Ben Gittleson, ABC.

Q    Hi.  Along the same lines, I was wondering how soon you expect
imports could be actually seen on shelves.  I know the previous question
was about the application process, but as you’re planning for supply to
become available, if you could give an estimate for parents how long it
would take for the imports to actually appear on shelves.   
  
And then also, the White House had said earlier today that the
administration had been contacting suppliers for infant formula
manufacturers to let them know that their materials were critical for
boosting production, and encouraging them to prioritize the production
and delivery.  I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more
specific detail.  Like, what does that actually look like?  Are these
suppliers within the U.S.?  What type of impact will this make and how
quickly?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, sure.  On the first question, the
FDA commissioner said this morning that we are talking about getting
products to the shelves in, you know, a matter of weeks.  So we’re
talking just a couple of weeks to — you know, for — to get some of that
imported product into the country and available in U.S. stores.  
  
I’ll turn to \[senior administration official\] on the second piece.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So, on the second one, you know,
I can tell you broadly: You can imagine that a manufacturer of infant
formula needs to assemble a range of inputs, whether it’s specific
ingredients, it’s labeling, it’s packaging materials.  And so, you know,
in a few instances, they identified how it would be helpful to get some
of those supplies in quicker, and we were able to contact the suppliers
and let them know.  And they were — it was a helpful flag because they
were not aware of what that downstream customer was producing and were
eager to help make sure that those orders were being sent quickly.

MR. MUNOZ:  Great.  Let’s go back to Alyssa.

Q    Hey, sorry about that.  So, I — you know, I just hopped off the FDA
call.  I’m hearing from you guys, from them that it’s going to be a
couple of weeks.  And what efforts are underway to connect families who
can’t get formula now with the formula they need?  Because, clearly,
there are families who can’t wait a couple of weeks.  
  
I know that, you know, the guidance has referenced trying to identify
areas where out-of-stock rates are particularly high and expedite
getting formula to retailers there.  But can you talk about any
resources and efforts that are helping families bridge that
couple-of-weeks gap, especially because it could be longer?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So, I mean, as you know, we are
carefully monitoring data across the country and improving, you know,
our ability to understand regional and other variations every minute. 
As we relayed last week and remains true, we do know that today there is
more infant formula coming off of production lines in the U.S. than
there was prior to the recall.  And similarly, overall sales of infant
formula are up 13 percent compared to the pre-recall period.   
  
So there is infant formula available.  At the same time, we are
absolutely mindful of how challenging this is, and I think we have a
couple of key messages for families.  
  
One is we want families to talk to their pediatrician and have
confidence that it is — it is generally safe to switch your baby between
infant formula products. 

If there is a brand available in the store — even if it’s not your
normal product or, you know, a slightly different formulation or a
different brand or, you know, powder versus liquid or, you know, any of
those differences — it is — the formula on U.S. shelves is safe, and it
is safe to move your baby between products. 

We recognize that that’s scary and can be challenging, but families
should have confidence buying whatever is available and providing that
to their family. 

At the same time, you know, it is not — it is not safe to provide — to
water down formula or to make your own infant formula at home.  And so,
we think it is important that families hear those messages. 

MR. MUNOZ:  All right.  Last question, let’s go to Meredith Lee.

Q    Hi there.  Can you hear me?

MR. MUNOZ:  Go ahead.

Q    Hi.  I’m wondering if you could just clarify the timeline for when
FDA notified the White House about infant formula shortages at the
Michigan plant and potential market disruptions from that. 

I know Karine said today that the administration has been working on
this 24/7 since February, but Politico reported that a whistleblower
last October flagged food safety concerns to senior FDA officials.  So
I’m wondering when the FDA notified the White House about any issues at
the Michigan plant and potential shortages stemming from that.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I — I’m not going to — I’m not in
a position to comment on any internal communication.  The recall became
public on February 17th.  And, you know, we certainly have been very
public about our activity in this space since then.  But again, I am — I
am not in a position to comment on internal communications that were —
you know, that would have happened prior to that.

MR. MUNOZ:  All right.  Well, thank you, everybody.  As a reminder, the
call is on background, attributable to “senior administration
officials,” and the embargo lifts after this.  So, thank you for joining
tonight.

7:52 P.M. EDT
