---
date: '2022-05-20'
modified_time: 2022-05-21 00:58:48-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-20 23:37:40-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/20/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-previewing-president-bidens-second-day-in-the-republic-of-korea/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official Previewing President\_\
  Biden\u2019s Second Day in the Republic of\_Korea"
---
 
Via Teleconference

9:12 A.M. KST

MODERATOR:  Good morning, everybody.  I hope you all had a restful night
in Seoul.  Apologies for the delay.

Thanks so much for joining us today on this background call.  As
mentioned on the invite, this call will be on background, attributable
to “senior administration officials,” and embargoed until the call’s
conclusion.

Not for reporting for just for everyone’s knowledge, joining us on this
call is \[senior administration official\]. 

\[Senior administration official\] has some remarks to make off the top,
and then we will take some questions before our speaker has to run into
another commitment.

So, with that, I will turn it over to \[senior administration
official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Good morning, everyone.  And thanks for
joining both the trip and then joining us this morning.  I’ll try and
keep this as short as possible and take some questions.

So, as I’m sure all of you know, today the President has a packed day. 
But before I get into it, I do want to very quickly highlight
yesterday’s tour of the Samsung Pyeongtaek facility by the President,
President Yoon, and Secretary Raimondo. 

I think as you all are aware, this is essentially the model of the
facility that Samsung has — is starting to build in Taylor, Texas, that
will create 3,000 new good-paying jobs.  And it’s also an example of the
strong partnership between the United States and the ROK, as well as the
value of the relationship in terms of generating investment in the
United States.  And it’s an example of how the Biden administration is
deepening our economic ties with the region to deliver for U.S. workers,
businesses, consumers, and of course for people everywhere, including in
the ROK.

You’ll see us continue to deepen our economic ties on this trip,
including with the launch of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework.  We
firmly believe that much of what happens in the coming decades will
depend on how well governments harness innovation — and especially the
transformations afoot in clean energy and digital and tech sectors —
while fortifying our economies from a range of vulnerabilities that
we’ve seen, in particular, driven home by the impacts of the pandemic. 
And this ranges from fragile supply chains, to the vulnerabilities to
disruption, to corruption, to tax havens.

And from our view, this requires a new model that we can move on
quickly, and that’s what IPEF will do.  We are pleased to see the very
strong interests in the region for IPEF and for our economic engagement
in the region, which we think reflects the continuing importance of an
affirmative U.S. vision for the region, which we highlight in our
Indo-Pacific strategy, as well as the desire in the region for continued
U.S. economic leadership.

So, very quickly, to walk over today’s schedule. 

We’ll start on — the first event will be: The President will participate
in a wreath-laying ceremony to pay his respects to those who died to
defend the Republic of Korea, many of whom died — many of those who died
fought alongside U.S. forces in the Korean War.  And I think this
reflects the deep commitment to our joint security and to our alliance,
and the President’s deep respect for those who paid the ultimate price
to defend our freedoms.

I think that this also reflects what we see as one of the major things
from the visit — or outcomes from the visit, which is continued
collaboration in strengthening our alliance to deal with today’s
challenges.

The President will then participate in a bilateral meeting with
President Yoon Suk Yeol.  They will have extensive discussions on a
range of issues, as I’m sure you’d expect.  We expect that there will be
a joint statement. 

And we expect that, you know, really, what we’re doing in this, as much
as anything else, is building on the strong alliance — to expand it; to
take it to deal with global issues and the issues and challenges of
today; and, I think, also to take advantage of the visit, which comes so
early in President Yoon’s time in office — I mean, this is
unprecedented, as you all know — to really build a strong personal
relationship between the two leaders that we think will help propel the
relationship going forward.

And as you all know, the relationship between the U.S. and the ROK is
something that is extraordinarily important to both countries but, we
believe, is increasingly important for the region and to promote peace
and stability and prosperity throughout the Indo-Pacific, as well as
around the world.

So, you know, I think some of the key things that we expect the
presidents to discuss will be the ROK’s role and the U.S.-ROK alliance’s
role as a lynchpin for peace and security. 

I think that we expect that there will be some discussions on how to
deal with some of the most recent threats and developments that have
occurred.

We also believe that there will be discussion on how we can find ways to
further expand our cooperation to make sure that we’re ready and — as
ready as possible to deal with the threats of today.

I think that, you know, as you would expect, the presidents will discuss
DPRK and, you know, reaffirm the continuing commitment to the complete
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.

We believe that there will be discussion on how we can manage and
address the most recent threats, particularly posed by the nuclear
program, as well as the ongoing missile program.  And very confident the
leaders will stress the importance and agree on the importance of all
countries fully enforcing U.N. Security Council resolutions.  And also,
we’re going to call on the DPRK to abide by its obligations under the
U.N. Security Council resolutions.

I think the will discuss ways forward in — on a variety of issues
associated with DPRK.  And, you know, I don’t want to prejudge and get
ahead of the discussions, but we’re very confident it will be very
thorough, it will be very wide-ranging, and very detailed.  
  
The presidents will also recognize the future of the alliance.  It’s not
just going to be defined by security, as has been the case in the past,
but it’s also going to be defined by creating a strategic economic and
technology partnership that really will reflect the importance of
innovation and technology to both countries and to our work in the
region going forward.

I think that the — we expect that there will be some work on how we can
better support innovation, how we can support partnership on critical
emerging technologies, and, you know, find ways to strengthen
cooperation on defense industry issues.   
  
I think that there will be work on — there’ll be discussion of secure
supply chains and their importance.  And I think that we’re very
confident that we will have a discussion about the impact on global
economic iss- — on the global economy of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 
And that we know that there is great interest in both countries on how
we can better make ourselves more resilient in the face of disruptions
in global energy as well as other economic issues linked to Russia’s
invasion.  
  
I think that you can expect some discussion of both nuclear cooperation
as well as other technology-related issues.  And I think that you can
also expect that there will be discussion of the importance of our own
economic relationship bilaterally and how we can work together to bring
prosperity to the region through the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework.  
  
I think that we also recognize that, you know, as I said before, part of
this visit is about turning a bilateral alliance into something that was
traditionally very much focused on peace and stability in the Korean
Peninsula, and then immediately in Northeast Asia, to something that
really looks to the region — to the Indo-Pacific region — and to the
world.  
  
I think that there’s — there’ll be discussion about the threats posed by
climate change, by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the importance of
promoting democracy and shared values.  
  
I think that we recognize that we also need to better work together to
deal not just with the current pandemic but prepare for future ones. 
And so, I think that we’ll be looking for ways in which we can better
cooperate, and I think the presidents will discuss that.  
  
I think that we will have some discussion on other technology issues,
including the importance of a free, open, secure Internet.  I think that
there’ll be some discussion about cyber.  And I think that we will
stress the importance of all countries standing together against efforts
to destabilize the — or threaten the rules-based international order
and, first and foremost, Ukraine.  And we expect some pretty extensive
discussions on Ukraine.   
  
And I think the U.S. and the President will highlight the great U.S.
appreciation for the Republic of Korea’s strong stance on Ukraine, both
in terms of imposition of sanctions and taking of economic steps, and
we’ll look for ways to expand that.

I think the ROK has been particularly strong on this, because I think
they recognize that, because of their own history and our shared history
together, the importance of a strong international reaction to invasions
of this kind.

I think the presidents are going to discuss the importance of promoting
a free and open Indo-Pacific, look for areas in which we can expand
cooperation with both Southeast Asia as well as on the Pacific Islands,
and look for ways in which we can better integrate our efforts across
the entire range of Indo-Pacific issues.

I think that there will be some discussions about other issues involving
regional security.  And I don’t want to prejudge those, but I think that
you will see that there — there is a great commonality in terms of our
vision of the importance of a strong response to threats to the
international order, particularly in the Indo-Pacific.  
  
And I think that we strongly believe that this visit will highlight both
what — how strong our alliance is today.  But really, this is about
building for the future, building a much stronger bilateral alliance and
one that deals with strategic and issues globally, but also building a
strong personal relationship with the leaders that will propel this
going forward.  
  
So, with that, I’ll take a few questions.

MODERATOR:  Thanks so much, \[senior administration official\].  If you
have a question, please use the “raise hand” function of the Zoom
interface.  And we’ll try to get through as many questions as we can.  
  
Why don’t we start with Aamer Madhani from the Associated Press?

Q    Hello.  I’m sorry, I was having trouble with the mute button
there.  But so — hopefully, you can hear me.

Is there going to be an explicit message to Kim Jong Un today in what
the President says in his public comments?  And I was also wondering
what, if any, assurances Jake Sullivan got from Yang Jiechi about
addressing the North Korean issue in their talk?

And finally, do you — \[senior administration official\], do you believe
there is any connection between the rise in COVID rates inside North
Korea and Kim’s seemingly increased saber-rattling?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks very much.  And I’m very
sympathetic to problems with muting and unmuting.  
  
So let me address a couple of things.  I think, first of all, you know,
I don’t want to get ahead of the discussions between the leaders.  But I
think you can expect that there will be extensive discussion about DPRK
issues.  
  
I think that we are very concerned about the COVID situation in the
DPRK.  We’re very sensitive to the fact that they’re — they appear to be
facing a quite serious situation.  And I think you’ve seen we are — we
stand ready to work with others in the international community as needed
to provide assistance.  And that includes, obviously, the ROK, but it
includes others and using the existing international mechanisms, but
this is something that is of deep concern to us.

I think that in terms of, you know, your characterization of the
increased saber-rattling, what we’ve seen is a fair amount of
saber-rattling throughout the year.  There have obviously been quite a
few tests of ballistic missiles, some of which have been successful.

And I think that, you know, from our standpoint, we are ready.  We — you
know, we, at the same time, it is very much our desire that we find ways
to have a diplomatic approach with the DPRK.  We have made very clear
we’re prepared to talk to them and with no preconditions, and we’re also
prepared to take steps to address their domestic challenges, including
COVID.

I think that in terms of the discussion with Yang Jiechi, as you’d
expect, there was discussion about the challenges of the DPRK, including
their domestic situation, the COVID issue.

I think that, you know, we’re looking for ways in which we and others in
the international community can work together to provide assistance as
needed. 

And I think that the key thing is that we recognize that the DPRK has to
make decisions about what they’re willing to do.  It is our hope that
they will make decisions that will allow for the maximum amount of
support in this time of great need and great crisis.

MODERATOR:  Thanks so much, \[senior administration official\].  Next,
let’s go to Trevor Hunnicutt with Reuters.

Q    Hey, thanks so much for doing this.  So, just wanted to follow up
on what Aamer asked about a little bit there — was just if there was any
level of commitment from China to help on the North Korea situation. 

And also, do you expect this joint statement to deal with what you’ve
described as China’s destabilizing policies towards Taiwan, its human
rights issues?

And also, if you could talk a little bit about what the President is
doing this morning. 

Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So, you know, I think, first,
with regard to the joint statement, I don’t want to prejudge the
discussions, but I think that, you know, we expect extensive discussions
about regional security issues.  And the fact that, in our view, both
leaders of both countries strongly support preserving peace and
stability in the region.

I think that with re- — I don’t want to get into the specifics of the
discussions between Jake Sullivan and Yang Jiechi, but just to say that,
of course, we are looking for ways in which it is possible to provide
assistance and support to the DPRK as they deal with this COVID
outbreak.

I think that, in terms of the broader issues that you raised, I think
that we want to find ways to work with the international community to
provide support to the DPRK.  I think we also want to make clear that
the international community stands united in opposition to their
violations of U.N. Security Council resolutions and their destabilizing
and threatening behavior.

MODERATOR:  Thanks so much.  Next, why don’t we go to Esther Oh with
NHK.

Q    Hi, thank you so much for doing this.  Just two questions.  I know
previously the administration says it has no plans to share vaccines
with North Korea directly, but is the President planning to discuss with
President Yoon ways that the U.S. and South Korea can work together to
provide any sort of direct COVID aid to North Korea?

And my second question is: Will the President directly address the
immediate need for South Korea and Japan to improve their bilateral
ties?  Because the relationship between the two countries — it’s
deteriorated significantly in the last several years.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much.  Those are both,
obviously, very good and very important questions.  I think that you
could expect that the leaders will discuss the COVID situation.  I think
that it’s — it’s very clear that we have a common interest in doing
whatever we can to address this challenge and working through the
international — with the international communities through whatever
mechanism is appropriate.

I don’t want to get ahead of those discussions, but I think that you can
expect that this is something that’s very topical and we recognize that
this is of great importance to the DPRK’s neighbors, as well as to us.

I think that with regard to the ROK-Japan relations, I think, you know,
we strongly support improved ROK-Japan relations.  At the same time, we
recognize this is something that both countries are — it’s sensitive and
important for both countries.  And I think the President will make clear
his support while also making clear his understanding of the need for
this to be done in a way that’s mutually acceptable and agreeable to
both countries.

However, it’s very clear that from the U.S. perspective — and we’ve been
clear about this in the past — it is not in our interest for the
relationship between the two of our closest and most political allies to
not be strong.  And so we want — we very much hope and support efforts
by either sides, by both sides to take steps to improve the
relationship.

MODERATOR:  Thanks so much.  I think we have time for just a couple more
questions before our speaker has to hop.  Why don’t we go to Paris Huang
with the Voice of America next.

Q    Hello.  Hi, thank you for doing this.  So, earlier you mentioned
about the — part of this visit is for us to ensure the peace and
stability in East Asia.  I just would like to clarify: Is that
specifically means Taiwan?  And what is your assessment on President
Yoon’s attitude toward issues around China and Taiwan?  And will the
language be clearly written in a joint statement?  So, that’s the first
question. 

The second, on the Quad: Is the Biden administration — on the expansion
of “Quad Plus” — or is South Korea directly involved with the Quad
summit on this time?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay, great.  So, let me take the first
question. 

Look, when we talk about maintaining peace and stability in the
Indo-Pacific region, we’re clearly talking about the entire Indo-Pacific
region.  There are a number of areas where there are challenges, and I
would note that, you know, very clearly the leaders will be talking
about one that is closer to where we are now. 

But I think that it’s clear that, you know, both countries have a very
strong interest in preserving peace and stability.  I think you can
expect the leaders to talk about that and to look for ways in which we
can work more effectively together to do that. 

I think, on the issue of the Quad, I don’t want to get ahead of the
discussions.  Obviously, you know, I think that this is a topic of great
interest.  I think that we don’t want to get ahead of the discussion
with the leaders, but, also, I think that we have to recognize that the
Quad is still developing, and so we’re looking for ways in which we can
reinforce and strengthen what we’ve done so far.  But at the same time,
I think that we welcome any support for the Quad. 

But I think that the issue of participation is one that we will still be
working on.  I think that you can expect — you know, I am biased, but I
think you can expect that a joint statement will be clear.  And I think
we look forward to being able to, you know, really highlight how much we
have in common, how similar our viewpoints are on a very wide range of
issues, how close the two countries are, and how much we expect them to
come closer on a very wide range of issues dealing with the challenges
of today, but also challenges that we have (inaudible) to working on. 

I think one of the things that, you know, for us — and this is not just
a visit in Seoul today; this is about the entire trip — this is about
demonstrating the unity and resolve and strengthening the coordination
between our closest allies and — or two of our closest allies, and also
strengthening our alliances to deal with problems that we are all
dealing with today. 

So, I think that we’re very optimistic that we are — you know, we’ve
done a great deal of groundwork. 

I think we have to really recognize — and I’d ask everyone to just be
very sensitive to this — this is day 11 for the Yoon administration. 
This is the earliest that we’ve ever had an American President visit an
ROK President in an ROK President’s time in office.  It is normal that
in — you know, in 11 days, it takes a while for an administration to
come up to speed.  We’re very impressed with what the Yoon
administration has done. 

We’re very happy with the work we’ve been able to do together, but I
think it’s also important to recognize that it is unrealistic to expect
any administration to have fully settled in only 11 days. 

So we think that we’ve done quite well.  And we’re very, very impressed
by what’s been done and by the spirit of partnership, the spirit of tru-
— of really genuine allies who are used to being together when times are
bad, as well as when times are good.  And we’re confident that that’s
going to continue, and that we’ll be able to highlight the way forward
for the alliance.

MODERATOR:  Thanks so much.  And I think we’ve got time for one last
question.  So last question.  Let’s go to MJ Lee with CNN. 

Q    Thank you.  Given that this bilateral meeting comes, as you just
said, 11 days into President Yoon’s presidency and particularly given
that he doesn’t have much of a foreign policy background: Are there
areas you can point to where you all think, you know, there are serious
question marks in terms of President Yoon’s positions on major foreign
policy issues and where just the President — President Biden is keen on
trying to draw him out today and gain a better understanding of where he
stands?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, I would push back very hard
against the premise of that.  I think we are very impressed with the
cohesion, the coherence, and the clarity of the Yoon administration’s
vision for its — for the ROK, for the ROK-U.S. relationship and the ROK
role in the world. 

I think that what — in our discussions with them — and look, I’ve done —
I’ve been doing this for a long time — I think we’ve been very, very
impressed with how focused and how clear they’ve been, how decisive
they’ve been.  And I think that reflects, in our view, a great deal of
potential to really strengthen the alliance going forward. 

I think that, in terms of the President’s engagement with President
Yoon, I think that, clearly, they’re going to — this — part of the
purpose here is two leaders of countries who have a very, very vital
relationship, a close alliance getting to know each other.  I think you
all know: There is no substitute for that kind of direct engagement. 

And I think we got off to a very good start last night at the Samsung
plant.  I think that their interaction was very positive.  And I think
that, you know, it went very well. 

I know that the President was quite satisfied and quite impressed. 
We’re looking forward to more of that. 

I think that part of this is obviously getting to understand each other
— I think to understand each other’s worldviews.  I think that the
President has — looks forward to doing that and getting to know
President Yoon.

But I think that this is done in the context of tremendous confidence in
the Yoon administration’s commitment to the alliance and clarity of
their vision on foreign policies issues.  And I think that, you know,
from our standpoint, this is about building on a very strong foundation,
rather than trying to lay any groundwork. 

MODERATOR:  Thanks so much.  And thanks so much everybody for joining
this morning. 

As a reminder, this call was on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials,” and embargoed until the call concludes, which
will be shortly.

Thanks so much for joining.  And we, of course, will be in touch
throughout the rest of the trip. 

9:36 A.M. KST 
