---
date: '2022-05-12'
published_time: 2022-05-12 19:15:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/12/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-may-12-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki,\_May\_12,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:43 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  All right.  Just wanted to start with one
topper for all of you. 

President Biden has directed the administration to work urgently to
ensure that infant formula is safe and available for families across the
country during the Abbott Nutrition voluntary recall.  This has been —
this is work that’s been underway for months.

Today, President Biden spoke with retailers and manufacturers, including
the CEOs of Walmart, Target, Reckitt, and Gerber to call on them to do
more to help families purchase infant formula. 

He discussed Reckitt and Gerber’s efforts to increase production, which
have made up for the loss of production by Abbott, and asked them to
identify other ways the administration can help them on top of the
actions being announced today.

The conversation with the CEOs of Walmart and Target focused on how they
are working to stock shelves, including in rural areas, and any regional
disparities they are seeing.  And the President asked what more his team
can do to help move product and get more product to those communities. 
He also announced additional steps to get infant formula onto store
shelves as quickly as possible without compromising safety.

These steps include cutting red tape to get more infant formula to store
shelves quicker by urging states to provide consumers flexibility on the
types of formula they can buy with WIC dollars; calling on the FTC and
state attorneys general to crack down on any price gouging or unfair
market practices related to sales of infant formula, like third-party
sellers reselling formula at steep prices; and increasing the supply of
formula through increased exports — imports.

The Biden-Harris administration will continue to monitor this situation
and identify other ways we can support the safe and rapid increase in
the production and distribution of baby formula.

Today, we also marked — and you heard the President do this, this
morning — a tragic milestone in the United States: 1 million lives lost
due to COVID-19.  Our hearts go out to those grieving a loved one and
those families forever changed because of the pandemic.

As the President said this morning, we cannot grow numb to the urgency
of this crisis.  It is critical that we honor those who have been lost
by doing everything we can to prevent as many deaths as possible.  You
saw that this morning from the President as he kicked off the COVID-19
Summit.

Today’s summit highlighted American leadership in action.  Together with
our co-hosting nations, we — we united the world to commit to
vaccinating the — to vaccinating the world, saving lives, and building
better health security with an inspiring response.  We rallied $3
billion from other nations — more than three — 3.2 at this point in
time, still counting — from other nations and partners around the world
to address the global response. 

And the President issued a stark warning about our ability to continue
fighting COVID globally if Congress fails to act.  As we heard through
the summit, now is not the time for complacency.  We need Congress to
show up not with empty words, but with action, to fight COVID at home
and abroad.

As we mark this tragic milestone, our hope is to avoid another tragic
one like this, and that will only come if we act with urgency throughout
the remaining fight against the pandemic.

Go ahead, Josh.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two questions.  First, on the baby formula.  Abbott
says once the FDA gives them notice, it’ll take them two weeks to
restart the site and then an additional six to eight weeks to get
formula on the shelves.  With what the President heard today, does he
believe that we’ll have the tools to bridge what could be a
two-month-plus shortage? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that the President is going to continue to
use every tool we have in order to bridge that gap.  And this has been
work that has been underway for weeks and months now. 

We know that as — if they get approval, obviously, as you noted, it will
take them some time to get up and running again.  So what we need to do,
and what you’ve seen the President announce earlier today and I just
reiterated, is steps we can take from here to increase supply, make sure
it’s on the shelves.  That includes increasing imports.  It also
includes ensuring we’re working with retailers, as the President did
during his calls, to make sure that shelves are stocked.  It also
includes ensuring that lower-income families can access different brands
of baby formula by working through — with the WIC — for the exemptions
for the WIC program.

So, we recognize that this is certainly a challenge for people across
the country, something the President is very focused on.  And we’re
going to do everything we can to cut red tape and take steps to increase
supply on the marketplace.

Q    Secondly, AAA is saying, you know, record-high nominal gasoline
prices again today, but Americans are also seeing news about oil leases
and auctions not going forward.  What was the administration’s thinking
on not having those auctions?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the Department of Interior, who — they have put out
some comments on this.  And what they have made quite clear is that the
Cook Inlet cancellation, which you’re referring to, was due to a lack of
industry interest.  And the Gulf sales were as a result of delays due to
a number of factors, including conflicting court rulings.  So those were
the two areas where you’ve seen the pause.  But there was not interest.

I would note that if we take a step back and look at what is available
out there and look at the supply needed, as you noted at the top of — as
part of your question, leasing and production offshore is a lengthier
process.  It can take up to 10 years to create supply.  So, let’s start
there.

Secondly, of the more than 10.9 million offshore acres currently under
lease, industry is not producing on 8.26 million acres.  That’s about
seven point — 75 — more than 75 percent that is non-producing.  Of the
24.9 million onshore acres under lease, industry is not producing on
12.3 million acres.  That’s almost 50 percent.  And there are also over
9,000 onshore permits that have been approved and are waiting to be used
onshore. 

So, just to reiterate what we expect: U.S. production is expected to
increase by over 1 million barrels a day this year and hit a new record
— record next year.  This — these specific actions were as a result of
lack of industry interest and a — and conflicting court rulings.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  I guess, sort of the bottom line is, you know — on
formula — this is a problem.  I mean, I think other parents here in the
room can probably attest.  I, myself, went to three stores this morning,
still haven’t found what — what we need.  When will parents be able to
get the formula they need?  What is your best sense of when store
shelves will be stocked again?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s also important to note that the reason
we’re here is because the FDA took a step to ensure that babies were
taking safe formula.  There were babies who died from taking this
formula, so they were doing their jobs.

We have been working — this administration has been working for weeks
now to address in anticipation of where we thought there could be
shortages.  We have also seen an increase over the last four weeks of
supply available, which has been an increase over the four weeks prior
to the recall.  That is a good sign. 

But obviously the steps the President took today are an acknowledgement
and a recognition that more needs to be done, that we do not want
parents, mothers, families out there to be stressed and worried about
feeding their babies.  That is why the President today had conversations
with the CEOs of Walmart and Target, why he had conversations with
Reckitt and Gerber about efforts to increase production, why we’re
taking steps to ensure that we are making — we are making WIC dollars
available to a range of other supply.

So, we’re working.  We’re seeing increases over the last couple of
weeks.  More needs to be done.  We’re going to cut every element of red
tape we can cut.  We’re going to work with manufacturers.  We’re going
to import more to expedite this as quickly as possible.

Q    But if you are a parent who is looking for formula right now,
struggling to find what you need, do you have even a rough guess of how
long these shortages are going to last?  What should parents be bracing
for here?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve already seen an increase in supply over the past
couple of weeks.  What we are seeing, which is an enormous problem, is
hoarding.  People hoarding because they’re fearful — that is one element
of it — and people hoarding because they are trying to profit off of
fearful parents.  So that is also something we’re focused on taking
efforts to track and adjust — and address and look into.

But again, more infant formula has been produced in the last four weeks
than in the four weeks preceding the recall.  We’re taking every step to
increase that. 

So, our message to parents is: We hear you, we want to do everything we
can, and we’re going to cut every element of red tape to help address
this and make it better for you to get formula on the shelves.

Go ahead.

Q    And as you mentioned, this obviously stems from the FDA taking
necessary steps to try and deal with a very serious problem.  And as
Josh noted, you know, Abbott says that “subject to FDA approval,” they
could restart at this site “within two weeks.”  Do you have a sense of
why it may be taking so long to get this factory back up and running or
what the holdup is from the FDA’s perspective?

MS. PSAKI:  I would point you to the FDA.  But, again, I’d go back to
why this decision was made in the first place, which was to save babies’
lives.  And the FDA is not going to approve manufacturing again unless
they are certain of the safety.

Go ahead.

Q    When the President spoke with Philippines’ President-Elect
Ferdinand Marcos last night, did they discuss either the dispute with
China in the West Philippine Sea or the court — U.S. court judgments
against the president-elect?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not aware of those being a part of the discussion, but I
can check and see after the briefing if there’s more details.

Q    Thank you.  And then, on NATO: If Finland and Sweden are successful
in their attempts to join NATO, that would put the U.S. on the hook,
again, for military — defending those countries, even potentially with
nuclear weapons.  What benefit is that to U.S. citizens?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that we would support — the United
States would support a NATO application by Finland and/or Sweden should
they choose to apply.  We, of course, will respect whatever decision
they make.  Both Finland and Sweden are close and valued defense
partners of the United States and of NATO.

I would note that even without them being members of NATO, our
militaries have worked together for many years.  We’re confident that we
can find ways to work with them, address any concerns either country may
have about the period now or whatever is required if they were to join
NATO.

I would say, in terms of how this benefits the American people — I think
is sort of what you’re asking about — having a strong NATO Alliance, a
strong Western alliance — which is a defensive alliance, by the way — is
good for our security around the world.  And certainly, having a strong
partnership with a range of countries, including Sweden and Finland, if
they decide to join, should be reassuring to the American people about
our own security interests.

Q    And then, finally, when the President visits South Korea next week,
does he intend to visit the demilitarized zone?  And what’s your current
assessment of the threat of a North Korean nuclear test?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, on the first question, we’re still finalizing details
of the schedule for the trip and what it looks like.  Obviously, that is
a step that is taken by many who visit the region.  But I expect we’ll
have our National Security Advisor here in the briefing room next week
with Karine to preview the trip.

In terms of whether we expect a test, we — the United States assesses
that the Democratic Repub- — People’s Republic of Korea could be ready
to conduct a test there as early as this month.  This would be its
seventh such test.  We’ve shared this information with allies and
partners and are closely coordinating with them.

As you noted, the President is traveling to the Republic of Korea and
Japan next week, where he will continue strengthening these alliances
and make clear our commitments to the security of the Republic of Korea.

Our intelligence assessment is consistent with the DPRK’s recent public
statements and destabilizing actions, including the test launch of
multiple intercontinental ballistic missiles.

But this is information, again, we’ve shared with our partners and
allies and, of course, will certainly be a topic of discussion when the
President travels next week.

Go ahead.

Q    Just one more on the baby formula shortage.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Obviously, some parents are feeling panicked and they’re feeling
desperate.  And a big reason for that is because there’s no substitute
for formula if you don’t have access to breast milk.

I’m just wondering: If you’re a parent today and you go to the store,
you can’t find any formula on the shelves, as is being reported across
the country, what is the step that they should take?  What is the
administration’s guidance on the immediate step that they should take? 
Is there a hotline that they can call?  Should they take a baby to the
hospital?  What should they do?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say those are important public health
questions.  But what I can report on here, or what I can convey to all
of you, is what we’re doing to address exactly that concern, which is
taking every step we can to ensure there is supply on store shelves, and
we have increased the supply over the last four weeks.

And as the President — as I noted at the top of this briefing, we’re
going to take every step we can to cut red tape, to ensure we’re working
with retailers like Walmart and CEOs, that we’re working with Reckitt
and Gerber and others who can produce more to ensure we are getting
supply out to stores and out to retailers so that parents don’t have
that concern.

But beyond that, that’s what I can read out for all of you from here.

Q    Since you said it was a public health question, which agency should
that question be directed to — just the very practical, immediate
question of: If you can’t find formula and you need it for your baby to
eat, what should they be doing?

MS. PSAKI:  We would certainly encourage any parent who has concerns
about their child’s health or wellbeing to call their doctor or
pediatrician.

Q    I just had one more.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Just quickly on the student loan debt cancellation, can you give us
a sense of whether the President is any closer to making a decision and
just sort of his frame of mind as he’s thinking about what amount he
would be willing to cancel?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think as I’ve mentioned in here before, on the
campaign, when he was talking about student loans, he talked about a
frame of about $125,000 a year.  That is not related to necessarily what
this final policy will look like, but I’ve used that as a point of
reference to remind everyone — some who covered the campaign and some
who did not — that he’s always felt it should be targeted, this type of
relief, and focused on the people who need help the most.

I don’t have any update on a final decision.  I would remind you all
that, again, no one has paid a dime in federal student loans since the
President took office, and he’s continuing to consider a range of
options and policy here.

Go ahead.

Q    On the formula shortage, just two quick ones.  You said that this
has been something that’s been in the works for several months, mostly
through the FDA.  When was the first time the President was briefed on
the shortage?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to get into internal briefings.  He’s been
made aware of it through the process.  And there’s been steps —

Q    Before this week?

MS. PSAKI:  It would have been, yes.

Q    Okay.  Has there been any consideration of using the Defense
Production Act to accelerate production?

MS. PSAKI:  There are a range of — there are a range of options,
including that, under consideration, Ed.  But I would note the issue
here is that a manufacturer was taken offline because they did not
produce a safe baby formula. 

So what we’re doing here at this point in time is working with other
manufacturers who can produce safe baby formula.  And we’ve had success
in increasing our productivity — their productivity over the last four
weeks, and we’re going to continue to work on that.

Q    But he would have known about this before this week.  It wasn’t
like this suddenly popped up.

MS. PSAKI:  This has been something the administration has been working
on for some time now.

Q    Okay.  On Ukraine: Senator Rand Paul has delayed passage of the aid
for Ukraine by insisting a new inse- — inspector general be established
to track how the taxpayer money is being spent on the war.  It’s going
to delay passage of this probably now until next week.  Would the
President support establishing some kind of watchdog office to track
this?  We’ve asked about this before; it’s now a congressional issue. 
Any consideration of that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that we agree oversight is critical. 
That’s why the package already includes millions of dollars to support
additional oversight measures, including additional funding for existing
inspectors general.  And we encourage all senators to promptly pass the
bill as it stands.  We feel what’s in there is sufficient.

Q    And one other thing that was left out of it, at least in the House,
was an attempt to legalize the status of tens of thousands of Afghan
evacuees brought into the U.S. last year.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Does the White House see opportunity somewhere else soon to
convince Congress to get that across the finish line?

MS. PSAKI:  We have been having conversations with congressional
leadership about this — they are ongoing — on the best path forward for
this and other priorities that were not included in the package.

We know this bill sends a clear message to Ukraine, to Russia, and to
the world that we stand with the people of Ukraine.  It doesn’t mean
every component of it has everything we want in it, including that as an
example.  But it’s important to move it forward.

Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  A couple of quick follow-ups on baby formula and
then I want to get to something else.

It does seem like we should have seen this coming that maybe the FDA
could have done more on the baby formula shortage.  The whistleblower
who used to work at that Sturgis plant warned the FDA top officials
about safety concerns in October, but they didn’t interview that
whistleblower until December.  The inspection was until January 31st. 
The recall happened February 17th.  So is that timeline acceptable to
the White House?  And if not, what is the White House doing to correct
that at the FDA?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m sure there will be plenty of time to take a look at if
there are any issues that could have been improved here.  I don’t have
any specific analysis of that at this moment in time.

What I will note is that there has been work ongoing on this for
months.  That’s how we increase the supply and how we’re able to, you
know, increase the sales based on the month of April overall.

But there’s more that needs to be done.  Clearly, we don’t want any
parent to fear about not being able to provide formula to their child. 
And as I noted at the top, the President is, you know, leaving no stone
unturned in addressing this.

Q    I didn’t see anything in the factsheet related to possible
antitrust concerns.  According to one report, 89 percent of the market
is controlled by four companies.  I know the President has tried to
increase competition in other areas where it’s consolidated, like
meatpacking.  So is there going to be any call for increased competition
in that industry coming from the White House?

MS. PSAKI:  Jacqui, it’s a good question.  I have not been made aware of
that being a concern here, but I’m happy to raise it and see if there’s
more to tell you.

Q    And then I wanted to ask — shift gears only slightly —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — to crack pipes.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    You said in February that no money from a $30 million harm
reduction program would fund distribution of crack pipes in safe smoking
kits.  The Washington Free Beacon reported that they went to harm
reduction facilities in five cities, and all of those facilities had
crack pipes in their kits.  HHS would not say which programs had applied
for funding, and the recipient list is not out yet.  So I’m just
wondering if the White House can say if any taxpayer dollars paid for
these crack pipes.

MS. PSAKI:  No federal funding has gone to it.

Q    And is there any oversight to ensure that when that money goes out
for the program, that these organizations will not use federal dollars
for crack pipes?

MS. PSAKI:  This policy does not allow for crack pipes to be included. 
I would just note that this is a bit of a conspiracy theory that’s been
spread out there.  It’s not accurate.  There’s important drug treatment
programs for people who have been suffering from what we’ve seen as an
epidemic across the country, and money is not used for crack pipes.

Q    And I wanted to ask about the President’s comments last night.  He
went off about MAGA again.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  MAGA king.  King MAGA.

Q    Yes.  He referred to former President Trump as the “ultra-MAGA
king.”  He’s been decrying ultra-MAGA Republicans and saying he’s going
to be doing it more.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    But Hillary Clinton expressed some regret not too long ago for
referring to Trump voters as “deplorables” who couldn’t be redeemed. 
And considering that Trump got 74 million votes in the last election,
I’m just wondering if this is the best strategy for Biden to win people
over — win over support ahead of the midterms, especially given his
inaugural theme being “America united”?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that the President is not afraid to call
out what he sees as extreme positions that are out of line with where
the American people stand, and whether that is supporting a tax plan
that will raise taxes on 75 million Americans making less than $100,000
a year; or whether it is supporting efforts to overturn Roe v. Wade,
something that two thirds of the American people in a Fox News Poll, may
I add, supported.  And there are countless examples from there.

The President believes that there is still work we can do together.  The
Bipartisan Innovation Act is a good example of that.  But, again, he is
not going to stand back and stand aside while people are pushing for
extreme positions that are not in the interests or supported by the vast
majority of the American people. 

Q    On inflation, today, Ro Khanna — just sort of feeding into his
comments about last night — from last night about inflation — and the
President was talking about the economy when he was referring to
ultra-MAGA.  And Ro Khanna said today that “blaming Putin may not be
effective.”  He said, “We need to say inflation is a real threat.  It’s
an emergency.” 

So it seems like the President has been ratcheting up this rhetoric —
you know, blaming Republicans, blaming Putin.  We’ve heard all of the
reasons why the pandemic is a factor.  But Ro Khanna is asking, you
know, this White House to call inflation an emergency and call up the
National Guard to help with supply chains.  Are those things that you’d
consider — this White House would consider? 

MS. PSAKI:  Jacqui, I don’t think anyone doesn’t think inflation is an
issue.  The President has said that countless times.  The question is —

Q    Is it an “emergency,” though?

MS. PSAKI:  It doesn’t matter what you call it.  The President just gave
a speech on it yesterday.  The issue — the question is what is your plan
to address it? 

He laid out a very — a multipart plan yesterday.  He has taken a range
of steps, including steps that he even announced this week to lower the
price of high-speed Internet for tens of millions of Americans; to give
farmers the tools and resources they need to boost production; to lower
the deficit, something that happened on his watch last year, which will
help; to release 1 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve; to fix the “family glitch.” 

What is the plan on the other side?  We all recognize it’s a problem. 
But if you open the cupboard door, there’s nothing there.  And that’s
the issue. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, the flags are flying at half-staff above the White House and
at federal locations across the country.  Kristin Urquiza — her dad died
in June of 2020.  You likely know he was in an Arizona hospital.  The
only person there to hold his hand in the ICU was the nurse.  She is now
the founder of a group called “Marked By COVID.”  They have about
100,000 members right now.  They’re advocating for a National Day of
Remembrance — a COVID Memorial Day of sorts.  Does the President support
a national day of remembrance, a COVID Memorial Day?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Peter, I would say that we’re still in a fight against
COVID and a battle against COVID.  There are still far too many people
getting sick, getting hospitalized, and dying.  And this is not the last
time we will commemorate or the last step that the President will take
to commemorate.  But I don’t have anything to predict about the future. 

Q    I imagine the same applies to a COVID monument.  Right?  You don’t
have any decisions made on that?

MS. PSAKI:  Those are all important questions.  And as the President has
said before, people who have lost loved ones — obviously, a million
lives have been lost; there are a lot of people across this country
still in mourning.  He recognizes that.  We need to continue to
commemorate that.  But we’re still a fight — in a fight with the virus. 

Q    So on this day, 1 million American lives lost, an unimaginable
figure.  Only two-plus years ago at 400,000 lives lost, the President —
then President-Elect and Vice President-Elect — were there at the
Lincoln Memorial — 400 lights for 400,000 lives.  For 500,000 lives
lost, there was a moment of silence on the South Lawn.

Today was a bit different.  His only public comments were prerecorded
remarks to the Global COVID Summit.  I guess I’m asking why not a more
prominent remembrance for today’s anniversary — for today’s marking?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say first, the President publicly addressed
this day and marked it.  We also lowered the flags for five days — they
will be lowered for five days.  And we will continue to mark and
commemorate the lives lost. 

What people care about — the country — though most is our action and
what actions the President will continue to take.  And, obviously, since
he took office, according to a Yale study, it’s estimated we’ve saved
over 2.2 million American lives and $900 billion in healthcare costs. 

There’s more work that needs to be done, more work to fight
misinformation, more work to get more people vaccinated.  And action is
what people care about. 

Q    And people care about transparency, as you indicate as well.  So my
last question on this topic is: Can you help people better understand
what data Dr. Ashish Jha was pointing to when he warned that the U.S.
could potentially see 100 million infections in the U.S. if COVID relief
isn’t passed now — over the course of the fall and winter waves
expected?

MS. PSAKI:  There’s a range of studies that are ongoing.  Dr. Jha talks
to a range of people internally — health experts — and externally.  And
this is in the range of what they have conveyed to him directly.  And I
expect there’ll be more studies that come out in the coming months. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  As you know, North Korea is on lockdown because a
case of COVID there.

MS. PSAKI:  Just one case? 

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  Remarkable.

Q    The country — (laughter) — the country has previously rejected
offers from COVAX for vaccinations.  I’m wondering if the White House
will launch a renewed push to try to get vaccines to North Korea. 
Obviously, almost their entire population — or their entire population
has not been vaccinated.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, you’re right.  And as you noted, the DPRK has
repeatedly refused vaccine donations from COVAX.  We do not — the United
States does not currently have plans to share vaccines with the DPRK. 
We do continue to support international efforts aimed at the provision
of critical humanitarian aid to the most vulnerable North Koreans. 

And this is, of course, a broader part of the DPRK continuing to exploit
its own citizens by not accepting this type of aid.  As you know, it’s
not just vaccines; it’s also a range of humanitarian assistance that
could very much help the people in the country.  And instead, they
divert resources to build their unlawful nuclear and ballistic missiles
programs. 

But, yes, we support international efforts.  No current plans for the
U.S. to donate sp- — you know, from the United States supply. 

Q    And then just briefly on crypto.  As you know, the crypto market is
in something of a tailspin.  There has been an executive order that was
put out in March to look into regulations and study the issue.  Does —
does the process need to be sped up now, given what we’re seeing?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, that was significant at the time — I know, it was, you
know, only about two months ago — because there had not been an
acknowledgement about the need to look into crypto — both the benefits
and the challenges.  And it’s an ongoing effort to do exactly that. 

I know that those who are running it from the Department of Treasury and
otherwise want to make sure it’s thorough and that they’re assessing
both of those important questions: the opportunities and the
challenges.  So I would point you to them on whether there could be any
effort to expedite or whether that’s possible. 

Q    Rory Hu is from Nick News. 

MS. PSAKI:  I know Rory.  We’ve met.

Q    I know.  She’s excited.

MS. PSAKI:  Rory, go ahead. 

Q    Hi.  I just have a question and a follow-up.  So, first, there are
concerns about the negative impacts of social media on the mental health
of children.  Will the White House take any actions to prevent these
adverse effects?

MS. PSAKI:  As a mom myself, Rory — my daughter is younger than you;
she’d think you were very hip and cool, no doubt — this is a huge
concern that I have, we have, the President has — is the impact of
social media platforms, their enormous power, and the fact that it is
largely unchecked. 

It is certainly something that our Surgeon General, Dr.  Vivek Murthy,
has talked about, in terms of the impact of social media platforms and
what the impact they’re having on the mental health, the self-esteem of
young people.  And so, I would say the President, the First Lady, all of
us believe that more needs to be done. 

Q    And the Internet has become a tool for children’s education.  A lot
of students use the Internet to learn.  So how will the White House
prevent children from getting misinformed from the Internet?

MS. PSAKI:  Such a good question, too.  Well, I know reporters, like
yourself, and people that other kids listen to are good voices to
provide accurate information.  And you ask — coming here and asking
tough questions is an important part of that. 

I would say that, you know, one of the things that we encourage parents
to do is, you know, make sure you are educating yourself on all of these
platforms and what information is available, and working with your kids
to make sure they understand what’s accurate and inaccurate. 

There are certainly steps the government can take.  But there’s also an
ongoing development of new tools.  And we, as parents, need to keep
educating ourselves about what’s out there so we can make sure our kids
have access to good information, informative information — we watch a
lot of animal videos in my house; that’s all good and positive — and not
access to information that’s inaccurate and misleading or problematic.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks.  She’s much better than Portnoy.  So — (laughter) —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  Hard con- — hard confirm.  (Laughter.)  

Go ahead. 

Q    Our friends at Reuters reported that there’s no executive order
being drafted to give HHS and DOJ new powers to block Chinese access to
vulnerable — to Americans’ sensitive information.  And so, I was
wondering if you have a sense of timeline on this.  But also, the idea
that there’s been frustration with the administration — frustration
within the administration over some of the slow-walking at Commerce on
rulemaking and investigations that that may have prompted this action by
the President.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that, certainly, the protection of the
privacy of American citizens and ensuring that no foreign actors,
whether state owned or otherwise, have access to the information of
Americans is of utmost concern to the President and to our National
Security Advisor and others.  
  
These processes can take some time to develop, to investigate, to
finalize.  It’s not a surprise if there is a frustration by anyone who’s
a part of that process.  But I can’t speak to that from here.  But I can
tell you, certainly, ensuring we are protecting Americans’ privacy is of
utmost concern to the President.  
  
Q    A minister in the Bolsonaro government said that he may skip the
Summit of the Americas coming up because he wants to campaign.  If he is
not going, Mexico says that they may not go, and because Venezuela,
Cuba, Nicaragua may not be invited.  Are we reaching a point where the
summit may no longer be successful because so many key leaders in the
hemisphere — even though ones, obviously, that the President has had key
disagreements with — won’t be attending?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, no invitations have gone out for the summit, so that
is obviously something that will happen in short order, given the summit
is coming up in June.  
  
I would note that Secretary of State Tony Blinken spoke today with his
counterparts and reiterated not only his appreciation for the continued
collaboration we have with Mexico but also noted that Special Advisor
for the Summit of the Americas, Christopher Dodd, will travel to Mexico
later this month to further discuss preparations for the summit.  
  
So these conversations are ongoing.  Obviously, important questions
about what the final invitation list will look like.  We are certainly
eager to host the summit, something that, you know, is our highest
priority for the hemisphere.  And it would be an important opportunity
to talk about a range of issues, including democracy, including climate
goals, including the COVID-19 response, and addressing the root causes
of migration.  
  
So we are fully planning and moving forward, but no final decisions
about the invites have been made yet.  
  
Q    And then a last one: There was a report earlier this week that the
President may be meeting with or speaking to the King of Jordan. 
Obviously, also, I think we asked last week about this possibility of a
regional summit in Israel.  So I’m wondering if you could confirm either
of those things, and, specifically on the last, whether Saudi Arabia is
being weighed as a participant in that summit — oil production obviously
a kind of primary concern for many Americans right now.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  Okay.  First, yes, he will be meeting with the King of
Jordan.  I can get you the details of that after the briefing.  
  
And on the second part of your question, I think you’re referring to
what his travel might look like in June around the other summits.  We’re
still finalizing what that looks like.  There have been good questions
about whether or not he will go to Israel, given he has committed to
Prime Minister — or, accepted the invitation of Prime Minister Bennett. 
But that trip — we’re not quite there yet.  We’re still finalizing the
next trip. 

We have had senior members of the national security team travel to Saudi
Arabia to talk about a range of issues, including regional cooperation,
obviously the war in Yemen, and supply on the global marketplace.  
  
But I don’t have anything to predict in terms of an upcoming visit by
the President.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, back on infant formula, Senator Gillibrand, in an interview
with NPR, said that this is a “life or death issue” and that the other
companies aren’t stepping up, they aren’t producing as much formula as
they should or could be, and that she is going to ask the President to
invoke the Defense Production Act on this.  Is that the kind of request
that will be entertained?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, we’re exploring every option.  I think when you look at
the Defense Production Act, you have to ensure that it would actually
achieve what you’re trying to achieve.  And so we’re also looking at
that, as well. 

And we have been working — this is one of the reasons, obviously, the
President called CEOs today of some of these vital companies to
determine what more can be done, because we know that with one major
supplier having part of their supply off the marketplace, the — one of
the easiest and fastest ways to address that is to increase supply from
some of the other suppliers, and, also, to import more, which is a step
we’re working to take as well.  
  
Q    They didn’t happen to ask him to invoke the Defense Production Act,
did they?  When —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not aware of that being a specific ask from them.  I can
see if there’s more to read out from the — from the calls as well.  
  
Q    Okay.  And just quickly on the COVID deaths: Going back to the
group Marked By COVID, they’re also asking the President to meet with
people who’ve lost loved ones to, you know, express his empathy and also
sort of feel what they’re feeling.  When is the last time he met with
the loved ones of people who have died from COVID?  And would he
consider such a meeting?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He certainly would.  And I think there — even people who may
not like the President may — probably would not question his level of
empathy and compassion for people who have lost loved ones.  And
certainly, addressing and talking about that impact is something you
hear him do every time — nearly every time he talks about COVID.  
  
He certainly would be open to doing that.  I don’t have anything to
predict in terms of the future schedule, but yes.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, two of the — or, some of the steps, at least two of them,
announced today on infant formula seem like things that could have been
announced and steps that could have been taken earlier.  And any woman
following this on any mom’s list or whatever has known of rumblings of
this crisis since nearly the plant shut down in February.  Why — why did
it take so long to announce the steps you announced today?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, some of these steps we’ve been working on, just
because we haven’t been announcing them publicly, including increasing
supply and working with producers and suppliers.  
  
Some of the challenges we’re also seeing — let me just note it, and I
noted this a little bit earlier — is this hoarding issue.  And we are
also — have been also calling on retailers to impose purchasing limits
to prevent the possibility of hoarding, because we know that that is an
issue.  
  
Again, sometimes it’s people who are fearful, but — which is
understandable.  But also — it is also — there’s an element of people
who are trying to benefit financially off of that fear, which is where
we have a concern.   
  
But since the reca- — recall, we’ve been working nonstop to address and
alleviate supply issues by working with these retailers, engaging with
the FDA on additional steps we could take, and obviously, we’re talking
about laying all the specifics out now.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    And briefly, on a different topic of “ultra-MAGA” — now, you saw
Representative Elise Stefanik saying, “I’m ultra-MAGA, and I’m proud of
it.”  Former Trump super PAC blasted out a t-shirt of him as an
ultra-MAGA Superman.  He, on his own Twitter-alternative platform,
released a meme of him as the ultra-MAGA king.   
  
I guess I’m curious what the administration makes of Republicans and the
former President sort of co-opting this and elevating what President
Biden clearly intended as a pejorative.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think if that means that the individuals you’ve
mentioned are embracing their opposition to a woman’s right to make
choices about her own healthcare, if they’re embracing a plan that will
raise taxes on 75 million Americans, if they’re embracing the importance
of fighting Mickey Mouse over virtually any other issue, I guess that’s
their platform.  Good for them.  We’re happy to have a debate about
that.  
  
Go ahead.

Q    Jen, at the risk of sending you back to your State Department days,
I was wondering if you could come back to the embrace of Sweden and —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — Finland for NATO, and walk us through the distinction now between
their qualifications and Ukraine, now that we have invested so much more
heavily in making sure that Ukraine remains an independent state and
that it irreversibly could not be invaded again.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would leave that to my NATO spokesperson colleague
to speak to.  What I would say, David, is that what we support is a NATO
application by Finland or Sweden should they choose to apply.  We know
that they have been close and valued defense partners.  There are a
range of requirements I’m sure my NATO counterparts could speak to,
including addressing a range of issues like corruption and how you would
participate in the defense of the collective NATO Alliance.  
  
But I will let them to speak — speak to that.  We, of course, support
the NATO’s — NATO’s open-door policy and the aspirations of any country
to apply to join.  
  
But I think this speaks to our longstanding relationship and military
partnerships with Finland and Sweden.  
  
Q    So you’re saying that for Finland and Sweden, you’re supporting
their application, their right to apply, but you’re not embracing yet
whether or not you would actually vote (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We would support a NATO application by Finland and Sweden,
yeah.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then take that — the next step for us, if you can, which
is to say that — you’ve heard what the Russians — how they reacted to
this.  Given the debate that took place back in the — 15, 20 years ago
about expanding NATO, and the President’s concerns at that time, does he
think that expanding it again just risks further provocation here?  And
is that — is the benefit at this point of having them in the Alliance
greater than the risk of the provocation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would go — I would just like to quote the President
of Finland and what he said — which I don’t think I could state it
better — in response to this question, which is: “As it relates to
Russia, you caused this.  Look at the mirror.”

And, you know, that is — NATO is a defensive alliance.  It’s not an
offensive alliance.  Both Finland and Sweden are close and valued
defense partners of the United States and NATO.  They’re thriving
democracies.  They’ve worked closely with NATO for years.  There’s no
aggressive intent from NATO, from the United States, from Finland or
Sweden — obviously they can speak for themselves — to Russia.

But again, this is President Putin who caused this.  “Look at the
mirror.”  And I think that also probably is the reason for what you’ve
seen as public support for joining NATO increase in these countries as
well. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  One on the COVID Summit, and then, if I can, a
follow-up —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — to what Tam was asking about the DPA.

During the summit today, did the U.S. hear any concerns from other
countries about the delay in securing U.S. funding for the global effort
or that there’s a potential that that funding will not come through if
Congress doesn’t move forward on it? 

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a thorough readout, and I’d point you to other
countries to speak to what they did or didn’t express. 

I would note that the Vice President, in her comments, specifically
highlighted the need to get additional funding, including the $5 billion
that is up for international COVID relief, which is part of the $22.5
\[billion\] we requested. 

And she did that because there’s a recognition, an acknowledgement that
we want to continue to be part of this effort to continue to lead this
effort.  And without that funding, we won’t be as well positioned. 

I would note that what is a success from this summit is, of course, the
fact that we have been able to put together $3.2 billion in
contributions from a range of countries attending to this global
effort.  And that is part of — was part of the purpose to ensure that we
were elevating this, working together, coordinating, you know, to
prevent complacency, to prevent deaths, to prevent and plan for future
variants.

And that kind of money from other countries is an important step
forward.

Q    And to follow up on the DPA question: Obviously, baby formula is a
very specific product.  But is there a lesson that can be learned from
the COVID supplies of PPE and vaccines and scaling up production that
the administration could apply to this situation right now?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s a very good question, Karen.  I think one of the
challenges in this cycle of the supplies here is that companies are
going to produce what the market needs.  Right?  And if you look at
things like tests or masks — you know, back in the fall — remember? — we
had a shortage of tests.  This summer, we had an abundance of tests to
the point where companies were shutting down manufacturing. 

So, the challenge is — is that it’s about what the demand is in the
marketplace.  And obviously, now there’s high demand because there’s a
shortage because of this recall, which was done, again, to save babies’
lives. 

And, you know, clearly, our efforts and focus now is on increasing
supply from other suppliers and importing more so that we can meet the
current demand and needs now. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you so much.  Another one on baby formula — that families
with babies who are sick and relying on specialty mix —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — and that I understand that are only manufactured in this plant
that is offline now.  So what’s the plan for those families?

MS. PSAKI:  I addressed this a little bit yesterday or the day before —
I guess it was the day before — which is: Part of our effort is to
ensure and work with other suppliers, who can ma- — who make baby
formula, who can meet the same needs of children who have special needs
or who have specific needs for what formula they can take to ensure that
supply is on the marketplace as well.

Q    Okay.  And just on this —

MS. PSAKI:  And the FDA has been doing that, but go ahead.

Q    On this whole supply chain issue, we often hear the President
saying the solution to supply chain problems is to produce in the United
States.  In this case, we have a product that is manufactured, I think,
98 percent in the United States. So how do you reconcile these two
messages — you know, “Made in America”?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there — because the reason for this shortage is not
because there was a supply chain issue in a foreign country.  That’s a
different issue.  That’s one supply chain issue.

This issue is because there was unsafe product that the FDA recalled to
save babies’ lives.  So, it’s just a different issue.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  A senior administration official yesterday said that
the President’s trip to South Korea and Japan later this month is part
of his plans to (inaudible) policy.  And he’s the first administration
to be — raise it to the leadership level.  Does the President have plans
to visit the other two countries — India and Australia — and when that
is going to —

MS. PSAKI:  I’m sure he will in the future, but we have two foreign
trips we’re still trying to finalize at this point, and so I don’t have
any predictions about when.

Q    Is it going to be in the first term of the President? 

MS. PSAKI:  I can’t make a prediction of that.  But there’s a lot of
time left in the first term, so that’s the good news.  A lot of time for
travel. 

Q    And the second question, what is U.S. expectations from India on
the two wars the world is fighting — one is the Ukraine war, the other
is COVID-19?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we continue to remain in close touch with India about,
you know, our efforts to rally the world, to stand up against Russian
aggression.  That means implementing and abiding by sanctions that have
been put in place.  And as you know, Daleep took a trip — our Deputy
National Security Advisor took a trip just a few weeks ago there to have
a conversation about that. 

We continue to encourage countries to speak out about Russian
aggression.  And obviously, on COVID-19, we’ve been an important partner
with India in providing supply and vaccines and needs — in their times
of need over the course of the last 15 months, and certainly we’ll
continue to work with them on that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  One on Finland, one on Israel.  When Russia
threatened military technical means against Ukraine many months ago, you
were sounding the alarm bells, you were doing very specific projections
as to what the Russians were going to do.  They invoked that term again
after Finland’s announcement. What do you make of it?  What are your
concerns about Russia’s response to this?

MS. PSAKI:  About Russia’s con- —

Q    About Russia’s response to a Finnish application for NATO
membership.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that the facts are important here, which
is that NATO is a defensive alliance.  NATO has no aggressive intent,
again- — against Russia, nor does the United States, nor do Finland and
Sweden.  We have long supported — before the invasion, after the
invasion — the open-door policy. 

And certainly, given Finland and Sweden are — have longstanding
important partnerships with the United States, with NATO countries. 
They’re longstanding democracies.  That’s why we support their
application. 

But, you know, beyond that, I think it’s important to note what the
facts are here, which is that there’s no aggressive intent at all.

Q    On the killing of Shireen  Abu Akleh in Jenin, you called for an
investigation — a swift investigation.  I guess the question is: What
kind of investigation?  The Israelis have extended an offer for the
Palestinians to participate in a joint investigation.  Should they be
accepting that offer? 

And they’ve also asked for U.S. oversight over some examination of, for
example, the bullet that killed Shireen.  You know, what — have you
responded to that offer?  What would you like to see?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we understand that both Israel and the Palestinian
Authority are already conducting investigations into the circumstances
of the killing.  We encourage both parties to do so thoroughly and
transparently and to share their findings to ensure that all evidence in
this case is available and fully assessed.

We stand ready to assist either party in any way that we can.  Neither
side has asked for our assistance at this time, and such a request would
be required in order for us to do so.

Go ahead.

Q    So, as part of this ultra-MAGA rollout, the President has talked a
lot about, sort of, what the Republican — what he thinks the Republican
Party now stands for.  He’s also, you know, thrown out some tough
language, saying they were “petty” and “mean spirited” and, sort of,
cowering to former President Trump.  Does he — but he’s also said he’s
been surprised by that.  Does he still feel like the fever will break in
Washington?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you mean, in terms of the ultra-MAGA followers of the
former president?

Q    Just in terms of if ultra-MAGA, you know, as he says, controls the
party, that would be the party that he thought would come around.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I just want to make sure I understand your question. 

Q    Sure.

MS. PSAKI:  Are you asking me if he thinks that there will ever be a
period of time where there will not be a ultra-MAGA party or if —

Q    Does he does he feel like there will be a period in time when he is
president in which the ultra-MAGA wing of the Republican Party doesn’t
control it and that the fever will break in Washington?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s certainly his hope.  The President has long
believed that Democrats and Republicans can work together — can work
together to get things done.  He signed 80 bipartisan bal- — bills into
law last year.  The Bipartisan Innovation Act is something we’re still
working to get through.

And his view is that this is a conversation — a lot of it’s happening in
Washington.  And they are — for the American people and the American
public, a lot of these policies that the ultra-MAGA wing, the MAGA King
— all the different terminology where the President is using out there —
does not align with where the vast majority of the public is, and
elected officials should be doing what the vast majority of the public
wants them to do.

Q    Does the White — I — and excuse me if you guys have already reacted
to this: Does the White House have a comment on the latest round of
subpoenas by the January 6th commission?

MS. PSAKI:  We certainly support the work of the January 6th Committee. 
We’ll continue to support their work.  We believe it’s vital and
essential to get to the bottom of what happened on January 6th, one of
the darkest days in our democracy.  So we’ll continue to support their
work. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Jen, last question.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, last one. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Staying on ultra-MAGA and the Rick Scott —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Obviously, the President himself is not subject to the Hatch Act. 
But as the midterms start to take over basically everything, can you
just talk about how the White House is navigating the distinction
between political speech and official events?

MS. PSAKI:  For the Pres- — in what the President is doing or how he
spends his time?

Q    In terms of the appropriateness of making explicitly political or
campaign-focused messages during official White House events?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that I am subject to the Hatch Act, as I
have noted — in a sternly written letter to me — but the President is
not, as you know.  And he is the leader of the Democratic Party.  He’s
also the Commander-in-Chief.  He’s also the leader of the free world. 

And what he is pointing out is what he sees to be a troubling trend in
our democ- — into our country that’s a threat to our democracy, a threat
to progress.  And certainly, he’s going to continue to draw the contrast
for the American people on what the options present. 

All right, I’m just going to do Patsy and April, because I — Patsy, go
ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  So, on the U.S.-ASEAN Summit, can you give us a
sense of how hard the President will push on the issue of Ukraine?  For
example, whether the administration will be pushing to include the word
“Russia” in the final communiqué.  As you know, ASEAN have, so far,
avoided using that word on any of their statements on the Ukraine
crisis. 

And I have a follow-up on Afghanistan, if you don’t mind. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

So, on the ASEAN Summit, Ukraine will absolutely be on the agenda.  In
terms of what the final communiqué will look like, I don’t expect it
will be ready for more than 24 hours.  And there’s lots of conversations
that need to happen between now and then, so I can’t make a prediction
of it. 

But I will say that a number of the ASEAN participants have been
important partners in calling out the aggressive action of Russia and
invading Ukraine, in participating and in supporting sanctions and,
certainly, abiding by them.  And obviously, the conflict we’re seeing is
a unique moment in modern global history.  So it will certainly be on
the agenda. 

Okay.  Go ahead.  Last thing, and then I’ll go to April.  And then I got
to go.

Q    Can you confirm reports that Jake Sullivan recently met with the
chief of the Pakistani spy agency in Washington, D.C.?  Can you share
anything from that meeting and whether the two sides discussed
counterterrorism cooperation in Afghanistan?

  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any details on that reported meeting.  I can
certainly check and see if there’s more.   
  
Okay, April, wrap it up.

  
Q    Yes.  Wrapping it up.  I’m going to share on another meeting —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    — if there’s more information.  Congressman Greg Meeks, the chair
of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, met with the President; he was
part of a group meeting with the President this week.  And he talked
about issues that he talked with — was it President Zelenskyy.   
  
And one of those issues that President Zelenskyy specifically brought up
to Meeks and the contingent was Ukrainian grains and how it is impacting
— the lack of Ukrainian grains going out to the world is impacting
Africa.  Meeks said the President spoke about it. 

Can you drill down a little bit more about this?  Has — the President
has said he wants it to go out to the world.  Can you drill down a
little bit more, especially when it comes to Africa?  Because there’s a
concern about many of those countries, to include Ethiopia and the Congo
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — that’s already going through crisis.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, it’s an important issue.  We’re seeing food shortages
in the world, including in parts of Africa, other parts of the Middle
East.   
  
This is one of the reasons why the President went to Chicago and raised
the issue of doing everything we can to increase supply here in the
United States.   
  
While we don’t expect shortages here, we want to be providers of
American grains to the rest of the world as we’re seeing shortages in
part because of the war in Ukraine.   
  
We’ve also provided a large amount of assistance to global food
programs, global aid programs in anticipation of what we see as a
potential shortage of food.  And we’ll continue to work on it.  
  
Q    (Cross-talk by reporter.)  
  
Q    I’m sorry.  I’m sorry.  Does this give the President more pause
that President Zelenskyy himself brought that issue of grain for Africa
up — specifically Africa, the continent?

  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are working on this issue and have been working on
this issue for months now.  That is — the President went on a trip just
yesterday to elevate and talk about the steps we’re taking to increase
supply of grains and wheat here in the United States to address exactly
this issue.  And we are far and away the world’s largest provider of
assistance in aid to global food programs in order to address what we
know could be a shortage around the world.   
  
Thank you, everyone.

  
4:36 P.M. EDT
