---
date: '2022-05-22'
modified_time: 2022-05-22 06:28:20-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-22 06:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/22/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-en-route-tokyo-japan/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor\
  \ Jake Sullivan En Route Tokyo,\_Japan"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Tokyo, Japan

4:33 P.M. JST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everybody.  Okay, I just have a quick topper, and
then we’ll have Jake Sullivan for you guys.

Okay, just wanted to give a quick update on our administration’s work to
speed up the import of infant formula and get more formula to stores. 

Under Operation Fly Formula, the Departments of Agriculture and Health
and Human Services are authorized to use Department of Defense
contracted commercial aircraft to pick up overseas infant formula that
meets U.S. health and safety standards so it can get to stores — store
shelves faster.

On Sunday morning — or later today — a military plane will arrive in
Indiana with 78,000 pounds of specialty infant formula, enough for over
half a million bottles.  This formula was manufactured in an
FDA-approved facility and will be inspected on arrival like all food
imports.

We prioritize this for the first shipment because this formula types —
type serves a critical medical purpose and is in short supply in the
United States as the result of the Abbott Sturgis plant closure.

We are working with USDA and HHS to ensure this formula goes to those
who need it the most.  Due to the urgency of the situation, the
Secretary of Defense approved U.S. military aircraft for this mission on
Friday evening.

Typically, the process to transport this product from Europe to U.S.
would take two weeks.  Thanks to Operation Fly Formula, we cut that down
to approximately three days.

This is a testament of the President’s commitment to pulling every lever
to get more infant formula onto the market.  And Operation Fly Formula
is one tool that we are using to do so.

Okay, I have Jake Sullivan, as you all can see — National Security
Advisor.

Q    Jake, can we have you step in just a little bit?  Thanks.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Hey, guys, just very briefly, you all know we’re on our
way to Tokyo.  And the President will spend tomorrow with Prime Minister
Kishida and will also join a number of other leaders, some in person but
largely virtually, to launch the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework.

And then, of course, on Tuesday, he’ll join the Quad leaders for the
second Quad Summit and also have the opportunity to meet with Prime
Minister Modi and to meet with a Prime Minister who will then — right
now, Prime Minister-Designate; as of tomorrow, actual Prime Minister
Albanese, who is flying up tomorrow to be able to join in person for the
Quad on Tuesday, which we think is a real testament to Australia’s
investment in the Quad as a critical vehicle for the Indo-Pacific and
this new Prime Minister’s investment in hitting the ground running as a
leader in the region and a close ally of the United States.

So, I’m happy to get into details on any and all things, but why don’t I
just stop there and let you guys fire away.

Q    Are those meetings with Modi and Albanese one on one?

MR. SULLIVAN:  What do you mean by “one on one”?

Q    Is he meeting with them separately?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yes.

Q    Okay.

MR. SULLIVAN:  I mean, there’ll be other people in the room —

Q    I’m talking about like — other than the Quad is what I meant.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Will have disti- — in addition to the Quad, he’ll have a
distinct bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Modi and a distinct
bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Albanese.

Q    A question about the Quad meeting.  On Taiwan: To what extent do
you think that you guys will be talking with the Quad and other allies
in Asia about a concrete action plan on how to respond if China were to
invade Taiwan?  And do you think that that action plan could include
both military response and an economic response?  So can you share a
little bit about how much he’ll talk about that with the —

MR. SULLIVAN:  It won’t be part of the formal agenda of the Quad.  But,
of course, significant security issues in the Indo-Pacific will come up,
and all of the Quad members share an interest in peace and stability
across the Taiwan Strait. 

More broadly, the Biden administration is invested in working with
allies and partners to send a clear message of deterrence and to support
the basic policy of the Biden administration, which is a One China
policy, the Three Joint Communiqués, and the Taiwan Relations Act, that
we do not want to see unilateral changes to the status quo and we
certainly don’t want to see military aggression. 

And we do want that message coming not just from us, but from a range of
allies and partners, both in the region and beyond.  And we’re working
with allies and partners accordingly.

Q    Jake, just to follow up on Taiwan, two questions.  One, do you
think it will appear in the Quad statement?  And two, why is it not in
the IPEF, given how important it is to global supply chains?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to get ahead of the Quad statement.  So,
when we do the backgrounder tomorrow laying down the main components of
Quad outcomes, you can pose that question at that point.

And then, in terms of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, I don’t think
we have yet actually announced who is in and who is not in.  That will
be unveiled hopefully in a very dramatic fashion.  No, I’m just
kidding.  That will be unveiled tomorrow.

Q    Is the list finalized?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The list is finalized.

Q    Is Taiwan invited?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Taiwan won’t be part of the launch —

Q    You said will or will not?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It will not be part of the launch of the Indo-Pacific
Economic Framework.

Ambassador Tai met with her counterpart from Taiwan just a couple of
days ago.  You can find a readout of that conversation. 

But we are looking to deepen our economic partnership with Taiwan,
including on high-technology issues, including on semiconductors and
supply chains.

But we’re pursuing that, in the first instance, on a bilateral basis
while we work with a range of other countries through the framework.

Q    And just one more follow-up on IPEF: China was out with some
statements of Liu, the gentleman who is — deals with their policy on the
Korean Peninsula.  Said it’s basically closed — a closed club; there’s
no reason to be doing that; things should be open and allow everybody in
the Asia Pacific, including China, to join.  What would you say in
response to that?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It’s not a surprise to me that China has concerns about
the number of countries, the diversity of countries who have expressed
interest in and enthusiasm for IPEF. 

And so, you know, it’s natural that they’re going to try to find ways to
raise questions.  In this particular case, it’s just flatly untrue to
call IPEF closed.  It is by design and definition an open platform.  And
we do expect, in addition to the countries that join for the launch
tomorrow, others will come along in the months and years ahead. 

That being said, the breadth of participation tomorrow was such that it
will very much show that it’s anything but a closed club.  It is a — it
is a very wide-ranging membership. 

Q    Will South Korea be one of those countries?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, now you’re putting me in a funny spot, because I
directly answered on Taiwan.  If we start going down country by country,
then I’ll be announcing the membership of the Quad just stan- — I mean,
of the — of IPEF standing here right now. 

So, I’m going to leave the announcement of the participation to whatever
Karine and the press team want to — want to do with that. 

But anyway — yeah, so I’ll leave it there. 

Q    Is IPEF strictly just mostly economic policies at this point? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yes.

Q    Or does it also include addressing maritime security, when you talk
about countering China’s —

MR. SULLIVAN:  No, it’s not — it’s not a security arrangement.  It is an
economic arrangement focused around the further integration of
Indo-Pacific economies, setting of standards and rules, particularly in
new areas like the digital economy, and also trying to ensure that there
are secure and resilient supply chains. 

In that sense, maritime security is a relevant issue.  But IPEF will not
be negotiating out maritime security arrangements.

Q    Jake, a quick follow, too.  So, the administration — you, as well —
have often framed foreign policy strategy as a global battle between
autocra- — democracies and autocracies. 

I’m wondering how you balance trying to engage economically with someone
like Prime Minister Modi, who himself has been accused, under the guise
of democracy, of human rights abuses and maligning Muslim minorities. 

How do you balance accountability, approaching a bilateral like that,
while also the desire to have an economic collaboration?

MR. SULLIVAN:  President Biden has been clear from the beginning of this
administration that we’ll speak out when we see any form of departure
from or deviation from basic principles, fundamental freedoms, human
rights, the values of democratic institutions, and the rule of law. 
That’s true for a range of countries.  And, you know, we don’t single
India out. 

And we have found a way both to pursue practical cooperation with
countries that are democratic and non-democratic, while at the same time
being clear and consistent of where our values lie. 

Q    Are you going to push him on wheat exports?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m sorry?

Q    Are you going to push Modi — is the President going to push Modi on
wheat exports?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’ll just say that food security will be a topic of
conversation at the Quad.

Q    What about Russia?  What about Russia and the invasion at large? 
What is he going to say to Modi about that?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, they’ve already had the opportunity to engage on
that.  And the President had an extended discussion with Prime Minister
Modi when they did a virtual Quad Summit back in April.  I think it was
back in April, maybe even March.  I think it was in March. 

And they also got to speak about it when they had a short video
bilateral meeting at the top of the 2+2 when the Indian ministers came
to Washington. 

So it won’t be a new conversation.  It will be a continuation of the
conversation they’ve already had about how we see the picture in Ukraine
and the impacts of Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine on a wider set of
concerns in the world, including this food security concern. 

So, they’ll talk all of that through.  And I will leave the specifics of
it to what has been a set of private and constructive exchanges, and I
expect that this will similarly be constructive and straightforward. 

Q    Jake, you’ve written a lot and talked a lot about there being a
domestic angle to foreign policy.  This weekend, you guys sent $40
billion to Ukraine.  You’re going to announce IPEF.  How does this fit
into the domestic angle?  What’s your message to people who are
struggling with inflation back home about why these things are important
to them?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first, also this weekend, the President announced
and held up major — or lifted up major new investments in the United
States, job-creating investments that will help power the industries of
the future, help the communities where those investments take place,
employ thousands of workers.  And that was true when he went to Samsung
on Friday night, and it was true with the announcement with Hyundai this
morning. 

  
So this trip has, in part, been about not just talking the talk when it
comes to delivering for American workers and American families when the
President is engaged in foreign policy, but actually walking the walk
and backing it up with real numbers that begin with a “B.”

Now, when it comes to the war in Ukraine, the President has been very
straightforward that if — that if we, the United States, do not work
with likeminded allies to stand up to aggression, we will pay a greater
cost tomorrow.  So he actually believes that this investment in the
Ukrainian people’s fight to defend their country and in support of our
allies who live under the shadow of Russian aggression is a worthy
investment in terms of the long-term contribution it makes to peace,
security, and stability.  
  
That will benefit American families and American workers.  And we
actually think that the American people understand that and, more than
understand that, they very much support it.  And we see that on a
bipartisan basis with the overwhelming votes in both the House and the
Senate for that funding.  
  
With IPEF, IPEF is designed to put workers at the center — American
workers.  It’s designed to create the kinds of high-standard approaches
to the digital economy, to the clean energy transition, to diverse and
resilient supply chains, to open and transparent economic governance
that will ultimately benefit American workers, American families.  And
you’ll hear that from the President tomorrow.  
  
Q    Okay, Jake, I want to take a step back.  The President, on this
trip, has highlighted China’s economic slowdown.

In the past, building alliances like IPEF sometimes had been frustrated
by China’s economic ascendancy and its rising power.  What impact do you
think the slowdown is having on the U.S.’s ability to build alliances in
Asia?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I think that, also taking a step back, that all of the
traditional expectations about trajectories of countries that have been
baked in over the course of several years in the press narrative and,
you know, in the public conversation, including in this region, are due
for review and reconsideration.  And the fact that the United States
will grow faster than China this year, for the first time since 1976, is
a quite striking example of how countries in this region should be
looking at the question of trends and trajectories.  
  
And — and so, what the President said yesterday in his remarks at the
press conference was something he said repeatedly over the course of his
career, which is: It’s never a good bet to bet against the United
States.  And actually, we think a lot of countries in this region are
recognizing that fact.  
  
And when you see the breadth of participation in IPEF tomorrow, we
believe that that will be strong evidence that countries do want to bet
on the United States, do want to be part of an economic arrangement with
the United States where we’re setting rules together, we’re building
diverse and resilient supply chains together, that American innovation
is at the heart and American infrastructure investment is at the heart
of the economic strategy of a lot of these countries.  
  
So our view is that this is not about a zero-sum game with China.  It’s
not about forcing countries to choose.  But it is about offering a value
proposition that we think countries are taking extremely seriously.  And
we think that’ll be on display tomorrow.

Q    So, on — I was going to say, on China tariffs, is the
administration close to deciding whether you’re going to ease those
tariffs that the last administration put in place?  
  
And then on inflation, do you think that lowering or easing some of
those tariffs really would help with the inflation problem by helping
reduce some prices for U.S. consumers?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So the President has asked his international economic
team to run the analysis on the relationship between tariffs and
inflation, both top-line inflation and, just frankly, the way that
families experience inflation, which is: When they go to the store to
buy everyday products, are the prices higher?  Would removing tariffs
lead price — those — those prices on those goods to be lower?  
  
So he’s asked for that analysis, and he has also asked for the
perspectives of the range of voices in his economic team for how to
proceed when it comes to the overall approach to China trade.  And he
will make a decision, you know, as soon as he feels that he’s got the
inputs he needs to do so.  
  
So I won’t put a timetable on it.  But, you know, he’s considering his
options when it comes to moving beyond the Trump trade strategy as we
look to chart a new way forward.

Q    Hey, Jake, how long —  
  
Q    Has he — sorry, just to follow up — has he gotten the analysis back
from those teams yet, or is he still waiting on that?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  He has gotten analysis.  He’s received detailed written
work on this question, but he’s asked further questions and is looking
for more input.  
  
Q    What can you tell us about the President’s briefing so far on
monkeypox?  And what’s your current understanding of whether there is a
national stockpile of vaccine the President referred to?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So there — there is a vaccine that is relevant to
treating monkeypox.  We have vaccine available to be deployed for that
purpose.

The — your question was about him being briefed?  
  
Q    Yeah.  And how often and by whom.

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, he has been briefed.  I’ve been out on the road,
giving him updates based on the written inputs we are getting from our
health and medical team and, you know, walking through with him what the
— what the current state of play looks like and, as we learn about cases
both in the United States and elsewhere, making sure that he’s tracking
the picture.

So he’s being apprised on this on a very regular basis and getting
inputs from the key members of his health team.

On Korea, you’ve talked about the risk of a ballistic missile test, or
something like that, during the President’s visit.  What does it say
that, so far, such an incident hasn’t occurred?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It’s hard to speculate, honestly.  And anytime people
start speculating on what North Korea might or might not do, they tend
to have their expectations confounded one way or another.

So, all we can do is control our policy and our approach.  So, we were
prepared for any contingency while we were in Korea, we’re prepared for
any contingency while we’re in Japan, and we will stay very closely
lashed up with the ROK and Japan on this.

And if North Korea acts, we’ll be prepared to respond.  If North Korea
doesn’t act, North Korea has the opportunity, as we’ve said repeatedly,
to come to the table and start negotiating (inaudible).

Q    Quick follow-up on that.

Q    (Inaudible) still saying that they could do a test?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Oh, yes.  Yes.

Q    So how are you going to measure the seriousness, the sincerity that
the President talked about yesterday?  How are you —

Q    Does the intelligence still say that there could still be a test?

MR. SULLIVAN:  There could be a test.

Q    Oh, thank you.

Q    So how are you going to measure the seriousness and sincerity?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The first step would be for North Korea to come forward
and be prepared to actually engage in a dialogue.  And thus far, they’ve
not shown that they’re willing to do so.

From there, it — you can determine through the substance of those
initial conversations whether you’re on a serious pathway or not.  But
we’re not even at step one yet.

Q    Why do you think they haven’t?

Q    Are there preconditions for them getting vaccines from you?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m sorry?

Q    Are there preconditions for them getting vaccines from you? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  No.

Q    Why do you think they haven’t engaged while they were engaged so
much with the Trump administration?

MR. SULLIVAN:  They go through cycles where they respond and cycles
where they don’t.  We’re in a cycle where they’re not.  That’s been true
across multiple administrations.  And I just can’t speculate as to the
rationale for them not (inaudible).

Q    You don’t think it’s about this president versus that president? 
You think it’s just sort of a cycle that’s outside of that?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  I mean, every previous president going back to
Bush — so Bush, Obama, Trump — faced a nuclear test.  We haven’t yet. 
We anticipate we may. 

Each one of them faced missile tests; each one of them worked on a
diplomatic approach.  And at various points during each of those
presidencies, the North Koreans were forthcoming, and at various points
during each of those presidencies, they weren’t.

And so you could ask the question: Why hasn’t there been a nuclear te- —
why wasn’t there a nuclear test in the first year when there was for
these other presidents?  And I don’t think it has so much to do with
who’s in the Oval Office as their own rhythms and cadences. 

But I just violated my own rule and started speculating about their
motives — (laughter) — so I’ll stop.

Q    On Ukraine, can you talk about when the first shipments of weapons
from this new package will arrive, or when you’re expecting them to go
out?  What’s going to be in there?  Anything new?  And do you have
anything on these —

MR. SULLIVAN:  When you’re saying “this new package,” do you mean the
next —

Q    The one he just signed yesterday.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Oh, the $40 billion.

Q    The 40.

MR. SULLIVAN:  So we expect him — so the way that it works is a portion
of that $40 billion is drawdown authority.  So Secretary of Defense and
Secretary of State have to make a recommendation to the President of a
drawdown package.  They are actively working through that now.  We
expect it’ll come up to the President in the next couple of days for him
to then be able to move out on.  But we are on the receiving end of that
based on the law and the process.  So I would also go to the Pentagon
and State to ask them, okay, you know, when — when are they going to
push it forward.

Q    And what’s the latest, you guys believe, on what’s happening on the
ground in Ukraine?  And do you have anything on the high-ranking
commanders being fired in the Russian forces?

MR. SULLIVAN:  No.

Q    And then what about that allegation from the Russian Defense
Ministry that they destroyed a large batch of Western weapons from the
U.S. and — and the Europeans?  Is that — is that true?  Do we think that
they really did destroy a lot of weapons?  I saw Ukraine was confirming
it, but anything you can share?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I have nothing to validate it and haven’t had the
opportunity to consult with the Ukrainians on it.  What I can say is
that, you know, we have what we believe to be a diverse and resilient
supply chain for these weapons into Ukraine.  So even if there is a
circumstance where the Russians are able to target and hit some shipment
on the ground in Ukraine, that’s not going to fundamentally, from a
strategic perspective, disrupt the military assistance we’re providing.

Q    What can you tell us about how John Kirby is coming over?  How did
that all come together?  And can you describe what his role will be and
how often we’ll see him in the briefing room?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, John Kirby, as you all know, is a very effective
national security voice and advocate for the President’s policies. 
Actually, you know, I think a good partner to you all.  So we’re excited
to have him at the White House. 

And I’m particularly excited to have him at the NSC, because having a
senior voice who can come do these gaggles instead of me will just be
awesome.  (Laughter.)  No, I’m joking.  I’m joking.

No, but — but otherwise, we’ll work out how it’s all going to play out
in practice.  The key thing is that John, at a moment when we’re dealing
with a series of really critical national security issues, is just going
to bring a great wealth of experience.  And he’s going to be fun to work
with for me; he’ll be fun to work with for the entire press team as
well.

Q    There was reporting that he would basically fill the same role that
Ben Rhodes did near the end of the Obama administration.  Is that sort
of how you guys are seeing the role, or is it going to be different?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The thing about describing models like that — the “Ben
Rhodes model” — they tend to be unique to an individual.  And Ben, who
is a very good friend of mine, is a unique individual and served in a
unique capacity to President Obama.  
  
John Kirby will have the “John Kirby model” of the role of Coordinator
for Strategic Communications at the NSC.  And he’ll shape it based on
his own, kind of, capabilities, the relationship he builds with the
President and the rest of the team.  And so I — I think the comparisons
tend — tend not to illuminate.  
  
Q    All right.  Thank you.  Appreciate it.

Q    Thank you so much.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re landing, guys. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, guys.  Thanks, guys.  
  
Q    Karine, is there a reason why Biden didn’t sign the aid bill on
camera — the Ukraine aid package?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think he just wanted to sign it very quickly.  And
that was the — that was just the — we’ve always said: Once he got the
bills, he would sign it quickly.  And once the — once he was done with
his event yesterday, he was able to do that.

Q    There’s been some questions about whether or not it had to be flown
over.  What’s your understanding of why it was flown over to sign?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, so that we can actually have the –the original
copy for him to sign it.  So, what happened was — and I think we’ve
shared this with all of you — there was a — a staffer who was already
scheduled to be here.  And so, it came — it came with that staffer and
was delivered to the President to sign.  Yeah, there’s nothing — you
know, there’s nothing really more to it.  
  
Q    Karine, now that the DPA has been invoked and the actions that you
listed at the top for baby formula, can you say when parents in the U.S.
who are trying to get baby formula will be able to readily, you know,
get baby formula?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, you know, the President — you know, you’ve heard
us say this: The President understands the struggle of moms and dads and
parents and caregivers and making sure that — you know, making sure that
we get — a child has, you know, a healthy — a healthy — a healthy way of
eating.  A healthy formula is — and safe — and safe formula — is our
number one priority, which is why we’re — you know, which is why we have
been very, very acutely aware of — of the process that we’ve initiated
with the flyover and also the DPA.  
  
I don’t have a timeline for you yet.  We want to exp- — you know, make
sure it goes very quickly, because it’s so critical.  And we know what —
what families are going through.  I — but I don’t have an exact
timeline.  Clear- — clearly, we want this to happen as fast as possible,
as quickly as possible.

Q    Is there a reason, also, that the administration isn’t seeking a
stay in the Title 42 case?  I know that you’re appealing.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re appealing.  I mean, I don’t have much more than
— than what the DOJ is doing is appealing Title 42.  
  
You know, we continue to believe Title 42 is a health authority.  It is
an authority that CDC is — has that was given to them by Congress.  And
so that is kind of what we also agree with, which is the authority that
Congress gave them.  
  
Yep.  
  
Q    Let’s let you get to your seat.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Appreciate it.  Thanks a lot.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
5:02 P.M. JST
