---
date: '2022-05-23'
modified_time: 2022-05-22 22:25:28-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-23 03:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/23/on-the-record-press-call-on-the-launch-of-the-indo-pacific-economic-framework/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Call on the Launch of the Indo-Pacific Economic\_Framework"
---
 
7:09 P.M. JST

MR. PATEL:  Good evening, everybody.  Thanks so much for joining.  This
call will be on the record and embargoed until 4:15 Japan Standard Time
tomorrow, May 23rd. 

Joining us for this briefing, we have National Security Advisor Jake
Sullivan, Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo, and U.S. Trade
Representative Katherine Tai.

We, of course, will have some time for questions at the end, but I will
turn it over to Jake to kick us off.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks.  And thanks, everybody, for joining this
evening.  And thanks to my colleagues and partners, Secretary Raimondo
and Ambassador Tai.

I wanted to just start with some broad comments about the thrust and
purpose of IPEF, and then – and then turn it over to the Secretary and
the Ambassador to dive into some more detail on the key substantive
elements of the framework. 

The Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, or IPEF, is part of President
Biden’s commitment to putting American families and workers at the
center of our economic and foreign policy, while strengthening our ties
with allies and partners for the purpose of increasing shared prosperity
and for the purpose of defining the coming decades for technological
innovation in the global economy — especially in the most vital region
for the coming decades, the Indo-Pacific.

The President will launch IPEF in Tokyo, Japan, on Monday.  And joining
him for that launch will be the initial IPEF partner countries.  They
are as follows: Australia, Brunei, India, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic
of Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand,
and Vietnam.  Alongside the United States, that’s 13 countries launching
this — a baker’s dozen.

But, of course, as we’ve also indicated from the start, this is an open
platform.  So there are other countries that could conceivably join us
as we move forward.

Together, this very diverse set of economies represent around 40 percent
of global GDP.  And the fact that we have such a range and a significant
number of partner countries in on the ground floor for the launch
reflects the far-reaching ambition of the framework and also indicates
that there’s deep interest across the region in it.  You’ve got major
economies, emerging economies, economies with which we have free trade
agreements, and others for which this will be the United States’ first
economic negotiation.

And that diversity of members is consistent with both the vision of IPEF
and consonant with the fact that the four-pillar structure that we’ve
built has flexibility and creativity designed into it so that we can, in
fact, accommodate this diverse range of countries.

One more thing, just to say on the membership: We believe that we’re
heading into this launch with a really significant amount of momentum,
really, especially coming out of the U.S.-ASEAN Summit that the
President hosted just a few days ago.  It was at that summit that he had
the opportunity to really share his vision for this framework with key
leaders in ASEAN.  And we are proud that seven ASEAN countries have
joined with many of our other close partners in the region as part of
IPEF.

IPEF is a 21st century economic arrangement designed to tackle 21st
century economic challenges, ranging from setting the rules of the road
for the digital economy, to ensuring secure and resilient supply chains,
to helping make the kinds of major investments necessary in clean energy
infrastructure and the clean energy transition, to raising standards for
transparency, fair taxation, and anti-corruption.

We believe that expanding U.S. economic leadership in the Indo-Pacific
through vehicles like IPEF is good for America — American workers and
businesses as well as for the people in the region.  

With 60 percent of the world’s population, the Indo-Pacific is projected
to be the largest contributor to global growth over the next 30 years. 
And trade with the Indo-Pacific supports more than 3 million American
jobs, as well as being the source of nearly $900 billion in foreign
direct investment in the United States — (inaudible) global economic
growth. 

And the United States, for our part, is an Indo-Pacific economic power. 
Foreign direct investment in the region from the United States totaled
more than $969 billion in 2020 and has nearly doubled in the last
decade. 

And the United States is the primary exporter of services to the region,
which in turn not only fuels regional growth and prosperity and greater
security, but it also supports American jobs at home. 

That being said, we and our partners in the region agree that much in
the coming decades will depend on how well governments harness
innovation, especially the transformations underway in clean energy and
the digital and technology sectors, while at the same time fortifying
our economies from a range of threats from fragile supply chains, to
corruption, to tax havens. 

The fact is that past models did not address these challenges — or did
not address them fully and take them head on — leaving our workers,
businesses, and consumers more vulnerable.  So we believe that we need a
new model that we can move on quickly to, in fact, take these challenges
head on, and that’s what IPEF will do. 

We’ve spent months engaging with major partners in the region.  And the
broad participation is a reflection of that investment of time and
effort and energy, as well as with organized labor, the business
community, bipartisan members of Congress and other key stakeholders to
chart the way forward. 

Just a couple of more points before I turned to my colleagues — in terms
of diving into the four pillars of IPEF. 

One, the fact that this is not a traditional free trade agreement is a
feature of IPEF not a bug.  There are free trade traditionalists who
have raised questions about it.  Our fundamental view is that the new
landscape and the new challenges we face need a new approach, and we
will shape the substance of this effort together with our partners. 

Second is that IPEF should be seen both as a coherent whole; it is a
vision of the modern economy and the way to get — it’s a way to tackle
the challenges and seize the opportunities of that economy.  But it also
— it should also be seen as an opportunity to drive initiatives, in
part. 

So, for example, if we can rapidly develop an early warning system for
critical supply chains, we will not wait until all of IPEF is complete
to roll that out and move forward on it.  So different elements of this
could end up moving at different speeds, even as all of the pieces will
end up fitting into a larger integrated framework. 

Finally — and I think this is really critical — this is a foundational
element of our overall strategy towards the Indo-Pacific.  We believe
that IPEF brings shape and coherence to the economic pillar of our
Indo-Pacific strategy.  We think it sets us up for success in helping to
shape the future of the region in a way that produces a region that is
free, open, connected, resilient, and secure. 

We all know that economics is a critical part of succeeding with any
strategy in the Indo-Pacific region.  And we see IPEF as a vital
platform for our engagement and a chance, alongside all of the other
ways in which we have elevated our engagement in the Indo-Pacific, to
put our stamp on this critical region for decades to come, and to ensure
that American leadership delivers good outcomes for our people and for
all the people in the region. 

So, with those opening framing comments, let me turn it over to
Secretary Raimondo.  Thanks.

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Thank you, Jake.  And thank you, everybody, for
joining us on the call this evening.  So I will add on with a few more
points to what Jake said. 

But I’ll begin by saying just how excited we are for the launch tomorrow
of this Indo-Pacific Economic Framework.  As Jake said, it consists of
13 countries, which account for 40 percent of global GDP.  And on top of
that, it includes some of the world’s fastest-growing, most dynamic
economies. 

It is — it is, by any account, the most significant international
economic engagement that the United States has ever had in this region. 
And the launch of it tomorrow, here in Tokyo, marks an important turning
point in restoring U.S. economic leadership in the region and presenting
Indo-Pacific countries an alternative to China’s approach to these
critical issues. 

Since I’ve been Commerce Secretary, I have heard over and over again
from the U.S. business community that they will benefit from — they and
their employees will benefit from the U.S. restoring and re-exerting
economic leadership in the region — an increasingly important region to
U.S. businesses. 

And there is also a strong demand signal coming from the region.  We
hear over and over again in the Indo-Pacific region that there is a
desire for U.S. economic leadership and for the U.S. to have a proactive
economic vision and economic agenda. 

As Jake said, this framework is intentionally designed not to be a “same
old, same old” traditional trade agreement.  But it’s designed as a more
innovative and flexible approach, designed to reflect the fact that our
economies have changed.  The most pressing issues that we need to tackle
with our allies have changed, and we need a new approach going forward
if we’re going to meet the needs of our citizens. 

So, by focusing on economic priorities that affect all of our economies,
this framework is designed to reflect the shared realities we face,
which is climate change; the opportunity and challenges presented by
moving, meeting the need of climate change and the opportunity of clean
tech jobs; supply chain disruptions; and the need for a
better-coordinated, high-tech manufacturing economy.

As Jake said, there are four pillars in the framework.  The Department
of Commerce will be leading three of the four pillars, which is: the
supply chain resiliency pillar, clean energy and decarbonization pillar,
and tax and anti-corruption.

Just very quickly on each one.  On supply chains, I think we all have
seen how — the cost of supply chains that aren’t resilient.  And COVID
exposes incredible economic costs of insufficient supply chain
resilience.

We saw — frankly, we continue to say all the ways that bottlenecks and
lack of transparency in the Indo-Pacific cause ripple effects throughout
the United States economy, hurting workers and driving inflation.  And,
you know, we’ve learned that “just in time” leaves much to be desired. 

I would say if we had had this Indo-Pacific Economic Framework and the
agreement therein in place before COVID, I think we could have
experienced much less disruption. 

For example, during COVID, we saw semiconductor packaging operations in
Malaysia be closed on account of COVID outbreaks.  The result of that
was thousands of workers were put out of work in Michigan
auto-manufacturing plants.  And if we had had more transparency, more
communication, more data-sharing, and an early alert system, that may
not have happened.  And the workers who were furloughed in a Michigan
plant would not have experienced that. 

So, in IPEF, we are seeking to develop a first-of-its-kind supply chain
agreement that better anticipates, predicts, and, importantly, prevents
disruptions in supply chains. 

On the clean energy and infrastructure pillar, we all know jobs of the
future are going to be in clean tech manufacturing and innovation, and
so we want to work with partners in this agreement to view clean energy
as a driver of job creation and economic growth.  And to support this
pillar, we will be signing agreements to pursue concrete, high-ambition
commitments such as renewable energy targets, carbon removal purchasing
commitments, energy efficiency standards, and new measures to combat
methane emissions. 

And finally, the third pillar Commerce is leading on is the tax and
anti-corruption.  And we’re going to be working to ensure everybody
plays by the same set of rules, because corruption is a huge drag on
everyone’s economy.  And we’re going to be seeking commitments to enact
and enforce effective tax, anti-money laundering, anti-bribery schemes
in line with our values. 

So, I guess I’ll just close by saying: This is an exciting time.  I want
to thank all of our partner countries for working with us.  I’m looking
forward — tomorrow is the beginning; I’m anxious to begin and get to
work and discuss the next steps ahead as we negotiate the specific terms
and develop the details of this framework and, you know, establishing a
new approach to regional economic engagement.

This has never been done before, in terms of the ambition and
inclusivity across a broad range of regional partners.  And I’m
confident that there’ll be benefits for U.S. businesses. 

And I would say, especially as businesses are beginning to increasingly
look for alternatives to China, the countries in the Indo-Pacific
Framework will be more reliable partners for U.S. businesses. 

So we’re excited to get going and develop a framework that will be
durable and beneficial for American businesses and workers. 

And with that, I will turn it over to my partner in this endeavor,
Ambassador Katherine Tai.

AMBASSADOR TAI:  Thank you so much, Gina.  I will spend some time to
talk about the trade pillar.  From day one of his administration,
President Biden has been clear that we have to rethink what trade policy
can be in the 21st century and that it must benefit more people. 

For decades, trade policy was often reduced to a zero-sum game that left
many of our workers behind.  And that is why we are designing trade
policies that aim to deliver real economic prosperity and advance our
global priorities, like combating climate change, protecting labor
rights, and building resilient supply chains.  These issues are not
mutually exclusive; we can and must do both. 

Over the last several months, USTR, the NSC, and the Department of
Commerce have worked with our trading partners, members of Congress, and
a diverse range of stakeholders on the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework
that the President will launch tomorrow. 

At its core, the Economic Framework will link major economies and
emerging ones to tackle 21st century challenges and promote fair and
resilient trade for years to come.  At the same time, it will be
designed to adapt to address barriers and obstacles that may arise in
the future as well. 

You heard Gina describe three of the pillars.  And I’ll walk through the
details of the trade pillar that USTR will lead in order to create a
more connected and resilient economy. 

We will work with our IPEF partners on a wide range of trade issues,
including the digital economy and emerging technology, labor
commitments, the environment, trade facilitation, transparency and good
regulatory practices, and corporate accountability. 

The digital economy in particular best represents an area where we need
to work with our IPEF partners, given the prominent role it plays in
today’s global marketplace and how it affects our workers, our
consumers, and our businesses.  And that’s why we will address issues in
the digital economy that will help build connectivity and trust between
key markets, including standards on cross-border data flows and data
localizations. 

We will also work with our partners to address other digital concerns
such as online privacy, discriminatory and unethical use of artificial
intelligence. 

Collectively, the trade pillar will unlock enormous economic value,
including for small- and medium-sized businesses that historically have
not benefited from trade agreements as much as their large counterparts
have. 

We also intend to pursue an accelerated implementation of the World
Trade Organization’s Trade Facilitation Agreement, which will also
address and improve the movement of goods across borders.  We will see
commitments with IPEF partners that facilitate agricultural trade
through science-based decision making and the adoption of sound,
transparent regulatory practices.  This will help our farmers, our
ranchers, and our fishers gain certainty for getting their products to
the region. 

While these provisions will help promote inclusive economic prosperity,
we also want this framework be part of our broader strategy to make
trade a race to the top.  And that is why the IPEF will pursue an agenda
for setting strong labor and environmental standards and corporate
accountability provisions. 

In raising regional standards, we can set an example for the rest of the
world to follow, which in turn helps all of our workers and
communities.  Our aim is for the IPEF to address the challenges in the
21st century global economy. 

Tomorrow begins the next chapter of our collaboration with our key
partners in the region. 

I look forward to convening our partners in the months ahead in a range
of forms.  We will continue to work with stakeholders, as we have done
for the last several months, to ensure a diverse range of interests and
concerns are represented. 

We will work with members of Congress in both parties. 

And, of course, we will make frequent trips to the Indo-Pacific to
engage leaders in this region and continue our discussions to create a
fairer, more resilient economy for families, workers, and business in
the United States and here in the Indo-Pacific. 

This is truly a team effort.  And I’m grateful to Jake Sullivan and
Secretary Raimondo for their work in bringing this framework to life. 
We believe it will deliver on the President’s vision of trade policy
that promotes widespread economic growth and advances our shared global
priorities.  And I’m excited to continue to keep all of you updated on
our progress as we move forward.

Thank you.

MR. PATEL:  Thanks so much.  We will move into taking some folks’
questions.  As a reminder, this call is on the record, but it is
embargoed until 4:15 Japan Standard Time tomorrow, May 23th. 

So with that, why don’t we start with Nancy Cook at Bloomberg.

Q    Hi, thank you so much for doing the call.  I appreciate it.  Just
an overview question.  You know, you talked a lot in the call about the
commitments that you’re going to seek for these — for countries to join
this agreement.  Are there any requirements?  Like, are you requiring
participants to do anything?  Or is it really, like, suggestions and
recommendations and commitments that you’re seeking?

Really, I’m asking: Are there binding things or non-binding things?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  So, this is Secretary Raimondo.  I would say there
will certainly be — like any other agreement, it will be a negotiation
at which will — which will, you know, begin post-launch.  So after
tomorrow, we’ll spend the next — you know, the weeks ahead, scoping out
each pillar. 

But, yes, there will be firm commitments.  There will be signed
agreements.  And like any agreement, you know, we plan to have
high-standard commitments that will be enforceable. 

Now, also, like any agreement, I would say the greatest enforcement is
that if you don’t hold up your end of the bargain, you don’t receive the
benefits.  And so there will be incentives to go ahead and live up to
the commitments that will be part of the agreement.

Q    Just to follow up, Secretary Raimondo: But tomorrow — like, what
you’re unveiling tomorrow, there are not commitments in place at this
point.  There are not, like, binding things.  Those are going to be
negotiated moving forward.  Is that right?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yep.  Yes, exactly.  Tomorrow is the beginning. 
Tomorrow — tomorrow is the starting gate.

It’s incredible that we have, you know, a dozen countries signed up to
this.  But, yes, tomorrow we begin the negotiations.  And we will, in
the weeks and months ahead, define precisely the de- — exactly what’s in
each pillar and what each country will be committing to and signing up
for.

MR. PATEL:  Great, thanks so much. 

Next, let’s go to Peter Baker with the New York Times.

Q    Hi there.  Thanks for doing the call, especially for doing it on
the record.  Could you just outline for us a little bit more about what
was wrong with the TPP negotiated by the Obama-Biden administration,
that we’re not getting back into it and that you’re trying to
distinguish this from?  In other words, what’s the big difference?

And what is the incentive for countries in the region that want market
access and tariff reductions but don’t seem to be getting it as part of
this agreement?

AMBASSADOR TAI:  Hi, Peter.  This is Katherine Tai.  So let me take your
question first and see if the others want to join in after. 

With respect to TPP, I think that the biggest problem with it was that
we did not have the support at home to get it through.  If you look back
at the years 2015 and 2016, and despite Herculean efforts, it could not
be gotten through Congress.  And then, in 2017, it was President Trump
who took the United States out of it. 

I think that there’s a very, very strong lesson there: that TPP, as it
was envisioned, ultimately was something that was quite fragile and that
the United States was not able to deliver on.  And that informs very
much our thinking about bringing the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, as
it’s designed here, to the region — which is that trade is an important
component of this, but not the only component.  So that we are bringing
in more robust and comprehensive approach to our partners in this
region. 

  
There has been a lot of swirl about the fact that there is not tariff
liberalization incorporated into the scope of what we are engaging on
here.  And I think that also goes to the fact that the kinds of trade
agreements, the traditional ones that we’ve done before, are very much a
part of the practice that has brought us to where we are, both in terms
of the fragility of where that trajectory has taken us.

But also, if you look at the world economy today, I just am — have
arrived in Tokyo from the APEC meetings in Bangkok.  And of all of the
counterparts that I had the chance to speak with in depth, each one of
them reiterated for me that their priorities in their economic
policymaking, including in trade, are to promote an economic recovery
that advances resilience, sustainability, and inclusion for their
economies. 

And they’re looking for engagement, especially from us, around a vision
for trade and economic engagement that will reinforce those priorities,
given where we are in the global economy and a couple of very, very
turbulent years that we’re all still working to recover from.

  
Q    And then, just to be clear then, the thing that made it — TPP — no
good was it wasn’t able to be delivered, you couldn’t get it through
Congress.  Are these agreements that will come out of this process
agreements that will go to Congress at some point?  
  
AMBASSADOR TAI:  Peter, on that, let me say this: I think that the
robust stakeholder engagement that you are hearing all of us talk about
— stakeholders throughout our economy, expanding the table for
engagement with our stakeholders, engaging with our traditional
stakeholders — we can’t — they have to be part of the solution and part
of our engagement. 

But bringing to the table and ensuring that other stakeholders, like our
workers, like our environmental organizations, the ones who are the
smartest about climate and the policy solutions that we need, that they
have premier seats at the table and that they will be influencing and
shaping the policies that we create.  
  
Our trading partners, our members of Congress — along the way, this
engagement is designed for maximum supportability and durability
because, ultimately, we know that this engagement is something that we
need to stick for our partners and for our stakeholders at home in this
region.

  
Q    All right, I’m confused.  Does Congress vote on these agreements or
not?  
  
AMBASSADOR TAI:  Let’s see where these negotiations take us, and let’s
see where the discussions go.  But along the way, we have to keep —
regardless, we have to keep Congress close, and Congress needs to be a
part of shaping what we do with our partners here.

  
MR. PATEL:  Thanks so much.  Let’s try to limit our follow-ups so we can
get through as many of our colleagues as we can.   
  
Next, let’s go to Asma Khalid from NPR.

  
Q    Hey, thank you guys for doing this.  I had two quick questions. 
And one, I know, Jake, you touched on, actually, earlier a bit about
Taiwan.  But if I could just get clarity here on the record about why
Taiwan was not a part of this initial grouping of countries or
self-governed democracies — whatever you want to call Taiwan — given its
role in supply chains.  
  
And then the follow-up question is something that I also wanted to get
clarity on — I believe Nancy touched on — around the incentives for
countries to join.  Can you articulate at all what those incentives
are?  Or have they not been, I guess, decided upon yet since
negotiations haven’t begun with various countries?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’ll make a couple of comments but then invite both
Secretary Raimondo and Ambassador Tai, particularly on the second
question.  And Ambassador Tai should speak to the first one as well
because she just met with her counterpart.   
  
But I would just say that we intend to pursue a deeper bilateral
engagement with Taiwan on trade and economic matters in the coming days
and weeks.  And we think that that track can help strengthen both of our
economies while we’re also pursuing IPEF with the countries that we
listed.  And we think it puts us in the best position for us to be able
to enhance our economic partnership with Taiwan and also to carry IPEF
forward with this diverse range of countries.  
  
Just briefly on what the U.S. has to bring to the table: I’d just start
by saying that, you know, the premise of the question is that without
market access, you know, countries wouldn’t be really interested.  Well,
we’ve got an incredible range of countries who’ve signed up to this,
including some with whom we haven’t had meaningful economic negotiations
before.  
  
So why is that?  One reason is because having the opportunity to work
closely with the United States on rules and standards; on greater
clarity and transparency and coordination on supply chains; on
innovation, as it applies to the digital economy and the
decarbonization; on technical expertise; on anti-corruption matters and
taxation; on investment in infrastructure and in growing businesses,
both foreign direct investment in the U.S. where we have a huge market
to offer people for that and the enormous investment we’re making in the
region — the United States is going to be a partner of choice on all of
the elements of this framework, even setting aside the question of
traditional tariff liberalization.  
  
And so we think we bring a huge amount to the table.  And we think that
proposition has been validated by the fact that we’ve gotten such an
overwhelming and broad-scale response from, you know, the Indian
subcontinent, to Down Under, to Southeast Asia, to Northeast Asia.  
  
And let me stop there and see if Katherine or Gina has anything they
want to add.

  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  No, I think that’s exactly right.  You know, I
would just offer additionally, having spent time in the region, the
demand to have the United States increasingly present economically is so
strong, which is why, as Jake said, you know, a dozen countries have
decided to join us tomorrow for the launch.  
  
You know, so, broadly, there is a strong desire to have U.S. 
businesses, the United States government engaged in the region.   
  
Now, if you’re asking for kind of a list of specific issues, you know,
it’s everything from trade facilitation — which, by the way, you know,
we talk about there are non-tariff barriers, which often can be, you
know, more expensive than tariffs, which — so, one, you know, we’ll have
trade facilitation, as Katherine mentioned earlier; we’ll work together
on technology standards to promote interoperable Internet and other
kinds of standards.  
  
I mean, the Commerce Department sets standards in technology.  If you’re
— if you don’t set standards in a way that allows your company to
participate, you’re out of — out of business, you know?  So that’s a
binary.   
  
Decarbonization of key industries. 

Capital.  You know, we expect that for the infrastructure pillar, there
will be sources of public and private capital flowing from the United
States into the region; you know, into infrastructure projects in
countries in the region.  
  
So, anyway, the list is long.  But I think that there will be, you know,
a very concrete benefit to countries in the region.   
  
By the way, just today, you know, you see reporting that Apple is
looking to boost production outside of China.  And many companies — many
U.S. companies are looking to diversify away from China.  Well,
countries — Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia — that are actually signed up
and in the Indo-Pacific Framework will obviously have an advantage to
get that business from American companies, because they will have signed
up to be the high-standard agreement that we plan to sign pursuant to
the IPEF.  
  
So I think once we get underway, the concrete benefits are going to
become pretty clear.

AMBASSADOR TAI:  This is Katherine Tai.  Let me just very, very quickly
— on the Taiwan question, I did just meet Minister John Deng in
Bangkok.  And we had a great conversation.  It was a really, really
encouraging and really dynamic meeting that we had.  
  
And coming out of the conversation we had — I think this was just two
days ago — both Minister Deng and I have committed that our teams would
be in touch and that we’d be in touch in the next couple of weeks.  So
please stay tuned for that.  
  
In terms of the tariff question — again, the tariff liberalization, let
me just put an additional point, add on to what — all of the great
examples that Gina has just provided, which is: You know, in our trade
policies, our trade experiences and trade relationships, we have so many
examples of situations where there are no tariffs between us and another
country.  And yet, you know, we have farmers who can’t get, for example,
a single potato across the border and into the other market. 

And so, I just want to reinforce Secretary Raimondo’s point that, in
terms of economic value, we’re looking at connectivity and we’re
offering a program relating to connectivity for our stakeholders.  And
that goes beyond tariffs.  
  
In fact, average bound tariff MFN for the United States right now is 2.4
percent.  It’s very low.  In terms of where the value is that is left to
be unlocked in the global economy right now, it is in the areas where we
are engaging through this framework.

  
MR. PATEL:  Thanks so much.  I think we have time for one last question
before our speakers have to head to another commitment. 

Why don’t we go next to Trevor Hunnicutt with Reuters.

Q    Thanks for taking the question.  It’s a quick one.  Jake said that
this is an open architecture arrangement.  Does that mean that it’s open
to all countries in the region, regardless of how they perform on
indices of economic freedom and democracy?  And what role do you see
China potentially playing in this in the future?  
  

MR. SULLIVAN:  So I think one of the things we will do on a
going-forward basis with addi- — in terms of additional members is work
with the other countries that are now in — with the founding partners,
so to speak — to determine both the process and criteria by which to add
additional members.  
  
And it won’t just be if you raise your hand, you’re automatically in. 
But we also want to maintain a proposition of inclusivity and diversity
of economies.  
  
So the short answer is that we will not dictate, just as the United
States, who comes in going forward, but we’ll have to work that with our
partners.  And that will be part of those initial discussions that
Secretary Raimondo referred to.  But that will immediately follow from
the launch event tomorrow.   
  
Oh, and on China, just broadly speaking, those — the — what I just said
would apply to that case.

  
MR. PATEL:  Thank you so much.  As a reminder to everybody, this call
was on the record, but it is under embargo until tomorrow at 4:15 Japan
Standard Time.  Again, until 4:15 tomorrow, May 23rd, Japan Standard
Time.  
  
Thanks so much, everyone, for joining and a special thanks to our
speakers.  And we’ll all be in touch again over the course of this trip.

 7:49 P.M. JST
