---
date: '2022-05-17'
modified_time: 2022-05-17 13:15:23-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-17 12:57:59-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/05/17/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-buffalo-ny/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Buffalo,\_NY"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Buffalo, New York

9:07 A.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello, hello, hello.  Okay.  I’ll try and speak
loudly.

Good morning.  As you all know, we are headed to Buffalo, where the
President and the First Lady will mourn with a grieving city.  During
the trip, the President and the First Lady will visit Tops Market
memorial where they’ll pa- — where they’ll pay their respects to the
lives of lost — to the lives lost in Saturday’s tragic shooting.

Afterward, the President and First Lady will meet with family members of
the victims, law enforcement and first responders, and local leaders at
a community center to offer their condolences and comfort to those
affected by this tragedy.

After, the President will deliver remarks at the community center.  The
President will call this despicable act for what it is: terrorism
motivated by a hateful and perverse ideology that tears at the sco- —
the soul of our nation.  He’ll call on all Americans to give hate no
safe harbor and to reject the lies of racial animus that radicalize and
divide us and lead to the act of racist violence we saw on Saturday that
took the lives of 10 Americans.

President Biden will call on Congress to take action to keep weapons off
war — weapons of war off our streets and keep guns out of the hands of
criminals and people who have a serious mental illness that makes them a
danger to themselves or others.

And the President will call on Americans to seek a more perfect union
and embraces the diversity that has made us the world’s strongest and
most dynamic nation in history of the world.

We — we’re joined on Air Force One by Majority Leader Chuck Schumer,
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, and Congressman Brian Higgins who represents
Buffalo. 

On the ground in Buffalo, President Biden will be joined by Governor
Kathy Hochul, Buffler \[sic\] — Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown, Erie County
Executive Mark Poloncarz, and Buffalo City Council President Reverend
Darius Pridgen. 

In the — in his meeting with first responders and local officials, the
President will meet with the Buffalo Police Commissioner and De- — and
Buffalo Deputy Fire Commissioner among many other state and local
leaders.

We will, of course, share all of the — all of that in pool notes as we
normally do.

Finally, I want to make sure you all saw that, on Thursday, President
Biden will welcome the Prime Minister of Sweden and the President of
Finland to the White House. 

We’ve got a short flight, so I’m going to just get to it. And, Chris, do
you want to kick us off?

Q    Sure.  So, the President said earlier when he took office that he
wanted to boost efforts against domestic terrorism.  Obviously, you
know, this attack was carried out despite those efforts to refocus on
white supremacy and domestic terrorism.  Are there gaps in the
administration’s efforts?  And what is being done to boost those efforts
now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I know that — that Congress, right now, is looking
at the Domestic Terrorism Prevention Act.  We’ve been — we’ve been asked
about that, so I just wanted to give an answer on that.  You know, we’re
still studying the details of the legislation, but the President has
been clear in his commitment to countering domestic terrorism threats.

I talked a little bit about this yesterday, about what we have been
doing in particular here in the administration.  You know, we’ve been
working to implement the government-wide National Strategy to Counter
Domestic Terrorism President Biden directed his national security team
to develop on his first full day in office.  Recognize that that has
evolved into the most urgent terrorism threat the United States faces
today. 

So, that works — that work includes — just very quickly — improving
information sharing; adding resources to prevent domestic terrorism
recruitment; increase our support for federal, state, and local law
enforcement in addressing domestic terrorism nationwide; confronting
long-term contributor — contributors to domestic terrorism; and rooting
out hate and bigotry to fight gun crime.

As we have talked about, we are going to continue to call — I said that
at the topper — on Congress to expand background checks, renew our ban
on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, and confirm Steve
Dettelbach to head ATF.

I do want to go back to — a second — about law enforcement.  And I also
said this yesterday, but the way that the law enforcement — local law
enforcement reacted and was on top of what happened in Buffalo and the
other cities was — they should be commended. 

And so that’s what we want to continue to do: provide them the
assistance that they need; when this sad events — these sad events
happen, that they’re able to react in the way that’s saving lives and
protecting lives the best that they can.

  
Q    Karine, on NATO, Turkish President Erdoğan made some pretty strong
comments yesterday suggesting that he would not want Finland and Sweden
to join the Alliance.  With those leaders coming to the White House
tomorrow — or on Thursday, excuse me — what is the U.S. prepared to do
to assuage Turkey’s concerns?  Have the Turkish government communicated
anything they want from the U.S. in terms of concessions?  And what is
the U.S. prepared to offer Turkey to reassure them about their — the
Sweden and Finland NATO campaign?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Secretary Blinken spoke to this on Sunday.  He
held a press conference in Berlin — you know, meeting with his
counterparts in NATO.  
  
Look, we — we are confident that they will reach a consensus as an
Alliance and — on an entry process should they decide to apply.  So,
that — we’re confident that, again — and Secretary Blinken — so I’m just
really re-upping what he says: that there will be a consensus as it
relates to Turkey and Sweden and Finland of applications.  
  
Q    What gives you confidence in that, given that — I mean, after
Blinken’s comments, Erdoğan’s tone seemed to get even less optimistic or
willing to allow them into the Alliance?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, as we know, there’s a lot of support for
Sweden and Finland to — to join NATO.  We’ve seen that in polling. 
We’ve seen that in voice support just across — across the NATO
Alliances.  And so, we have every confidence that there will be a
consensus.  
  
There — there’s conversations happening.  I cannot speak for the Turkey
government as what they need or what they’re looking for.  But again, we
feel very confident.  And I’m — that is something that the — Secretary
Blinken said himself after — when he was in Berlin recently.  
  
Q    Karine, a question about guns.  Can you give us a sense of what the
administration’s intelligence is or view is right now of the potential
for copycat attacks and what’s being done on that?  And then I have a
follow-up.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have anything to share on any copycat
attacks.  I know I heard reporting that there was one in Buffalo, I
think yesterday.  That is something for, like, the local — clearly, the
local — local enforcement to — you can go to them and ask them exactly
what was happening there.  
  
I don’t have anything to share on the federal government side.  I laid
out what we’re doing, what we have done in fighting domestic terrorism,
but I don’t want — I don’t have more to share.  
  
Q    Further on the issue of guns: Gun prevention groups or gun violence
protection groups — prevention groups, rather — have been pressing the
White House to start an office of gun violence protection.  Is that
something that President Biden is considering, particularly in light of
this most recent attack?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I would have to go back to the team and see if that
is something that’s actually on the table.  I have not heard of that.  I
could understand why that is being requested or asked, especially what
we have been seeing these past — this past weekend.  I just don’t have
anything more to share or preview or anything to —

  
Q    All right.  Just one last follow-up on that, sorry.  It’s just —
what is next then for this administration in terms of next steps on gun
violence and gun reform?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, you know, we’ve said — you’ve heard us
say this: Our country is facing an epidemic on gun violence that is
costing lives every day, as we’ve seen most recently in Buffalo and
other examples.  The President is using every tool he can to fight gun
violence.  He’s done more through executive action than any President in
their first history — in their first year in office.   
  
And I — for example, we heard on Friday how over $10 billion from the
Rescue Plan has been spent or committed on ways to fight gun crime.  The
President wants cities and states to use even more.  The Justice
Department issued a tough new rule to stem the flow of ghost guns, which
are increasingly being found at crime scenes and which are the weapons
of choice for terrorists and criminals. 

But there’s so much more to do, and that’s why we are calling on
Congress to act on what I was talking about: the expanded background
checks, renew our ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazine, and
confirm our ATF nominee as well.

Q    Karine, you were talking about the Domestic Terrorism Prevention
Act.  That — it’s somewhat broad in what it would do — increasing
resources, what have you.  Does the President think — does the President
believe that there should be a domestic terrorism statute that allows
prosecutors to charge suspects of mass shooting with domestic terrorism?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So in light of today’s evolving domestic terrorism
threat, we have to consider whether legislation — legislative reforms
could meaningfully and materially increase our ability to protect
Americans from acts of domestic terrorism while simultaneously guarding
against potential abuse and outreach.

You know, we have asked the Department of Justice as part of our
strategy to counter domestic terrorism, as I just laid out, to closely
examine whether new legislative authorities that balance safely — safety
and the protection of civil liberties are necessary and appropriate. 
And this is something they have said they are carefully considering. 
So, this is still in progress as something that they’re looking at.

Q    And also, yesterday, you were asked a couple of times about whether
or not certain commentators and media, whether or not certain members of
the Republican Party as well should share some blame in amplifying
“replacement theory.”  It seems like the administration at this point is
not calling out by name some of those people that have, in fact,
amplified that theory.

Can you walk through the thinking of the President and the White House
of why this is not a time and why it’s not effective to call them out? 
Or do you feel that it’s not effective, and will you call them out by
name? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the people who spread this filth know who they are,
and they should be ashamed of themselves.  But I’m not going to give
them or — give them or their obnoxious ideas they’re pushing the
attention that they desperately want. 

So, the President has already called out this — this poisonous, false,
hateful ideology, including on Saturday and Sunday, saying, “Any act of
domestic terrorism, including an act perpetrated in the name of a
repugnant white nationalist ideology, is antithetical to everything we
stand for in America” and that “We must all work together to address the
hate that remains a stain on the soul of America.” 

Every leader should condemn that hate and certainly not echo it.  We’re
going to focus on what unites us as Americans. That’s going to be what
we’re focusing on. 

Q    So we should anticipate, in that case, as a follow to this, that we
won’t hear that from the President today either?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, just to reiterate, Jonathan, I’m not going
to give them a platform.  So, I just want to make that very clear. 

But we’re going to make our case directly to the people.  We have a
vision for this country — one where we combat hate, racism, and
violence. 

We denounce white racism and domestic terror.  We hope all will join us
in denouncing hate and racism, as well as the conspiracy theories that
run rampant online.

For today, as I stated earlier, is I — the President and the First Lady
are going to comfort the grieving victims and the families who lost
their loved ones.  And he’s going to listen to them, he’s going to talk
to them, and he’s going to be there for them as their President.

Q    And one more on a different topic.  Over the weekend, there were a
number of large demonstrations and rally in defense of abortion rights. 
The President, of course, has spoken that he supports that as well.  Why
did he not appear at any of these? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President and the Vice President were energized
to see the many people peacefully gathering this past weekend.  The
administration continues to do everything possible to protect access to
women’s reproductive rights, including working closely with abortion
rights groups, providers, and elected officials, and more.  But he was,
indeed, gen- — energized to see what — folks coming out, peacefully
protesting, and speaking out.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Sally.

Q    Yeah, just on politics quickly.  Does the President have any plans
to watch the Pennsylvania returns tonight?  Obviously, it’s his other
home state.  It’s a really important primary for both parties.  And when
can we expect to see more of him on the campaign trail heading into
November? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have anything on his schedule on what
that’s going to look like the next several months, going into November. 
So, as you know, I’m not going to go into politics from here. 

But, obviously, Pennsylvania, as you were saying, Sally, is near and
dear to the President — to President Biden.  And he spent a lot of time
on the ground there as President talking about his plan to lower costs
for the American people there and the need to get something done in
Congress. 

He’s going to continue to take his plan to the people of Pennsylvania
and throughout the country.  And as you’ve heard President Biden say
over and over, “Don’t compare me to the Almighty.  Compare me to the
alternative.” 

Right now, the ultra-MAGA congressional Republicans want to raise taxes
on the middle class, take away a woman’s right to — to right — right to
reproductive healthcare, and oppose the administration’s work to keep
guns out of the hands of criminals and put more cops on the beat. 

The President isn’t going to shy away from underscoring the contrast
between congressional Republicans and the work he and his administration
are doing to lower prices and make our communities safe and stronger. 
But I don’t have anything for the — his future role as we go up into
November.

Q    And just quickly on —

Q    And, Karine — and just —

Q    Oh, sorry —

Q    Last one, Karine — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible) follow up.

Q    No, just on one other topic.  Yesterday’s Cuba announcement from
the administration — how closely is that related to the Summit of the
Americas coming up?  And when can we expect to see those formal
invitations go out to the nations?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything new on the invites just
quite yet. 

But let me just give you a little bit of the announcement yesterday: The
Cuban people are confronting an unprecedented humanitarian crisis, and
our policy will continue to focus on empowering the Cuban people to help
them create a future free from repression and economic suffering.

The President is fulfilling his commitment to the Cuban- American
community and their family members in Cuba by facilitating family
reunifications, strengthening fam- — family ties and facilitating
educational connections, increasing support for independent Cuban
entrepreneurs, ensuring that the remittances flow more freely to Cuban
people while not enriching those who perpetrate human rights abuses.

These policy are designed to center on human rights and empowering the
Cuban people to determine their own future.  And so that is — that is
our focus. 

I know you asked me “Why now?”  So the — following the large-scale
protests in July 2021, President — President Biden directed his national
security team to take action in two primary ways.  And those are — those
what — is what I just listed out.  And that’s where it came from.

Q    So one quick follow-up on Cuba.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Why does the Biden administration feel confident in the safety of
the U.S. resources they’re sending to Cuba with these new steps when
these anomalous health incidents haven’t been solved?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you know, I get — I understand the question, but
at the same time, we have to make sure that we’re helping the Cuban
people. 

To your — to your question, that’s something that we’re monitoring,
clearly, and just keeping a close eye on.  But we also have to make sure
that the Cuban people does — do not suffer.

Q    And does the U.S. have a plan?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So that’s our focus there.

Q    Does the U.S. have a plan if those attacks continue in Cuba?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything more to share beyond the
announcement that we made yesterday.  We are going to have our National
Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, with me at the podium tomorrow.  So we
can — that’s a question you can ask him.

Q    Can I sneak in one more quick one?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Just — do you have an update on when the President will make a
decision on student loan relief?  And also, I’m wondering if the
administration has assessed whether or not even relief for $10,000 —
what kind of impact that could have on inflation.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me start with your first question.  We have no
policy to announce yet. 

But as a reminder, no one has been required to pay a single dime of
student loans since the President took office.  You know, I will note
that the administration’s actions have already provided more than $18.5
billion in targeted debt relief to more than 750,000 borrows \[sic\] —
borrowers.   This is through the Public Service Loan Forgiveness —
borrowers who have a total and permanent disability, borrowers who were
misled by their college or university, and borrowers who attended ITT
Technical Institutes. 

Again, the policy has not been — we haven’t announced it yet. 

So this is your question about inflation:  And — but I do want to state
that Jared Bernstein has spoken to this before — your question, Zolan —
and he’s mentioned that the impact on inflation by pausing federal loan
repayments would be almost negligible, in his words — something like
0.001 percent.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, everybody.

 9:25 A.M. EDT
