---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-10'
modified_time: 2022-03-10 17:47:51-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/10/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-duque-of-the-republic-of-colombia-before-bilateral-meeting/
published_time: 2022-03-10 17:47:50-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Duque of the Republic of Colombia\
  \ Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Cabinet Room

2:31 P.M. EST  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Welcome, folks.  I’m honored to welcome President
Duque here today.  He’s my friend.  We’ve known each other for a long
while.  And we were reminiscing about how far back we go and — and how
he — he knew Beau when — he met Beau when he was here.  

And as you know, Mr. President, I’ve been deeply engaged with the
relationship with Colombia for a long time, going back more than 20
years to that old Plan Colombia.  And, in fact, we first met visiting
Bogota, I think it was 2018 —

PRESIDENT DUQUE:  Yes.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  — you and I.  
  
And I’m proud that we’ve been able to work together during my first year
of my administration and to continue strengthening what I consider to be
— and I’ve said many times over the years — the essential partnership we
need in this hemisphere.

Colombia is the linchpin, in my view, to the whole hemisphere — north
and south.  I really mean it.  And — and it’s an essential partnership.

And I want to thank you for immediately condemning Russia’s
unjustifiable invasion and the atrocities they are committing in
Ukraine, and calling for the withdrawal of Russian troops.  Not everyone
in the hemisphere or anywhere else has done that, and I want to thank
you for that.

It’s not just a threat to Europe and Ukraine, but it’s a threat to the
international peace and stability.  And so, Colombia — Colombia’s voice
is making it clear that you share our view and that there’s a lot more
at stake than just the immediate undertaking. 

The American people and the entire world have rallied to support the
Ukrainian people.  We have donated, thus far, a billion dollars in
security assistance and more shipments of defensive equipment are on the
way as I speak.  We’re coordinating deliveries of anti-armor and
anti-air capabilities with a wide range of our allies and — and
partners, and we’re providing tens of thousands of tons of humanitarian
needs, from food, water, and medicine.

And Vice President Harris, today, is in Poland, where she announced that
we’ll be contributing another $53 million to the World Food Programme
and other humanitarian organizations to support those displaced from
their homes.  And she also announced the delivery of Patriot missile
battery to support our NATO Allies in Poland.

And our economic sanctions are crippling the Russian economy right now. 
The ruble has lost half its value.  It now would take literally almost
200 rubles to equal $1 because of how it’s been so damaging.  

The ruble is — any — we cut off U.S. imports of Russian oil and gas,
targeting the main artery of Russia’s economy.  

And last night, the House of Representatives passed a bill that included
more than $13 billion in Ukrainian assistance.  

And the United States and the people around the world are going to
continue to support the Ukrainian people, I believe, as they defend
their country.  Ukraine will never, never be a victory for Putin.

Now, I’ve said for a long time, Colombia is the keystone to our shared
efforts to build a hemisphere that is prosperous, secure, and
democratic.  And we talked about the struggle of democracies in the 21st
century.  

And I want to thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership on issues
that matter to everyone in this region: combating the pandemic,
advancing health security, taking on the climate crisis with urgency and
genuine ambition, and for welcoming refugees from Venezuela and working
toward an orderly, secure, and humane way to tackle the unprecedented
levels of migration.

Colombia has done an incredible job, and I know the political
consequences for taking that kind of stand, which is the right stand,
are not always the most popular.

Our — our hemisphere migration challenges cannot be solved by one nation
and — or any — and any one border.  We have to work together.

And so, today, I’m calling for a new framework of how nations throughout
the region can collectively manage migration in the Western Hemisphere. 
There’s something we’ve been discussing with partners throughout the
region, including you, Mr. President.  And our goal is going to be to
sign a regional declaration on migration and protection in June in Los
Angeles when the United States hosts the Summit of the Americas, which
we talked a little bit about.

And this can be a piecemeal approach, in my view.  It needs to include
far more support for countries like Colombia that are hosting the lion’s
share of the refugees and migrants.  It is an obligation of all of us,
not just Colombia.  And it needs to include far more support, as I
said.  And it needs to dramatically expand access to resettlement and
other legal pathways to migration.  And it needs to aggressively pursue
the criminal smugglers and traffickers who prey on all these folks for
profit.

That’s the best way, in my view, for us to live up to our collective
values and welcome immigrants and refugees, keep migrants safe, and
secure all our countries.

Mr. President, the United States is going to continue to do our part to
support Colombia as you care for Venezuelan refugees.  We’ve already
shared 5.5 million doses of COVID-19 vaccine with Colombia now.  And I’m
pleased to say I’m going to be able to send an additional 2 million
doses to help vaccinate the migrant population.

And we’re also going to continue to strengthen our longstanding
bilateral security arrangements to fight the transnational criminal
activities that occur in this hemisphere and to meet the regional and
global challenges that we face, both north and south.

Today, I’m proud to announce that I intend to designate Colombia a Major
Non-NATO Ally, because that’s exactly what you are — a major Major
Non-NA- — Non-NATO Ally.  
  
And this is a recognition of the unique and close relationship between
our countries.  And we’re approaching, as you pointed out to me and we
talked about, the 100th anniversary of the rela- — that relationship.

We stood with Colombia as you fought for your country and negotiated
historic peace.  And we’re going to continue to stand together and build
peace, reconciliation, and, God willing, a prosperous future for all
Colombians.

And finally, as we’re celebrating 200 years of diplomatic relations — I
said 100; you can tell I’m getting old — it was 200 years of diplomatic
relations between our countries, and we’ve a long, shared history.  And
we’re looking forward to a future that our nations will build together. 

To that end, Mr. President, I’m pleased that our nations are agreed on
new bicentennial partnership that’s going to form the basis of a
comprehensive cooperation going forward between our countries.

The U.S.-Colombia relationship is the foundation, in my view, of
regional security and prosperity, and it’s only going to grow more
important in the years ahead.

So thank you for the visit.  It’s wonderful to be with you in person. 
And I look forward to our discussion today.

And we did talk about so much more that we can do together, which we had
a chance to talk about when you and I had our conversation.   We finally
both had to look at one another and said, “I guess we have people out
there.”  (Laughter.)  We were so wrapped up in our discussions.    
  
But thank you, again, Mr. President, for being here.  You’re welcome. 
You’re always welcome here.

PRESIDENT DUQUE:  Thank you, Mr. President.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  The floor is yours.  
  
PRESIDENT DUQUE:  Thank you so much, President Biden, for — for having
us here at the White House.  It’s a great honor for us to — to visit
you.  But it’s also a great honor for us to celebrate 200 years of the
bilateral relationship that we have built based on values and based on
principles.

We have to also express not only our gratitude but the continuous
gratitude for you being one of the architects of Plan Colombia.  That
was a milestone in the bilateral relationship and that allowed Colombia
to face and defeat many challenges that we had over the last two
decades.  So I also want you commend — to commend you for that.  

We also believe that the partnership that we have built has been
bipartisan, bicameral, and has demonstrated that over time this
relationship only gets to a higher level.  And we appreciate a lot that
you have made the decision to designate Colombia a primary non-NATO ally
because that is the recognition of the values and the principles that we
have shared.

We also want to thank your support for being the major donor of vaccines
to Colombia.  You have been able to contribute to save the lives of
millions of citizens.  And this additional 2 million donation of
vaccines to Colombia will also be used to attend the needs of many
migrants that are in our country.  
  
We also want to reiterate that the next Summit of the Americas is going
to be a great opportunity to embrace the cause of the Build Back Better
World, an initiative that is aimed to increase investment, job
opportunities, and to allow through trade and investment to generate
jobs that would also be a deterrent of farther migratory pressures in
the hemisphere.

We want Colombia to be one of the reference models of B3W.  We have
projects that are advancing in clean energy, climate adaptation,
infrastructure.  So we consider that we want to be a reference for other
countries in Latin America. 

I also want to express my gratitude for all the support we’ve gotten
from U.S. agencies in order to attend the needs of the 1.8 million
Venezuelan migrants in our territory.  
  
They have crossed the border with frozen bones.  They have come in —
they have come to our country without any access to health services or
food.  So we’ve been able to attend.  And the support of USAID in the
border zone is something that has made a very important contribution.

We also believe that the TPS status that we have granted to these 1.8
million citizens and that will receive their card by no longer than
August this year, it’s going to allow them to look for jobs, enter the
Social Security system, and, most importantly, Mr. President, they are
going to be able to contribute to the Colombian economy but also to
improve their life (inaudible).  So this is something that makes a
strong sense to us.  

But we also have to say that in the times we’re facing, we have made a
strong stand against the brutal, unjustified attack from Russia to
Ukraine.  This has been a very horrifying moment for the world.  And we
have to condemn with a very strong sentiment.  You have done it.  We
have done it.  And we have also said that through the multilateral
system, we will also be pressing for any sanctions to be implemented
because nothing justifies the bloodbath that we have been seeing
continuously over the news in the last weeks.

We have also spoken to the NATO Secretary General.  And I have been
speaking with leaders in Poland, Romania, Slovakia, and other countries
in Europe to offer Colombia’s advice on migration management in their
circumstances.  So we’ll be there.  And we will also participate
actively in giving that support.

We have also made a humanitarian contribution through NATO, as the only
Latin American country that is a partner of NATO.  And we believe that
at this moment, we have to do all we can (inaudible).

And last but not least, Mr. President, I think there are two very
important subjects in which we have been working closely.  And it’s
climate action — Colombia approved the climate action bill by a
unanimous decision in Congress.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Impressive.

PRESIDENT DUQUE:  And we have been also able to launch an energy
transition program that has allowed us to pass from barely 28 megawatts
of installed capacity non-conventional renewables to 2,800 megawatts,
which is 100 times of what we had when we assumed office.

And we are working with your administration in the protection of areas
in our country — maritime areas and on-land areas.  So we will not wait
on to 2030 to meet the 30 by 30 criteria.  And this year, before the
month of August, we’ll have 30 percent of the Colombian territory
declared a protected area.

We’re having U.S. support in this.  We’re also restoring 1 million
corals and protecting the mangroves in very important zones of our
country.  And this is also part of their bilateral agenda.

So, President Biden, to you and to the administration but also to the
American people, we feel proud that 200 years of this bilateral
relationship, today, with your decision of declaring Colombia a
strategic non-NATO partner, is taking the bilateral relationship to the
highest peak ever.

Thank you so much.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you  
  
2:45 P.M. EST
