---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-30'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/30/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-status-of-the-countrys-fight-against-covid-19/
published_time: 2022-03-30 15:31:12-04:00
title: "Remarks by President Biden on the Status of the Country\u2019s Fight Against\
  \ COVID- \u2060 19"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

1:40 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Today, I’d like to update you all on
where we stand on COVID-19.   
  
Because of the strategy we executed over the past year on vaccinations,
testing, treatments, and more, we’re now in a new moment in this
pandemic.  
  
It does not mean that COVID-19 is over; it means that COVID-19 no longer
controls our lives.  That’s what it means.   
  
Cases are ticking up as we thought they might.  But now, thanks to the
foundation we’ve laid, America has the tools to protect people — all the
people.  
  
And, you know, as we’ve done from day one, my administration is making
it easier than ever for Americans to access these tools.  
  
Today, I’m announcing the launch of COVID.gov — COVID.gov — a one —
(clears throat) — excuse me, a one-stop shop where anyone in America can
find what they need to navigate the virus: free vaccines and boosters,
free at-home tests, high-quality masks.  And for the latest information
about the level of COVID-19 spread in your community, you can get that
immediately.  
  
Now, you’ll also be able to find our new test-to-treat locations, which
I announced in my State of the Union Address.  These are pharmacies and
other places in your neighborhood where you can get tested.  And if
you’re positive, you can get lifesaving treatments all in one stop.  
  
We’ve already stood up 2,000 test-to-streat \[sic\] sites —
test-and-treat sites across the country.  
  
We’re also nearly at — we have nearly 200 sites just to serve military
families and veterans communities as well.

We’ve done — what we’ve done throughout the pandemic, we’ve ensured
there are — these locations are at the hardest-hit, hardest-to-reach
communities as well.  
  
The bottom line: No longer will Americans have to scour the Internet to
find vaccines, treatments, tests, or masks.  It’s all there.  And just
go visit COVID.gov — COVID.gov.    
  
And let me remind you: When I took office about 14 months ago, the
pandemic was raging, the economy was reeling, and the deficit was
soaring.  Most schools were closed.  We didn’t have enough vaccines. 
The unemployment claims were sky high.   
  
And then we got to work, and we delivered: enough vaccines for every
American months ahead of schedule, effective treatments, at-home tests
that are free and accessible.  
  
Over 99 percent of our schools are open again.  Businesses are open
again.  And because of how we responded, we created more jobs last year
than ever before — 6.7 million jobs.  
  
And by the way, we did it while cutting the deficit — the largest
one-year deficit reduction in American history.  Say that again: The
largest one-year deficit reduction in American history.   
  
But none of that happened by accident.  We were able to do it because we
coordinated across the government, partnered with state and local
leaders, governors on both sides of the aisle, and the private sector to
leverage every resource we had to fight against this virus.  
  
We left no stone unturned.  And we were able to do it because Congress
worked with us and provided us the necessary funding.  
  
But now, just as we’ve reached the critical turning point in this fight,
Congress has to provide the funding America needs to continue to fight
COVID-19.  
  
We’re alr- — we’re already seeing the consequences of congressional
inaction.  The monoclonal antibod- — take monoclonal antibodies, for
example.  They’ve helped save lives.  This isn’t partisan; it’s
medicine.  
  
But Congress hasn’t provided enough money to keep purchasing these
monoclonal bo- — antibodies.  We’ve had to cancel planned orders and cut
the supply we’re sending to the states.  Without more funding, we’ll
start to run out of them by the end of May — the end of May.  
  
We’ve also had to scale back our plan to purchase more preventive
therapies for Americans who are immunocompromised — critical tools to
protect the most vulnerable among us.  Without more funding, we risk
running out of the supply by this fall.  
  
The same is true of testing.  It took months to ramp up our testing
capacity.  The Omicron — we saw how vital — and with Omicron, we saw how
vital it was <s>and</s> \[that\] we have enough tests on hand to weather
the surge.  But without funding, we’re not going to be able to sustain
the testing capacity beyond the month of June.  And if we fail to
invest, we leave ourselves vulnerable if another wave of the virus
hits.  
  
Look, on vaccines — a most important tool in this fight — we’re also
running a risk.  
  
Yesterday, the Food and Drug Administration — the FDA — and the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention –- the CDC — authorized a fourth shot
for those 50 years and older.  
  
We know boosters are critical to providing an additional level of
protection.  That’s why I plan to get my second booster today right here
after I’m done speaking.  
  
If you haven’t gotten your first booster, please don’t wait.  Do it
today.  
  
Those who are 50 and older, as well as those who are immunocompromised,
can now get it — get even more protection than they have from the
initial first doses.  We have enough supply to give booster shots to
those newly eligible individuals.  
  
But if Congress fails to act, we won’t have the supply we need this fall
to ensure that shots are available, free, easily accessible for all
Americans.  
  
Even worse, if we need a different vaccine for the future to combat a
new variant, we’re not going to have enough money to purchase it.  We
cannot allow that to happen.

Congress, we need to secure additional supply now.  Now.  We can’t wait
until we find ourselves in the midst of another surge to act.  It’ll be
too late.  
  
And we also need this — this funding to continue our efforts to
vaccinate the world — commitments we made.  It’s critical to our ability
to protect against new variants.  There’s no wall that you can build
high enough to keep out a virus.  
  
Congress needs to act now, please.  
  
Let me close with this: I’ve worked so hard to get our lives — we’ve
worked so hard to — we, all of us, have worked so hard to get our lives
back.    
  
We’re summoning every ounce of American resilience; pulled every lever
of our government; called upon the goodness, decency, and patriotism of
the American people; and, together, we turned an unthinkable pain into
an extraordinary progress and purpose.  Americans are back to living
their lives again.  We can’t surrender that now.   
  
Congress, please act.  You have to act immediately.  The consequences of
inaction are severe.  They’ll only grow with time, but it doesn’t have
to be that way.

We’ve proven what we can do when we work together.  So, I urge Democrats
and Republicans to get this done with urgency.  
  
Let’s stand united.  Let’s continue to pull together.  Let’s get this
done.  
  
Thank you.  And God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  
  
And now I’m going to get my second booster shot.  
(The President moves to a chair to receive the booster shot.)  
  
I’m not sure why I’m doing it on stage.  Just to prove I’m getting it, I
guess.  
  
Q    Mr. President, what is the danger of Putin being left in the dark
by his military advisors?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m reluctant to comment on that.  
  
Q    Can you comment on the declassified intelligence that he doesn’t
trust his military leadership, since it is declassified?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, I can’t.  
  
(Cross-talk by reporters.)  
  
Q    Mr. President, is the U.S. willing to provide security guarantees
to Ukraine as part of peace talks?  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m feeling great.  
  
Q    Is the U.S. willing to provide security guarantees to Ukraine as
part of peace talks with Russia?  
  
Q    Mr. President, are you going to extend Title 42?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We’ll have a decision on that soon.  
  
Q    Mr. President, the difference between rich and poor countries on
vaccination, will it impact your — the fight against COVID here?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m sorry —  
  
(Cross-talk by reporters.)  
  
Q    The difference between — the gap —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Somebody asked about the vaccines, which is relevant.  
  
Q    For kids under five, is there — are there enough funds to provide
them vaccines for free?  
  
(Cross-talk by reporters.)  
  
(The President receives the booster shot.)  
  
Q    How does it feel, Mr. President?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Wonderful.  (Laughter.)  
  
No, I have to admit to you, I’ve always thought that it discourages
people getting a vaccination when they watch people get a needle in
their arm.  So I apologize if I discouraged them.  It didn’t hurt a bit,
and I was able to roll my sleeve up.  
  
And thank you all so very much.  
  
Q    Will you meet with Trevor Reed’s parents?  Will you meet with
Trevor Reed’s parents, Mr. President, while they’re here in Washington? 
They say that you promised them a meeting.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m going to see if I can get to see them.  They’re good
—  
  
Q    Today?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  They’re good people.  I haven’t — we’re trying to work
that out.  
  
Thank you.  
  
1:49 P.M. EDT
