---
date: '2022-03-29'
modified_time: 2022-03-30 14:11:08-04:00
published_time: 2022-03-29 07:29:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/29/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-signing-of-h-r-55-the-emmett-till-antilynching-act/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at Signing of H.R. 55, \u201CThe Emmett Till\
  \ Antilynching\_Act\u201D"
---
 
*Rose Garden*

4:25 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.   
  
Michelle, thank you for your powerful words.  I was so glad that we had
some time in the Oval Office with the President to talk with you about
the historic day that we are celebrating but on the shoulders of so
many, including your family and you, who have written about it,
maintaining your family’s legacy of speaking truth always.  So, thank
you.   
  
It’s good to see everybody.  President Biden, members of Congress, I
have to shout out to the CBC, to my fellow Americans: Thank you all. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, lynching — well, it — we know it’s a stain on the history of our
nation.  
  
Since our founding and in particular in the century following the Civil
War, thousands of people in states across our nation were tortured and
murdered by vigilantes.   
  
They were dragged from their homes.  They had ropes wrapped around their
necks.  They were hanged, burned, drowned, and dismembered — often, as
the President said, as their families were forced to watch and as crowds
gathered to spectate.  
  
These lynchings were motivated, of course, by racism and meant to cause
terror.  They were acts committed to secure political and social
control.   
  
But they were not designated crimes by the federal government.  Lynching
was not considered a crime by the federal government.   
  
Legislation to make lynching a federal crime was first introduced in the
United States Congress in the year 1900.  It failed.  
  
In the 122 years since, antilynching legislation has been introduced to
the United States Congress more than 200 times, advanced by leaders such
as James Weldon Johnson of the NAACP and, of course, the phenomenal Ida
B. Wells — those who courageously knew what had to be done and were
undeterred.   
  
And when we speak of Ida B. Wells, let’s understand the courageous
nature of that incredible American who used her skill, her profession,
her calling as a journalist — as President Biden noted — to help open
the eyes of our nation to the terror of lynching, which speaks, of
course, to the role that we have known also historically — I’m going off
script for a moment — about the importance of the Black press and the
importance of making sure that we have the storytellers always in our
community who we will support to tell the truth when no one else is
willing to tell it.  (Applause.)  
  
And so, those heroes who petitioned every president from McKinley to
Hoover to support federal legislation.  
  
Antilynching legislation was introduced in the wake of some of these
most brutal attacks: after the murder of Mary Turner in 1918, after the
murder of Emmett Till in 1955, and James Byrd, Jr. in 1998, and James
Craig Anderson in 2011.  And it failed again and again.   
  
And again and again, antilynching legislation was reintroduced in the
United States Congress by leaders who understood that our past must not
and cannot be forgotten, that the truth must be spoken no matter how
difficult it is to speak and certainly no matter how difficult it is to
hear — leaders who understood that the victims of lynching and their
families and all of our society deserve that we recognize the crimes and
the injustice of what was occurring and that the people of our nation
deserve the protection of a faderal \[sic\] — federal antilynching
law.  
  
When I served in the United States Senate, it was a profound honor to
sponsor, with Cory Booker, the Emmett Till Antilynching Act.  
  
And I want to say a thing about Cory Booker — I’m going to talk about
him in front of his face.  (Laughter.)  Cory Booker, I have had the
privilege of working with, and he is a man of uncommon courage,
unmatched moral clarity, and an unwavering commitment to doing what is
right.  
  
Thank you, Cory Booker.  (Applause.)  
  
 And I also want to recognize and thank Senator Tim Scott, whose
partnership, of course, helped us pass this legislation.  
  
And with Congressman Bobby Rush — (applause) — where is he?  There you
are — who kept this fight alive for so many years in the United States
Congress.  Congressman Rush, you have dedicated your career to guiding
our nation toward justice, and I thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
And thank you to so many other leaders who are gathered here who helped
us reach this very important day, leaders who witnessed the brutal
reality of lynching — such as Ollie Gordon and Reverend Wheeler Parker,
cousins of Emmett Till — for whom the stories of these crimes are not
lines in a history book but vivid memories.  
  
So, today, we are gathered to do unfinished business: to acknowledge the
horror in this part of our history, to state unequivocally that lynching
is and always has been a hate crime, and to make clear that the federal
government may now prosecute these crimes as such.  
  
  
Lynching is not a relic of the past.  Racial acts of terror still occur
in our nation.  And when they do, we must all have the courage to name
them and hold the perpetrators to account.  (Applause.)  
  
And with that, I will close by saying this: I believe that so often —
and it has been said — the victims of lynching were targeted — and let’s
be clear about this — because they were working to build a better
America.  That’s what they were doing.  
  
 It was in everybody’s best interest what they were doing.  But
unfortunately, the cowards couldn’t see, didn’t understand.   
  
Those folks who were killed — they were business owners, creating
economic opportunity in their community by which all would prosper and
benefit.  They were teachers, educating the next generation of America’s
leaders.  They were activists who were defending the sacred freedom to
vote.  
  
So, today, as we recognize them, as we recognize our history, let us
also be here gathered to recommit ourselves to that unfinished business,
as well; to continuing to fight for freedom, for opportunity, and
justice for all.   
  
May God bless you, and may God bless America.  Thank you all. 
(Applause.)  
  
                            END                   4:33 P.M. EDT  
