---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-21'
modified_time: 2022-03-30 14:18:51-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/21/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-funding-to-provide-affordable-accessible-high-speed-internet-to-communities-across-the-country/
published_time: 2022-03-21 14:18:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Funding to Provide Affordable, Accessible\
  \ High-Speed Internet to Communities Across the\_Country"
---
 
12:34 P.M. CDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)  And it is
good afternoon.  (Laughter.)  Please, have a seat.  It’s so good to be
with — I see so many friends here.  So good to be back in Louisiana. 
Thank you all.  Thank you.  
  
And, Josi, thank you for that introduction.  She and I were speaking
backstage.  I have to tell you, I just love it when we see and have our
young leaders participate, because they are what it’s all about.  And I
see many of our young leaders in the room today.  So this is a good day,
and I do know that our future is bright when I see this incredible
talent.  
  
So, let me say this: This is an issue that Josi actually highlighted in
terms of the importance of this.  The Governor and I and we were all
doing a tour of the library here and talking about the significance of
the passage of time.  Right?  The significance of the passage of
time.   
  
So, when you think about it, there is great significance to the passage
of time in terms of what we need to do to lay these wires, what we need
to do to create these jobs.  And there is such great significance to the
passage of time when we think about a day in the life of our children
and what that means to the future of our nation, depending on whether or
not they have the resources they need to achieve their God-given
talent.  
  
So, today, I’m so happy to be with all of you.  We are joined by the
Deputy Secretary of our Department of Commerce, Don Graves; Congressman
Troy Carter — both of whom traveled with me here, aboard Air Force Two. 
I want to congratulate and thank them for their hard and good work.  
  
We are also joined, of course, by the Governor.  Where are you,
Governor?  He’s here.  He’s here.  (Laughter.)  I know — there you are. 
Of course you are.  (Laughs.)  Isn’t that so like you?  Just in the room
always, but not requiring much in terms of acknowledgement.  But I will
tell you, Louisiana, you are very fortunate to have Governor Edwards in
the role of leadership.  (Applause.)  I will tell you that.  I will tell
you that.  
  
He and I were talking, and the Governor, along with the mayors, met me
at the tarmac when I arrived.  And I was sharing with him not only best
wishes from President Joe Biden, but even after the election and before
we were sworn in, we would do Zoom calls and then we started doing them
throughout the beginning of our administration, and continuing to this
day, but with governors from various states around the country.  
  
And Governor Edwards was always front and center as a leader among
leaders, talking about the needs of the people of Louisiana but also
being a national voice around the needs of folks, be they in rural or
urban communities, be they facing the challenges of the climate crisis
or the challenge that we have in terms of making sure that everyone has
an ability to live a quality of life — that means ability to afford the
cost of living.  
  
So, Governor, it’s great to be with you this afternoon.  And thank you. 
You’ve been a great president — a great partner to the President and me
as we move forward. (Laughter.)  A great president of your state. 
(Laughter.)  And always fighting for the people of this district.  
  
And I also want to thank the Louisiana congressional delegation for
warming \[welcoming\] us to the state. I was with Senator Bill Cassidy
last week.  I know he’s unable to be here today, but I’ll tell you, we
were together at the White House — (applause) — when I swore in another
native Louisianan, Shalanda Young.  (Applause.)   
  
And so, Ms. Young is now the Director of the White House Office of
Management and Budget, and a member of the President’s Cabinet.  And I
want to thank, in Louisiana — I want to thank Senator Cassidy for his
help to secure Director Young’s confirmation and his help to pass the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. (Applause.)  
  
And today, I am proud to focus on how much we have all accomplished when
we work together.   
  
So, President Biden and I — well, we’ve been working day in and day out
to build an economy that works for working people, an economy in which
every person has what they need to get ahead and to thrive.  
  
High-speed broadband Internet is critical to that effort.  In the 21st
century, high-speed Internet is a necessity.  Full stop.  It is a
necessity.  
  
And so much of our world, if we think about it, has moved online. 
Throughout the pandemic, people depended on high-speed Internet like
never before.  Business owners used the Internet to sell their goods. 
Parents used the Internet to buy their groceries.  Seniors used the
Internet to see their doctor.  Young people to attend virtual classes. 
All without ever leaving home.  
  
So, for so many of us — for so many of us, the Internet has been and
continues to be essential for us to perform our everyday needs.  It is
an integrated part of our daily lives.  
  
And yet, by one estimate, more than 42 million people  
in our country do not have high-speed Internet.  Far too many of our
fellow Americans simply cannot afford the cost of a high-speed Internet
plan.  And too many others do not even have access to such a plan.  
  
Consider: Most of the households in our nation that have high-speed
Internet receive it through fiber-optic cables.  However, there are
millions of homes around our nation, most of which are in rural areas,
that are not connected by fiber-optic cables.  That means those
households have to rely on satellite Internet or dial-up plans, which
are often slower, less reliable, and more expensive.  Or it means they
have to go without access to the Internet altogether.   
  
And this community, which is why I am here, is all too familiar with
these challenges, though this is a community that is filled with
extraordinary leaders. Thirty \[Thirty-seven\] percent of the households
here in St. Landry Parish do not have high-speed Internet.  
  
Around our country then, including here, that means students are sitting
in fast food restaurant parking lots,  
doing their homework over public Wi-Fi, because that is the only place
they can receive access.   
  
It means seniors are seeing doctors and medical professionals during
their telemedicine visits in local public libraries.  Now just imagine
what that means — that you’re sitting there talking with your medical
health professional, surrounded by people, and what that might do to
impede your ability to share your concerns in a way that you feel safe. 
Or if you know that’s the only way you can get access, how that might
deter you even trying to connect.    
  
And it means that so many people are shut off from economic opportunity.
Just think about how having access to high-speed Internet enables
workers to take on remote work jobs.  It allows companies to find talent
wherever it might be.  It opens up new markets to small businesses and
allows entrepreneurs to collaborate and to create.  
  
As I said, in the 21st century, high-speed Internet is a necessity. 
And, so, our administration is taking action.  
  
Last month, our administration announced we are distributing $277
million in grants to connect 13 communities from across our nation with
high-speed Internet.  Communities in Maine, in Kentucky, Washington,
Georgia, Texas, and here in Louisiana.   
  
In this community, we will invest nearly $30 million to connect more
than 22,000 households to the fiber-optic network.  (Applause.)  
  
And our Commerce Department, led by Secretary Raimondo and represented
here through the leadership of Deputy Secretary Graves, has done an
outstanding job distributing this money to the places that need it the
most.   
  
And this is just a down payment.  Every household in America should be
able to access and afford — I separate those two points, “access and
afford,” because you need both.  You need to lay down the fiber, but you
also need to be able to pay for it and afford it.  So these both are
priorities for our administration.  
  
And that is why, through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we invested
$65 billion to expand and modernize our nation’s broadband
infrastructure.  
  
We will lay thousands of miles of fiber-optic cable and will help
millions of households lower their monthly Internet bill.  
  
Thanks to this law, one in four American households is eligible to
receive a discount on their monthly Internet bill of $30 per month or
$75 per month for those living on Tribal lands.  
  
So far, with this discount, we have helped lower the cost of living for
more than 10 million households, and more are signing up every day.  
  
And that is just part of the good being done by the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.  
  
And, again, I want to thank the governor for his early conversations
with us about what states like Louisiana need.  
  
For example: Tomorrow, I know Louisiana may experience another severe
and substantial storm.  In recent years, so many communities around our
nation have been damaged by storms and floods.  Well, our administration
is committed to helping all communities to prepare for, to respond to,
and to recover from extreme weather.  
  
So, as part of that commitment, today we are announcing $60 million from
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will be made available to help
communities build flood resilience, and $40 million of that funding will
be spent right here in Louisiana.  (Applause.)   
  
And — and we’re cle- — I see your enthusiasm about it because you’re
living here and you know — right? — resilience — this is about helping
homeowners.  This is about helping residents.  It’s about knowing
something is going to come and let’s build up in a way that we can
mitigate, so we can minimize, so we can lessen the harm that we know
happens every time if we don’t build up that resilience.  
  
But, you know, we want to build up the resilience, but then the states
need the support to do that.  
  
And think about it: It’s not only about the resilience for the families
and the individuals, it’s about the jobs that we’re going to create to
do that work.  
  
So, the investments in high-speed Internet that we celebrate today,
along with what we will continue to do to expand our work around things
like climate resilience with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, will
have a transformative impact on communities across our country.   
  
On the issue of Internet: Think about it — when we connect families and
workers, students and small-business owners, patients and health
professionals, including mental health professionals, with high-speed
Internet, we connect folks to opportunity.  
  
We connect folks with the ability to improve their lives, to fight back
against feelings and actual reality of being isolated and, instead, to
allow people to be connected with each other and with the services that
they need.  
  
And think about the opportunity, then.  It includes all of that, which
is about community and communication and connection, but also the
opportunity to work and learn remotely, to see a doctor online, to buy
groceries through an app, to deposit a check without having to visit the
bank — in short, the opportunity to live healthier, happier, and more
prosperous lives.  
  
This is what so much of our administration’s work comes down to:
fighting to make sure every person — no matter where they start, no
matter how much money they have in their bank account — that they have
the opportunity to succeed, to achieve their God-given potential, in
particular when it comes to our children.  
  
So, we are fighting to make sure that this opportunity extends to all
people in our country, regardless of where they live.  
  
You know, there’s so much of what we have achieved together, on many
levels, but with this Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, that is based on
our collective ability to see what is possible; to see what can be,
unburdened by what has been; to reject the notion that the way things
have always been has to be the way things will continue to be.  That’s
the work we are doing together.  
  
And as I said to the governor and the congressmen, we can’t do this work
at the national level out of Washington, D.C. — the President and I, we
can’t do this work were it not for you here, in the community, in local
government and state government, creating the foundation so that we can
come in and say, “Governor, here’s a check.”  (Laughter.)  “Spend it
wisely,” which I know is what you will do.  
  
So, it’s good to be with everyone this afternoon. And thank you, thank
you for the warm welcome back.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
END                12:50 P.M. CDT
