---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-11'
modified_time: 2022-03-11 13:25:12-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/11/remarks-by-president-biden-announcing-actions-to-continue-to-hold-russia-accountable/
published_time: 2022-03-11 13:25:11-05:00
title: Remarks by President Biden Announcing Actions to Continue to Hold Russia Accountable
---
 
Roosevelt Room

10:31 A.M. EST  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Good morning.  I’m sorry to keep you waiting.  I’ve
just spoken for some time with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine. 

I told him, as I have each and every time we’ve spoken, the United
States stands with the people of Ukraine and their bravely — as they
bravely fight to defend their country.  And they are doing that.  

And as Putin continues his merciless assault, the United States and our
Allies and partners continue to work in lockstep to ramp up the economic
pressure on Putin and to further isolate Russia on the global stage. 

Later today, together with other NATO Allies and the G7 — Canada,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom — as well as the
European Union — we’re going to jointly announce several new steps to
squeeze Putin and hold him more — even more accountable for his
aggression against Ukraine.  

And I want to speak to a few of those points today.   
  
     First, each of our nations is going to take steps to deny
most-favored-nation status to Russia.  A most-favored-nation status
designation means two countries have agreed to trade with each other
under the best possible terms — low tariffs, few barriers to trade, and
the highest possible imports allowed.

In the United States, we call this “permanent normal trade relations” —
PNTR — but it’s the same thing.  Revoking PNTR for Russia is going to
make it harder for Russia to do business with the United States.  And
doing it in unison with other nations that make up half of the global
economy will be another crushing blow to the Russian economy that’s
already suffering very badly from our sanctions.

And I want to thank Speaker Pelosi, Leader McCarthy, Leader Schumer and
McConnell, and Senators Wyden and Crapo, Representatives Neal and Brady
for their bipartisan leadership on this in the Congress.

I would like to offer a special thanks to Speaker Pelosi

who has been a strong advocate for revoking PNTR and who agreed to hold
off on that in the House until I could line up all of our key allies to
keep us in complete unison.  Unity among our allies is critically
important, as you all know, from my perspective, at least.  
  
     Many issues divide us in Washington, but standing for democracy in
Ukraine, <s>pushing</s> \[punishing\] Russia’s aggression should not be
one of those issues.

The free world is coming together to confront Putin.  Our two parties
here at home are leading the way.  And with that bipartisan cooperation,
I’m looking forward to signing into law the bill revoking PNTR — which
is, again, most people think of it as “most-favored-nations” status.

We’re also taking a further step of banning imports of goods from
several signature sectors of the Russian economy, including seafoods,
vodka, and diamonds.

And we’re going to continue to squeeze Putin.  The G7 will seek to deny
Russia the ability to borrow from leading multinational institutions,
such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.

Putin is an aggressor — is the aggressor.  And Putin must pay the price.

He cannot pursue a war that threatens the very foundations — which he’s
doing — the very foundations of international peace and stability and
then ask for financial help from the international community.

The G7 is also stepping up pressure on corrupt Russian billionaires. 
We’re adding new names to the list of oligarchs and their families that
we’re targeting.  And we’re increasing coordination among the G7
countries to target and capture their ill-begotten gains.

They support Putin.  They steal from the Russian people.  And they seek
to hide their money in our countries.  They’re part of a — that
kleptocracy that exists in Moscow.  And they must share in the pain of
these sanctions.

And while we’re going after these — their superyachts and their vacation
homes worth hundreds of milli- — millions of dollars, we’re also going
to make it harder for them to buy high-end products manufactured in our
country.  We’re banning the export of luxu- — luxury goods to Russia. 
They’re also the latest steps we’re taking, but they’re not the last
steps we’re going to take.

And as I said at the beginning of all of these steps, we’re going to hit
Putin harder because the United States and our closest Allies and
partners are acting in unison.

The totality of our sanctions and export controls is crushing the
Russian economy.

The ruble has lost more than half its value.  They tell me it takes
about 200 rubles to equal 1 dollar these days.  The Moscow stock
exchange has been closed for fully — for two weeks because they know the
moment it opens, it will probably collapse.

Credit rating agencies has downgraded Russia’s government to “junk”
status — its economy to “junk” status.

The list of businesses and international corporations leaving Russia is
growing by the day.

We’re also continuing the close <s>corporations</s> \[cooperation\] with
Allies and partners to make sure that the close cooperation we continue
to have, the Ukrainian people are — are able to defend their own nation.

The United States has sent more than $1 billion in security assistance
to Ukraine over the last year, including anti-armor and anti-air
capabilities — taking out tanks and planes and helicopters — with new
shipments arriving every day.

We, the United States, are also facilitating significant shipments of
security assistance from our Allies and partners to Ukraine.

On the humanitarian front, we’re working closely with the U.N. and
humanitarian organizations to support the people of Ukraine who have
been displaced by the violence in Ukraine.

We’re providing — we’re providing tens of thousands of tons of human
supplies — excuse me, humanitarian supplies — food, water, medicines —
coming via truck and train every single day. 

Yesterday in Poland, Vice President Harrins — Harris announced an
additional $53 million in additional humanitarian support to Ukraine. 
That brings the total humanitarian assistance to $107 million in just
two weeks.

We’ve joined in this effort by more — with more than 30 other
countries who are providing hundreds of millions more. 

And last night, to their great credit, the Congress passed a bipartisan
spending bill that included an additional $13.6 billion in new
assistance to the Ukrainian people.  And I look forward to signing that
immediately.

And I also want to be clear though: We will make sure Ukraine has
weapons to defend against an invading Russian force.  We will — we will
send money and food and aid to save the Ukrainian people.  And I will
welcome the Ukrainian refugees.  We should welcome them here with open
arms if they need access. 

And we’re going to provide more support for Ukraine.  We’re going to
continue to stand together with our Allies in Europe and send an
unmistakable message: We will defend every single inch of NATO territory
with the full might of a united and galvanized NATO. 

We will not fight a war against Russia in Ukraine.  Direct confrontation
between NATO and Russia is World War Three, something we must strive to
prevent.

But we already know Putin’s war against Ukraine will never be a
victory. 

He hoped to dominate Ukraine without a fight.  He failed. 

He hoped to fracture European resolve.  He failed. 

He hoped to weaken the transatlantic alliance.  He failed. 

He hoped to split apart American democracies, in terms of our
positions.  He failed.

The American people are united.  The world is united.  And we stand with
the people of Ukraine.  We will not let autocrats and would-be emperors
dictate the direction of the world.

Democracies are rising to meet this moment, rallying the world to the
side of peace and the side of security.

We’re showing our strength, and we will not falter.

May God bless all of you.  God bless Ukraine.  And God bless our
troops. 

Q    President Biden, your White House has said that Russia may use
chemical weapons or create a false-flag operation to use them.  What
evidence have you seen showing that?  And would the U.S. have a military
response if Putin does launch a chemical weapons attack?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not going to speak about the intelligence.  But
Russia would pay a severe price if they used chemical weapons.   

10:40 A.M. EST
