---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-15'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/15/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-equal-pay-day-summit/
published_time: 2022-03-15 16:46:11-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Equal Pay Day\_Summit"
---
 
*South Court Auditorium*

3:01 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.   
  
Jen Klein, thank you for the introduction and mostly for the work that
you do every day, tirelessly, as the Director of our Gender Policy
Council.  
  
And to the members of Congress, members of our administration, business
leaders, community leaders, and equal pay advocates who are here with us
virtually and in person, thank you for your leadership, for your
partnership, and for your commitment to action every day.  
  
So, I’ll begin with a simple truth: Our economy just has not been
working as it should for the women of our nation.  Across industries,
women are less likely to be hired than equally qualified men.  They are
paid less and promoted slower for doing similar work.  Women are
routinely shut out of good jobs in high-paying industries — such as
science and technology, construction, and truck driving — in part
because our society tells women that some industries are just not for
them.    
  
 And as study after study has shown, women are expected to shoulder an
unequal share of unpaid caregiving responsibilities.     When families
cannot afford or cannot find caregiving — such as childcare, eldercare,
or home care — it often falls on women to fill the gaps, whether that
means going part-time or leaving the workforce entirely or working full
time at a paid job and full time performing unpaid caregiving.    
  
And over the past two years, the pandemic has only deepened these
inequities as caregiving has become more expensive and more difficult to
find.  
  
And here’s how that all adds up: Today, on average, working women who
are working full time, year-round, make just 83 cents for every dollar
that a man makes.   
  
And for many women of color, the gap is even wider.  Over a 40-year
career, a woman will lose out on about $400,000.  For Black women,
Latina women, Native American women, that loss in wages is closer to $1
million.    
  
And of course, that is money that a woman could use to pay off her
student loan debt or put a down payment on a house or pay a mortgage or
invest in a small business or save for retirement.   
  
As one must recognize, lower wages mean working women have less money —
less money to save today.   And lower wages mean they receive lower
Social Security benefits in their senior years.  
  
For so many women, the gender wage gap acts as a virtual tax, making it
so much more difficult to pay the bills and invest in their future. 

It can also have a negative impact on their productivity, job
satisfaction, and retention.   And by extension, it can have a negative
impact on individual businesses and on our economy as a whole.    
  
As the business leaders here today will tell us, closing the gender wage
gap — well, it’s not just a moral issue, it’s also a business one.  
  
If we are going to continue to grow our economy and to be competitive
and lead the world in the 21st century, we simply cannot afford to leave
half of our workforce behind.  To build an economy that works for all of
us, we must build an economy that works for women.   
  
That is one of our administration’s central missions.   And that has
been a central mission of mine for quite some time.  In fact, when I
served in the United States Senate, I introduced what we named the
Domestic Workers Bill of Rights Act to ensure that domestic workers — 90
percent of whom are women — that they are paid fairly and that their
rights are protected.  
  
And, with Senator Patty Murray of Washington and Congresswoman Rosa
DeLauro, I co-sponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act to make it easier for
employees to bring equal pay claims against their employers.  
  
And over the past year, our administration has taken important action to
address the gender wage gap.  We passed the American Rescue Plan, which
provided immediate relief to millions of women who were severely
impacted by the pandemic.    
  
We passed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which is creating
good-paying, good union jobs, including for many women in industries
where they are underrepresented, such as transportation, clean energy,
and construction.  
  
Today, we are taking additional steps to help increase pay equity across
our nation.   
  
One factor that contributes to pay inequity is the common practice of
requiring job applicants to share their salary history.  
  
Now, think about that.  Why does that matter?  Well, in effect, it’s
allowing how much an employee was been paid in the past to impact how
much they will be paid in the future.  
  
So, think about that.  For many women, this practice can mean that
inequitable pay from a previous job will follow them to the current job,
and so on, and so on.  
  
So, our administration is committed to eliminating discriminatory pay
practices that inhibit the economy, efficiency, and effectiveness of the
federal government.   
  
And that’s why today, our Office of Personnel Management will begin work
to address the use of salary history in the hiring and pay-setting
process for federal employees.    
  
And today, the President, Joe Biden, will sign an executive order that
directs the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council to consider limiting
the use of salary history in employment decisions by federal
contractors.   
  
In addition, today, our Department of Labor will direct federal
contractors to strengthen pay audits.  Pay audits help organizations
determine whether they are paying all their employees equitably and, if
they are not, give them data to help correct that inequity.   
  
The President and I firmly believe that all companies should conduct
these audits and, where appropriate, should be transparent about the
results.  By the way, I think it’s always appropriate to be transparent
about the results.  Because pay transparency creates accountability.  
And accountability — well, that drives progress.  
  
Our administration cannot bridge the wage gap alone.   It will truly
take all of us, working together.   
  
And that is why we are gathered here today at this summit.    We can
build a more fair, more efficient, and more equitable economy — as I
said and truly believe, an economy that works for women and for
everyone.  That’s how it goes: An economy that works for women works for
everyone.  
  
And so, together, we will continue to do this good work.  I thank you
all — all the leaders who are here.  And let us continue with this
important work until we truly reach a place where all workers and all
people are treated fairly.  
  
     Thank you.  
  
                               END                 3:09 P.M. EST
