---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-16'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-during-a-conversation-with-current-and-former-members-of-the-u-s-womens-national-soccer-team/
published_time: 2022-03-16 03:16:25-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris During a Conversation with Current and Former\
  \ Members of the U.S. Women\u2019s National Soccer\_Team"
---
 
South Court Auditorium

Eisenhower Executive Office Building

3:34 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Welcome, everyone, to the White House.  Welcome. 
Welcome.  As has been introduced, we are gathered together with really
wonderful leaders.  Obviously, you all have been champions, in terms of
your skill and your dominance in terms of women’s soccer, but we are
here today because you also have been leaders on an issue that affects
most women and has affected most women in the workforce, and it’s the
issue of pay equity.

So, thank you for joining us at the White House for this important
discussion, which really is going to center on your leadership — what
you all have done; what you have accomplished; the challenges that
you’ve faced, both personally and professionally, in terms of getting us
to this point where we have now seen extraordinary success because of
your commitment to the issue and your willingness to be a voice for so
many others on and off the field.

So, with that, I want to thank you all.  And of course, we should
mention that you have won four World Cup Games and four Olympic golds. 
(Applause.)  So — absolutely. 

So, Kelley, let’s talk — I want to start with you, because it’s about
being a player rep in the Players Association Union.  And we still see
that there are issues throughout the workforce around women being
underpaid. 

But can you talk a bit about the fight that you all had and the role of
the Players Association in reaching the settlement?

MS. O’HARA:  For sure.  You know, I think a lot of people hear our fight
for equal pay and they think compensation, which is definitely what it’s
about.  But there are a lot of other things that we were fighting for. 

There was a lot of unequal treatment.  And that came in the form of
playing surfaces, travel standards, promotion and investment in the
game. 

And Julie — we were actually talking before we got up here — how far
we’ve come even from when they were playing.  And I don’t know if you
want to mention —

MS. FOUDY:  A long time ago.

MS. O’HARA:  — some things.  Yeah, but — but all that is to say — and to
answer your question about the Players Association, we were facing all
these things.  And I think that the Players Association — it’s been
around for generations, but we really reinvigorated it in 2017.  And I
think that dedicating time to setting it up in a way that we were able
to achieve certain things allowed us to realize our collective voice
and, like, the power of our unity. 

And I think without the Players Association, we wouldn’t have been able
to achieve what we’ve done in the past couple years. 

And although we filed as individuals, not on behalf or with the Players
Association, we were able to see it through because of that. 

And I’m really thankful that it did start so long ago and these
generations have put in the work.  But, you know, we took the steps to
create it the way we needed it, and it allowed us to get it over the
line. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And the Players Association, it’s a union.

MS. O’HARA:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s a players’ union.  And so, that meant that you
wouldn’t have to — even though you filed as individuals, in terms of the
lawsuit, that, in terms of your advocacy and the fight for equal pay,
you knew that you weren’t alone.  You all were in it together. 

MS. O’HARA:  For sure.  I think that feeling that unity and recognizing
how powerful we were, I think, was a big reason why we were able to keep
fighting, because it was not easy. 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, can you describe what the fight was? 
And maybe even just talk about what it was before, right?  The
strengthening of the Players Association and the kind of collective
advocacy — what was it like before then?

     MS. FOUDY:  Well, way back, Kelley and I were discussing — you
know, we were fighting for bagels, you know, after training and having,
you know — “Everyone put in five bucks, so you can…”

     MS. CONE:  In between two training sessions.

     MS. FOUDY:  Yeah.  “…you can get, you know, bagels and cream
cheese.”  Or, “Hey, can we get a massage therapist?”  Or, “Hey, can we
stay at maybe a little bit nicer hotel?”  I mean, just the basics that
you start to hear about, and it festers a little bit more, and, you
know, the little things become bigger things. 

     And so, the thing that makes me so proud is this is — this goes
back to the ’90s, of us, you know, threatening to actually strike an
Olympics and not play in an Olympics and in locking out because we felt
like that was our only leverage we had.

     And to see them — and one of the things we were so cognizant of is,
“Okay, we’ve got to teach the younger kids what this fight is so that
when we’re gone, they’re going to carry that baton.” 

     And so, when we — the “old bags,” as we call ourselves — see them
take it and really take it to a whole new level — we were fighting for
equitable pay; they’re fighting for equal pay, as they should be.  And
it just warms your heart because it’s not easy.  It was incredibly
courageous, and it took a ton of energy and time and focus, and they
just were locked in on getting it done. 

     And then you have a woman who is the president of U.S. Soccer, who
can help them get it over the line. 

     So, it was a full circle moment for a lot of us — a proud moment. 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, let’s go to the — we were talking
backstage about the inside-outside game — right? — the advocacy from the
outside.  And then, really most of the reforms and most of the advances
that we’ve ever seen, in terms of equality and the fight — the ongoing
fight for equality — has required the push from the outside, but it
requires also allies, at the very least, on the inside — if not
advocates on the inside, also. 

     So, can you talk a little bit about what that experience was like
for you, as a former player, but then being the president and what that
meant in terms of the difficulties you must have experienced from the
inside, understanding the push from the outside?

     MS. CONE:  Yeah, you know, for me, I feel like it has been over two
decades of work.  It started off, as Julie said, fighting for bagels
between training sessions.  And now this larger group of women, through
the last two decades, are literally changing the world. 

     And for me, I’m also a coach, so to know that these young girls are
now growing up and they can realize their dreams and they’re going to be
fairly compensated for that, I think that’s why this is so important. 
It’s not necessarily for the people sitting here today, but it’s for the
future of not only the future soccer players, but women in general.  And
I think that’s why this is important.  That’s why leadership is
important. 

     And getting to your point is, you know — I sat beside Jules and Bri
when we were doing our CBA negotiations.  And I don’t think you can just
sit on the outside and keep complaining unless you’re willing to get
inside and help create change.

     And so, that is why I do what I do.  Because I think having people
on the inside that understand the players and what it’s like to be out
on the field representing your country and what that means to you, I
think, is really important to create change. 

     But as you said backstage, you know, our work isn’t done yet.  We
still have a lot of work to do, both in our sport and in our country and
worldwide. 

     In our sport, I know that I’m going to have willing partners in
CONCACAF and FIFA to spread what we have done here to the rest of the
world.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:   And you were just re-elected president,
right?

     MS. CONE:  Yes. 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes, you were.  Fantastic.  (Applause.)

     Do you mind sharing with us without — you don’t have to name names,
but — (laughter) — what were people in the inside saying about why this
hadn’t happened or where there was resistance?  What — how were they
justifying that in their own minds, much less for the — the best
interest of the game and, to your point, what you represent, which is
the United States of America?

MS. CONE:  Yeah.  You know, I think that — I think people in my
boardroom come at from different perspectives.  So not everyone thinks
the same thing. 

I think the challenges from the U.S. soccer standpoint was that there
were two separate contracts for the men and the women, because the women
wanted guaranteed pay, where the men were paid to play.  And so, trying
to find equal with totally different structures of contracts was forever
elusive.  That’s why we’re in CBA — CBA negotiations right now and
trying to get to one structure so it’s very clear that everything,
compensation wise, is equal. 

And then the other thing is the FIFA World Cup prize money is
drastically different.  The men’s World Cup winner for the last World
Cup got $38 million for winning it, whereas our women who won the World
Cup only received $4 million from FIFA. 

So, there — there are already built-in status quo differences that were
systemic that we need to keep working to change.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  What was the inf- — and maybe I’ll go to Briana. 
What was the inflection point?  Like, what — what started to turn the
movement and bring it to the next level? 

MS. SCURRY:  I think what’s important to note: When you get on the U.S.
women’s national team, you have a dual mandate.  The first is superb
soccer.  I mean, we have the expectation of winning everything.  And so,
if you think about it from that point of view, in our day, we were
expected to win World Cups and Olympic Games.  And then, in present day,
these amazing women had the same expectation, and we were both able to
do that.  So every cycle, we’ve won either the Olympic Games or the
World Cup.  And so, there’s that part of it.

And the second part is to fight and raise the bar higher.  And so, I
think, for me, I’ve continued to talk about equal pay, even though I
don’t play anymore.  And Julie does it; and now Cindy is obviously back
in the arena, in a different position, fighting for that as well.  But I
think, for me, when I read about the team — and I consider them my team
still, even though I haven’t played with most of them.  (Laughter.)

PARTICIPANT:  We all do.

MS. SCURRY:  We all.  Yeah.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I consider it my team too.  (Laughter.)

MS. SCURRY:   My — my sisters — right, your team too.  (Laughs.) 

Yeah, when I saw that my team was essentially sticking their necks out
there like we did with the boycott in ’95 — basically putting our
Olympic dreams on the line.  For me, I wanted to be an Olympian since I
was eight.  So, putting my name out there to potentially lose my
opportunity —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.

MS. SCURRY:  — was very, very difficult but very, very powerful, and we
knew we had to do it.  And I think when I saw that they filed that
lawsuit, I thought it was so brave — so incredibly brave.  And it’s the
— it was the next evolution of the battle to be able to get U.S. soccer
to take us more seriously. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  What was the risk that they took when they filed
that lawsuit —

MS. SCURRY:  I mean —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — knowing it hadn’t been done before?  Right?

MS. SCURRY:  Yeah, I mean —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  What was the risk?

MS. SCURRY:  So — so when you file a lawsuit, in my opinion, you have
your name on the dotted line of a legal document. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.

MS. SCURRY:  And so there’s that pressure and that connotation going
along with that.  And then to still have to try and win stuff, to go out
there and play hard all the time that, I mean —

PARTICIPANT  Win stuff.

MS. SCURRY:  To win stuff.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  Gold medals.  Things like that.  Right. 

MS. SCURRY:  To win a World Cup, to win Gold medals — that’s the
expectation, even though you have this high level of time and energy, as
everybody can attest to, pouring into something else.  It almost, like,
diverts from the goal, which should only be to win, not to do all these
other things.

And so, I think having your name on a legal document — there’s all this
extra effort in, you know, paying for lawyers and getting prepared and
having maybe a potential trial or whatever it is.  All that extra
effort, I think, is the thing that’s so different with the lawsuit
versus maybe other ways to do it. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I think that’s such an excellent point.  As a
general matter, when women are fighting for pay equity in any industry
or in any employment setting, to require that the way that she will
actually achieve parity in pay based on the value of work; to require
that that — that that would take a lawsuit, the intervention of a court,
the rule of law, means that she’s got to do her job every day, whatever
that job is in whatever that industry is, and deal with the lawsuit.

MS. SCURRY:  Yep.  Absolutely.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And all that requires, in terms of the time spent
but, to your point, the vulnerability to put your name on a legal
document and then put yourself in a court setting that is adversarial in
nature, all because you want to get paid — equal pay for equal work.

MS. SCURRY:  Right.  Right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And what that requires of that woman beyond doing a
good job, to your point, I think that’s such a — it’s a subtle but
incredibly important point.

MS. SCURRY:  Absolutely.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You were still striving for and achieving
excellence in your job.  And then it required superhuman excellence to
endure litigation —

MS. SCURRY:  Right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — to just get paid for the value of your work.

Talk to me about the next generation and what that — what it — let’s
talk about that. 

We — we were talking — we were talking backstage about how — I shared —
my mother had many sayings.  One of them she would say to me, “Kamala,
you may be the first to do many things, but make sure you’re not the
last.” 

And what I love about the conversation that we were having — and I’m
going to bring Megan and Alex into this conversation.  But I love how
you all really do think about this in terms of the generational impact —
those who kind of had to go with the machete and go and try and knock
things down to achieve fairness, and then the next generation that has
come through really appreciating that and then carrying it through and
continuing with that work. 

So why don’t we talk a little bit about that?

MS. PURCE:  A hundred percent.  When you used the analogy of the
machete, I was just thinking: I think that’s so accurate.  You guys had
the machete, you have a sword, and now I feel like I have these like
scissors — (laughter) — that I’m like, “All right, let’s –” 

MS. O’HARA:  They’re sharp.  They’re sharp.

MS. PURCE:  Yeah, let’s — they’re sharp, but like let’s try them — like,
let’s get it done.

I really do think that the true power of this team doesn’t come from the
fact that we’re able to accomplish change, but we’re able to embolden
others to pursue change.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. PURCE:  It’s so evident that this progress is the result of women
across generations. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. PURCE:  And I think that’s a lesson in possibility.  It shows that
when you pursue what is right, others will join you and it will continue
on pass whatever you — you can imagine it’s going to do.

So yeah, I mean, I even think — you know, I’m not the youngest player in
camp.  And even when I look younger than me, I’m like, “Yeah, they’re
going to be great,” on both sides of the coin — on the field and off the
field. 

So I do agree the future is bright.  And I — I’m really grateful to have
had examples like this — you know, not just seeing it on television, but
then practicing with it every day, being able to call it — I’m talking
to Pinoe — after camp and see what’s going on.  It’s — it’s incredible
the — the culture that you guys have created, and I’m just so grateful
to be a part of it.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I love that point.  It is — if we see it for
what we should, which is that it’s — it’s really a fight for something,
not against something, and, yes, about equal pay and equity, but also
possibility — right? — and encouraging people to see what is possible,
even if it has never been.

Megan, coming to you.  (Laughter.)  Coming to you.

Talk a little bit about where you think that there are lessons for women
in other industries and professions, based on the experience that you
all have had.  What worked?  What didn’t work?  What’s the — how can you
advise others about where maybe there are some hard knocks but where it
was worth it because you saw some success?

MS. RAPINOE:  (Inaudible.) (Audio on mute.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh. 

MS. RAPINOE:  Oh, I’m so mad.  I’m so upset right now.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s the theme of the last two years.  (Laughter.) 

MS. RAPINOE:  I mean —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Take two.  Take two.

MS. RAPINOE:  That just really — okay, I deserved that.  (Laughter.)

I was going to say I’m not going to pass up this opportunity —
certainly, for the first time in my life and the first time ever,
hopefully not the last — to just say, “Madam Vice President.”  Like,
that’s — that’s incredible.  And although it doesn’t have to do
specifically with equal pay, I think it speaks to a changing landscape
that we’re all part of. 

And I think the thing that I’ve — you know, it’s really settled with me
— is that our freedom and our liberation and our equality is tied up in
each other in the moment, but also generationally. 

I mean, you’re seeing on the stage right now — you know, Madam Vice
President, your mom, her famous quote about not being the last one, even
though you’re the first — when we think of Billie Jean King; and Venus
and Serena Williams; and WNBA players — obviously, my partner, Sue Bird,
and Nneka Ogwumike.  Like, all of these women are doing the same thing. 

And then, even go wider.  If I’m seeing myself in, you know, union
workers in Alabama and they’re seeing themselves in us or our team, it’s
all kind of the same thing because we’re all dealing with the same
issues. 

So, I think for us, the more we connect our stories, the more we
literally connect with each other, the more that we can kind of draft
off each other, I think the more successful that we’ll be. 

And I know, for us — you know, our lawsuit — it doesn’t capture every
single player and it doesn’t capture every single woman in all of
America, but it is something and it’s our little part.

And I think when you start to string together the idea that all of our
equality — I mean, frankly, across the entire spectrum of equality — but
all of our liberation, all of our freedom, all of our worth is tied up
in each other, now we have a movement.  Now we have 50 percent of the
country all fighting for the same thing. 

And then, of course, you add, you know, allies and advocates and people
who believe and feel the same thing.  And that’s where I think the
biggest impact can come.  Because, as you said, the little knocks — I
mean, everything is a knock.  Like, inequality is in the air that we
breathe.  And so, it is difficult at times. 

And Kelley spoke to it.  Being able to sign your name with 27 other
people and being able to, at times, take a rest when you’re exhausted
knowing that, you know, other women or other players or other people in
your union are having your back and doing that work, I think, is
essential, because it is difficult work and it is long work and the game
has to be long.

So, I think, for all of us, you know, we sort of know it on the team
just intrinsically because we know that we come from a long line of
fighters and, you know, women who fought for equality and fought for
freedoms for us and fought to make things better each generation.  I
think that’s our goal, and now really trying to tie it to a larger sort
of society movement is what I think will have the most impact over the
shortest amount of time.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, that’s great.  And that’s right.  And that’s
about the coalition and — and I think the strength of coalition always
is seeing the commonalities and then — and then building and growing off
of that in a way that empowers everybody.  I think that’s right.

Alex, did you just get off the field? 

MS. MORGAN:  I’m very underdressed.  (Laughter.)  I literally ran in and
my cleats are still on.  So, yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I know that, and I’m so glad that — because we were
— we weren’t — we weren’t sure.  And you hustled to get here, and I’m so
glad. 

And I’m thinking, given the circumstances in which you are here, that it
might be best to ask you: What are the analogies between the fight for
equal pay and the fight to win a game?

MS. MORGAN:  Oh.  (Laughter.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Like, what does it take?  What does it take? 

MS. MORGAN:  I mean —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Give me some analogies.  Like, right?  The rules of
winning a game.

MS. MORGAN:  What does it take?  I mean, it takes everything.  It —
honestly, I feel it’s everything.  Like Pinoe said, sometimes you have
some women stepping up and some have to take a backseat because they’re
exhausted.  So, it’s everyone fighting for each other.  It’s working as
a team.  It’s supporting each other.  It’s raising questions and knowing
in your heart that you’re doing the right thing.  And it’s leaning on
each other.

A fight for equal pay is a lot longer than a soccer game and a lot
harder.  But there is — there’s definitely some similarities to be had.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And good coaches, I imagine, help.  Right?

MS. MORGAN:  Definitely.  Coaches, lawyers, publicists —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Fair umpires.  (Laughs.)

MS. MORGAN:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Referees. 

MS. MORGAN:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  All of that.  Yeah.

MS. MORGAN:  Oh, it all — yeah, it all plays into it.  Referees, judges,
court decisions.  Yep, it all plays into it.

MS. RAPINOE:  That was good off the fly.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That was good off the fly, right?  (Laughter.)  I
knew there would be some — I mean, it’s — because also it really is
about pacing yourself, for sure, and figuring out how do you define the
win.  Right?  And the score is certainly one. 

But I think that on this point and to Megan’s point, anything that is
about a fight for equality, the win includes that you fought.  That’s
part of defining the win — that you stood up for yourself.  Right?  Even
in — when the odds were against you.  Maybe it wasn’t popular. 

You know, because in these kinds of processes — we were talking about
the fact that I was in Selma last week, celebrating — or commemorating
the 57th anniversary of the crossing of the Edmund Pettus Bridge, when
those marchers — you know, they tried three times to cross that bridge
and were beaten back, you know, shed blood on that bridge.  But they
didn’t give up.  And every time they went, they were inspiring other
people to know what was possible. 

And that’s — you know, it’s a similar thing to have that kind of faith
in yourself and your cause and to not give up.  And you all have done
that in a really extraordinary way — a really extraordinary way.

So, thank you all very much.  It’s really — it’s wonderful to watch. 
And I know many of us watched it from afar, saw the images of, you know,
the difference in terms of locker rooms and — and the equipment, in
terms of — yeah.  And it’s good to know that things are changing for the
better.

So, thank you all very much.  For all — all of us who are here and all
of us who are watching and the folks you probably never meet who are
going to benefit from the work that you all did: Thank you.  Thank you,
guys. 

PARTICIPANTS:  Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Yay!  (Applause.) 

                                   END                3:57 P.M. EDT     
