---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-23'
modified_time: 2022-03-30 14:24:21-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/23/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-addressing-bias-in-home-valuations/
published_time: 2022-03-23 01:12:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Addressing Bias in Home\_Valuations"
---
 
*South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building*

11:15 A.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everyone.  Hello.  (Applause.)  Hello.  Good
morning.  Please have a seat.  Please have a seat.  
  
Tenisha, thank you for that kind introduction.  She and her family, her
husband have been so courageous in telling their story and really
speaking up and speaking out to help fix a terribly broken system. 
Tenisha, I’m talking about you.  (Laughter.)  
  
But really, because your story is the story of so many families and
individuals.  And the more that we are able to really highlight this
issue, to educate the public in general about what is happening, the
more we will be able to be successful in fixing the problem.   
  
So, thank you for that introduction.  Thank you.  
  
So, today, we are joined by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development, the great Marcia Fudge.  I — I’m going to go off script and
say that this — this is a real national leader.  In her years in the
United States Congress, she was always fighting for families, for
working families, and for homeowners.  As the Secretary of HUD, she has
been — this has been personal to her, to push through the bureaucracy,
to make this a priority, and it will benefit so many people who deserve
to be seen.  So, thank you, Secretary Fudge, for all that you do.  Thank
you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
We are also joined by the Director of our Domestic Policy Council,
Ambassador Susan Rice — thank you for your leadership; and a group of
homeowners who have been leaders in speaking against the injustice of
appraisal bias.  So, thank you all for being here.  
  
So, imagine a young couple that saves enough money to put a down payment
on a home.  The day they pick up the keys is a day of excitement and
pride.  That day, they own a piece of America.  That home, they know,
will be the foundation on which that family builds their future.  As
that home increases in value, that couple can count on that equity to
help put a child through college, or afford retirement, or pass along
assets to the next generation — and, usually, all of those things.

Historically, many communities of color, however, have been prevented
from taking full advantage of the wealth-building power of
homeownership.   
  
For example — and the Californians here and most of us remember — in
California, in 1913, California passed the Alien Land Law, which
targeted Asian Americans from owning land.  Similar laws were on the
books in states around the country until the 1950s.   
  
In the early 20th century, millions of Latino Americans were removed
from our country, their property confiscated, in an illegal act
inaccurately known as “repatriation.”  
  
And segregation, restrictive covenants, and red-lining long, long denied
Black homeowners a share in the American Dream.  
  
That inequity continues today in the home appraisal system.  Appraisals
are meant to be fair and objective estimates of the market value of a
property.  There’s a lot that rides on that estimate.  But far too
often, for far too many people, they are not fair and objective.  
  
Research has repeatedly shown that Black homeowners are more likely to
have their homes undervalued than other homeowners.  And homes in
majority-Black and majority-Latino neighborhoods are almost twice as
likely to be undervalued than homes in other neighborhoods.  
  
Because their homes are undervalued — because their homes are
undervalued — because, understand, there’s a real consequence — Black
and Latino people often have to pay more for their mortgage, receive
less when they sell the home, and are less able to access home equity
lines of credit.  
  
Systemic bias in home valuations widens the racial wealth gap — widens
the racial wealth gap and deepens the longstanding financial inequities
that divide our communities.  
  
And we’ve have heard the stories — stories of people who have tried
everything to avoid an unfair appraisal.  Stories like that of Tenisha
and her family.  And these stories are shocking, and they are evidence
that systemic change is urgently needed.  
  
Throughout my career, I have fought to defend homeowners from abuse and
injustice.  As Tenisha shared, when I was the Attorney General of
California, we secured $20 billion for homeowners harmed by the big
banks during the foreclosure crisis.  And part of that was about
predatory lending practices targeting just the same communities that we
are talking about today.  
  
So, then, I drafted and helped pass the Homeowner Bill of Rights to help
protect consumers from unfair mortgages and predatory foreclosure
practices.  It was one of the first bills of its kind in our
country.    
  
And our administration is continuing that work by fighting on behalf of
all homeowners.  Last summer, our President, Joe Biden, created the
Property Appraisal and Valuation Equity Task Force, also known as
PAVE.   
  
This task force will identify and root out systemic home appraisal
bias.  
  
Today, after months of deliberation and collaboration with homeowners
and homebuyers, representatives of the mortgage and appraisal industry,
and community leaders, our administration is releasing the PAVE Action
Plan.  
  
This plan outlines a comprehensive set of actions that our
administration will take to advance equity in the appraisal process. 
The home appraisal workforce is one of the least diverse in our nation. 
Less than 5 percent of home appraisers in America are people of color. 
This lack of diversity can introduce both conscious and unconscious
biases that make home appraisals less accurate and less fair.   
  
Our administration will now require: Those who conduct appraisals for
federal programs must take part in anti-bias fair housing and fair
lending training.  (Applause.)  There are solutions.  There are
solutions.  And we will work with the industry to require all appraisers
to receive this training.    
  
We will also help expand the training pipeline for new appraisers.  In
many states, in addition to classroom learning, appraisers have to
complete thousands of hours of apprenticeship-like training before they
becoming fully certified.   
  
So, these apprenticeships, while they’re often unpaid and apprentices
often are required to find an appraiser themselves who is willing to
take them on as a trainee.  So, if they don’t have those relationships,
if those relationships don’t exist in their community, then it is much
more difficult for them to satisfy the requirements to become an
appraiser.   
  
So, we have to take that into account also.  And the solution — part of
the solution is to provide funding and technical assistance to states to
make pathways into the profession more accessible for underrepresented
groups.  (Applause.)   
  
Another issue is home appraisal algorithms.  So, algorithms — it’s a
fancy word for basically a system that will make decisions — right? —
based on the input it has that will arrive at conclusions that can have
a real impact on the subjects of those decisions.  
  
So, these algorithms — the home appraisal algorithms — have the
potential, when used properly, to reduce bias in the home appraisal
process.  But if these algorithms are based on biased data, well, then
there’s a real risk they could produce biased valuations.   
  
So, to address this, we are proud to announce that new rules are being
developed to eliminate bias in appraisal algorithms — (applause) — rules
that if — and I’m going to say “when” — approved, will apply to all
lenders using these technologies.  
  
So today, we are also releasing a resource guide for homeowners and
homebuyers who suspect that they have received a biased appraisal.  And
this guide will explain to folks who are concerned that this might’ve
happened their rights.  It’ll explain their rights as consumers to
challenge and correct a biased appraisal.  And it is available on the
website at HUD and will be available to all those who — who would like
to have that information.    
  
Today, we are also launching a public awareness campaign to ensure
consumers — that they know their rights before they seek a home
appraisal.  (Applause.)   And our action plan serves as an important
step toward a more just and equitable home valuation system.  
  
Our administration will continue to fight to ensure that all homeowners
and homebuyers in our nation are treated fairly.   
  
For so many people in our country, a home is more than just a roof over
your head and a place to live.  Those are essential needs.  But a home
represents, in addition to that, so much that is about financial
security, that is about the potential to build intergenerational
wealth.  Owning a home, well, it means a shot at a better future. 
Owning a home is also a symbol of the benefit of hard work, the benefit
of having ambition and aspiration for oneself and their family.   
  
And so, we don’t want to have a system that denies people an ability to
have that goal simply because there is bias in a system.  We can correct
that.  And our administration is fighting to make sure every person, no
matter where they live or who they are, has an opportunity to not only
succeed but to thrive.   
  
Thank you all and take care.  (Applause.)  
  
END            11:26 A.M. EDT
