---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-11'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/11/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-president-iohannis-of-romania-in-joint-press-conference/
published_time: 2022-03-11 13:43:23-05:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and President Iohannis of Romania in Joint\
  \ Press\_Conference"
---
 
*Cotroceni Palace  
Bucharest, Romania*

4:14 P.M. EET  
  
PRESIDENT IOHANNIS:  (As interpreted.)  Good afternoon.  I’m pleased to
welcome to Bucharest Vice President of the United States of America, Her
Excellency, Madam Kamala Harris.   
  
Dear Madam Vice President, welcome to Romania.  
  
I would like to thank Madam Vice President for her presence in Romania
in this challenging moment for the democratic community and for the
Euro-Atlantic security.  
  
Your visit, Madam Vice President, reflects once more the strength and
solidity of the bilateral strategic partnership and the firm commitment
of the United States for the security of Romania and NATO Allies from
the eastern flank.  
  
I have conveyed to Madam Vice President the appreciation of Romania for
the efforts and leadership of the United States, of President Biden, of
Madam Vice President, and of the entire Washington administration in
this very complicated context.  
  
The continuous dialogue and the close coordination of the United States
with Romania and with all the Allies and partners had an essential
contribution to delivering a unified and strong message of the
international community to the actions of Russia.  
  
Together, we have come up with a firm and prompt response, both from the
point of view of assistance in multiple areas, both for Ukraine and for
the individuals affected by the conflict, both when it comes to the
sanctions applied to Russia and to the measures for adopting the Allied
posture in its entirety, especially on the eastern flank.  
  
Madam Vice President has reconfirmed as part of our — today’s
discussions the full commitment of the United States of America for the
Article 5 regarding the collective defense of the NATO Washington
Treaty.  This Article contains the essence and spirit of NATO and
guarantees that any attempt to impact the security of one NATO state
will receive a firm, prompt response of the entire Alliance.  
  
I’m saying it with a great responsibility: NATO will act without
hesitation to defend each and every Allied state, including obviously
Romania.  It is a scenario that all of us want to avoid.  But we, as
Allies — and I’m saying it while I stand next to our most important
strategic partner — will defend every inch when it comes to respecting
the commitments that bind us.  
  
I have conveyed my gratitude for these unshakeable security guarantees
as the Romanian society has never had in its history, and thanks to
which every citizen of Romania can be confident about his own safety and
the safety of his family.

I have also conveyed my gratitude for the consolidation of the United
States military presence in Romania.  We have also discussed about the
need within this tense context to keep increasing the American and
Allied presence in Romania in the long run as an additional measure to
ensure the security of our country and of the entire region.

I have conveyed that, in turn, Romania understands that the security
starts at home.  And from this point of view, I have recently decided to
increase the defense expenses from 2 percent, where it stands now, to
2.5 percent of GDP.  And this is greatly appreciated by the American
side.

Together with Madam Vice President, we have assessed the long-term
implications of the aggression that is taking place in Ukraine, as well
as the Russian military presence in Belarus and the Euro-Atlantic.

We have agreed to cooperate to further consolidate the defense measures
and deterrence on the eastern flank with a focus on the southern part.

I have highlighted the fact that, in this context, it is necessary to
operationalize as soon as possible the NATO battle group on the
territory of Romania. 

Overall, Romania’s strategic assessment is that it becomes necessary to
fundamentally rethink the concept, the structure, and the constituent
elements of the NATO posture on the eastern flank, taking into account
the fact that the current circumstances are considerably different
compared to the moment when the current approach concerning the eastern
flank was projected.

We need a united forward presence and a coherent one as soon as
possible.  We have discussed today about our common approach in order to
come up with a common response to these unprecedented challenges,
especially when it comes to the humanitarian area.

Romania, the United States, along with its Allied and partner countries,
have offered assistance in different domains to Ukraine and its people
that fights with heroism, courage, and determination.

As you know, I have decided the operationalization in Suceava of a
humanitarian logistics facility — so-called hub — that, thanks to the
support of the European Union, has the role to collect and transport the
international donations in the area of humanitarian assistance for
Ukrainian citizens.  I have invited the United States to support the
activity of this hub.

We have also discussed about the support that is so necessary to the
Republic of Moldova.  The situation of the neighboring country is unique
from the point of view of a very high ratio between the number of
refugees and population.  This pressure overlaps with the economic and
energy-related difficulties that the Republic of Moldova has to face.

Together with Madam Vice President, we have analyzed the energy security
prospects.  We agreed that this crisis can represent a historic
opportunity to switch — to reach a true European energy independence
from the Russian gas through investments in renewable sources in the
civilian nuclear sector; through diversifying sources, imports of
liquefied natural gas; and, obviously, through increased
interconnectivity.  
  
As you probably remember, within the context of COP26 Glasgow Summit,
the common Romania-USA project to include small modular reactors in the
Romanian national system — we agreed to continue and to intensify our
cooperation in this strategic domain.

Last but not least, a fundamental aspect for the success of our efforts
and to ensure — ensuring our common security is represented by the
maintenance and consolidation of the transatlantic relationship by
ensuring the unity and coordination of the European Union, United
States, NATO, and G7.

Romania brought its own contribution in this regard by promoting the
Bucharest Nine format, which was very efficient, even in this context. 

This year, we celebrate 25 years from the launch of our strategic
partnership that continuously developed during the last years and is
currently at its highest level in its history.

In addition to the consolidated cooperation in the area of defense and
security, and of the ambitious initiatives in the energy sector, I have
discussed with Madam Vice President to continue expanding all the
dimensions of the strategic partnership, from the economic one,
including through the development of regional priorities, strategic
projects related to the interconnectivity and that are of interest for
Romania, and up to the consolidation of scientific cooperation and of,
obviously, interhuman relationships.

We also discussed about visa waiver topic in regards to Romania, and we
hope to have some results in this area as well.

Once again, I would like to thank Vice President Harris for coming to
Romania.  I’m sure that the substantive discussions that we had will be
followed up by concrete measures and adequate — appropriate decisions
for the unprecedented context in which we currently find ourselves in.  
  
Thank you, Madam Vice President.  You have the floor.  
  
 VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you, President Iohannis, for the warm
welcome to Romania and for your steadfast friendship to the partnership
that we have that is longstanding and enduring.   
  
I also want to recognize and thank Prime Minister Ciucă for the
conversation that we had last week.  
  
If I may, Mr. President, I’d like to speak directly to the Romanian
people for one moment, to thank you, on behalf of the United States.  
  
Under the leadership of President Iohannis, Romania has been
extraordinary in the generosity and the courage that you have shown in
this moment.  Around the world, we have watched as you have received
refugees.  Around the world, and I will speak for the United States, we
know of the particular challenges that you face geographically, yet you
have shown so much courage.  
  
The meeting that the President and I had today was a very productive
meeting to reaffirm the strength of the relationship and friendship
between the United States and Romania.   
  
I’ve said many times, including this afternoon with the President and
the President’s leadership, but around the world, and I will say it
here: America’s commitment to Article 5 is ironclad.  We take very
seriously our role and the relationships that we have within the NATO
Alliance.   
  
We take seriously and are prepared to act on the words we speak when we
say an attack against one is an attack against all.  We are firm in our
commitment — when I say and we say over and over again, President Joe
Biden says: We will defend every inch of NATO territory.  
  
So I am present in Romania today to reaffirm that commitment, in
addition to thanking the president, your leadership, and the people of
Romania.   
  
The strength of our Alliance has endured and is now bigger and stronger
than ever.  The strength of our Alliance includes our mutual commitment
to stand on the principles that we hold dear and share, that include the
defense of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of independent
states — and in this case, Ukraine.  
  
We are clear that the work that is to be done in response to Putin’s war
includes standing strong within the Alliance to support the needs of our
partners.  To that end, and to demonstrate our commitment as the United
States, in recent weeks we sent a 1,000-member Stryker squadron.  That
creates a total force of 2,000 American troops who are prepared to stand
in defense of our commitment to the NATO Alliance and the eastern
flank.  
  
We have reinforced our recent commitments, all with the mention and with
the meaning of strengthening our deterrence and our collective
defense.  
  
I want to thank you, President Iohannis, for your leadership on NATO’s
eastern flank.  I want to thank you for in addition to doing all that
you have been doing in your role of leadership, to modernizing and to
increasing the resources that are available.  
  
You and I talked about the importance of running a government in a way
that we modernize and are efficient and effective with the resources we
have.  You have been a model in that regard, and I thank you.  
  
In terms of our mutual support for the people of Ukraine — in
Washington, in the United States Congress, we have taken recent action,
including a commitment of $13.6 billion  
for Ukraine and the region in terms of security assistance and
humanitarian assistance.   
  
The President — Iohannis and I talked extensively, and I was very moved,
Mr. President, by the stories you shared with me of the time you spent
with refugees, and the heart-wrenching experience that they are
having.  
  
So we stand together, Romania and the United States, in ensuring that we
will do all that is required to put resources into the humanitarian
piece of this, understanding that the needs are significant and
immediate.  
  
To the extent that we are offering humanitarian assistance, in addition
to the $13.6 billion package from the United States Congress, $4 billion
of that will be directly committed to humanitarian assistance.  That is
on top of the $53 million that I announced yesterday that, through the
U.N., the United States will give to the World Food Programme.  
  
But I must say, when we are talking about humanitarian assistance,
Romania has been a hub of humanitarian assistance.  And that is yet
another reason that we are here to thank the President and the people of
this great country for what you are doing based on the needs of this
region.  You have been welcoming tens of thousands of refugees, and
doing it with such compassion and such grace.  
  
So I’ll conclude my remarks by saying that this is a strong and enduring
relationship.  It is an important relationship.  And the importance of
this relationship is being highlighted at this very moment.  But it is a
relationship that will continue over the years.  
  
And again, I thank you, Mr. President, and the people of this beautiful
country for all you do and all you represent.  Thank you.  
  
PRESIDENT IOHANNIS:  Thank you so much, Madam Vice President.  We have a
couple of questions.  
  
Q    (As interpreted.)  Good afternoon.  Roxana Zamfirescu, State TV.  I
have a question for both officials.  I would like to ask you if the
United States plans to increase the number of troops and to create here
a permanent presence.  I’m asking this in the context of which 150
kilometers away from the Romanian frontieră take — bombardments take
place.  And I would like to ask you as well if — what are the chances of
the war extending towards Romania and Republic of Moldova?  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  I cannot repeat frequently enough that the
United States is committed to our friendship and alliance with Romania. 
And to that end, we have a continuous and rotating commitment of U.S.
troops to this country, most recently with the deployment of the
1,000-member Stryker squadron.  
  
And as the people of Romania know, we also know that this is a dynamic
situation, and we will, on a daily basis, assess the needs that we have
to maintain stability in this region.  
  
As it relates to what might be the future conduct of Putin, I cannot
speculate.  But we are clear in our position, which is that as a member
of NATO, an attack against one is an attack against all.  
  
PRESIDENT IOHANNIS:  Thank you.  (As interpreted.)  I believe that the
first part received a very clear response from Madam Vice President.   
  
As for the second part, I can highlight the fact that we do not have
information that would indicate that Romania would represent a target of
an aggression.  On the other hand, it is very clear that this Russian
action, this war started against Ukraine, definitely created, definitely
produced a result — a visible, a firm, a clear result.  And it’s
represented by the unity of NATO and the determination of NATO Allies to
stand together and to defend itself — each other.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Nancy —  
  
Q    Hi, thank you.   
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  — from Bloomberg.   
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you.  Madam Vice President, the humanitarian
crisis is growing and the violence only seems to be getting worse.  The
White House and British government have both offered dire warnings about
the possibility of the chemical weapons being deployed by Russia, and
diplomatic efforts seem to have failed.  Is there any discernible
pathway out of the crisis?  And what is the off-ramp?  
  
And to the President of Romania: I’m curious if you think that there are
any specific economic sanctions that you’d like to see the U.S. pursue
that they have not done so already.  Thank you.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  In terms of your question about off-ramp: You
know, from the beginning, the United States has been attempting
sincerely to engage in diplomacy — actively.  And from everything that
we know and have witnessed, Putin shows no sign of engaging in serious
diplomacy.  
  
As many of you know, I gave a speech in Munich three weeks ago, before
the in- — the reinvasion of Ukraine started.  And I said then what we
have maintained all along: We’re witnessing a playbook — the Russian
playbook — and it includes lies, misinformation, and the acts of
aggression that we are now witnessing.  
  
We maintain that diplomacy is the way to resolve these issues that
coexists with our commitment to ensure that our Allies are strong and
that there must be serious consequence and accountability for what
Russia is doing, which is why we have — to the other point of your
question — engaged in historic sanctions and to the effect of basically
a freefall of the ruble.  The Russian stock market is still not open. 
Their credit rating is now “junk.”   
  
And there will be more announcements about more action that we will take
to ensure serious consequence for what is atrocious and outrageous
conduct on behalf of the Russian people by Putin.  
  
PRESIDENT IOHANNIS:  The sanction packages have been discussed between
the United States and the European Union.  We worked very well together
on this, and we will continue to work together on this.  This is the
economic side.  
  
On the other hand, the two of us just stated that we stand strong
together according to Article 5 of the NATO treaty, and we will continue
this way.  So, if new sanctions will be necessary, they will be
discussed and applied.  
  
Q    (As interpreted.)  Good afternoon.  Oana Bala, Radio Romania. 
Madam Vice President, Mr. President, we have seen as the Russian troops
attacked a maternity as well as humanitarian convoys.  A lot of
civilians were killed, including — a lot of people were killed,
including children, and this triggered a huge international response. 
Do you believe that Russia committed war crimes in Ukraine?  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  I think I’ve said it before and I’ll say it
again: We are clear that any intentional attack or targeting of
civilians is a war crime.  Period.  
  
PRESIDENT IOHANNIS:  (As interpreted.)  We have discussed these topics
because the images are, of course, shocking.  I have discussed about
this with Madam Vice President, and yesterday we discussed this topic as
part of the European Union summit.   
  
And it is very clear to everyone that such situations must be documented
in such a way that when the right moment comes, the authorities and the
competent institutions would be able to follow up on these — on these
facts and to establish in a correct manner on the international level
whether or not they constitute war crimes, who committed them, and what
should be the appropriate consequences for them. 

However, it is unimaginable for all of us to see such images now in the
21st century, in a war that takes place in Europe.  It’s outrageous.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Aamer Madhani from the Associated Press.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Madam Vice President.  I really appreciate
it.   
  
But may I ask, Mr. President, your country and many of your neighbors
are enduring enormous cost aiding Ukrainian refugees, and you also face
a really dire threat in the Black Sea.  And I was just wondering if —
what specifically you’ve asked the Vice President for.  Particularly, do
you need more U.S. troops here?  Do you need any specific more materiel
defense aid? 

And if I can ask you, Madam Vice President: President Biden has said
that Americans will feel some pain for the sake of defending freedom and
liberty, but there does seem to be no endgame in sight.  How long should
Americans expect — how long should we be bracing for this really, sort
of, historic inflation and some unprecedented gas prices?  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Sure.  In terms of the discussions that the
President Iohannis and I had, they ranged in subject, including the
issue of the Black Sea, and I’ll let him explain in more detail as he
would like.

But we are, again, fully aware and apprised because we are in constant
communication with the President, with his administration here about the
concerns that they have about the entire region and, frankly, the
vulnerability. 

All you have to do is look at the map and see that where Romania exists
geographically — and as is the case for our Allies on the eastern flank
— that there are potential vulnerabilities, which is why we say very
clearly: We will dedicate — and have been especially enhancing, over the
last few weeks — our support based on their current needs.

When we look at Putin’s actions — the previous question — there is — it
is painful to watch.  It is painful to watch what is happening to
innocent people in Ukraine who just want to live in their own country
and have pride in themselves as Ukrainians, who want to be home speaking
the language they know, going to the church that they know, raising
their children in the community where their families have lived for
generations.  And by the millions, now, are having to flee with nothing
but a backpack.  
  
And then you compound that with what happened a couple of days — the
President talked about it today; I talked about it yesterday — in terms
of a maternity hospital, pregnant women.  We are — we have the
unfortunate experience, all of us right now who are not in Ukraine, of
witnessing horror.   
  
So we are committed in everything we are doing.  And, yes, then the
President did say in the State of the Union,  
there is a price to pay for democracy.  Got to stand with your friends. 
And as everybody knows, even in your personal life, being loyal to those
friendships based on common principles and values, sometimes it’s
difficult.  Often, it ain’t easy.  But that’s what the friendship is
about, based on shared values.  So that’s what we’re doing.  
  
PRESIDENT IOHANNIS:  Thank you.  Russia started its attack on Ukraine
from the south, from the Black Sea area.  This is  
a scenario we have been warning about for many years now.   
  
On the other hand, Romania has approximately 650 kilometers of land
border with Ukraine.  It’s the longest land border of all allies
neighboring with Ukraine.   
  
So, yes, we are concerned.  We are concerned about the eastern flank. 
And this is why we are working on making the eastern flank stronger.  
  
And, yes, we discussed with Vice President Harris about these issues. 
And I raised the issue of the eastern flank, that the eastern flank has
to be strong, it has to be well balanced.  Because if one part of the
eastern flank is strong and the other part is weak, it’s obviously a
weakness on the eastern flank.  
  
So the eastern flank has to be strong to defend the entire NATO, to
defend the Euro-Atlantic area.   
  
And on the eastern flank, the Allies — and, in this case, we discussed
specifically about U.S. and Romania — have to materialize a force that
is strong enough to be deterrent.  NATO relies on strength and
deterrence.  So to deter somebody, you have to be strong in that area.  
  
So, yes, we discussed about the necessity of a NATO battlegroup in
Romania.  And, obviously, the United States play an important role in
this.  
  
We discussed about enhanced U.S. presence on the eastern flank,
specifically, obviously, on our part of the eastern flank.  And we
discussed, obviously, about Article 5 of NATO and about the longstanding
partnership between our troops, because soldiers from the United States
have been in Romania for many years now, and they work very well
together with the Romanian forces, and they are a real gain on the
southern part of the eastern flank.  And they are a significant
reassurance for Romanians that we do not stand alone, that we stand with
the United States and with all the other NATO Allies.  
  
So, yes, we discussed all this, and we have a common approach, if I may
say so.  And this is what — specific for our partnership.  We have — we
enjoy a strategic partnership because we try to solve problems and we do
solve problems together.  
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    Is there a specific number for the enhanced presence you would like
to see?  Is there a number of U.S. or NATO troops, additionally, you
would like to see in Romania?  
  
PRESIDENT IOHANNIS:  Well, why don’t we let the military from the States
and from Romania talk together, and then to NATO, and then all of this
will be public after that.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.  
  
PRESIDENT IOHANNIS:  No more questions?  (Laughs.)  
  
Thank you so much. 

 END                 4:44 P.M. EET
