---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-16'
modified_time: 2022-03-16 16:20:29-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/16/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-assistance-the-united-states-is-providing-to-ukraine/
published_time: 2022-03-16 16:16:14-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Assistance the United\_States is Providing\
  \ to\_Ukraine"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

1:01 P.M. EDT

     THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  I want to begin by thanking
President Zelenskyy for his passionate message this morning.  I listened
to it in the private residence, and he was convincing.  And —
significant speech.  
  
     He speaks for a people who have shown remarkable courage and
strength in the face of brutal aggression — courage and strength that
has inspired not only Ukrainians but the entire world. 

Putin is inflicting appalling — appalling devastation and horror on
Ukraine — bombing apartment buildings, maternity wards, hospitals.   
  
     I mean, it’s — it’s God awful.  I was speaking about this with the
— our — our Commander, behind me here — General Milley.  I mean, it just
is amazing.

Yesterday, we saw reports that Russian forces were holding hundreds of
doctors and patients hostage in the largest hospital in Mariupol.  These
are atrocities.  They’re an outrage to the world.  And the world is
united in our support for Ukraine and our determination to make Putin
pay a very heavy price.  
  
     America is leading this effort, together with our Allies and
partners, providing enormous levels of security and humanitarian
assistance that we’re adding to today and we’re going to continue to do
more in the days and weeks ahead.  
  
     We are crippling Putin’s economy with punishing sanctions that’s
going to only grow more painful over time with the entire NATO and EU
behind us, and many other countries.

What’s at stake here are the principles that the United States and the
united nations across the world stand for.  It’s about freedom.  It’s
about the right of people to determine their own future.  It’s about
making sure Ukraine never — will never be a victory for Putin, no matter
what advances he makes on the battlefield.

The American people are answering President Zelenskyy’s call for more
help, more weapons for Ukraine to defend itself, more tools to fight
Russian aggression.  And that’s what we’re doing.

  
     In fact, we started our assistance to Ukraine before this war
began, as they started to do exercises along the Ukrainian border — the
Russians — starting in March of last year.  
  
     We took the threat of Putin invading very seriously, and we acted
on it.  We sent Ukraine more security assistance last year — $650
million in weapons, including anti-air and anti-armor equipment before
the invasion — more than we had ever provided before.  So when the
invasion began, they already had in their hands the kinds of weapons
they needed to counter Russian advances.

And once the war started, we immediately rushed $350 million in
additional aid to further address their needs: hundreds of anti-air
systems, thousands of anti-tank weapons, transport helicopters, armed
patrol boats, and other high-mobility vehicles, radar systems that help
track incoming artillery and unmanned drones, secure communications
equipment and tactical gear, satellite imagery and — and analysis
capacity.  And it’s clearly helped Ukraine inflict dramatic losses on
Russian forces.      

On Saturday, my administration authorized another $200 million to keep a
steady flow of weapons and ammunition moving to Ukraine.  Now I’m once
again using my presidential authority to activate — to activate
additional security assistance to continue to help Ukraine fend off
Russia’s assault — an additional $800 million in assistance.  That
brings the total of new U.S. security assistance to Ukraine to $1
billion just this week.  These are the lar- — these are direct transfers
of equipment from our Department of Defense to the Ukrainian military to
help them as they fight against this invasion.   

And I thank the Congress for appropriating these funds. 

This new package on its own is going to provide unprecedented assistance
to Ukraine.  It includes 800 anti-aircraft systems to make sure the
Ukrainian military can continue to — can continue to stop the planes and
helicopters that have been attacking their people and to defend their
Ukrainian airspace.  

And at the request of President Zelenskyy, we have identified and are
helping Ukraine acquire additional longer-range anti-aircraft systems
and the munitions for those systems.  

Our new assistance package also includes 9,000 anti-armor systems. 
These are portable, high — high-accurate — high accurately —
high-accuracy shoulder-mounted missiles that the Ukrainian forces have
been using with great effect to destroy invading tanks and armored
vehicles.   

It’ll include 7,000 small arms — machine guns, shotguns, grenade
launchers — to equip the Ukrainians, including the brave women and men
who are defending their cities as civilians, and they’re on the
countryside as well.  And we’re — and we — and as well as the
ammunition, artillery, and mortar rounds to go with small arms — 20
million rounds in total.  Twenty million rounds.  And this will include
drones, which — which demonstrates our commitment to sending our most
cutting-edge systems to Ukraine for its defense. 

And we’re not doing this alone.  Our Allies and partners have stepped up
to provide significant shipments of security assistance and will
continue to help facilitate these deliveries as well. 

The United States and our Allies and partners are fully committed to
surging weapons of assistance to the Ukrainians.  And more will be
coming as we source additional stocks of equipment that are — that we’re
ready to transfer.     

Now — now, I want to be honest with you: This could be a long and
difficult battle.  But the American people will be steadfast in our
support of the people of Ukraine in the face of Putin’s immoral,
unethical attacks on civilian populations.  We are united in our
abhorrence of Putin’s depraved onslaught, and we’re going to continue to
have their back as they fight for their freedom, their democracy, their
very survival.  And we’re going to give Ukraine the arms to fight and
defend themselves through all the difficult days ahead.

We’re going to continue to mobilize humanitarian relief to support
people within Ukraine and those who have been forced to flee
Ukraine.    
      
     In just the past few weeks, we’ve provided $300 million in
humanitarian assistance to the people in Ukraine and in neighboring
countries.  Tens of thousands of tons of food, water, medicine, and
other basic supplies to support the people in need. 

Our experts on the ground in Poland and Moldova and other neighboring
countries are there to make real-time assessments of the rapidly
evolving crisis and get urgently needed humanitarian supplies to the
people in need when they need it.  

And we will support Ukraine’s economy with direct financial assistance
as well.  

And together with our Allies and partners, we will keep up the pressure
on Putin’s crumbling economy, isolating him on the global stage.  That’s
our goal: make Putin pay the price, weaken his position while
strengthening the hand of the Ukrainians on the battlefield and at the
negotiating table. 

Together with our Allies and partners, we’re going to stay the course. 
And we’ll do everything we can to push for and end this tragic,
unnecessary war.  This is a struggle that pits the appetites of an
autocrat against humankind’s desire to be free. 

And let there be no doubt, no uncertainty, no question: America stands
with the forces of freedom.  We always have and we always will. 

I want to thank you all.  And God bless you.  And now I’m going to walk
over and sign this legisla- — sign this bill to allow the drawdown of
those materials.

And may God protect the young Ukrainians who are out there defending
their country.

What I’m signing here is the Delegation of Authority Under Section
506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.  Translated into plain
English: a total of $800 million in defense articles.

(The Delegation of Authority is signed.)

Q    Mr. President, what will it take for you to send the Polish MiGs
that President Zelenskyy is asking for?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not going to comment on that right now.  I’m not
going to comment on anything other than what I told you (inaudible). 

Thank you.

 1:10 P.M. EDT
