---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-02'
modified_time: 2022-03-02 17:22:26-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/02/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-6/
published_time: 2022-03-02 17:22:25-05:00
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Duluth, Minnesota

12:13 P.M. EST

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, everybody.  Okay.  So, today, the President
and the First Lady are traveling to Superior, Wisconsin, to discuss
build — building a better America and how the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law delivers for the American people by rebuilding roads and bridges,
and creating good-paying union jobs.  
  
     As the President said last night, we’re done talking about
infrastructure week; we are moving into infrastructure decade.  
  
     Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we will see historic
investments in infrastructure that will create a visible impact in the
lives of American families across the country for years to come.  
  
     Today, the President will visit the Blantnik — Blatnik — hopefully
I said that right — Bridge — excuse me, for the Wis- — folks from
Wisconsin — a bridge that serves as a critical link for the community
and local economy but is nearing the end of its usable life.  
  
     The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law includes a total of $40 billion
in funding to repair, rehabilitate, and replace bridges. Over the next
year, states will start repair on over 1,500 bridges.   
  
     The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also supports a number of
projects in the region, including restoring the St. Louis River and
Great Lakes, investing in port infrastructure for the Port of Superior,
and help improve climate resilience in the region.  
  
     Last night — just a little bit more about last night — you heard
the President speak directly to the American people about his vision to
build a better America, where he laid out the progress of the — of last
year in the face of deep challenges; the character, courage, and
resilience of the American people; and his optimism for the future; and
his resounding belief that it’s never a good bet to bet against the
American people.  
  
     He sent clear a message to the world: The U.S. and our Allies are
united against Russia’s aggression, and that Putin’s war of choice has
already had devastating impacts on the Russian economy.  For those here
at home and abroad, democracy will prevail over autocracy.  
  
     He also laid out the economic strategy of his administration, which
is producing historic results, which his plan — with his plan to lower
costs for American families while continuing an historically strong
economic recovery.  
  
     The President also talked about how he — how we have entered a new
phase in our battle against COVID-19 where, because of the tools we
have, we are moving safely to our normal routines.  
  
     He also discussed his Unity Agenda for this country and reminded
Congress there are lots of places the two parties do agree.  And they
should — they shouldn’t let politics get in the way of getting those
things done for the American public.  
  
     With that, Darlene, what you got for me?  
  
     Q    Yes, thank you.  The President’s announcement last night about
banning Russian flights from U.S. airspace: Do you have any more details
on that, in terms of when does it go into effect?  Did it go into effect
last night with his announcement or some date in the future?  The number
of flights we’re talking about?  Those kinds of details.  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  So we are issuing orders blocking Russian
aircraft and airlines from entering and using all domestic U.S.
airspace, effectively closing U.S. airspace to all Russian commercial
air carriers and other Russian aircraft — civil aircraft.  
  
     Just to give you a little bit of update: Russia’s national airline,
Aero- — Aeroflot has — has about 14 flights to the U.S. a week, in
addition to private — private planes and cargo planes as well.  
  
     Q    And is that effective now or —  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s see.  I do have something on that.  
  
     So, at the moment, the Department of Transportation and its Federal
Aviation Administration are issuing orders today blocking Russian
aircraft and airlines from entering and using all domestic U.S.
airspace.  
  
     Q    And then on a related Russia question: Yesterday, the governor
of Oklahoma and also Senator Rob Portman called on the President to do
two things.  They are interested in seeing the United States sanction
Russia’s oil and gas industry.  And at the same time, they also would
like to see the Biden administration increase domestic oil production. 
Senator Wyden also would like to see the U.S. increase domestic oil
production.  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So here’s what I have for you on that: As we have
said, we’re intentionally — we — we have intentionally scoped our
sanctions measures to maximize pain on the Russian economy and minimize
any spillover to the U.S. and our Allies and <s>patterns</s>
\[partners\].  
  
     Given high oil and gas prices, cutting — cutting off Russian
oil/gas will drive prices up to Putin’s benefit.  We carved out
energy-related payments to allow for orderly transition of these flows
away from sanction institutions.  And we will provide other licenses as
necessary.  
  
     President Biden has been very clear with the American people that
because of Putin’s reckless and dangerous sanctions, this won’t be
painless, as he has said before, as I just mentioned.  But we are
closely monitoring energy supplies for any disruption and continuing to
coordinate with major oil-producing consumers, producers to protect
American businesses and consumers, including from rising prices at the
pump.  
  
     And that’s why he announced, last night, the International Energy —
Energy Agency to release 60 million — million barrels of oil around the
world.  And that’s what he did last night.  
  
     Thirty of those million will be our share.  And so this is — this
is in partnership with what we’ve done.    So this is, if you think
about what he did in the fall, it was like a record 50 million barrels
that we — that we’ve tapped into — into the SPR.  And we were able to do
that with China, Japan, India, South Korea, and the United Kingdom.  The
International Energy Agency is 30 members.  So this is — you know, this
is what we’re able to do.   
  
     So the President has a plan for addressing the real impacts to
people’s pocketbooks.  I can give you a little bit more on what the —
what that’s going to look like, because we have some updates here.  
  
     So we put out — as far as the SPR, we put out the notice today to
begin the bidding process — usually, it takes about 13 days for buyers —
like major gas companies, Exxon Mobil, Chevron — or gas-trading entities
to bid and win the millions of barrel — barrels released as part of our
SPR.

     By April or May, the crude oil will make the way out of the
pipeline, get to a refinery to be made into gas; gas prices will decline
thanks to the SPR release because there is an additional supply of oil
coming.  Price will stop — go up due to — will —

     Sorry, it’s getting a little bumpy.  Hold on, everybody.

     — price — price will still go up due to conflict in Russia but less
than it would have because of the agreement with the IEA — again, 30
members — helps countries around the world, not just USA.  
  
     And if you look at what we did with the SPR back in the fall, it
brought down — they brought down prices by 10 — more than 10 cents a
gallon over the holiday season.  So we’re optimistic.  
  
     Q    So does — Karine, just to follow up on sanctions.  Jen said
this morning in some of her television interviews that sanctions against
Russian oil and gas was on the table.  And the President, I believe,
echoed the same thing when he spoke to reporters before coming to JBA. 
But it sounds, from what you just said, like that is very unlikely.  Is
there — can you just explain that discrepancy?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  And you must have been very early if you
saw Jen this morning.  You must have been up very early if you saw this
morning, with Darlene.  (Laughs.)  
  
     Okay.  So, look, we don’t have a strategic interest in reducing the
global supply of energy.  So you’ve heard Jen talk about that — the
effect of what would happen with the global supply here.  So that would
raise prices at the gas pump for Americans and pad Putin’s profits,
right?  So that’s something that we’re very aware of.  
  
     We’ve seen some American companies decide to cut ties with Russia,
and we welcome those announcements.  But, you know, we and our Allies
and partners have a strong collective interest to degrade Russia status
as a leading energy supplier over time.   
  
     That’s why we’ve been talking about, you know, diversification, you
know, and that’s why we shut down Nord Stream 2.  That’s why we’re
helping to accelerate Europe’s diver- — diversification from Russian
gas.  And that’s why we’re denying critical technology inputs that
Russia needs to sustain its production capacity in oil and gas.  
  
     So that’s kind of our strategic focus at the moment.  
  
     Q    There has to be at least some acknowledgement of the irony of
the United States and Western countries sanctioning Russia but
continuing to buy its fuel.  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I mean, here’s the thing: Again, there’s
the global supply of energy that we really have to think about.  We
don’t want to pad Putin’s — Putin’s profits.  And we want to make sure
that we don’t raise prices on the American public.   
  
     So that is our focus here.  And so we’re doing everything that we
can.  I think that’s why we talked about diversification — make sure
we’re not just relying on that source, on Russia’s oil.  
  
     So we’re going to continue to work on that.  We’ve been assisting
our European partners.  And that’s going to be our focus right now.  
  
     Q    One other sanctions question.  Can you confirm that the United
States is preparing additional sanctions against Russian oligarchs and
others in Russia?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any anything to preview at this
time.  As you know, we’re going after Russian oligarchs and their
families supporting Putin’s war of choice.   
  
     But, you know, look, Russia has become a global economic and
financial pariah.  Over 30 countries, representing well over half the
world’s economy, have announced sanctions and export controls on
Russia.  Putin’s government is getting kicked off the international
financial system.  We are preventing Putin from accessing his war chest
to soften the blow of our sanctions and support his invasion of
Ukraine.  
  
     This week, alongside our Allies and partners, we announced
unprecedented actions to prevent President Putin from accessing his war
chest.  We prohibited transactions with Central Bank of Russia, the
single most important financial institution in Russia.  
  
     And you know, again, we’ve done this with our partners and Allies. 
And so that’s — that’s going to be what we’re going to continue to do:
work — work in lockstep with European Allies.  
  
     Q    Are more in the works?  That’s my question.  Are more —  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to predict at this time.  
  
     Q    Karine, can we ask you just to move in a little bit, maybe? 
Just to get — sorry.  Getting lost in the doorway.  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The bumpiness —  
  
     Q    I know.  I know.  It’s a little hard to hear you.  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know, and I have a mask.  I’m so sorry, guys. 
I will do my best.  
  
     Q    Last night, during the speech, we didn’t hear the President
talk explicitly about Build Back Better.  And is that the message he’s
sending — that it’s officially dead right now on Capitol Hill?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, absolutely not.  You know, he — what the
President did last night is he highlighted the major part of his plans —
right? — to fight inflation — in addition to continuing work to make
more in America, bring more jobs back from overseas, and strengthen our
supply chains — is by lowering costs and lowering the deficit.  
  
     This is what he’s been talking about the past several months, about
these very popular pieces of components.  And so he will cut the cost of
prescription drugs, energy, childcare, while making the tax system more
fair.  
  
     He had the young — young kid, Joshua, that he met when we went to
Ohio, who’s 13 years old, and they talked about lowering costs of
prescription drugs.  He has Type 1 diabetes, so does his dad.  The cost
of insulin is — has skyrocketed.  
  
     It costs companies $10 — insulin — insulin — to make.  But, you
know, what the companies do is they — they double — they raise that 30 —
almost 30 times more.  And so, what we’re trying to talk about is
lowering those costs.   
  
     And so, you know, by contrast, Republicans are against lowering
costs for families because they want to protect tax cuts for the very
wealthy and corporations.   
  
     That’s how we build on the manufacturing resurgence we’ve — we’ve
overseen and historic job creation we’ve achieved last year, which the
President leaned on when talking about the American Rescue Plan meeting
the moment and that — what that was able to do.  
  
     So we’re having constructive conversations with a range of
members.  But I’ll keep those conversation private, as we’ve been trying
to do these last couple of weeks, couple of months now.  And I’m not
going to go comment into specific lawmakers —  
  
     Q    But as to the parts of that last night, as you just went
through, and you’re having conversations with lawmakers.  But Senator
Manchin said last night that he has not been — the White House hasn’t
reached out to him for any formal conversations about the parts of Build
Back Better that the President would like to see passed.  Why not have
those conversations with Senator Manchin?  And when would they happen?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, you’ve heard Jen say this, you’ve heard
me say this: We’re just not going to negotiate in public.   
  
     We are having conversation with members who are very much enthused
and excited about what the President’s plan is and lowering costs, as I
just laid out.  And so that’s what we’re going to — going to do.  
  
     I mean, the President used the State of the Union as an opportunity
to talk about his plan, to talk about lowering costs.  And so, clearly,
that is something that’s very important to him. 

He also talked about — and when you think about those items I just laid
out — prescription drugs, the things that — you know, that are important
at the kitchen table — those are popular.  Right?  Those are really
important.  That’s part of, like, his Unity Agenda as well that he laid
out yesterday as well.  You know, like, we can work in a bipartisan way
for the American people and deliver.

Q    Is the President still making calls directly to members about the
items in Build Back Better or the package formerly called Build Back
Better?  Or is that White House aides or other senators that are doing
that outreach?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Nancy, I don’t have any calls to preview about the
President’s di- — directly speaking to members.  You saw him speaking to
members on the floor yesterday.  He does have conversation pretty
regularly.  Former senator — he has a lot — he knows a lot of those
folks — former Vice President, clearly. 

And so — but I don’t have anything to preview.  But I can assure you
that White House — my colleagues at the White House have been in regular
contact and in regular touch with folks on the Hill.

Q    What is the White House’s — what’s the status on the Iran deal?  My
colleagues overseas are hearing that a decision is coming one way or the
other in the coming days, and I just wonder what you could tell us about
where that stands. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, you know, we are in the final stages of
complex negotiations.  As we’ve been saying, at this final stage, all
participants are working to clarify their position on the most difficult
issues.  You know, I’m not going to go into any specific on the
positions of Iran or the United States. 

You know, the administration continues to consult with the P5+1, as well
as with Israel and our regional partners, on the best way to move
forward.  But I would refer you to the State Department.

Q    And just one more question on Russia.  In terms of Putin, what
other steps is the White House or administration considering on how they
would target his wealth personally?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything more to add.  I know the
President was asked this when he was headed towards Air Force One, going
on Marine One.  I don’t have anything more specific or thing — anything
to predict for you. 

Look, you know, we have said this over and over again, which is: This is
a — we have never seen such a unified West.  We are very unified with
our European leaders and part- — European partners and Allies.  And NATO
is — our NATO Alliance is also more unified than we’ve ever seen it
before in history.

And so, you know, we are going to continue to work in lockstep and as we
— as we move forward in trying to — you know, in trying to deal with
this Russia aggression that we’re seeing.  I mean, we — you know, we
have to — I’m going to keep saying this: Russia is — you know,
aggression with Ukraine — is attacking their territorial integrity,
their sovereignty, their democracy.  And that’s one thing that the
President talked about yesterday: what our values are and fighting for
democracy here and abroad.

Q    Karine, does the White House have a position on Americans who
might, on their own, travel to Ukraine to answer President Zelenskyy’s
call to join the fight?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so Ukrainians have shown their courage, and they
are calling on every — you know, they’re calling on every resource and
lever they have to defend themselves.  You know, we applaud their
bravery. 

However, our travel advisory remains.  U.S. citizens should not travel
to Ukraine.

Q    And so that would specifically include — is that advice to
Americans to not go and fight in another nation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, the State Department has — issues travel
advisories and warnings to help Americans make the most informed
decisions about their safety.  So that’s what I would refer you to.

Q    Have you got a reaction to Sergey Lavrov’s latest nuclear
saber-rattling?  He said that World War Three would be “nuclear and
destructive.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, you know, this is — this is a war of choice
by President Putin.  This is his decision that he has made.  We are
going to continue to work with our European Allies, our European
partners, you know, and do — do that in lockstep.  But this is — this is
President Putin’s war that he has started.

Q    Karine, the President did not mention January 6th last night.  Was
that a conscious decision to exclude that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the President has talked about January 6th many
times.  And he has spoken about it — about the horrific events of
January 6th, as well as the specific steps we must take to ensure
something like that can never happen again, including move — moving —
movingly in the Capitol itself to commemorate one year since the
attack.  That’s ju- — the anniversary that just passed — this past
January 6th. 

And the President spoke last night about the need to uphold
Constitution, protect democracy both here and around the world, as I
just stated.

Q    (Inaudible.)  There’s an effort in North Carolina to throw Madison
Cawthorn off the ballot for being an insurrectionist.  Has the President
given that approach any thought?  Does he endorse that?  What does he
think about people who encouraged that to be able to run again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I leave that the — the decision — or refer you to
the state board of elections.  That’s for them to decide.

Q    Karine, we haven’t seen —

Q    Karine, a couple on COVID.  Last night, the President talked about
entering a new phase or new moment in the pandemic.  A lot of the
lawmakers and people who were at the State of the Union obviously didn’t
wear a mask because the guidance has changed.  Does the President now
think that it’s safe for children in school to go mask-free indoors, in
school also?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you know, today the Biden administration
released a National COVID Preparedness Plan, as you all know.  This is a
plan to keep America moving forward safely and keep getting us back to
our normal routines. 

It’s a plan that focuses on three key goals, which is protect against
COVID-19, prepare for new variants, prevent economic and educational
shutdowns. 

First, on protection: Unlike at the start of the pandemic, we know — we
now — pardon me — have multiple tools to protect ourselves.  Right? 
There’s vaccines, treatments, test, masks.

Second, we’re preparing for new variants.  That includes early warning
signs and stockpiling resources.

Third, preventing economic and educational shutdowns.  We will continue
to be an arsenal of vaccines for the world.  I think we’ve already
donated just under 500 million vaccines. 

Throughout this plan, we ensure we are protecting the most vulnerable,
including the immun- — immunocompromised and those with disabilities. 
The immunocompromise have — -compromised have access to a fourth booster
and priority access to new treatments. 

We have free high-quality masks and more free tests than ever before. 

We’re launching a comprehensive response to prevent, treat, and better
under — understand Long COVID and to address mental health.

Executing this plan will require additional congressional funding, which
you heard the President talk about last night — that supplemental
funding — soon.  And so, the administration will send Congress a request
for additional funding, given that virtually all Americans have used
these tools and may want to, again, expect Congress — we expect Congress
to pass it quickly.

Jeff Zients, Secretary Becerra, Dr. Walensky, and Dr. Fauci — they all
briefed on — to your colleagues earlier today, about an hour ago.  And
so, that’s kind of where we are.  But to your question, Darlene — I just
wanted to kind of lay that out.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, to your question: As we’ve always said,
those decisions are left to the school — the school districts and to the
schools to make.  You know, we’ve always said: Follow — you know, follow
the experts, listen to the experts.  And we try to follow the CDC
guidance.

Q    And then one more.  Again, last night, you had a situation where
people are free to go mask free, and a lot of them did that last night,
but then you saw people sitting in a socially distant fashion.  So was
there kind of a mixed message there where, on the one hand, the
President says to people, “You know, we’re in a new phase.  Go back to
work.  Flood downtown again,” but you have people sitting socially
distant (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  To that — to that in particular, that was a Cap- —
that’s the Capitol.  I refer you to them.  That was —

Q    So I fully understand it was a decision by the Capitol.  But just
the image overall and what that says to people as we’re telling them,
“It’s okay to go mask-free again.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, what I’ll say to that — look, we are in a
different place than we are — than we were a year ago, and that’s just
the fact. 

When the President walked into the administration, he was dealing with
multiple crises.  The economy and COVID were the two main ones that were
front and center.  And in that time — in that year’s time, the President
has been able to — along with his team has been able to fully vaccinate
more than 210 million people. 

And so, that is a success that we can all be proud of.  And like — as I
just laid out, we know — we now have the tools that help us figure out
how to move forward and get to a place where things are more normal. 

So, this is just, you know, a next part of the process.  And so, you
know, again, we’re going to follow the CDC guidance — guidelines. 

     (The plane experiences turbulence.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Ah!  (Laughs.)  We almost lost Jeff Mason.  My
goodness.  He has his cool Reuters jacket on, too.

Q    Karine, for the President personally last night — he hasn’t had an
event like that where you had that many people in one space not wearing
masks, and he seemed to be feeding off of that a bit.  Can you talk
about how he felt afterwards about being in an environment that we
haven’t seen him in in maybe two years?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As we all know, the President loves to communicate
directly with people.  And, you know, as we’ve been saying for the past
week or so, the State of the Union was an opportunity to talk to
millions of Americans.  It’s once-in-a year opportunity to do that. 

And so, you know — and this is a President who was a senator for almost
four decades, who was a vice president for eight years.  He’s been in
that room, and he knows what it means to have that bully pulpit, if you
will, to have that — to have that microphone. 

And so, his goal yesterday was to talk about the — this past year — yes,
the challenges, but how we’ve been able to be resilient and how the
economy has thrived, where we are with COVID, but also the challenges
that lie ahead; our support, clearly, for Ukraine with Russia’s
aggression into the country — attacking their sovereignty — but also how
we’re going to speak to those kitchen table issues that Americans deal
with every day — those high costs.  And also, he talked about his Unity
Agenda. 

So, there was a lot that he covered.  But, look, like I said, that —
yesterday was an opportunity, which he understood very well, that — you
know, to reach out to — directly to the American public.  And he was
happy to see some of his former colleagues and have that direct
conversation.

Q    Is the President — will he resume large, indoor maskless gatherings
now?  Is that what we can expect moving forward? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, I don’t — as we all know, the CDC guidance
is — it all depends on the area that you’re in. Like we are about to
land in Wisconsin.  We’re going to Superior, Wisconsin, as you all know,
and we have to wear a mask because it is a red zone. 

So, it is really going to, you know, depend on where we are and what we
— the CDC guidance that we need to follow for that particular area.

Q    Does the President have a reaction to the interruption last night
by the — I think it was two Republican congresswomen right around the
time when he was talking about his son?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, you know, we grieve alongside these Gold
Star families.  We do not pretend to understand the depths of their
grief, but we respect their concerns and their unique perspectives about
the loss of their loved ones.  So, they were part of the bravest, most
capable, and the most selfless military on the face of the Earth.

Q    Okay. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.

Q    I actually wasn’t — I wasn’t actually asking about Gold Star
families.  I was asking about the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  One of the members actually —

Q    Was that Boebert?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  She was — yeah, that’s what she was talking
about.

Q    I see.  I thought she said, “Build the wall.”

Q    There was someone else that shouted “Build the wall,” I think.  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It might’ve been someone else.  Yeah.

Q    I have one final question for you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Go ahead.

Q    Is there — are you aware of any reaction or comment from the
President to Major League Baseball’s decision to cancel Opening Day?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do have something on that.  So collective bargaining
is a private dispute-resolution process in which the parties to the
negotiation work out their differences and agree to the terms and
conditions of employment. 

The Major League Baseball negotiations are a matter for the players, the
league, and the owners.  Baseball fans may have some opinions as well. 
We leave that to them. 

The best role for government is to encourage the parties to comment — to
commit themselves fully to collective bargaining that reaches an
agreement.  And that’s how we feel here.

We encourage Major League Baseball and the Major League Baseball Players
Association to stay at the bargaining table and reach an agreement as
soon as they can so we can kick off the season and get back to enjoying
baseball games. 

Thanks, everybody. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.

12:41 P.M. EST
