---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-02'
modified_time: 2022-03-03 19:19:24-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/02/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-highlighting-the-administrations-historic-investments-in-our-workers/
published_time: 2022-03-02 19:18:00-05:00
title: "Remarks By Vice President Harris Highlighting The Administration\u2019s Historic\
  \ Investments In Our\_Workers"
---
 
*Durham Technical Community College  
Durham, North Carolina*

11:31 A.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good morning, everyone.  Good morning.  Please have
a seat.  Good morning.  Good morning.   
  
Tara, I told you.  We were hanging out in the — in the — in your
classroom, and the Secretary and I were admiring your skill and your
work.  But to hear you speak at a podium like you just did — I know that
you are a leader on many things.  And truly, you are a face and an image
of the future of labor in America and leadership in labor \*. 
(Applause.)  Very proud of you.  
  
So, it’s good to see everyone here.  And I have a lot to say about why
we are here today, but before I get started, I do want to say a few
words about the situation in Ukraine.   
  
As we all know, the eyes of the world are on the brave people of
Ukraine.  They are fighting.  They are fighting not just to defend their
homes and their families, but to defend their democracy and their
freedom, their sovereignty and their territorial integrity.  And we
stand with them.  We stand with the people of Ukraine in this fight.   
  
And we stand with our Allies and our partners on the side of knowing
that we must always be vigilant in defending the ideals that we hold
dear and in cherishing and supporting and strengthening our friendships
and partnerships around the world based on shared ideals and
principles.   
  
And so, with that, we all, I know, express our thoughts and our prayers
and well wishes to the people of Ukraine.  (Applause.)  
  
So, again, it is wonderful to be back in Durham.  Governor, thank you
always for introducing and welcoming me to this beautiful state of
yours.  
  
Mayor, congratulations.  And thank you for your leadership. I look
forward, and the President does as well, working with you on all that
you are doing here.   
  
To the congressmen, thank you both.  I served, as many of you know, in
the United States Senate for a few years, and I spent time, therefore,
in the halls of Congress, in many, many meetings.  And I can tell you
about your two congressmen.  Well, you probably can tell me more than I
could tell you.  (Laughter.)  
  
But I will say is that I’ve seen them both hard at work, representing
the people of North Carolina.  And they are always fighting. 
(Applause.)  So, it’s good to see you both.  It’s good to see you
both.  
  
And to all of the state and locally elected officials, thank you.  Thank
you for your work.  
  
It is good to be in the house of labor.  It is good to be in the house
of labor and to be back with the members of IBEW  
and with all of our friends across the labor movement.  
  
You know, over the year, I have visited many union apprenticeship
facilities.  And over the course of the last year and some months, my
greatest privilege has been to do that with our Secretary of Labor,
Marty Walsh — (laughter and applause) — who is truly — has lived the
life of being a proud, proud member of unions and labor and organized
labor, and to be a proponent and a national leader for what is what we
must always do: to fight for the integrity and the support of our
unions.  
  
And so, over the years, visiting all of these places, I have met workers
of all ages and from all places, and they have many traits in common —
among them tenacity, creativity, brilliants minds, and a relentless
determination to get the job done right.  
  
And that is what I saw here today when I was spending time in the
classrooms here.  We saw the extraordinary hard work and discipline that
goes into the work that builds America.   
  
And as you all, I hope, saw last night, President Joe Biden declared
that the state of our union is strong.  Yes, he did.  It was a wonderful
speech.  It was an extraordinary speech, in terms of speaking to who we
are as a nation and what we are prepared to fight for.   
  
And since taking office, we have created six — over six and a half
million jobs and lowered the unemployment rate to 4 percent.  Our
businesses have reopened their doors.  And 99 percent of our schools are
back in person.  (Applause.)  
  
As a nation, we have made real progress in our fight to end this
pandemic and get our economy back to normal.  
  
And with more than 215 million people vaccinated, our communities are
more protected from this virus than they’ve ever been before.  
  
And that said, the President and I know the fight is not yet won.  
  
Over the past year, I have traveled the country and spoken with so many
people — parents who lay in bed at night thinking about how they will
pay the heating bill, fill the car with gas, or put food on the table;
working people who are doing everything they can just to hold on but are
still feeling like they’re falling behind; young people who are worried
that the life they remember before this pandemic will never come back.  
  
So many people in our country over these last couple of years — they’re
tired and frustrated and afraid.  
  
But, as I travel our nation, I will tell you, what I see most clearly is
neither the fear nor the fatigue, but resilience — the resilience of the
American people and the determination of the American people to always
build a better future.   
  
And so, the President and I, inspired by that, share in that
determination, and we are fighting for a better future.  
  
As the President explained last night, our fight starts with lowering
the cost of living for working families.  (Applause.)  
  
As you all know, the pandemic — it has — well, it has tangled supply
chains and driven up the price of everyday goods.  
  
But through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, our administration has
made historic investments in our infrastructure and in our supply chains
to prevent those bottlenecks — those bottlenecks and to lower daily
expenses.  
  
We are also working hard to manufacture more goods — like cars, like
computer chips — made by workers here in America.  
  
And we must do more.  Continue our recovery, we must.  And to continue
our recovery, we must then create more good-paying jobs here at home,
good union jobs.  (Applause.)

In big cities and small towns across our country, union workers are
building the future.  They are installing the solar panels and building
the wind turbines that will help us bring down energy — energy costs,
energy prices; and combat the climate crisis.  
  
They are removing and replacing the lead pipes that are poisoning our
children in so many communities.  
  
They are laying the fiber-optic cable that will enable us to bring
affordable high-speed Internet, North Carolina, to every household in
America.  (Applause.)  
  
And they are building this better future in spite of historic attacks on
workers’ rights.  
  
As you know, in North Carolina and many places in our country, we still
have a lot of work to do.  Because, in many places in our country, there
are still powerful forces that are hard at work, trying to build
barriers to stop workers from organizing and exercising their right to
collective bargaining.  
  
But know this — know this — as Secretary Walsh explained and described:
Our administration is deeply proud to be the most pro-labor
administration in the history of our country.  (Applause.)

And, as Vice President, as the Secretary described, I chair and he vice
chairs the White House Task Force on Worker Organizing and
Empowerment.  
  
Our Task Force proposed nearly 70 actions that the executive branch can
take — 70 — and this was over the course of many, many months of working
with workers, working with labor unions, figuring out what was going on
in our government, what is going on in reality, in terms of whether or
not we are encouraging, under existing laws, or discouraging worker
rights, worker protections.

And so we then developed these 70 proposals to protect the rights of
workers in the public and private sector to make sure that workers are
able to organize and bargain collectively.  
  
And last month, the President accepted every one of the
recommendations.  (Applause.)  But we’re not going to stop there.  
  
Over the years, I have spoken with so many young people, women, people
of color — hardworking folks who are training to become union workers.  
  
And as the Secretary said, we see the potential for growth, in terms of
the diversity, in terms of the inclusion, in terms of America’s
workforce and our future. 

And I met some of those great stars and leaders today, who, I believe,
are all part of a new era of the American labor movement — a movement
that you all helped build right here, which is why we are visiting with
you this morning; a movement big enough to lift up people of every age,
every walk of life, every race, every gender.

After all, every person should be able to benefit from the power of
solidarity.  Because every person in our nation, no matter where they
start, deserves an opportunity to succeed.  
  
That is the future we are fighting for.  That is the future our
administration stands for.  And that is the future we will build with
the help and with the leadership of union workers.   
  
Thank you all.  And take care.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

END                   11:42 A.M. EST 
