---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-28'
modified_time: 2022-03-28 18:08:06-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/28/press-briefing-by-deputy-press-secretary-andrew-bates-omb-director-shalanda-young-and-cea-chair-cecilia-rouse/
published_time: 2022-03-28 18:08:05-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Deputy Press Secretary Andrew Bates, OMB Director Shalanda
  Young, and CEA Chair Cecilia Rouse
---
 
State Dining Room

3:54 P.M. EDT

MR. BATES:  Good afternoon.

Q    Good afternoon.

MR. BATES:  Today, we are pleased to welcome Shalanda Young and Cecilia
Rouse to the briefing room to address your questions on the 2023
budget.  We have just a few announcements before they go into the
President’s budget.

As we disclosed to all of you, this morning the President tested
negative as a part of his regular testing cadence.  He was last tested
Friday as a part of his regular testing rhythm and additional testing
requirements for travel to and from Europe.

Moving forward, he will proceed on his regular testing schedule, and we
will continue to update all of you out of an abundance of transparency. 

And, of course, we wish Karine and Jen speedy recoveries.  They are
currently both following CDC guidance and will be back following a
negative test.  Jen shared this morning that she’s feeling stir-crazy
and will be back soon. 

First, on Judge Jackson.  Judge Jackson continued to build support last
week after she spent over 20 hours in marathon confirmation hearings
demonstrating her credentials, intellect, character, grace, and the
value of her deep experience. 

She reminded the country of why the President chose her and why she has
been endorsed by conservative judges, the Fraternal Order of Police, the
International Association of Chiefs of Police, dozens of police chiefs
and sheriffs who lead many of the busi- — busiest departments in the
United States and 83 former state attorneys general from both parties. 

Polls keep showing that she has strong backing among the American
people, with some indicating that she has the most support of any
Supreme Court nominee since John Roberts, who she ties with and whom she
shares — and with whom she shares a similar philosophy about judges
serving as referees who decide cases based on the law and the facts. 

She has now met with more than a majority of the Senate and is
continuing her engagement with senators today and throughout the week. 
Judge Jackson responded to Republicans’ requests for in-person meetings
by promising to sit down with any member who wanted to, and she is
honoring that promise.

Something else that speaks to the strength of Judge Jackson’s
qualifications — which a series of Republicans have affirmed make her
unquestionably fit to serve on the Supreme Court — and to the strength
of her record is the multitude of factchecks from the press, from
retired judges, and from former prosecutors who have dismantled attacks
brought by a small group of GOP senators. 

The truth is that every single one of the specific senators who joined
in these bad-faith attacks on her sentencing record with respect to
child pornography has voted for numerous Trump-nominated judges who
sentenced defendants for the same crimes in the same fashion, below
guidelines widely considered to be out of date across the judiciary and
below what prosecutors sought, which is also a norm. 

For example, last week, the Washington Post factchecker wrote a piece
headlined “These Trump Judges Failed Hawley’s Sentencing Test for
Jackson.” 

The New York Times factchecking team also covered this, writing,
“Critics of Jackson’s Child Sex Abuse Sentences Backed Judges with
Similar Records.” 

The Trump-nominated judges they surveyed received broad support and even
included 6th Circuit Judge Amul Thapar, who was on Donald Trump’s
shortlist for the Supreme Court. 

This was all on top of a raft of other factchecks already establishing
that the basis of these criticisms was dishonest. 

And then, in terms of the budget, as you heard the President discuss
earlier today, he has released his second budget, which builds on
historic deficit reduction his agenda is delivering by means of the
fastest economic growth in almost 40 years, on top of record-breaking
job creation and unemployment reduction in 2021. 

The President’s budget will help bring more jobs back to America, make
us safer at home by increasing funding for police, and more secure in
the world by investing in our national security and alliances. 

And it will pay for these crucial policies by asking the ultra-wealthy —
the top one hundredth of 1 percent of Americans, in terms of income —
billionaires, and hundred-millionaires to pay an income tax that’s
aligned with what most people in the workforce pay. 

We encourage Republicans in Congress to support that approach rather
than their proposal to raise taxes on half of working families and
taking healthcare coverage away from millions while gutting protections
for Americans with pre-existing conditions in order to hand out even
more tax giveaways to the wealthiest.

Shalanda Young is joining us for the first time in the briefing room. 
She is the Director of the Office of Management Budg- — and Budget,
having been confirmed by the Senate with bipartisan support earlier this
month.  As Director, she serves as a senior advisor to President Biden
and plays a critical role in implementing the President’s vision across
the executive branch. 

Previously, Shalanda was the Acting Director of OMB for the last year,
and the Clerk and Staff Director for the House Appropriations Committee,
where she oversaw the $1.3 trillion annual appropriations bills. 

We’re also joined by Cecilia Rouse, who has been here numerous times,
who is the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers and a member of the
President’s Families Cabinet. 

As a quick introduction, she is a world-respected labor economist who
recently served as Dean of the Princeton School of Public and
International Affairs.  She previously served as a member of the Council
of Economic Advisers in the Obama-Biden administration, and on the
National Economic Council in the Clinton administration. 

And with that, I’m going to turn it over to each of them, who will give
remarks, and then I’ll call on folks for questions. 

And then once we’re done, we’re happy to take more questions from you
all throughout the day in the press office. 

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  All right.  Be nice to the newbie.  (Laughter.) 

For an OMB Director, this is like prom day, so I’m — (laughter) — very
happy to be here with you today.

You’ve heard the President say this, you heard him say it this morning:
Budgets are about values.  And his 2023 budget puts our values to work
in three key ways.

First, it’s fiscally responsible.  The budget shows that we’re on track
to reduce the deficit by more than $1.3 trillion.  This is the largest
year-over-year decline in history and less than half of the deficit the
President inherited.

And that’s no accident.  It’s a result of the President’s strategy to
combat the pandemic and grow our economy — a strategy that has built on
smart investments and helped jumpstart our recovery. 

And that strategy has paid off.  In 2021, we created more than 6.5
million jobs — the most our country has ever recorded in a single year. 
Our economy grew 5.7 percent — the most in 40 years.  And the
unemployment rate has fallen to 3.8 percent — the fastest decline in
recorded history.  Because of that progress, we’re able to responsibly
draw down emergency spending measures and increase revenues.

The budget outlines the President’s vision to expand on this progress. 
Its investments are more than fully paid for through tax reforms, ensure
corporations and the wealthiest Americans pay their fair share.  It
achieves significant deficit reduction over the next decade.  And it
ensures no one earning less than $400,000 pays a penny more in new
taxes.

Second, the budget invests in security both here and abroad.  Here at
home, it includes investments to keep our community safe, put more cops
on the beat for community policing, fight gun crime, and advance
criminal justice reform.

The budget also strengthens our military and leverages our renewed
strength at home to meet pressing global challenges, making one of the
largest investments in our national security in U.S. history.

Third, the budget will help us build a better America by investing in
education; making more here at home; combating the opioid epidemic;
driving medical breakthroughs, including in cancer; and taking on the
mental health crisis.

The budget also makes clear that the President is committed to working
with Congress to pass legislation that reduces the deficit, cuts costs
for families, and expands the productive capacity of our economy.

These are all things we can make progress on together.  And we’re
looking forward to working with Congress to advance these priorities for
the American people.

Thank you.

CHAIR ROUSE:  Good afternoon.  This budget builds on the solid economic
gains of the first year of this administration.  The recovery over the
last year has been extraordinary — quicker than independent forecasters
had projected.

Over 2021, real output grew by 5.6 percent — the fastest since 1984. 
The unemployment rate fell at its fastest pace since modern data began
in 1948.  The labor force participation rate of Americans ages 25 to 54
grew by the most since 1979.

This robust recovery has put us in a strong position today.  The U.S.
economy is more than 3 percent larger in inflation-adjusted terms than
it was just before the pandemic — the fastest recovery in the G7.

Healthy household balance sheets and a strong labor market make us more
resilient to external shocks.  The strong recovery has also put us in a
better fiscal position as faster growth helps lower the deficit.

The budget builds on this solid economic growth.  It is a continuation
of President Biden’s commitment to address longstanding issues in the
economy and make investments that will ensure robust, sustainable, and
equitable growth.

First, the budget is fiscally responsible.  Thanks to the American
Rescue Plan, revenues are up and pandemic relief can slow down.

The result is deficit reduction, which will help ease long-term
inflationary pressures and make our fiscal trajectory more sustainable.

Second, the budge- — the budget bolsters domestic and foreign security. 
Increased security here and abroad not only protects lives, but it also
reduces uncertainty, which allows economic activity the room it needs to
renormalize and grow.

Third, the economy makes important investments in the American people. 
A healthy, cared-for workforce is a productive workforce, and it lowers
costs for families, easing price pressures over the longer term.

Now, I’d like to close with a word about our forecast.  In many ways,
the forecast looks healthier today than it did when we locked it all the
way back last November.

The economy has created, on average, 600,000 jobs per mo- — per month
since then, including through the Omicron wave.  And the unemployment
rate has fallen an additional 0.8 percentage point.

Challenges have also arisen since last November as well.  The most
obvious is the Russian invasion of Ukraine.  This may well put upward
pressure on energy and food prices.  That, in turn, could reinforce
inflation, which was already an issue prior to the invasion due to the
pandemic supply chain constraints and a strong demand for goods.

But as I said earlier, the strength of our recovery has put us on solid
ground to weather economic shocks.  Independent forecasters anticipate
that inflation will come down.  Americans are back to work, and the
economy is strong.

The President’s 2023 budget presents a fiscally fair and responsible
approach to continue to invest in America and meet future challenges.

MR. BATES:  Josh, would you like to start us?

Q    Director Young, Josh Boak with AP.  I want to understand the
reserve fund for whatever comes out of negotiations with Congress.  You
said on the call this morning that talks are “ongoing.”  The budget
says, of the President’s priorities, they include the expanded Child Tax
Credit, something that we previously believed was off the table.  Can
you give us a sense of where negotiations are and what we could expect
in terms of how active they are, such that you felt obligated to exclude
those priorities from the total? 

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  One, let me start where you ended.  They’re not
excluded.  What we didn’t do is detail things.  So we did not get ahead
of negotiations. 

You probably heard that I spent a little time on Capitol Hill.  What we
don’t do is get ahead of congressional negotiations.  We certainly don’t
negotiate in public. 

The reserve fund is meant to hold revenues enough for whatever framework
comes out of Congress. 

What we’re not doing is double counting revenue.  So the revenues we’re
holding in the reserve fund are different.  For example, we’re not
counting the savings from prescription drug reform in the
deficit-neutral reserve fund.  That — they can use that if they want;
we’re not counting that for our ‘23 budget. 

So, one, we’re not going to negotiate in public.  Two, we need to leave
revenues for legislation.  And the President has consistently called on
Congress to send to his desk.  And that that is, I think, as clear as I
can be.

Q    Sure.  But it’s been an exhausting month, as we can all attest to,
and I imagine that’s true for you as well.  Have you had any talks or
negotiations with regard to this in the last month with members of
Congress?

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Look, I think a easy way to not get anything done is to
negotiate in public.  We’re not going to do that.  The ‘23 budget I
think is the responsible thing to do to hold enough revenues so Congress
can use those if it wants, to send legislation to the President that
reduces the deficit and reduces costs for the American people. 

MR. BATES:  Sabrina.

Q    Thank you so much.  You’re placing a lot of emphasis with this
budget on deficit reduction.  Can you talk a little bit more about
that?  Is it an effort to persuade Senator Manchin and other centrists
who have raised concerns about the deficit?  Or does your administration
believe that the deficit is, in fact, getting too high?

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Let me remind you this President sent out a budget;
this is his second one.  And in both budgets, he has paid for his
proposals.  This is a classic Joe Biden budget. 

So, just as he did last year, we’re putting forward proposals that do
two things: establishes a tax system that’s fair, where corporations and
the wealthiest pay their fair share, but it has the added benefit of
paying for needs of the American people, like reducing childcare. 

Q    And what other — what specific proposals, beyond the wealth tax,
would lower the deficit by a trillion dollars over the next decade, as
you say?

DIRECTOR YOUNG:  So, one, we’re already in the process — from last year
to this year — of reducing the deficit by $1.3 trillion.  The proposals
in the budget would also bring about another trillion-dollar decrease. 
In addition to the billionaire income tax proposal that we have in the
budget, we also believe that we should take the individual rate back to
39.6 percent, and also bring corporate — corporate tax rates back up —
not even quite back up to where they were before the Trump tax cuts.

MR. BATES:  Steve.

Q    Cecilia, you mentioned that the Ukraine invasion is going to have a
— complicate — complicate inflation.  Could you talk a little bit more
about that?  What should Americans express \[sic\]?  High — expect
higher gasoline prices, food?  What do you think?

CHAIR ROUSE:  So, as the President just said, this is — this is an
important — this is an important place for the United States.  This is
an important moment for democracy. 

And — but what we do know is that Putin’s invasion of Ukraine will have
impacts on both energy prices and food prices.  So, we — he has — as the
President has said, we can expect that while our sanctions are going to
have their focus and most of their impact on the Russian economy, that
we can expect that we will see a bit of impact in the United States as
well.

So, the first we’re seeing is some impact on gas prices and oil prices. 
We can also expect, through fertilizer and energy prices, to see some
impact on food. 

That said, the President is focused on doing what he can to ensure that
those increases are contained and that they are not — that, you know,
they’re doing what he can to ease them for the American people.  So that
is — he’s worked with our partners to increase an additional 60 million
barrels from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  And he has — he has other
options on the table that he will be considering as they come up.

In terms of food prices, you know, the U.S. — we don’t expect a shortage
here because we are net exporters.  But we are acutely aware of the fact
that there are regions in the world that depend heavily on exports of
wheat, in particular, and other grains from Ukraine and Russia.  And
we’re working with our partners to ensure to min- — to minimize the
impacts globally. 

MR. BATES:  Nancy.

Q    Just — for Dr. Rouse — just following up on what you said: How is
the White House preparing to deal with those food shortages,
particularly when it comes to wheat in places like Africa, the Middle
East, and the developing countries?  And should U.S. farmers grow more
wheat this year instead of corn and soybeans, given the possible food
shortages?

CHAIR ROUSE:  So, first of all, we are a net exporter of many of those
food commodities, and farmers respond to price signals.  And so, with
the price of food rising, they will be responding by doing — making
additional plantings and trying to take advantage of the increased price
signals.  So the market will work as the market will work.

But the U.S. is working with our partners — USAID is right in the middle
of it and other international food organizations — to get the food and
to ease the price pressures for other countries around the world.

Q    And to just to follow up on that — I’m sorry, to follow up on that,
is there — are you having — is there any — are you think- — I’m sorry. 
Have you considered altering the sanctions to make it clear that there’s
no restrictions on agricultural trade with Russia?  
  
     CHAIR ROUSE:  So the sanctions have always had carveouts for
humanitarian needs.  The focus of the sanctions was to be on Putin and
his close circle but to not make — to minimize, to the extent possible,
the impact on the Russian people. 

So there has been a carveout for humanitarian aid, and we will
absolutely be working to ensure that they get the food that they need.  
  
     Q    Can I follow up?  
  
     Q    So you just —  
  
     MR. BATES:  No — no, sorry.  Calling on the gentleman from USA
Today.  
  
     Q    Yeah.  Thanks, Andrew.  I want to follow up on what the
administration has proposed in police funding.  So, $3.2 billion is for
grants, local and state grants.  And then the other $30 billion — the
White House has called it, quote, “mandatory resources to support law
enforcement.”  What does it mean by “mandatory”?  And how will that
money flow to, presumably, local governments and states for police
forces?  
  
     DIRECTOR YOUNG:  So, as you know, the budget — two major spending
categories: discretionary, which will go through the appropriations
process — that is where we’re asking for the $3.2 billion.  There are
traditional accounts, like the community-oriented policing account in
Byrne JAG that the Appropriations Committee already funds.  We’re asking
for increases in those accounts.  
  
     The mandatory side — it is a new proposal.  We would have to work
with and are planning to work with the authorizers who typically move
mandatory legislation on the parameters of that funding. 

But what is clear, and you heard the President talk about this earlier:
In addition to cops on the beat, we want a community focus.  We also
know that it takes a comprehensive approach, that police forces around
the country should have mental health services, psychiatrists.  That’s
why our community violence initiative — we’re asking for money not only
in DOJ and in HHS on the discretionary side.   
  
     So the plan is, on the mandatory side — is a new proposal to work
with those authorizing committees to ensure that it is both strong on
the policing side but also have these wraparound services.  
  
     Q    On the mandatory side, I mean, are there any goals in terms of
how many more police officers could be added nationwide or any
priorities — you’ve mentioned a couple of them, but in terms of what you
want to see this money used on?   
  
     And how much leeway will police forces have versus it coming down
from the federal government on where the money can go?  
  
     DIRECTOR YOUNG:  As you know, these decisions are best made at the
local level, not even — state, most often, when it comes to policing
efforts. 

So my — what we plan on doing is working with the judiciary committees
to ensure that we provide flexible enough funding but be very clear that
we expect a community focus and also that we have the wraparound
services necessary, including mental health services, to make sure that
we bring down violence in our communities.  
  
     Q    And when you talk about unemployment —  
  
     MR. BATES:  MJ.  
  
     Q    — do you take into account the millions —  
  
     Q    You all have said that the —  
  
     Q    — of Americans who have lost — who have left their job?  Do
you take that into account?  
  
     MR. BATES:  Sir, we’re calling on MJ.  
  
     Q    You all have said that the inflation estimates for this budget
were set in November and if the invasion were to be taken into account,
the outlook would look pretty different.  So should we expect an updated
analysis from this administration on that front to take into account the
invasion?  
  
     And also, just in terms of the timeline, do you all have an
estimate for when people can expect things to level out again?  Can we
expect that during this calendar year?  
  
     CHAIR ROUSE:  So we will be doing a mid-session update of our
budget later this summer.  That is typically what we do.  And obviously,
for next year’s budget, it will be — we will use a new budget that will
not be quite as old — at least for next year.

You know, outside forecasters who have been — you know, who are studying
this as well — expect that inflation will be higher than they were
anticipating back when we locked our budget, so then — at the beginning
of the year before the invasion.   
  
     But they do expect that as we learn to maintain economic activity
while we are still working through this pandemic; while we — while
supply chains continue to improve — although, obviously, there is —
there is uncertainty there with, for example, lockdowns in China, but we
expect them to work through that — that we expect supply chain
challenges to ease.  We do expect inflation to ease this year and into
next year.  
     MR. BATES:  So we have a 4:15 out, so we’re going to need to go. 
But just send us any other questions you have in the press office
(inaudible).  
  
4:16 P.M. EDT               
