---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-03'
modified_time: 2022-03-04 16:17:01-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/03/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-h-r-4445-ending-forced-arbitration-of-sexual-assault-and-sexual-harassment-act-of-2021/
published_time: 2022-03-03 16:10:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Signing of H.R. 4445, \u201CEnding Forced Arbitration\
  \ of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of\_2021\u201D"
---
 
5:49 P.M. EST 

   
     THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Gretchen, thank you.  And are they your two
children?  Stand up so everybody can see you.  (Applause.)

Who’s that guy in front of you?  (Laughter.)  Is that Dad?

Just remember, moms — you get along with; you can work it out.  But dads
are hard to raise.  Be patient with us, okay?  (Laughter.)

Well, look, Gretchen, thank you very much.  You know, you went from
speaking to millions to speaking for millions and speaking for a
movement.  You remind us that even a powerful job didn’t protect you
from having to contend — you’re over on this side, I’m sorry — for
having to contend with so much that you had to face.

And to all the other courageous survivors — there’s four here today. 
Would you all stand up?  (Applause.)  You’re the survivors who led this
historic reform.  And thank you, thank you, thank you, on behalf of my
daughter, my granddaughters, all my — all my family.  Thank you so very
much.

Between half and three quarters of all women report that they have faced
some form of sexual harassment in the workplace.  And too often, they’re
denied a voice and fair chance to do anything about it. 

Today we send a clear and strong message that we stand with you for
safety, dignity, and for justice. 

In my State of the Union, I said I disagreed with the notion that we
can’t work together on important things.  Last year, I signed 80
bipartisan bills into law — from preventing government shutdowns to
reforming the military justice system, as Kirsten knows very well, on a
whole range of issues relating to how women are treated. 

Today, I’m proud to sign another bipartisan bill into law.  And I want
to thank the many champions of this bill: the Vice President;
Representative and old friend Cheri Bustos — good to see you, Cheri; and
Ken Buck, Morgan Griffith, Pramila Jayapal.  Where are you?  Where is
she?

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  She’s right over here.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  On the right.

THE PRESIDENT:  There you are.  Good to see you.

And Senators Kirsten Gillibrand — and Lindsey Graham (Laughter.)  By the
way, Lindsey used to be a really close friend.  I’m going to work on it
again.  (Laughter.)

And Dick Durbin and — I’m leaving all — so many people out.

But, look, for the folks at home, here’s what this law is going to do. 
Time and again, women and sometimes men are forced and face sexual
harassment and assault on the job.  And it took that courageous step to
reporting what had happened.

And some of them, when they did, they found out that reporting
harassment behavior triggered a part of an employment contract they had
never seen — they didn’t even know existed — that they were powerless to
change — a mechanism called “forced arbitration.” 

Forced arbitration isn’t court.  In fact, forced arbitration prevents
survivors from going to court.  And under forced arbitration,
proceedings are conducted in secret, often by arbitrators selected and
paid for by the employer. 

And the outcomes of the arbitration are usually hidden from the public
and the employees and coworkers, and they usually can’t even — and they
can’t be appealed or can’t be overturned. 

In some arbitration clauses, you can’t even acknowledge that you’re
bringing the claim.  And parenthetically, employees can still forbid —
can still forbid — employers can still forbid people from talking about
what happened to them through nondisclosure clauses.  And I think that
should be changed as well, but that’s another day.  (Applause.)

And when it comes to sexual harassment and assault, forced arbitration
shielded perpetrators, silenced survivors, and enabled employers to
sweep episodes of sexual assault and harassment under the rug.  And it
kept survivors from knowing if others have experienced the same thing,
in the same workplace, at the hands of the same person. 

And, yes, there will be cases where victims want their claims resolved
in private.  But some survivors will want their day in court.  And that
should be their choice and nobody else’s choice.  (Applause.)  

I know there’s discussion in Congress about whether forced arbitration
clauses should also be banned for other kinds of employment disputes
beyond sexual harassment and assault.  I think it’s all wrong and they
should be banned.  But that doesn’t cover here.  (Applause.)

Giving the employer absolute power to decide isn’t how justice is
supposed to work.  It should be the choice of the employee about whether
they want to go to court or not. 

I’ve made clear that — my belief that is no worker should have to make a
commitment before any dispute has arisen to give their — up their access
to justice in the courts when their rights — when they believe their
right has been violated. 

Sixty million American workers are bound by forced arbitration clauses
that were included in the fine print of their contracts.  And many don’t
even know they exist.  You might have signed one without knowing it. 

I strongly believe no worker should have to make such a commitment.  And
that’s why I support legislation in the House of Representatives that’s
going to consider com- — in the coming weeks that would prohibit
mandatory arbitration of all types of employment disputes.  (Applause.)

But look — but today marks an important step in an effort to ban
mandatory pre-dispute arbitration clauses that takes the power to choose
how to pursue justice away from the worker.  And I’m glad that there was
a broad bipartisan support and unanimity in the United States Senate
that we should never be forced — there should never be a forced
arbitration clause for sexual harassment and/or assault.  

And, folks, this is, I think, a momentous day for justice and fairness
in the workplace.  And for those who experience sexual harassment or
assault, you’re going to have the right today that you did not have
yesterday.  And that’s good news. 

And by the way, I’d also argue that it is also good for the employers,
as you mentioned.  And I think it is good for the employers.  If a
worker experiences sexual assault or harassment, it’s in the — it’s in
the employer’s best interest to address it — many times, an employer may
not know — and to make sure it never happens again.    

Employers can’t successfully compete for the best workers if their
workplace practices are unsafe and unjust.  Employers, it puts you on
the right side of the workers.  And as Gretchen said, it puts you on the
right side of history.  

And so, on behalf of the workers of today, on behalf of my daughter, on
behalf of my granddaughters and grandchildren, and with gratitude for
the bravery of so many women who, by speaking out, have made the
workplace fairer and safer for others, I’m now going to step over here
and sign this bill.

And by the way, it’s my hope that, with the support of all the members
of Congress here, I look forward to signing legislation to strengthen
and renew the Violence Against Women Act — (applause) — which I — which
I first wrote and championed three decades ago.

So, folks, it’s time to get that passed, too.

Ladies and gentlemen, I’m going to walk over and sign this legislation.

(The bill is signed.)

It’s now the law.  (Applause.)

5:58 P.M. EST           
