---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-03-16'
modified_time: 2022-03-18 07:19:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-making-communities-safer-including-campuses-of-historically-black-colleges-and-universities/
published_time: 2022-03-16 19:17:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Making Communities Safer, Including Campuses\
  \ of Historically Black Colleges and\_Universities"
---
 
*South Court Auditorium  
*Eisenhower Executive Office Building**

3:20 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you so very much, Mr. President. 
(Applause.)   
  
Hi, everybody.  Good afternoon, everyone.  Please have a seat.  Good
afternoon.  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  
  
Thank you, President Hudson, for that introduction and for your strong
and steady leadership as the president of Jackson State University,
especially during this difficult time.   
  
We are joined today by extraordinary national leaders — members of
Congress; members of our administration, whom you’ve heard from; law
enforcement officials, educators, students, and other community
leaders.  And we gather united against violence and against
intimidation.  
  
One year ago today, in Atlanta, eight people were killed in a horrific
act of violence.  Six out of the eight were of Asian descent.  Seven
were women.  And these shootings took place in businesses owned by Asian
Americans.  
  
These acts were acts of terror that brought terror to the AA and NHPI
community in Atlanta and to every community across our country when we
witnessed the violence and the hate that was displayed that day.  And
they occurred in the midst of a dramatic increase in violence and
discrimination against the AA and NHPI community.  
  
Over the past year, our administration has taken action to protect our
AA and NHPI communities.  Last May, President Biden signed into law the
bipartisan COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act.  That law provides resources and
training for state and local law enforcement to accurately identify and
report hate crime, and addresses language and cultural barriers that
often make it difficult for communities to report such crimes against
them.  
  
Today, one year after the attack, we are reminded of the terrible cost
of violence, xenophobia, and hate.  Every American should be able to
learn, work, worship, and gather without fear.  It is our duty to do
everything we can to protect all our communities.  A harm against any
one of our communities is a harm against all of us.  
  
So, our work continues.  And as has been described since the beginning
of the year, more than 80 anonymous bomb threats have been made against
dozens of our HBCUs, against historically Black churches, against
synagogues and other faith-based and academic institutions.   
  
These threats have been made in phone calls and in instant messages, in
emails, and online posts.  These threats have brought fear and anxiety
to places of peace, as has been mentioned — to sanctuaries, to schools
where young people live and learn, to houses of worship where so many of
us seek solace.  They have caused classes to be canceled, dorms to be
locked down, and communities of faith to be kept apart.   
  
Over the past few months, our administration has been in constant
communication with the leadership of these institutions, and we have
held numerous briefings, trainings and stakeholder calls to gather and
to share information.  And as Attorney General Merrick Garland outlined,
the Department of Justice has taken action to confront these attacks.  
  
Today, I will share two new steps our administration is taking to ensure
that our communities are protected and that they are supported.  
  
Today, we are announcing that HBCUs that have received threats that
significantly disrupt the learning environment are eligible for grant
funding through our Department of Education and the leadership of
Secretary Cardona.  
  
These short-term grants, known as Project SERV grants, can be used to
hire more mental health professionals, to enhance campus security, and
to provide specialized training to security staff.  And again, they will
only be given to schools that have received threats that significantly
impact the learning environment.  
  
In addition, our administration is releasing a resource guide for
colleges and universities with detailed information on detecting,
preventing, and recovering from threats and acts of violence.  And we
will continue to work together with schools and houses of worship and
all other impacted institutions to ensure safety and security.  
  
Today, our administration is sending a very clear message.  This
intimidation will not stand, and we will not be intimidated.  We will do
everything in our power to protect all our communities from violence and
from hate.   
  
We are all in this together, and we must stand together.  
  
Thank you all and take care.  Thank you all.  (Applause.)  
  
  END            3:26 P.M. EDT  
