---
date: '2022-03-29'
modified_time: 2022-03-29 18:29:34-04:00
published_time: 2022-03-29 16:36:10-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/29/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-prime-minister-lee-hsien-loong-of-singapore-in-joint-press-statements/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore\
  \ in Joint Press\_Statements"
---
 
*Vice President’s Ceremonial Office*

3:19 P.M. EDT

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Okay, good afternoon, everyone.  It is my great
pleasure to see you again, Mr. Prime Minister.  You and I had an
extensive and wonderful visit when I was in Singapore in August.  We
discussed many issues that impact our nations and the world.  And today
was a continuation of that conversation with a number of do-outs from
the conversation that we originally had.

I must say, at the beginning, what I said to you then and today remains
absolutely true: The United States is a proud member of the
Indo-Pacific, and the relationship that we have with the nations in that
region and with Singapore is an enduring relationship.  It is a
relationship we value and we prioritize for many reasons, including the
shared principle that we have about what is important in terms of world
order and international norms and standards.

The focus of the trip in August was to do what is important and what is
possible in continuing to strengthen and reaffirm the relationship that
the United States has with Singapore. 

And the importance of the relationship spans many areas, including what
is in our mutual interest and our shared interest in terms of our own
nations’ strength and prosperity. 

You and I discussed the issue of Russia and Ukraine.  And we, in the
spirit of our work together being global, discussed our support for the
people of Ukraine and also the importance of acknowledging the economic
costs that Singapore levied as a result of our shared concern about the
advancement that Russia and the — and the aggression that Russia has
taken, and the threat that it has posed to an issue that we hold dearly
— and I’ll speak for the United States, and I know that we share this
concern — about upholding the importance of sovereignty and territorial
integrity.

But the bigger issue is not only about what we must do to maintain and
fight for, for the United States, European security, but what we must do
as a matter of principle and priority for our nation in standing up to
the importance of rules and norms and international rules and norms —
again, in this case, as it relates to sovereignty and territorial
integrity.

During the August trip, we launched many initiatives that are about
shaping the future of our nations and our world.  And today, of course,
again, is a follow-up to that conversation, including what we are doing
together in the context of space. 

I am very pleased that as a follow-up to the discussion that you and I
had in Singapore, that Singapore has signed on to the Artemis Accords,
which of course is a partnership between many nations, Southeast Asia
now being represented; Singapore being the fourth Southeast Asian nation
to recognize what we can do together to expand international norms as it
relates to all matters, including matters in space.

And so, we have discussed that.  We have discussed, of course, the
importance of working together on the issue of cyber, both as a security
matter but also as a matter that relates to our nation’s prosperity and
investment in innovation.  And so, we have announced, and you announced
with the President today, the U.S.-Singapore Cyber Dialogue. 

We have also discussed other issues that relate to our economies and,
again, prosperity of our respective nations, including the importance of
collaboration on the issue of supply chains — something we talked about
back in August and have discussed again today — and our commitment to
moving forward together on this important work.

And we have discussed the importance of climate and what our nations
have the ability and have the commitment to do to be leaders on this
issue that threatens the security and the wellbeing of our entire globe.

So, with that, Mr. Prime Minister, I thank you for the visit and for our
conversation.  I look forward to many more.  And I thank you for the
friendship as well.

PRIME MINISTER LEE:  Thank you, Vice President — Vice President Harris,
ladies and gentlemen.  I thank the Vice President for her very warm
remarks.  We last met in August, in Singapore, and we continued with a
very good conversation this afternoon, reaffirming the longstanding and
robust partnership between our two countries.

And we also discussed the ongoing crisis in Ukraine and reiterated our
shared commitment to a stable, rules-based global order.

The U.S. has played an important and constructive role in the Asia
Pacific for nearly eighty\* years.  Singapore has consistently supported
a strong U.S. presence in the region, both through words and actions. 
And our two countries enjoy close economic relations.

Our U.S.-Singapore Free Trade Agreement signed in 2004, nearly 20 years
ago, was the U.S.’s first FTA with an Asian country.  Singapore is home
to nearly 5,500 U.S. companies, and U.S. FDI stock in Singapore exceeds
U.S. investments in China, India, and the Republic of Korea combined.

Singapore is also the second-largest Asian investor in the U.S.  So,
Singapore’s investment in the U.S. and U.S. exports to Singapore support
more than a quarter million U.S. jobs. 

Our security and defense ties go back many decades.  We’re a major
security cooperation partner of the U.S.  Our Memorandum of
Understanding on Defense Cooperation, signed in 1990 and renewed
recently in 2019, provides the U.S. military with access to Singapore’s
air and naval bases. 

Vice President Harris visited the littoral combat ship USS Tulsa at our
Changi Naval Base when she visited Singapore, and she could see
firsthand how Singapore supports the U.S. military presence and its
defense engagements in the region.

Singapore also has one of the largest foreign training presences in the
U.S.  We are grateful for U.S. support, for their air force training,
which we conduct with detachments in Arizona and Idaho. 

And we continue to work together to jointly face challenges on the
horizon, deepening defense cooperation in areas like cyber defense,
artificial intelligence, and joint training with the F-35s.

The Vice President and I reviewed progress on the substantial agenda of
deliverables announced on her visit last year.  We’ve established a
bilateral cyber dialogue to work together on critical infrastructure
protection, data security, and sharing of best practices in support of a
rules-based multilateral order in cyberspace.

We’re expanding the MOU between MTI and DFC to deepen collaboration in
green and sustainable infrastructure projects in the region. 

And as the Vice President told you, Singapore has signed the Artemis
Accords, which aim to promote the peaceful, sustainable, and beneficial
use of space.  We are the first Southeast Asian country to sign on, and
we had a good discussion about this because the Vice President chairs
the White House National Space Council.

 So I’m very glad that the Vice President and I were able to meet again
to discuss ways to take our partnership to even greater heights.  And we
look forward to the next occasion to meet the Vice President once more,
either in Washington or, I hope, in Singapore.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.

PRIME MINISTER LEE:  Thank you very much.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you again, Mr. Prime Minister.

                                       END                 3:27 P.M. EDT
