---
date: '2024-05-31'
published_time: 2024-05-31 14:00:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2024/05/31/affordable-high-speed-internet-is-spurring-economic-growth-and-boosting-small-businesses/
tags: blog
title: "Affordable High-Speed Internet is Spurring Economic Growth and Boosting Small\_\
  Businesses"
---
 
*Heather Boushey, Chief Economist, Investing in America Cabinet*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Access to affordable, reliable, high-speed internet is a cornerstone of
the American economy and essential for
[economic](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2021/11/06/bringing-infrastructure-into-the-21st-century/)
growth. This is also a bipartisan view—Congress has
[found](https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?path=/prelim@title47/chapter16&edition=prelim)
that “\[a\]ccess to affordable, reliable, high-speed broadband is
essential to full participation in modern life in the United States.”
However, nearly a quarter of American households continue to lack access
to high-speed internet at home due to high costs, and in certain
communities, a lack of necessary infrastructure. In particular,
communities of color, Native communities, rural communities, and
low-income households are disproportionately disconnected. That’s why,
as part of his Internet for All initiative, President Biden
[committed](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/26/remarks-by-president-biden-on-broadband-investments/)
to connecting every household in America by 2030, deploying [over $80
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov) in
federal funding to expand access to affordable, reliable, high-speed
internet across the country.

Core to the success of the President’s plan is the [Affordable
Connectivity Program (ACP),](https://www.fcc.gov/acp) which provides
qualifying households with up to $30 per month (or $75 per month for
households on qualifying Tribal Lands) off their internet bill. The ACP
is the largest and most successful internet affordability program in our
nation’s history, with over 23 million households enrolled—one in every
six households. Because the Administration worked with internet
providers to offer high-speed internet plans that are fully covered by
the Affordable Connectivity Program, most of these 23 million households
have received high-speed internet for free.

Without further funding from Congress, the Affordable Connectivity
Program will expire today. This expiration would increase the price of
internet for the more than 23 million households enrolled in the program
with significant economic implications. That 23 million includes nearly
11.5 million military families, 4 million seniors, 5.75 million African
American households, 5.75 million Latino households, and 320,000
households on Tribal lands. Many families would lose internet all
together—a [recent FCC survey](https://www.fcc.gov/acp-survey) found
that more than three-quarters of respondents would have their service
disrupted by losing their ACP benefit. Depriving these families of this
funding would leave them without money to spend on other necessities
like groceries, education, or healthcare. In some
[states](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/01/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-continues-to-call-on-congressional-republicans-and-internet-service-providers-to-keep-americans-connected-as-the-affordable-connectivity-program-enters-final-mo/)
like Kentucky, Ohio, and Nevada, one in four households are enrolled.

That’s why, since last October, President Biden has called on Congress
to extend this benefit through 2024. Democratic Members and Senators
have joined him in this effort. But Republican leaders in Congress have
failed to act. President Biden is once again calling on Republicans in
Congress to join their Democratic colleagues in support of extending
funding for the Affordable Connectivity Program, so tens of millions of
Americans can continue to access this essential benefit.

This blog describes the economic benefits of access to affordable
high-speed internet and the consequences of letting the ACP expire, with
a particular focus on the role of internet access in supporting small
business creation and economic growth.

## **The significance of access to high-speed internet in the U.S. economy**

The COVID-19 pandemic brought into sharp focus the importance of
affordable, reliable, high-speed internet for American businesses and
families in the 21<sup>st</sup> century economy. Even pre-pandemic, an
extensive literature pointed to the significance of access to
affordable, reliable, high-speed internet for an array of economic
outcomes, including small business formation and economic growth. Small
businesses, in particular, are a [crucial
part](https://www.sba.gov/article/2023/12/05/us-small-business-administration-announces-first-ever-season-small-business-campaign)
of local economies and communities—they are responsible for more than
40% of America’s economic output and two-thirds of net new jobs.

Access to internet is now a must-have for creating and running
businesses in the U.S. economy. Businesses engage with customers,
suppliers, and services (such as banking and accounting) online; [online
sales](https://www.census.gov/retail/mrts/www/data/pdf/ec_current.pdf)
account for 15.9 percent of total retail sales, nearly nine percent more
than a year ago; and most [job
seekers](https://www.bls.gov/opub/mlr/2017/beyond-bls/online-job-search-the-new-normal.htm)
now look for jobs online.
[Several](https://academic.oup.com/joeg/article/23/1/139/6573380#394981557) [recent](https://rsaiconnect.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/pirs.12626) [papers](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1093/ajae/aaw082) have
found causal links between expansions of broadband (high-speed internet)
access and the creation of new businesses, as well as the growth of
existing businesses, in urban and near-urban areas.
[The](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/ajae.12259) [literature](https://academic.oup.com/joeg/article/23/1/139/6573380#394981557) [indicates](https://rsaiconnect.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/pirs.12626) that
rural broadband expansion also likely affects business growth and
formation, particularly in knowledge-intensive industries.

These results may stem from increased access to new ideas, supply
chains, and customers. Additionally, some researchers have described the
effects of the internet as allowing businesses in smaller cities or more
rural areas to “[borrow
size](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/00343404.2019.1699238)”—to
take advantage of the benefits of larger cities without the costs
associated with physically locating in those cities.

The economic benefits of access to high-speed internet extend beyond
small business formation to health and education.
[Researchers](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16620167/) have found that
virtual visits with trained medical professionals can improve patient
outcomes at a lower cost and lower risk of infection than traditional
care provided in-person. Unfortunately, a
[survey](https://www.healthaffairs.org/doi/10.1377/hlthaff.2018.05125)
of community-based health centers found that, among those not using
telehealth, lack of access to broadband was a barrier to adoption,
especially for those living in rural areas. In education, [survey
data](https://quello.msu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Broadband_Gap_Quello_Report_MSU.pdf)
show that students in rural school districts with high-speed internet at
home had higher grades and standardized test scores than their peers
without access, with ensuing economic effects.

These effects and others mean that affordable high-speed internet
supports a stronger and more resilient economy. One
[study](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-0297.2011.02420.x) comparing
countries that belonged to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development between 1996 and 2007 found that a 10-percentage-point
increase in broadband penetration was associated with a 0.9 to 1.5
percentage point increase in per capita economic growth. Another
[study](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/001979391306600202?journalCode=ilra)
focused on the United States estimated that counties gaining broadband
access in the early 2000s experienced a 1.8 percentage point  increase
in employment rates. More generally, a number of studies support
benefits of broadband internet for
[employment](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0308596114000949),
labor
[productivity](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0161893814000908),
and economic
[resilience](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5cfdf6cb8acf8600012f8920/t/61a63b8c64caf536998ab307/1638284173908/Internet-Access-and-its-Implications-for-Productivity-Inequality-and-Resilience-published.pdf).

## **Expanding access to reliable, high-speed internet**

Despite the importance of affordable, reliable, high-speed internet for
economic equity and growth, in 2022, only 75.9 percent of U.S households
had wired high-speed internet service at home according to the [American
Community Survey](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs) with
adoption varying by income, race, and the density of their community
(Figure 1).

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Picture1_cc7143.png"
class="wp-image-100219" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 766px) 100vw, 766px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Picture1_cc7143.png 766w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Picture1_cc7143.png?resize=615,449 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Picture1_cc7143.png?resize=438,320 438w"
width="766" height="559" />
</figure>

This variation means that expanded access to and adoption of broadband
is important for reducing economic disparities. Additionally, it points
to two separate challenges for broadband adoption. First, some
households—particularly those in rural communities—do not have access to
broadband internet because it is not offered in their community.
According to the [latest
data](https://www.fcc.gov/news-events/notes/2023/11/17/national-broadband-map-30-thankful-continued-improvements)
by the Federal Communications Commission, 7.2 million physical
locations—either homes or small businesses—are unable to access
broadband internet due to a lack of the necessary infrastructure. A
second challenge is that some households are unable to afford it; in the
beginning of 2021, [15
percent](https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2021/06/03/34-of-lower-income-home-broadband-users-have-had-trouble-paying-for-their-service-amid-covid-19/)
of home broadband users reported having trouble paying for high-speed
internet service, including 34 percent of users in households with less
than $30,000 in income.

Through its Investing in America agenda, the Biden-Harris administration
is making targeted investments in addressing both of those challenges
and thereby gaining the benefits of widespread high-speed internet
adoption for business formation, employment, health, education, and
economic growth. The [Broadband Equity Access and
Deployment](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/26/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-over-40-billion-to-connect-everyone-in-america-to-affordable-reliable-high-speed-internet/)
program, created by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, invests over $40
billion in building out high-speed internet infrastructure in every U.S.
state and territory. In addition, $2.75 billion is included for the
[Digital Equity
Act](https://broadbandusa.ntia.doc.gov/funding-programs/digital-equity-act-programs),
which provides grants for communities to take advantage of high-speed
internet connections. At the same time, the [Affordable Connectivity
Program](https://www.fcc.gov/acp) reduces the price of internet for
eligible households.

Over time, these investments will connect every American with
affordable, reliable, high-speed internet. But connectivity is not
enough, it’s essential that Americans can afford the service. The Biden
Harris-Administration is asking Congress to extend funding the
Affordable Connectivity Program, so that millions of households do not
lose the connections that enable them to run their own business, access
telehealth, and participate in remote and virtual education.

## Conclusion

Without action from Republican leaders, funding for the ACP will soon
lapse. This means that families will see their internet bills increase
by $30 or more, and communities across the country will lose out on the
economic benefits of connectivity. When accounting for lost economic
opportunities, education, and telehealth services, [one
study](https://progresschamber.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Analysis_-Economic-Impact-of-ACP-Expiration-050124.pdf)
found that vulnerable communities are projected to lose over $20 billion
annually in economic benefits. Furthermore, the first two years of the
Biden-Harris Administration were the two [highest
years](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/05/01/investing-in-small-businesses/)
of applications to start businesses on record—the third year is on track
to surpass both. The loss of ACP subsidies could threaten to slow this
pace because many of these businesses rely on access to high-speed
internet to succeed.

The economic benefits of programs that expand access to high-speed
internet, like the Affordable Connectivity Program, are
well-established. Continued funding for the Affordable Connectivity
Program would not only benefit the 23 million households that are able
to afford high-speed internet through the program, but also all
Americans who benefit from thriving small businesses and strong, stable,
equitable economic growth.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
