---
date: '2023-12-22'
modified_time: 2023-12-22 15:50:03-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-22 15:50:02-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/22/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-h-r-2670-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2024/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on H.R. 2670, National Defense Authorization\
  \ Act for Fiscal Year\_2024"
---
 
Today, I have signed into law H.R. 2670, the “National Defense
Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2024” (the “Act”).  The Act
authorizes fiscal year appropriations principally for the Department of
Defense, Department of Energy national security programs, Department of
State, and the Intelligence Community.  The Act provides the critical
authorities we need to build the military required to deter future
conflicts, while supporting service members and their spouses and
families who carry out that mission every day.  I also thank the
Congress for its extension of title VII of the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act.  My Administration looks forward to working with the
Congress on the reauthorization of this vital national security
authority as soon as possible in the new year.  While I am pleased to
support the critical objectives of the NDAA, I note that certain
provisions of the Act raise concerns.

     Section 1033 of the Act continues to bar the use of funds
appropriated to the Department of Defense to transfer Guantánamo Bay
detainees to the custody or effective control of certain foreign
countries.  Section 1031 likewise would continue to prohibit the use of
such funds to transfer Guantánamo Bay detainees into the United States. 
It is the longstanding position of the executive branch that these
provisions unduly impair the ability of the executive branch to
determine when and where to prosecute Guantánamo Bay detainees and where
to send them upon release.  In some circumstances, these provisions
could make it difficult to comply with the final judgment of a court
that has directed the release of a detainee on writ of habeas corpus,
including by constraining the flexibility of the executive branch with
respect to its engagement in delicate negotiations with foreign
countries over the potential transfer of detainees.

     I urge the Congress to eliminate these restrictions as soon as
possible.  Moreover, certain provisions of the Act raise constitutional
concerns or questions of construction.

     Certain provisions of the Act, including sections 856(c),
1221(a)(7), 1269, 1687, 7315, and 7351 would require the President and
other officials to submit reports and plans to committees of
the Congress that will, in the ordinary course, include highly sensitive
classified information, including information that could reveal critical
intelligence sources or military operational plans or could implicate
executive branch confidentiality interests.  The Constitution vests the
President with the authority to prevent the disclosure of such highly
sensitive information in order to discharge his responsibility to
protect the national security.  At the same time, congressional
committees have legitimate needs to perform vital oversight and other
legislative functions with respect to national security and military
matters.  Accordingly, it has been the common practice of the executive
branch to comply with statutory reporting requirements in a way that
satisfies congressional needs pursuant to the traditional accommodation
practice and consistent with due regard for the protection from
unauthorized disclosure of classified information relating to sensitive
intelligence sources and methods or other exceptionally sensitive
matters, as well as to preserve the confidentiality of internal
executive branch deliberations, particularly those with respect to
decisions bearing on the Nation’s national security.  I believe the
Congress shares this understanding, and my Administration will presume
that it is incorporated into statutory reporting requirements of the
kind at issue in the Act.

     A number of provisions of the Act may, in certain circumstances,
interfere with the exercise of the President’s constitutional authority
to articulate the positions of the United States in international
negotiations or fora including sections 825(c)(1), 1013(b), 1255(b)(2),
1256(c)(2), 1305, 1309(a), 1518(a), 5411(a), 5602(c), and 6406.  I
recognize that “\[i\]t is not for the President alone to determine the
whole content of the Nation’s foreign policy” (Zivotofsky v. Kerry) and
will make every effort to take action consistent with these provisions. 
Indeed, I do not necessarily oppose many of the objectives in these
provisions.  Nevertheless, I will not treat them as limiting the
President’s constitutional discretion to articulate the views of the
United States before international organizations and with foreign
governments.

     Section 1555(a) of the Act requires recipients of certain
Department of Defense (the “Department”) advertising contracts to
certify that they “\[do\] not place advertisements in news sources based
on personal or institutional political preferences or biases, or
determinations of misinformation.”  The Department will comply with this
provision by requiring recipients of such contracts to certify that they
will not place the Department’s advertisements based on the enumerated
grounds.  But the Department must also comply with the First Amendment,
which limits the Government in “leverag\[ing\] funding to regulate
speech outside the contours of the \[governmental\] program
itself” (Agency for International Development v. Alliance for Open
Society International, Inc.).  The Department of Defense will implement
the certification required by section 1555(a) consistent with the First
Amendment.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
 December 22, 2023.
