---
date: '2023-12-12'
published_time: 2023-12-12 22:34:05-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/12/readout-of-white-house-meeting-with-jewish-american-leaders-to-discuss-ongoing-efforts-to-combat-antisemitism-and-hate-fueled-violence/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Meeting with Jewish American Leaders to Discuss Ongoing\
  \ Efforts to Combat Antisemitism and Hate-Fueled\_Violence"
---
 
Jewish American leaders from across the country met with senior
Administration officials at the White House yesterday ahead of the
annual White House Hanukkah reception to learn more about the
Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to combatting antisemitism and
hate-fueled violence. Participants included the professional leaders of
American Jewish organizations, clergy representing diverse religious
denominations, and community leaders. Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff
thanked leaders for their tireless advocacy for the Jewish community,
highlighted the actions the Biden-Harris Administration has taken to
counter antisemitism, and conveyed the President’s commitment to
fighting all forms of hate.

White House Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall briefed
the group on the President’s enduring commitment to countering the
increase in antisemitic threats and hate-fueled violence and outlined
specific actions the Administration is taking to provide support to
communities that feel threatened and strengthen their security. Dr.
Sherwood-Randall emphasized the Administration’s focus on ensuring that
incidents of violence are quickly identified, condemned, and, as
appropriate, investigated by law enforcement. She also highlighted the
President’s commitment to doing everything possible to ensure the safety
of religious communities, houses of worship, schools, and other impacted
individuals and groups across the nation.

In addition, White House Coordinator for the Middle East and North
Africa Brett McGurk provided information about the Administration’s
longstanding support for Israel’s security, the actions taken since the
horrific terrorist assault on October 7th, and ongoing efforts to secure
the release of hostages held by Hamas terrorists. Special Envoy to
Monitor and Combat Antisemitism Ambassador Deborah Lipstadt also met
with the group to discuss the work the United States is doing to combat
antisemitism around the world.

\###
