---
date: '2023-12-14'
modified_time: 2023-12-15 09:04:02-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-14 11:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-accelerate-americas-clean-transportation-future/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes Action to Accelerate America\u2019\
  s Clean Transportation\_Future"
---
 
*Leading U.S. Companies* *Join the Federal Government in Drive to Make
Business Travel Cleaner, Save Taxpayer Dollars, Tackle the Climate
Crisis, and Boost American Manufacturing*

As part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to build a clean
transportation future, today the Administration is announcing new public
and private commitments to boost access to electric vehicles (EVs), save
taxpayer dollars, and tackle the climate crisis. This includes leading
by example on climate with the release of new Federal employee travel
guidelines that direct the use of sustainable transportation for
official and local travel, both domestically and internationally.  
  
These new commitments will save taxpayers money by increasing the use of
EVs and taking other cost-effective actions on clean transportation
associated with business travel for the Federal workforce. In addition,
the State of California, companies, and nonprofits are announcing new
commitments through the Biden-Harris Administration’s [EV Acceleration
Challenge](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cleanenergy/ev-acceleration-challenge/)
to expand EV fleets, increase consumer education, and grow the
availability of EV charging and other clean transportation
infrastructure.  
  
These commitments further advance President Biden’s [Investing in
America](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/invest/) agenda, a key pillar of
Bidenomics, to spur domestic manufacturing, strengthen supply chains,
boost U.S. competitiveness, and create good-paying jobs and healthier
communities. Under President Biden’s leadership, EV sales have tripled
and the number of publicly available charging ports has grown by nearly
70 percent since he took office. Private companies have announced more
than [$150
billion](/Users/ECHutchinson/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/1BBFXUEB/invest.gov)
in investments in the EV and battery supply chain in the same time
period. There are now more than 166,000 public EV chargers across the
country, and the U.S. has already set a new record by selling more than
1 million EVs so far this year.    
  
**<u>Federal Commitments to Catalyze a Clean Transportation
Future</u>**  
  
As the Nation’s largest employer and with an annual business travel
purchasing power of $2.8 billion, the Federal Government is leading by
example by shifting to cleaner transportation options, including
American-made electric vehicles and charging infrastructure. In 2022
alone, Federal employees took more than 2.8 million flights, 2.3 million
vehicle rentals, and 33,000 rail trips. These operational changes will
accelerate the clean transportation transformation, increase good-paying
union jobs and create healthier communities.  
  
President Biden’s [Federal Sustainability
Plan](https://www.sustainability.gov/federalsustainabilityplan/index.html)
aims to reach net-zero emissions from overall Federal operations by
2050, including a 65 percent emissions reduction by 2030. Through new
Federal employee travel guidelines issued today, the Biden-Harris
Administration is advancing this goal by directing Federal agencies to
prioritize the use of sustainable transportation for official and local
travel, both domestically and internationally, including by:

-   **Prioritizing electric vehicle use when traveling:** Federal
    employees will rent an EV on official travel when the cost of the EV
    is less than or equal to the most affordable comparable vehicle
    available. Employees will also opt for cost-competitive EV options,
    where available, when using taxis and ride share platforms. This
    will save taxpayer money and reduce pollution that jeopardizes
    people’s health and fuels the climate crisis.  
-   **Expanding rail travel:** Federal employees will use rail for trips
    less than 250 miles when cost-effective and available, instead of
    taking an airplane or vehicle.  
-   **Increasing** **public transit use:** Federal employees will use
    public transit (e.g., subway, bus, light rail) when conducting local
    travel or upon arrival at the official travel location.

To support swift and successful whole-of-government implementation,
Federal agencies are being directed through an [Office of Management and
Budget (OMB)
Memorandum](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/information-for-agencies/memoranda/)
and [U.S. General Services Administration Travel
Bulletin](https://www.gsa.gov/system/files/FTR%20Bulletin%2024-02_%20Sustainable%20Transportation%20for%20Official%20Travel.pdf)
to take a comprehensive series of steps to ensure sustainable travel
options are easily accessible to employees when booking travel
arrangements. Agencies will have 120 days from today’s announcement to
report to OMB and the White House Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ)
on the plans and actions they have taken to carry out the policy and
goals of the OMB Memorandum.  
  
The State of California will join the Federal government by issuing
guidance by June 2024 to state employees, encouraging the use of Zero
Emission Vehicle commercial rentals on official travel where available
and operationally feasible.  
  
**<u>Private Sector Commitments to Catalyze a Clean Transportation
Future</u>**  
  
In order to grow sustainable travel options nationwide, the Federal
government, the travel industry, major corporations, and state, local,
and Tribal governments must collaborate.  
  
As part of President Biden’s goal of having at least 50% of all new
vehicle sales be electric by 2030, the Biden-Harris Administration has
issued an ongoing call to action through the EV Acceleration Challenge
to all stakeholders in the private and public sectors, including
advocacy and community groups, to dedicate resources and make
independent commitments to boost EVs in America.  
  
In conjunction with today’s announcements from the Biden-Harris
Administration, leading U.S. organizations across sectors are announcing
new commitments to build America’s clean transportation future as the
latest additions to President Biden’s [EV Acceleration
Challenge](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cleanenergy/ev-acceleration-challenge/):  
  
*<u>Travel & Hospitality Sector</u>*  
  
**American Express Global Business Travel** is today launching a new
software solution that helps companies increase the adoption of EVs by
prioritizing EVs over gasoline cars when travelers are booking trips and
refining searches so hotels with EV charging points can be easily
found.  
  
**Amtrak** commits to transitioning its fleet of highway vehicles to
zero emissions by 2035, which will eliminate over 3 million gallons of
fuel a year.  
  
**Delta Air Lines** commits to build on its achievement of over 30%
Ground Service Equipment (GSE) electrification systemwide, with its BOS,
LGA, and SLC hubs all over 75% electric in the core GSE fleets, by
electrifying up to 50% of its GSE in 2025, including baggage tractors,
belt loaders, aircraft tow tractors and other critical fleets necessary
to turn an aircraft.

The **Global Business Travel Association (GBTA)** and **GBTA
Foundation** are committing to releasing new global and industry-wide
sustainable procurement criteria for accommodation, as well as air
travel, ground transport and rail by the end of 2024 to send a strong,
consistent and meaningful market signal for sustainable business travel.

**IHG Hotels & Resorts**, a global hotel company, is
committing to developing a new supplier partnership and providing an EV
charging best practices Guidebook by the end of 2023 to help accelerate
EV charging installation across its portfolio of nearly 4,000 U.S
hotels.

**Marriott International** is committing to more than double the number
of hotels and available chargers for guests by the end of 2027, building
on the over 4,100 EV chargers in over 1,100 properties across the U.S.
so far.  
  
*<u>Rental Car and Rideshare Companies</u>*  
  
**Enterprise Mobility**, a provider of mobility solutions, is making EVs
available to reserve at select locations throughout the US, including at
more than 50 neighborhood rental locations and all major airports
throughout the state of California, and is committed to growing that
availability in 2024 as well as working to evaluate power and charging
needs at strategic locations that will be key to its operations.  
  
**Hertz** is committing to substantially increase its EV rentals to
corporate travelers in North America in 2024, forecasting an eightfold
increase in those rentals compared to 2022, which is expected to result
in nearly 80 million electric miles driven and the avoidance of an
estimated 17,800 metric tons of carbon emissions compared to gas-powered
vehicles.

**Lyft** is committing to expand access to ‘Green Mode’ – through which
riders can directly request a green vehicle on the Lyft app – for at
least 20 of the largest airports in the U.S. by January 2024, and to
pass along airport EV discounts directly to riders, through reduced
fares, later in the year.

**Uber** is committing to expand its “Green Curb at Airports” initiative
to 10 airports across the country by 2025, partnering with airports to
provide riders with perks to go green and drivers with increased access
to convenient, discounted or free EV charging and building on
sustainable options, including Uber Green and Uber Comfort Electric,
currently available to riders at 70+ U.S. airports.

**Zipcar** launched EVs in select cities in 2023 and is committing to
increase its EV fleet in the U.S. up to double its current size in
2024.  
  
*<u>Private Sector</u>*  
  
bp’s EV charging arm, **bp pulse**, is committing to deploy more than
3,000 fast and reliable charging points by 2025 at high-demand locations
in the US, such as airports, major metropolitan areas, and bp branded
properties along Alternative Fueling Corridors.  
  
**Deloitte US** is committing to reduce its business travel emissions
including hotel stays, air, rail, ridesharing, and rental car travel by
50% per full time equivalent by 2030 compared to 2019.  
  
**EVgo** is committed to having at least 1,800 EV fast charging stalls
in operation or under construction in areas serving environmental
justice communities as part of EVgo’s “Electric for All” initiative by
the end of 2024.  
  
**Siemens** is enhancing its green mobility options and hotel program
procurement process to prioritize hotels with EV charging facilities and
car rental companies with EV options, which support the company’s
commitment to expand its suite of sustainable travel options for
employees and its goal of net zero operations by 2030.  
  
*<u>Non-profit Sector</u>*  
  
**Environmental Defense Fund** is committing today to update its travel
policy to prioritize electric vehicles and further encourage train use
effective immediately.  
  
The **Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC)** is committing today to
prioritize modes of travel with the lowest carbon footprint, requiring
the use of EV car rentals, mass transit, and trains during business
trips, whenever possible.  
  
**Sierra Club**, a grassroots environmental organization is committing
to update its policy to encourage sustainable business travel by
prioritizing utilization of regional rail service and rental of EVs for
ground transportation in 2024.  
  
*The EV Acceleration Challenge is accepting submissions on a rolling
basis. The White House will be highlighting additional commitments in
the future. Organizations can submit a commitment to the EV Acceleration
Challenge*
[*here*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cleanenergy/ev-acceleration-challenge/)*.*

\###
