---
date: '2023-12-08'
published_time: 2023-12-08 20:53:27-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/08/statement-from-nsc-spokesperson-adrienne-watson-on-the-travel-of-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-to-the-republic-of-korea/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from NSC Spokesperson Adrienne Watson on the Travel of National\
  \ Security Advisor Jake Sullivan to the Republic of\_Korea"
---
 
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan has traveled to Seoul, Republic
of Korea (ROK) for meetings on Friday, December 8 and Saturday, December
9 with his counterparts, National Security Secretariat Secretary General
Akiba Takeo of Japan and National Security Office Director Cho Taeyong
of the ROK. Mr. Sullivan has participated in separate bilateral meetings
with his counterparts, and he is now joining a trilateral meeting, the
fourth trilateral between the three National Security Advisors. Their
discussions have captured the full breadth of our strengthening
trilateral relationship across multiple domains. From cooperation on
emerging threats, including the concerning developments related to
weapons transfers between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and
Russia, to the further alignment of respective Indo-Pacific Strategies
between the three countries, these meetings have provided a key
opportunity to build upon the progress made between the U.S., ROK, and
Japan during the historic Camp David Trilateral Summit in August.

Mr. Sullivan will also participate in the inaugural Next Generation
Critical and Emerging Technology (CET) Dialogue between the U.S. and the
ROK, a key initiative announced during ROK President Yoon’s state visit
to the United States in April. In conjunction with the CET Dialogue, he
has participated in a Track 1.5 Event to discuss the importance of
deeper collaboration on critical and emerging technology with the ROK,
including the clean energy transition. NSA Sullivan and NSA Cho are
using this opportunity to highlight their intent to anchor the CET
Dialogue across six main technology areas, including semiconductor
supply chains and technology, biotechnology, batteries and clean energy
technology, quantum, digital connectivity, and artificial intelligence.

During his visit, Mr. Sullivan will reaffirm the United States’
unwavering support for the ROK and Japan in the face of the DPRK’s
provocative actions in the region, as well as discuss deepening
collaboration on key issues like critical and emerging technology, and
strengthen resilience against economic coercion and supply chain
disruptions, increasing collaboration on development assistance across
the globe.
