---
date: '2023-12-13'
published_time: 2023-12-13 10:10:10-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/13/press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-statement-regarding-supreme-court-review-of-fifth-circuit-decision-in-alliance-for-hippocratic-medicine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Press Secretary Karine Jean Pierre Statement Regarding Supreme Court Review\
  \ of Fifth Circuit Decision in Alliance for Hippocratic\_Medicine"
---
 
Across the country, we’ve seen unprecedented attacks on women’s freedom
to make their own health decisions. States have imposed extreme and
dangerous abortion bans that put the health of women in jeopardy and
that threaten to criminalize doctors for providing the health care that
their patients need and that they are trained to provide. No woman
should be unable to access the health care that she needs. This should
not happen in America, period.

The Supreme Court has agreed to review the Fifth Circuit’s decision on
mifepristone, which threatens to undermine the FDA’s scientific,
independent judgment and would reimpose outdated restrictions on access
to safe and effective medication abortion. This Administration will
continue to stand by FDA’s independent approval and regulation of
mifepristone as safe and effective. As the Department of Justice
continues defending the FDA’s actions before the Supreme Court,
President Biden and Vice President Harris remain firmly committed to
defending women’s ability to access reproductive care. We continue to
urge Congress to pass a law restoring the protections of *Roe v.
Wade*—the only way to ensure the right to choose for women in every
state.

\###
