---
date: '2023-12-19'
modified_time: 2023-12-18 20:02:32-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-19 09:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-advances-commitment-to-protect-old-growth-forests-on-national-forest-system-lands/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Advances Commitment to Protect\
  \ Old Growth Forests on National Forest System\_Lands"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration is today taking new and historic steps
to implement President Biden’s direction – issued in his [Earth Day 2022
Executive Order on Strengthening the Nation’s Forests, Communities, and
Local
Economies](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/22/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-strengthen-americas-forests-boost-wildfire-resilience-and-combat-global-deforestation/)
– to conserve and restore America’s mature and old growth forests.
America’s forests are a key climate solution, absorbing carbon dioxide
equivalent to more than 10% of U.S. annual greenhouse gas emissions.
President Biden is leading and delivering on the most ambitious climate
agenda in history, including by already protecting more than 26 million
acres of lands and waters, and today’s actions will build on this
historic progress.  
  
Old and mature forests are vital to providing clean water, absorbing
carbon pollution, and supplying habitat for wildlife. Today’s actions
include a first-of-its kind proposal from the U.S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) to amend all 128 forest land management plans across
the country to conserve and restore old-growth forests across the
National Forest System. This will provide consistent direction across
the Forest Service on how to conserve and restore old-growth forest
conditions across the nation, and marks the first time that the Forest
Service has adopted a nationwide forest plan amendment to guide new
management direction on all national forests at once.  
  
To ensure consistency during the amendment process, proposed management
actions in old-growth forests will be governed by an interim policy
outlined in more detail in a
[letter](https://www.fs.usda.gov/sites/default/files/ReviewOfProposedProjectsWithManagementOfOldGrowthForestConditions-NFSDC.pdf)
from the deputy chief of the National Forest System to regional
foresters.  
  
In addition to updating a nationwide forest plan amendment, the Forest
Service is also initiating the process to update the Northwest Forest
Plan for climate resilience, including for mature and old forest
ecosystems. The Northwest Forest Plan, initiated in 1994, guides the
management of certain federally-managed forests in Washington, Oregon,
and California. These forests contain roughly one quarter of the
remaining old growth on the national forest system in the lower 48
states. This will be the first time since 2007 that the Forest Service
has updated its components of the Northwest Forest Plan.  
  
USDA’s Forest Service and the Department of the Interior’s Bureau of
Land Management (BLM) together manage approximately 32 million acres of
old growth and 80 million acres of mature forests on federal lands, for
a total of 112 million acres. Today’s steps are part of the Biden-Harris
Administration’s ongoing work to deliver on President Biden’s historic
climate, conservation, and restoration agenda, including through better
informed management decisions and unprecedented investments from the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act.  
  
**<u>Whole-of-Government Effort to Safeguard and Steward Our Nation’s
Forests</u>**  
  
***Mature and Old Growth Inventory:*** At the President’s direction, the
Forest Service and the BLM completed the first-ever nationwide inventory
of old and mature forests, and developed definitions for over 200 types
of forest types in the United States. Released on Earth Day 2023,
this [initial inventory
report](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/04/20/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-steps-climate-resilience)
shows that the BLM and Forest Service manage approximately 32 million
acres of old growth and 80 million acres of mature forests on federal
lands, for a total of 112 million acres. Old-growth forests represent
18% and mature forest another 45% of all forested land managed by the
two agencies.  
  
***Forest Service Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking:*** The Forest
Service issued an [Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for National
Forest and Grassland Climate
Resilience](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/04/21/2023-08429/organization-functions-and-procedures-functions-and-procedures-forest-service-functions)
in April 2023 to better inform the stewardship of the national forest
system. The Forest Service received 92,000 individual submissions,
including 30 petitions with 426,000 signatories, and information
received helped to inform the issuance of today’s announcement and will
be used to continue to inform additional actions in the future.  
  
***BLM Proposed Landscape Health and Conservation Rule:*** The BLM
[earlier this year published a proposed
rule](https://www.blm.gov/public-lands-rule) focused on creating and
sustaining healthy landscapes to ensure the agency can fulfill its
statutory mandates to provide for multiple uses and sustainability. The
proposed Landscape Health and Conservation Rule would support the
Administration’s efforts to ensure forests continue to deliver clean
water, clean air, and wildlife habitat. The BLM is reviewing public
comments on old and mature forests and considering ways to conserve and
restore these forests into the future.  
  
**Collaborative Efforts to Conserve Pinyon Juniper:** Pinyon and juniper
woodlands encompass tens of millions of acres of federal lands across
the West, and have significant biodiversity, climate, and cultural
values. [Pinyon-juniper
woodlands](https://www.fs.usda.gov/sites/default/files/pinyon-juniper-fact-sheet.pdf)
are the most abundant forest type in the federally managed inventory of
mature and old-growth forests, and are the majority of mature and
old-growth forests managed by the BLM. While much management focus has
been rightly placed on pinyon-juniper encroachment onto sagebrush
ecosystems, less attention has been paid to the importance of mature and
old-growth pinyon-juniper ecosystems. The Forest Service and the BLM
will co-host a public workshop focused on the conservation of these
ecosystems in 2024. Through this effort, the Forest Service and the BLM
will engage the public, Tribes, land managers, experts, and stakeholders
in informed discussion around management issues, threats, trends, and
opportunities for climate-smart management and conservation of mature
and old-growth pinyon-juniper woodlands on federal lands.  
  
**Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Implementation:** As directed by the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Forest Service issued leadership
direction to the field on how to integrate mature and old growth forest
stewardship and ecological restoration into wildfire mitigation
projects. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provided $5.5 billion to
USDA and $1.5 billion to the Department of the Interior for wildfire,
forest health, and restoration. The law also directs agencies to fund
projects that maximize the retention of large trees and fully maintain
or contribute toward the restoration of the structure and composition of
old growth stands consistent with the characteristics of that forest
type.  
  
**Repealing the 2020 Alaska Roadless Rule to Protect the Tongass
National Forest:** In 2023, the Biden-Harris Administration [finalized
actions](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/01/25/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-protections-tongass-national)
to conserve the Tongass National Forest in Alaska, the world’s largest
intact temperate rainforest. USDA’s final rule restores longstanding
roadless protections to 9.37 million acres of roadless areas that
support the ecological, economic, and cultural values of Southeastern
Alaska.  
  
**Reforestation Targets and Assessments:** As directed by President
Biden’s E.O. 14072, USDA and DOI released a [joint reforestation
report](https://www.usda.gov/sites/default/files/documents/joint-reforestation-report.pdf)
which outlines what is needed to expand reforestation on federal lands
to address the nearly 4 million acre Forest Service reforestation
backlog and to build the supply chain needed for nursery and seed
capacity. In response to feedback from stakeholder engagement, the
report recommends conducting climate-smart seed and nursery operations,
improving coordination with non-federal partners, leveraging
opportunities for innovation with the private sector and building a
reforestation workforce with partners like the Conservation Corps. The
report also identifies more than 70 million acres of possible
reforestation opportunities with state, Tribal and private landowners,
providing valuable insight on how existing partnerships and programs
could be focused. On federal lands, USDA and DOI set a goal of
reforesting more than 2.3 million acres by 2030.  
  
**Reporting on Whole-of-Government Approaches to Stop International
Deforestation**: As directed by E.O. 14072, the U.S. Department of
State, USDA and other agencies collaborated on two reports to President
Biden on stopping international deforestation:

-   **Combating International Deforestation Associated with Agricultural
    Commodity Production**. [This
    report](https://www.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/EO-14072-Report-1-FINAL-Accessible-June-2023.pdf)
    addresses a primary direct driver of global deforestation: the
    conversion of forests to produce major agriculture commodities. The
    report discusses a range of approaches, including relevant options
    for changes in U.S. government policy, foreign assistance
    programming, and the potential role of public-private partnerships,
    to end natural forest loss and to restore at least an additional 200
    million hectares (almost 495 million acres) of forests and other
    ecosystems.   
-   **Reducing International Deforestation Through USG International
    Programing, Assistance, Finance, Investment, Trade and Trade
    Promotion**. [This
    report](https://www.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/EO-14072-Report-2-FINAL-Accessible-June-2023.pdf)
    provides insights and options on how the U.S. government is
    addressing and can further address international deforestation and
    land conversion through a range of instruments such as international
    programming, assistance, finance investment, trade, and trade
    promotion.

**Urban and Community Forestry Inflation Reduction Act Grants**: With
urban forests making up 20% of all forests in the United States, urban
trees are essential to helping communities access nature and reduce the
impacts of climate change. USDA’s Urban and Community Forestry Program
is the only federal program dedicated to the nation’s urban forest
resources, reaching more than 140 million acres of urban and community
forests across the United States. Understanding the importance of urban
forests and trees, the Biden-Harris Administration made a historic
investment of $1.5 billion in urban and community forests through the
Inflation Reduction Act. In 2023, the Biden-Harris Administration
announced [$1.13 billion to provide direct federal support to local
communities](https://www.bing.com/search?q=Urban+and+Community+Forestry+Grants&PC=U531&cvid=45d48fdae84a47da8c9146f47a9f0ac3&FORM=ANNTA0)
for urban tree-planting and management through the Urban Community
Forestry Program. All of the nearly 400 awards went to disadvantaged
communities in line with the President’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/).
Another [$250
million](https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/urban-forests/ucf/fy23-state-allocations)
in funding was allocated to state and territory forestry agencies. This
historic funding will support projects in cities and communities
throughout the U.S. to improve public health, increase access to nature,
build climate resilience, and deliver tangible economic and ecological
benefits.

\###
